2017 CSR REPORT G4-1, G4-3, G4-PR6 THIS IS OUR 9TH CSR REPORT. The UN Sustainable development goals truly matter, and Rosy Blue along with many other companies have taken up their responsibilities. One of the biggest challenges in 2017 has been the attempt to assess our supply chain and evaluate our broader impacts. By the time a piece of jewelry if offered for sale, it may be very difficult to know the origin of the diamond it contains and most importantly whether along the way it is Diamonds Amit Bhansali tainted by human rights abuses demand the Managing Director Rosy Blue NV or ethical violations. All players highest level of in the diamond pipeline have the responsibility to assure there is ethical integrity. no contribution to human rights abuses at any point throughout their supply chain. That’s why our due diligence process has been put in an even more mature framework, guaranteeing ethical origin. Russell Mehta Managing Director Rosy Blue Launching our centers of excel(India) Pvt. Ltd. lence in Antwerp and Mumbai has been one of the highlights of 2017. We have had robust integrity procedures for many years, but now our processes have been updated and streamlined in order to eliminate even the slightest INTRO risk for an undisclosed synthetic. 3 CONTENT ROSY BLUE’S POSITION IN THE DIAMOND SUPPLY CHAIN OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE: ACTIVITIES & PEOPLE ROSY BLUE’S SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH SDG MATTERS POSITION IN THE DIAMOND GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE & STRONG INSTITUTIONS RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION AND CONSUMPTION SUPPLY CHAIN DECENT WORK ROSY BLUE’S POSITION IN THE DIAMOND SUPPLY CHAIN ROSY BLUE’S POSITION IN THE DIAMOND SUPPLY CHAIN AND ECONOMIC GROWTH Rosy Blue began trading as B Arunkumar more than 50 years ago and continues to be a leading, trusted and successful player in the global diamond industry. Today Rosy Blue is a big brand, composed of 2 companies that are active in the same activities and share the same name. Each of these companies is composed QUALITY & EDUCATION of several entities that operate in 11 countries around the world. CLIMATE ACTION COMMUNITY INITIATIVES & PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS 4 5 G4-4, G4-8, G4-9, G4-12 G4-1, G4-9 ROSY BLUE’S POSITION ROSY BLUE’S POSITION IN THE DIAMOND SUPPLY CHAIN IN THE DIAMOND SUPPLY CHAIN MINING MINING COMPANIES Turnover Rough sourcing & trade Polished trade Our close relationship with the By combining our own man104,9 106,2 world’s premier diamond minufactured diamonds with 104,9 ROUGH SOURCING ing companies, including the polished stones sourced from AND TRADE 1004,36 De Beers Global Sightholder the open market, we ensure a ROUGH 1744 Sales (DBGSS), Alrosa and Doconsistent depth of inventory. 1693,61 MARKET 106,2 minion Diamond Corporation, 104,9 enables us to assure our client Our clients for polished stones A SE S 893 Rosy Blue Non India PU R C H a regular and unrivalled supply are a diverse group, ranging ROUGH DIAMOND SA LE S of rough diamonds well into from the world’s most prestigSOURCING 1352,8 1352,8 the future. We participate in ious international brands to 112,49 1253,68 all major tenders and auctions. large chain retailers catering 1211,54 112,49 63,24 Our globally spread sourcing to every price point, as well as 85,27 1004,36 team also buys from all rough small, specialty jewellers. 893 trading centers and across a 695,71 full range of goods, but only We have teams of key account 727,41 633,44 601,13 727,41 747,37 from known and trusted supmanagers across the world pliers. Depending on our own buying and selling specifneeds in polished stones, we ic weights and qualities DIAMOND DIAMOND trade the rough that will not be of polished stones. These MANUFACTURING MANUFACTURING CONTRACTORS sent for manufacturing. specialists are in continuous, open communication with our Rough Polished Jewellery 633,44 512,9 We are extremely careful with rough diamond procurement 695,71 525,14 512,9 443,08 every rough diamond that we operations, to quickly pass RB FACTORIES buy, conflict-free and human on details of a customer’s rights abusefree source. requirements. This is how we tailor our rough procurement 2015 2016 2017 as tightly as possible to the POLISHED 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 TRADE PURCHASES Diamond manufacturing real-time demands of our cusPOLISHED ROSY BLUE’S POSITION IN THE DIAMOND SUPPLY CHAIN tomers, creating a responsive POLISHED DEPARTMENT SALES WHOLESALE 867,06 885,44 Our manufacturing centres and client-centered pipeline. RETURNS FROM CUSTOMERS MARKET 59,07 55,07 786,04 combine the traditions of Rosy Blue India 42,3 diamond craftsmanship with 241,52 234,44 the most advanced polishing Jewellery manufacturing 786,04 256,01 technology and highest techniand sales 42,3 cal standards. We manage our JEWELLERY production with an advanced Intergold is the jewellery manMANUFACTURING JEWELLERY 596,42 580,40 256,01 498,02 series of internal control ufacturing arm of Rosy Blue AND SALES MANUFACTURING 487,42 12,42 34,09 444 mechanisms to drive quality India, employing 293 employ260,18 190,31 and maintain the integrity of ees in our jewellery factory the pipeline. Because of the in India. Our marketing and 79,05 97,91 large proportion of in-house distribution network spreads 444 43,73 JEWELLERY 287,27 manufacturing, we can across the globe, with special 2013 2014 277,11 2015 SALES guarantee transparent and expertise in the United States, 43,73 46,71 68,73 respectable practices. Our proEurope, Japan and Asia Pacific. 2015 2016 2017 duction ranges from rounds Each zone is backed by a local (from 0.005pts to 10cts+) to service desk. Rough Polished calibrated princess diamonds RETAIL RETAIL Jewellery Retail (from 0.03pts to 10cts+) as RB RETAIL MARKET well as a wide variety of fancy ‘in million dollars’ shapes. Rough Polished Jewellery Jewellery 7 Our retail brand ORRA city of Bengaluru, Karnataka 2017 AWARDS & recognitions: in India at Phoenix Market City. ORRA • Precious Color Gemstone closed two stores in Rajkot Jewelry of the year, at Reand Amritsar while looking to tail Jeweller India Awards ORRA is one of India's finest relocate them. The focus this 2017 jewellery retail chains, having year has been on the diamond • India’s Most Trusted spread its glow with 33 stores bridal Jewellery, mainly focusBrand in the Diamond across 21 cities. ing the designs on millennial Jewellery category by IBC generation. Propelled by the Infomedia for three conOver the years, the brand has rising demand in the men’s secutive years in 2015, been able to create a niche category for jewellery, ORRA 2016 & 2017. for diamond and platinum witnessed a platinum sales jewellery in a market that growth by about 40% during was otherwise dominated by the same quarter which was a strong preference for gold. otherwise just 25%. Innovation was the celebrated ORRA Crown Star, a 73 facet We have also looked to solitaire v/s the regular 57 faccreate more conversation ets. These facets are aligned with our customers focusing in perfect proportion to on digital campaigns that provide maximum brilliance. engage. During the festival The accuracy with which the of Diwali, ORRA launched diamond is cut gives it an a ‘She is Diwali’ campaign unmatched brilliance. celebrating emotions behind the purchase of jewellery. This In 2017, ORRA opened its OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE: campaign too received a very fourth flagship store in the positive response. ACTIVITIES & PEOPLE ROSY BLUE’S POSITION IN THE DIAMOND SUPPLY CHAIN OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE: ACTIVITIES AND PEOPLE 8 9 G4-3, G4-6, G4-9, G4-10, G34-G, G4HR2, G4-LA9 G4-3, G4-6, G4-9, G4-10, G34-G, G4-HR2, G4-LA9 OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE: ACTIVITIES & PEOPLE 2477 11 Belgium China Luxembourg people countries TOTAL WORKFORCE USA 4 5825 4622 4397 Japan manufacturing plants 3934 2992 2921 Hong Kong 2809 2372 2833 1701 1588 1562 153 000 UAE India 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thailand carats polished Rosy Blue Non-India Rosy Blue India diamonds produced! Israel South Africa 599 377 PEOPLE BY COUNTRY WORKFORCE EVOLUTION ACTIVITIES BY COUNTRY OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE: PRESENCE ACTIVITIES AND PEOPLE OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE: PRESENCE ACTIVITIES AND PEOPLE Blue White Total 961 650 Collar Collar 2017 4397 3934 Rough Polished Blue Collar Male Diamond Jewellery Jewellery Holding Adminidiamond diamond Retail Belgium 0 5 38 20 63 TOTAL WORKFORCE manufacturing manufacturing sales company stration Blue Collar Female trading trading China 75 255 17 49 396 White Collar Male 5825 Belgium • • • •• 4622 Hong Kong 0 0 17 25 42 White Collar Female 2809 4397 2477 China • • • • 2372 3934 Israel 0 2 13 12 27 Hong Kong •• •• • • • • 2992 1088 India 9 14 743 285 1051 2921 Israel • • • 599 377 2809 Japan 0 0 19 24 43 2372 India • • • • • • • • Luxembourg 1588 1562 1389 Japan • • • South Africa 2833 Luxembourg • • 1701 1588 1562 Thailand 277 260 63 142 742 South Africa • • UAE 16 4 19 10 49 2015 2016 2017 Thailand • • 2013 2014 2015 2016 USA 0 0 32 32 64 UAE •• •• • •• Rosy Blue Non-India 2477 Rosy Blue India USA • •• •• 961 540 • Rosy Blue Non-India • Rosy Blue India 10 11 G34 G G4-SO9, G4SO10 SDG IMPACT MAPPING 2017 Rosy Blue has engaged in a sustainability journey since many years. In 2017, our value chain be challenged by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals that were launched in 2015. We are striving to maximise our contribution to the solutions sought, and to minimize our impacts that are counterproductive to achieve these goals. The below results are based on an objective impact assessment exercise, conducted in cooperation with Antwerp Management School. ROSY BLUE CAN BRING A MEANINGFUL CONTRIBUTION TO 14 OF THE 17 UN SDGS. THE MATRIX SHOWS WHERE OUR IMPACT IS POSITIVE (+) AND WHERE THERE IS STILL ROOM FOR IMPROVEMENT (-) -15 -10 -5 0 5 10 End poverty in all its forms everywhere End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture SUSTAINABILITY Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all APPROACH Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation Reduce inequality within and among countries Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development 12 13 G4-SO9, G4SO10 Some examples of specific We have assessed the impacts we have or can have in every goal, in our own operations or in our sphere of influence. This tight cross-analysis amounted to identify touch points between our company and the 17 SDGs. After this exercise we decided to see for every goal, in which stage of the diamond supply chain we can influence most the solutions sought. We found that in our own operations, in our manufacturing activity, we can already make a positive difference. However, SDG projects in 20172018. still, opportunities are to be explored. And especially in the mining activity we acknowledge there are opportunities where we can have an influence. EACH POSITIVE CONTRIBUTION OR CHALLENGE TO SPECIFIC SDGS HAS BEEN LOCATED ALONG OUR VALUE CHAIN. THE MATRIX IS NOW SHOWN PER ACTIVITY -20 -15 -10 -5 0 5 10 15 20 SDG 3: Good health & wellbeing: ‘SA8000 certification of our factories’ The SA8000 Standard is one of the world’s first auditable social certification standards for decent workplaces, across all industrial sectors. MINING It is based on the UN Declaration of Human Rights, conventions of the ILO, UN and national law, and spans industry and corporate codes to create a common language to measure social performance. In 2017 our factory in Thailand finished their SA8000 certification. Our factory in China was assessed by SAI to review the current social performance and to assess gaps and challenges. More details are given in the chapter on decent work. ROUGH SOURCING & TRADE SDG 13: Climate Action: ‘In depth energy efficiency audits in our factories’ Rosy Blue has conducted energy audits with our environmental partner, the Carbon Trust at manufacturing sites in India and China. Our DIAMOND objective is carbon reduction and energy efficiency. Energy audits are fundamental in order to encourage the business to deliver reductions. MANUFACTURING Energy Management training was rolled out to other sites across the Group. More details are given in the chapter on environment. SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals: ‘Goodcrowd tool’ POLISHED TRADE Rosy Blue worked together with the Antwerp Management school to create, launch and promote a free online tool for consulting stakeholders, based on the SDG’s. Stakeholder consultation is an important part of CSR. Through consulting stakeholders you can, among other things, map responses and suggestions of your organization’s constituents. Still, few organizations appear to conduct a stakeholder consultation on a periodic basis. JEWELLERY GoodCrowd is an indispensible tool for developing, evaluating and reviewing your organization’s CSR policy and engagement to the SustainMANUFACTURING AND SALES able Development Goals. SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals: ‘Alignment of RJC provisions with Sustainable Development Goals’ RETAIL As a part to our sector organisation the Responsible Jewellery Council, we work hard with them to raise awareness on the SDG’s in our industry. While reviewing the RJC’s most accepted standard, we advised on how they could promote the SDG’s along the way. Making sure RJC provisions and compliances have direct SDG impact, could make organisations aware of they impact, what they are currently already doing and where there is still room for improvement regarding their SDG impacts. OVERALL 14 15 G4-18, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26 G34 G4-18 -G SOME INPUT FROM How our stakeholders responded. Which SDGs should be given most priority by Rosy Blue ? OUR STAKEHOLDERS End poverty in all its forms everywher e 19.4% Methodology End hunger , achieve food security and We map our stakeholders to be able to consult them about their key concerns and expectations. Informally through the improved nutrition and promote sustainabl e 19.4% agricultur e networks that we attend or participate in and annually through a formal stakeholder consultation. With our stakeholders we refer to anyone that’s affected by us or affects us in any possible way: suppliers, employees, contractors, customEnsure healthy lives and promote well-bein g for all at all age s 52,8% ers, governments, international organisations, local communities, financial institutions, NGO’s, business organisations and academic institutions. Ensure inclusive and equitable qualit y education and promote lifelong learning 44,4% opportunities for all For this report we surveyed a selection of 120 stakeholders, with an important influence on Rosy Blue’s business during the reporting period. The survey was conducted in April 2018 and covered a total of 58 internal (management, employAchieve gender equality and empower all women and girl s 36,1% ees) and 62 external stakeholders. Ensure av ailability and sustainabl e We surveyed them through the Goodcrowd tool, provided by the Antwerp Management School to review our SDG mapmanagement of water and sanitation for all 25% ping and impact assessment and to prioritize the main SDG’s they believe we could be impacting in our business. Ensure access to affordabl e, reliable , sustainable and modern energy for al l 22,2% Results of the consultation According to our stakeolders Rosy Blue should definitely NOT focus on all SDG’s, but only on a number of SDG’s on Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable which it has a reasonable impact. economic growth, full and productiv e 72,2% employment and decent work for all Build resilient inf rastructure , promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster 16,7% innovation 27,8% Reduce inequality within and among countrie s The diamond industry is still reluctant about full Make cities and human settlements inclusiv e, safe, resilient and sustainable 22,2% traceability because it is costly but most companies Ensure sustainable consumption an d are heading towards is, it will come eventually. production pattern s 44,4% Take urgent action to combat climate chang e and its impact s 44,4% Conserve and sustainably use the oceans , seas and marine resources for sustainabl e 2,8% developmen t Dare questioning some Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of ancestral practices terrestrial ecosystem s, sustainably manage forest s, 5,6% degradation and halt biodiversity loss in the light The trading activity Promote peaceful and inclusive societies fo r of today’s expectations must be stronger sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective , accountabl e 52,2% and inclusive institutions at all levels in due diligence, to Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership fo r 22,2% monitor financial sustainable developmen t flows and conflict minerals that get in SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 45% of our stakeholders believe our general efforts and performance with ragers to the SDG’s in much better compared to the jewellery activity. other companies in the sector, 35% believe it to be somewhat better and 20% believes it is comparable to the efforts of other companies in the sector. Out of our consultation we distilled 7 SDG’s, directly linked to our material business issues, where we believe to have most impact moving Fight against old mentalities, forward. there is a big resistance to change in the sector, against anything formal 16 17 G4-18,G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-27 G4-18,G4-19, G4-27 GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE INTEGRITY Material SDG's related: & TRUST SDG 16 Peace, justice and strong institutions GOVERNANCE What it means for us: & COMPLIANCE Promoting transparency regarding our own LABOUR STANDARDS governance structure and practices. Ensuring ef& DECENT WORK fective policies and procedures to prevent bribery, LABOUR STANDARDS money-laundering and corruption. Material SDG's related: SDG 3 Good health and wellbeing & DECENT WORK Average score on performance by stakeholders: 6.6/10 What it means for us: Ensuring the health, safety and well-being of all Rosy Blue's employees through workplace policies and initiatives for equality, inclusion, & occupaETHICAL SOURCING tional health and safety. & SUPPLY CHAIN Material SDG's related: ETHICAL SOURCING TRANSPARENCY SDG 8 Decent work and economic growth. & SUPPLY CHAIN Material SDG's related: What it means for us: TRANSPARENCY SDG 12 Responsible production and consumption Contributing to economic development, through What it means for us: decent jobs and livelihoods, infrastructure investEthical sourcing and supply chain transparency will ments, building the skills of employees. COMMUNITY ensure our diamonds have not been used to fund Average score on performance by ENGAGEMENT armed conflicts nor have been sources in a way stakeholders: 8.6/10 & PARTNERSHIPS that didn't respect human rights or the environment. It is our obligation to guarantee the authenticity CRAFTSMANSHIP of our diamonds and gold jewellery in all their physical characteristics. Product disclosure rests on & EDUCATION the quality and veracity of the information that is Material SDG's related: disclosed to the consumers about the diamonds SDG 4 Quality education they purchase. What it means for us: Average score on performance by Improving technical skills (direct and indirect CRAFTSMANSHIP CE stakeholders: 8.9/10 through scholarships, gifts to schools, grants...), & EDUCATION litteracy, reinforcing and sharing know-how. Average score on performance by SUSTAINABLE LUXURY ENVIRONMENTAL RTAN stakeholders: 8.3/10 FOOTPRINT COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT & PARTNERSHIPS Material SDG's related: PO SDG 17 Partnerships for the goals What it means for us: SUSTAINABLE LUXURY Material SDG's related: All SDG's IM Supporting non-profit organisations like the RJC What it means for us: and donating to charitable organisations and causCan sustainability and luxury go hand in hand? es which are linked to our sector and operations. Rarity, beauty, timelessness, uniqueness and craftsAverage score on performance by manship are valuable qualities that reflect both stakeholders: 9.1/10 sustainability and a luxury product. Through all our PE activities, we want to be part of a luxury that is responsible, sustainable, one of a kind and charged with positive emotions and traditions. RFO SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Material SDG's related: SDG 13 Climate action RM What it means for us: Minimising the impacts of Rosy Blue's operations on the environment by investing in technologies that AN We asked our stakeholders to give a score for every reduce emissions, energy and water use. Average score on performance by CE of the above topics, on how important they believe each topic to be for Rosy Blue (importance) and how stakeholders: 7.2/10 advanced they perceive us on each topic (maturity). This is comparison with our own evaluation resulted in this maturity matrix. 18 19 G4-56 G34 G G4-34, G4-35, G4-56, G4-14 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AS RISK MITIGATION We recognize the importance of good governance to prevent business and social risks within our company. To achieve this goal, we have increased management efficiency and transparency by improving our internal control system. A number of corporate bodies have been established to create a sound balance of reporting. GOVERNANCE, Our core values Integrity: RB BRAND COUNCIL COMPLIANCE we strive to uphold ourselves to moral and ethical standards RB India RB Non India management board management board Accountability: AND STRONG we are keen to deliver the same promise of trust and craftsCSR ADVISORY COMMITTEE manship to all our stakeholders around the world. management board management board Diversity: per geographical region per geographical region INSTITUTIONS we embrace the diverse characteristics of all people who work with us and respect their dignity. Rosy Blue Brand Council Local Management CSR Advisory Committee AML – KYC (Know Your Boards Counterpart) team Since Rosy Blue NI and Rosy The main objective of the CSR Blue I are two independent Each Rosy Blue entity is govadvisory committee is to review Rosy Blue has a dedicated legal entities, a Rosy Blue Brand erned by a Management Board and make appropriate strategic AML-KYC officer in every entity council has been established and covers a certain geographrecommendations regarding who follows up on financial with the main function to ical region with its own profit Rosy Blue’s CSR management compliance and possible manage growth and oversee the and loss responsibility within and to monitor the conduct suspicious transactions. The GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS Rosy Blue Brand. Their task is the wider framework of the of business in accordance ‘know-your-counterpart’ proOur interpretation also to maintain ethics and core values across our operations. Rosy Blue brand. They define long-term goals and strategies, with the different compliance standards. Its 4 members come cedure is followed to verify and keep records on the countercoordinate and monitor the from different operational part’s identity as per anti-monPromoting transparency regarding our own governance structure and practices. Ensuring most important activities, departments and complement ey laundering (AML) requireeffective policies and procedures to prevent bribery, money-laundering and corruption. develop and deploy managerial each other in terms of their ments. As buyers, we are also staff, allocate resources and diverse professional expertise subject to the same disclosure decide on its financial steering and excellent knowledge of obligations to our suppliers. Score on relevance: 9.2/10 and reporting. the complex supply chain we Under no circumstances, goods Score on performance: 6.6/10 The Chairman of each Manwork in. can be sold to a new customer agement Board coordinates without the KYC process finalits work and presides over the Members ized with a green light. Our CONCRETE actions in 2017: meetings. Through regular disValerie Michel, • Updated global KYC procedure cussions with its board memManager corporate • Update global AML policy bers, the Management Board Affairs & CSR, Belgium, Members is kept constantly informed • Recertification RJC – India and Non India Alon Mooleman, Dipu Mehta, of developments in business • OECD implementation Vishal Mehta, policy, corporate planning and Manufacturing coördinator Amit Bhansali, strategy. It also approves the Ashish Mandloi, Ravi Bhansali financial statements taking General Manager (HR & Admin) India Russell Mehta, into account the reports by the Sookruthai Karintanaka, Viraj Mehta auditor. head of HR, Thailand 20 21 G4-14, G4-15, G4-16, G4-SO3, G4-DMA, G4-LA15, G4-LA14, G4-HR10 We updated our Know Your Counterpart Procedure In 2017 we have implemented an updated identification procedure to understand COMPLIANCE: A VERY DEMANDING more about the people we do business with. OPERATING ENVIRONMENT Compliance with international rules and regulations is a minimum responsibility for every company. There are several initiatives in the diamond industry that seek to help companies improve their impact on society and to enhance consumer confidence. We 1 2 3 4 also adhere to codes of different suppliers and customers, which for confidentiality reasons we have not individually and specifically mentioned here. On top, we also engage explicitly in a series of initiatives which we believe help us to consistently improve Potential new customer or The sales person collects Potential new counterparty has The designated sales person business and operating practices across the value chain and our markets. supplier wants to buy or sell information to do business to complete information before sends the full file to the rediamonds from/to designatwith this counterparty: a transaction can take place. sponsible AMLKYC officer. ed sales person. fully completed KYC form, completed with supporting documents: passports of the SA8000 UN Global Compact directors, bank details etc. Certification Thailand Factory in Commitment since 2008 2017 LEAD member since 2011 with 5 6 7 8 impact assesment in China in 2017 leadership in Children’s Rights More info on www.sa-intl.org and Business Principles forum in Belgium The KYC officer will control If the KYC officer finds inforOnce the KYC officer gives If the Director and KYC Commitment to SDG’s since 2016 if the KYC form is complete mation is not complete, or green light on the counterparofficer decide the risk is too More info on unglobalcompact.com and will conduct a more there is a suspicion, he will ty, transaction can take place: high or information is still VOLUNTARY detailed identification process raise a temporary red flag. the goods can be invoiced. not complete after several and risk assessment of the The director has to decide if requests, a formal red flag Un potential new counterparty. For transaction can proceed. will be raised and will be n ite e th omp o io Non-India we use Bureau Van sent out to all sales and fic at EXPECTED tt lC en oba itm s Gl rti Dijk databse to check sanction purchase personnel. i ON TOP OF CORE ain resp ligen ce 00 mm on lists, PEP lists (Politically 80 s o ons ce US Co ati SA N f i g Do d mi ble uid Exposed Persons), FATF high La dd bo ac ne su an Overlime ed t risk country list, adverse media, ur pp ce Fra n r du CD rig a ls ly Gu kA KP compliance, etc... All this he es OE ht ipl ct rt s inc s fo ch an will give extra assurance on the pr nes hts ILO ng si rig company we are dealing with. idi n bu an o um Business partners drivers on h CORE d Laws and regulations No discrimination = NOT No child labor supply chain due diligence NEGOTIABLE 2005 2007 2008 2009 2010 Our CSR Journey or ge ics lab GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS wa Rosy Blue (NI) Launch CSR th f e les nt d rce ce s o ip De we ard cofounded the CSR strategy information First Rosy Blue Going Green fo de inc lle s Anti corruption ry e.g Responsible decision management CSR report strategy established No co Pr Co . ce n nd un ow cti UN ta cil Jewellery Council system ys r s ' P ra ls Su str Je lie st oa du le Start internal sta pp Be sib tG In su s on Start De Beers Best pre audit visits Pilot project in & eer en sp ts' e B pm Re lo ien D Practice Principle Global training seminar preparation for ve program for local CSR officers Participant of RJC certification Cl .g.e De ble UN Global Compact process ina Responsible Jewellery council: 2011 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Founding member in 2005 De Beers full certification since: ‘Best Practice Principles’ 2011 (Non India) and 2013 (India) Member of UN Global Rosy Blue I RJC Recertification Global CSR Commitment to SA8000 certification Compliance since: 2006 of all entities Responsible Responsible Compact LEAD certified until 2016 RJC Rosy Blue NI seminar contribute to the Thailand (inception of BPP) Jewellery Member Representative Jewelry Council Council till 2018 Sustainable More info on debeersgroup.com Performance | Accountability | Confidence at Communications Committee Development Goals RJC recertification Rosy for the Diamond Trader, Blue NI until 2022. Cutter and Polisher Forum Rosy Blue NI RJC Launch CSR Recertification More info on responsiblejewellery.com certified until 2014 extranet RJC Rosy Blue I 22 till 2020 Rules for use of the Responsible Jewellery Council 23 Logo, Trademarks and Intellectual Property March 2012 G4-14 Belgium OUR NETWORK OUR COMPLIANCE STRUCTURE: OF LOCAL CSR A CENTRAL YET LOCAL ORGANISATION OFFICERS Valerie Michel Alon Mooleman Two central CSR departments are at the core of the leadership structure. They hold responsibility for the alignment and steering of our global sustainability strategy. Some of their tasks are communicating externally, collecting data, and developing policies and procedures and monitoring their implementation. China & Hong Kong Liu Yuhang Serena Liu Progress report to Israel management board Desktop review Verify completion of corrective actions On-site audit Paul Hotz Rosy Blue internal USA CSR audit UAE reporting Implement Review corrective actions infringements Thailand GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS GOVERNANCE, COMPLIANCE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS Sanjay Shah Lilibeth Esquierdo Develop corrective Report to action plan management board Sookruthai Karintanaka Kittaporn Tanyoo India Japan Ashish Mandloi Dhiraj Dhokai Internal monitoring to know what happens where Vinay Mohan Sameer Jhaveri The two central CSR departments evaluate compliance through an Each year the 2 Central CSR Departments, in close coordination internal audit system and work proactively with our people to drive with the local CSR officers, audit a number of entities based on Alston Dsouza change. Every entity has appointed a local CSR compliance officer various risk criteria including geographic sensitivities, past audit who is responsible for implementing compliance and tailoring performances and the nature of facility’s work. In 2017, Belgium, global, all-encompassing directives to local national and cultural Dubai, New York, Thailand, India hosted an internal audit and needs. China was assessed in collaboration with Social Accountability International (SAI). 24 25 G34 G RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION Ethical sourcing from primary mines and trusted suppliers All our diamonds are conflict free origin. We apply the rough Diamond export and import verification system and controls as laid out by the AND PRODUCTION Kimberley Process Certification Scheme and national legislation of the countries where we operate. We only supply diamonds that have been sourced from countries that are participants in the Kimberley Process and that have been legally exported under a relevant Kimberley Process certificate. Certifying their origin is to prevent diamonds from potentially being used to finance armed conflicts by rebel movements from entering the market. * We also fully comply with the World Diamond Council System of Warranties. * www.kimberleyprocess.com Provenance traceability for every stone manufactured in-house For a company the size of Rosy Blue traceability challenges are In all entities, integrated IT systems have been set up in order to substantial, as the rough is bought in various locations and is then guarantee full transparency on every stone that is manufactured in routed through procurement and sorting offices, before ending on house. Allied with human vigilance, this helps us monitor every dipolishing wheels in different factories. amond passing through our manufacturing and finishing process. Our interpretation These processes are independently verified through our membership of the Forevermark Program in 4 of our operations: Belgium, Thailand, China and India. Rosy Blue NV teams up with DE BEERS for Ethical sourcing and supply chain transparency will ensure our diamonds have not been used to traceability project. fund armed conflicts nor have been sourced in a way that didn't respect human rights. It is our We are so excited to have been working with De Beers during the obligation to guarantee the authenticity of our diamonds and gold jewellery in all their physical development of Tracr, the first blockchain platform to span the entire characteristics. Product disclosure rests on the quality and veracity of the information that is diamond value chain. Provenance Claims made By Rosy Blue Non India. RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTIONN AND PRODUCTION disclosed to the consumers about the diamonds they purchase. This will for the first time mark a diamond’s journey, digitally tracked SRSP compliance from mine to retail, providing consumers with confidence, promoting Rosy Blue Inc. USA sources gold responsibly in accordance with the Score on relevance: 8.6/10 transparency and trust, and enhancing efficiencies across the diamond Signet Responsible Sourcing Protocol (SRSP). Score on performance: 8.9/10 value chain. Rosy Blue Inc. USA sources diamonds responsibly in accordance with the Our Managing Director Mr. Amit Bhansali: “Technology has already Diamond Signet Responsible Sourcing Protocol (D-SRSP). RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Our CONCRETE actions in 2017: significantly contributed to improving transparency within the diamond • human rights due diligence according to the OECD guidance industry. Initiatives that use blockchain can drive this process even Non Marange Origin • establishment of centers of excellence in Antwerp and Mumbai in order to increase our further, as their implementation requires collaboration and trust creation “Diamonds herein invoiced have not originated from Marange Region among all industry stakeholders. We are excited to be contributing to of Zimbabwe. The supplier of these diamonds has provided a similar diamond testing and eliminate any risks for synthetics entering our supply chain this process through our participation in the Tracr platform.” assurance from non Marange origin.” • audited and approved provenance claim on SRSP compliance and Non Marange origin for Rosy Blue Non India only. • re-establishment of our CanadaMark program for Rosy Blue Non India only. • project on global supply chain contamination control Fantasy system at Rosy Blue NI JD Edwards at Rosy Blue I The Fantasy system allows for absolute tracking of every single stone, as well as entire lots, manufactured in-house, throughout our entire global supply-chain, at every JD Edwards is the integrated applications suite of resource planning software stage. that offers databases, operating systems and hardware to develop IT solutions to meet business requirements like a tight monitoring of all receivable and payables. e.g. Canadian origin hallmark: We use our traceability system to be able to guarIt tracks each rough parcel from the time it is received till the completion of antee Canadian origin of diamonds. Our factory in Thailand is approved as manufacturing manufacturing process and the value addition made thereto. facility using the CanadaMark™ program, a trademark of Dominion Diamond Corporation, one of our main suppliers. This origin hallmark signifies that the polished diamond is mined in Canada, natural and untreated, tracked from mine to polished and of standardized quality. 26 27 G4-DMA Traceability challenges ROUGH DIAMOND SUPPLY LANDSCAPE POLISHED DIAMOND SUPPLY LANDSCAPE UNTRACEABLE TRACEABLE GOODS GOODS MINING MINING MINING direct or indirect from mines Primary Mine ROUGH MARKET Dealer A Dealer Dealer ROUGH MARKET B C Rosy Blue DIAMOND manufacturing MANUFACTURING Dealer Dealer D E ROUGH SOURCING & TRADE Dealer Dealer F G Dealer RB FACTORIES CONTRACTORS Relevant H goods Rosy Blue Manufacturing POLISHED WHOLESALE DIAMOND DIAMOND relevant ROSY BLUE MARKET MANUFACTURING MANUFACTURING goods POLISHED ASSORTING RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION RB FACTORIES RB FACTORIES POLISHED DEPARTEMENT RELEVANT GOODS RELEVANT GOODS POSSIBLITY OF FULL TRACEABILTY POSSIBLITY OF TRACEABILTY FOR POLISHED PURCHASES, CHALLENGES IN PROVENANCE TRACEABILITY ARE EXISTING BACK TO THE ORIGIN (SUPPLIER) BACK TO THE ROUGH PURCHASE AS NOT ALL SUPPLIERS ARE WILLING TO DISCLOSE DETAILS OF THE ORIGIN OF THE GOODS. WE REQUEST ALL SUPPLIERS TO PROVIDE AS MUCH DETAILS AS POSSIBLE ABOUT THE ROUGH AND POLISHED ORIGIN. 28 29 G4-DMA G4-DMA, G4-PR3, G4-PR4, G4-PR6 Product integrity and authenticity Detection procedure for rough and compliance processes were established in all our manufactuing sites and also conducted with strong revolving governance proBuying rough diamond from the market poses a medium risk cesses in place. Inspection of 100% of melee goods, both coming Full disclosure at all times for contamination. Since a simple visual distinction between from in house manufacturing and purchases, will be done at the unprocessed synthetic diamond and natural rough is possible, all Center of Excellence before entering the polished inventory. All the Full disclosure at all times is key throughout our processes. We simulants and synthetics as natural diamonds, undermines conrough parcels are checked by eye. The rough team of Rosy Blue NI customer returns, sales returns and contractor returns will also be acknowledge that in our sector, the non-disclosure of the potential sumer confidence in the integrity of our product. is formally trained in identifying differences between natural and returned directly to the Center of Excellence. A system based lock treatment of natural diamonds, and the misrepresentation of Written disclosure is needed in each bill of sale, receipt, laboratory synthetic rough diamonds. In 2017 they received again an official will be activated to ensure these goods shall not be transferred becertificate or other documentation we give to our clients. HRD course on hard-to-detect rough synthetics tween Rough – Polished department and vice versa. A system flow will be maintained in Fantasy separate. All the stones with parcel Detection procedure for polished id, location, and other technical details will be stored in the system. Pointers and above will be done sampling test in Antwerp only. In Rosy Blue anticipates the risk of mixing natural with synthetic our sampling approach it is essential that measures are taken to 4C’s of diamonds by mapping, controlling and minimizing all possible ‘contamination points’ in our pipeline. Each contamination point ensure that sampling is random. a diamond holds a different level of risk and a different level of risk requires a Internal certification system different type of action. We have determined at what stages testing is required and have rolled out and implemented our integrity For the MELEE goods since 100% testing is done internally, there Each diamond is unique. The quality and value of a diaprocedures across locations. will be an internal certification system in compliance with CORPOmond is defined by its 4 Cs: carat, colour, clarity and cut. RATE INTEGRITY PROCEDURE and the requirements of clients. Rosy Blue NV Customer protection center The certification will be accompanied with every Melee goods sale The weight or size of a diamond is expressed in CARATS. of excellence invoice to every customer. Most diamonds range in COLOUR from colourless to slightly yellow. DiIn 2017 we initiated a new project to create a Center of Excellence amonds can also occur in all ranges of colours, from brownish to striking that will secure our supply to customers for 100%. Due diligence yellow, pink, purple, red, blue and green. These are called 'fancy colours'. MELEE PROCESS FLOW FOR ROSY BLUE NV With clarity, a diamond's purity is described. The clarity scale reflects the size, number and location of the internal characteristics. Diamonds that Total Volume have no inclusions visible to the naked eye are of excellent quality and (Stones/Month) are called 'loupe clean'. A diamond's cut defines the proportion, polish and symmetry of the cut. A Inhouse Non India Customer/ perfect cut equals more sparkle, brilliance and fire. Cut is not the same as INDIA Purchases Broker Returns Manufactured Purchases the shape or form into which it was cut. Diamonds can be cut into various shapes, the best-known is probably the round brilliant. *source: www.hrd.be INDIA THAILAND CHINA Global supply chain contamination control ROSY BLUE CUSTOMER PROTECTION CENTER OF EXCELLENCE (Antwerp or Mumbai) What is a synthetic diamond? Rosy Blue's view on synthetics: SGL CHANNEL ANTWERP STOCK CERTIFIED SALES A synthetic diamond is a diamond produced in an artificial Gem quality synthetic diamonds are a genuine product in their RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION process, as opposed to natural diamonds, which are created by own right. If sold with the proper disclosures, it offers consumgeological processes. Synthetics are made from carbon, but crystal ers an alternative to buying natural diamonds. What affects the Detection equipment: is formed through production methods that are, high-pressure natural diamond industry and the consumers is the undisclosed high-temperature (HPHT) or chemical vapor deposition (CVD). mixing of natural and synthetic diamonds. This is clearly a fraudVarious machine options were validated for Melee goods. After trial a machine that will be evolved shortly by HRD (D-tect). The cost of a synthetic diamond is about 40% lower than that of a ulent practice, which is not acceptable to any respectable actor in periods, we have decided to opt for primary testing with AMSII, and Till the D-tect machine is commissioned in place, all referrals will natural diamond. the sector. the REFER stones further will be subjected to secondary testing by be sent to independent gem labs for further testing. Automated Melee Screening (‘AMS2’): Diamond Sure: A manual D-tect: A non-automated A fully automated instrument for instrument for testing screening device based on UV screening volume melee diamonds of diamonds of 0.30cts luminescence for mounted or Voice of Customer Key Customer issue Critical Customer Requirement to verify they are not synthetic or and up loose diamonds (D-to-Z) of all simulant. Supplier: De Beers IIDGR sizes and shapes. The results 1. Growing synthetic Unverified process controls Need 100% assurance from Supplier: De Beers IIDGR Scope: Loose and mounted 0.05 – 10ct provided deliver a definitive infiltration day by day in in India & China factories Rosy Blue to all customers by Scope: Round brilliant colorless diamonds in size range Near – and Colourless (brown/natural fancy color will evaluation concerning the the market is alarming Q2 2018 0.003cts – 0.2 cts show high referral rate) nature of your stones, whether natural, laboratory Good controls in Thailand Fancy cut melee (0.01-0.2cts) grown or simulant. 2. Need client protection Factory but unauditable Logs: Log of every tested parcel and the outcome. Supplier: HRD Speed: up to 3600 stones an hour (AMS2) 3. Limited processes in place Referrals: Separates: natural, HPHT & simulants; 4 bins: Pass – Refer – Refer Type II – non – diamond. All CVD is 30 referred. Low referral rate 31 G4-11, G4-DMA, G4-LA5, G4-LA6, G4-LA7, G4-LA8, G4-HR2 DECENT WORK & ECONOMIC Beyond labour rights in our own operations GROWTH For Rosy Blue Human rights the minimum regulations as for all employees, contractors employees at regular intervals. include Labor Rights as stated stipulated by local law. 23.81% and visiting members. All new employees undergo in the International Labour of our total workforce is covThe main health and safefull health check-up within Organisation (ILO’s) core conered by collective bargaining ty risks are cuts to fingers, a month of their joining. We ventions and the Declaration agreements. projection of parts of stones in focus on wearing personal proon Fundamental Principles and As we operate in some of the eyes and inhalation of dust tective equipment (PPE) which Rights at Work. We focus our the world’s most complex during polishing. makes a considerable impact in efforts on those rights that are economic, political and social All of our entities have appointthe occurence of accidents. within our sphere of influence environments, due diligence ed a Health & Safety Manager, and our working environment. and continuous monitoring, responsible and accountable We respect human rights (and where appropriate remefor ensuring compliance with We call a major injury when a primarily by providing safe and diation) is key to implementing our global policy and local doctor is called or the person is healthy working conditions for our commitment. The fact that regulations. They are supported hospitalized. our employees and ensuring we are certified RJC member by a Health and Safety team. In non-discrimination in human and SA8000 applicant enables 2017, 134 people were involved 20 resource practices. us to claim that all practices in preserving health and safety Our interpretation throughout our own operations across our sites. 15 18 18 19 Most of our operations and peoare conducted in an ethical and Ensuring the health, safety and well-being of all Rosy Blue's employees through workplace ple are in manufacturing. Enviresponsible way, without any Working accidents 10 ronmental and social standards human right abuse or conflict. We take all practicable steps to 11 policies and initiatives for equality, inclusion, & occupational health and safety.Contributing for labour vary tremendously — eliminate, isolate and minimise to economic development, through decent jobs and livelihoods, infrastructure investments, for example, the national minithe risk of injuries or illness 5 building the skills of employees. mum wage, or working hours in Health and Safety from identified actual and 2 1 1 0 a certain country may exceed or potential hazards. Our factories 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 fall short of actual decent living Rosy Blue is committed to proare staffed with a full time Score on relevance: 9.2/10 standards. Because of this, we viding and maintaining a safe nurse. Some locations have a Minor Injuries Score on performance: 8.6/10 are committed to going beyond and healthy work environment clinic and we monitor health of Major Injuries Our CONCRETE actions in 2017: • human rights due diligence according to the OECD Some of the risk factors we identified in our ‘labor and working conditions’ risk assessment: • extended risk assessment of our own operations DECENT WORK & ECONOMIC GROWTH DECENT WORK & ECONOMIC GROWTH • SA8000 certification Thailand factory Risk factors Potential negative impact Probability of occurrence Severity of How to handle? impact • complete RJC recertification There is a difference in nationDiscrimination, disciplinary abuse High High Open communication, grievance ality, race or religion between an harassment, communication procedure, training workers and managers. barriers. Some of the workers in our Forced labor, discrimination. Low High Employment contracts, open factories are migrants from communication. other areas. There are security guards at our Lack of freedom of movement, Low High Contractual agreements on companies due to high value harassment. human rights with security goods. agencies. Our production activities involve Worker injuries and chronic Low High Health protocol to be monitored workers routinely interacting conditions. and controlled. with machinery. 32 33 G4-HR9 G4-DMA, G4-HR10 Our social performance Human rights due diligence in the supply chain During the social audits of our entities in 2017 the following infringements were found. You can read below how we adBecause we buy directly from primary mines and trusted suppliers, we consider the human rights risks in our upstream supply dressed and corrected the findings. chain as low. We carry out a risk assessment to review our responsibility with respect to human rights, as a requirement for the RJC code of practices. The exercise allows us to proactively manage the Human Rights related risks of our supply chain. We have mapped Results of BPP external audits per country Our Thailand factory has passed the SA8000 any human rights impacts our company may cause or contribute to and how we can prevent or adverse these. certification January 2018. 2015 2016 2017 Armenia Belgium •2 inf China •1 inf •3 inf Hong Kong Israel • • Japan Thailand •2 inf UAE •1 inf • USA • India •3 inf •10 inf •1 inf INF= potential minor and major infringements. An infringement is a compliance issue that can be managed and rectified within a short or reasonable period. Both minor and major infringements require us to submit a Corrective Action Plan. Social audits: examples of how we adressed and corrected the findings. Country Finding Corrective action Status During our human rights due diligence process following topics came up: China Some small chemical containers in the polishing area were not Labelling was done accordingly. Closed labelled, including glue and machine oil. Criteria Good practice Improvement opportunities Belgium A first aid box was provided in the entity. However, it was noted that Written procedures were put in place to Closed Adoption and implementation of a robust supply We have a business partner code of conduct that inThe code of conduct is not part of the some of the medicines in the kit had expired. ensure that contents are checked regularly. chain policy—that is incorporated into all contracts cluded human rights. All our suppliers and contractors company’s contract with suppliers. The policy A register was made of the full content of with suppliers; are expected to sign the Code of Conduct. is also not yet publicly available. the first aid box, including expiration dates. Traceability or Chain of custody over diamonds, Yes, all efforts to provide origin, at least for in-house No chain of custody. This register will be monitored twice a year including efforts to trace these minerals to their mines manufactured goods. For purchased goods we by the first aid officer. of origin by requiring full supply chain documentation formally request our suppliers to provide all the Belgium There was an old clause in the employment contract which mentioned The clause was taken out the contracts and Closed from all suppliers; information they can. potential disciplinary deduction in case of non-confidentiality after the all staff was informed of the deletion with a Assessment of all human rights risks throughout We have done a human rights due diligence based on We have not physically visited our suppliers DECENT WORK & ECONOMIC GROWTH DECENT WORK & ECONOMIC GROWTH termination of employment. letter from HR. the supply chain, including evidence of human rights RJC and OECD guidance. All our own operations are to assess any risks with in our further supply India It was observed that the doors between departments of the building The direction of the doors was adjusted. Closed due diligence by upstream suppliers, such as oncomplying with the highest possible standards. chain. open inwards. theground mine assessments; Third-party audits of the company’s and its suppliWe are RJC COP certified and third-party audited by We do not audit our suppliers. ers’ human rights due diligence by auditors qualified SGS. to assess human rights issues; RJC noteworthy achievements: Annual public reporting on human rights due diliAnnual sustainability report that includes our own Including audit results of our suppliers in our gence, including steps to manage and mitigate risks; human rights due diligence and information on efcommunication. • Senior Management interviewed indicated a very good commitment to CSR and felt that the corporate safety policy forts to achieve responsible mining, and its approach statement reflects the company's philosophy and actions towards the RJC requirements. to supplier audits. • The company was able to show continued commitment to monitor its progress against the RJC objectives to ensure compliance by their employees. Support for artisanal and small-scale mining: no. Financial support for the Diamond Devel• All applicable regulatory and certification standards were readily available to staff and amended to be most up to date opment Initiative and the Institute for Enviwith 2013 RJC requirements. ronment and Development to help formalize • Current copies of RJC publications, checklists and guidance were maintained. Relevant Kimberly, AML and SOW training and promote responsible artisanal mining in program outlines were comprehensive and detailed.” both the diamond and gold sectors. 34 35 QUALITY & EDUCATION Polishing diamonds is a very specific and respected craftsmanship. We provide a variety of mandatory and voluntary, internal and external training opportunities for our employees to help them develop technical skills on the workplace, and gain the competences specific to their roles. We communicate our global policies and procedures covering the subjects of compliance on our CSR extranet. Regarding CSR and compliance knowledge, the training material and toolkits can be adjusted by the local CSR expert as per the local reality and language. In 2017, Rosy Blue recorded a total of 436 hours of training mainly on compliances, human rights, social performance and management practices. In 2017 energy efficiency trainings were provided to our factories. Managing our contractors In 2017 we worked with 5 majority contractor and 72 minority Each year, these majority contractors are selected for audit by SGS Our interpretation contractors for Rosy Blue (NI), and 1 majority and 50 minority based on risk factors such as conditions in the country where a contractors for Rosy Blue (I). These include grading services, cleanfacility is located and the facility’s past audit performance. ing, jawellery retail shops, but also polishing activity. We focus on Improving technical skills (direct and indirect through scholarships, gifts to schools, grants...), ‘substantial contractors’, being the contractors that generate 75% We continued to enhance awareness in 2017 among our ‘non-sublitteracy, reinforcing and sharing know-how. or more of the revenues of the contractor from one of our entities. stantial’ contractors by distributing our Business Partners Code of Conduct and a formal undertaking which we ask to sign off. Score on relevance: 7.2/10 Score on performance: 8.3/10 DECENT WORK & ECONOMIC GROWTH Our CONCRETE actions in 2017: • Training QUALITY & EDUCATION • community initiatives based on education 36 37 G4-DMA CLIMATE ACTION CARBON FOOTPRINT 2017 = 6311 TONNES CO2e: Our interpretation Minimising the impacts of Rosy Blue's operations on the environment by investing in 67% 21% technologies that reduce emissions, energy and water use. Score on relevance: 7.6/10 Score on performance: 7.2/10 Our CONCRETE actions in 2017: • energy audits conducted in all factories ELECTRICITY USED IN OUR OPERATIONS BUSINESS TRAVEL • concrete carbon reduction actions • implementing energy efficiency management systems CLIMATE ACTION 2% COMPANY CARS (OWNED + LEASED) 10% OTHER + UPSTREAM FUELS / ELECTRICITY CLIMATE ACTION 38 39 G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN19 Evolution of our footprint Carbon reduction actions In 2017, 92% of Rosy Blue’s emissions (scope 1&2) were associated • Reduction in number of sites in scope, particularly energy The focus of these actions was on reviewing the savings identified with the 4 factories. This is to be expected given the higher energy intensive sites 1 large factory was removed from scope via the energy audits. consumption of manufacturing sites compared to offices. The • Reduction in business air travel highest energy • Improvements in energy efficiency resulting in reduced elec1. A review of existing technical opportunities to understand the 3. Modelling the impact that the opportunities will have on Rosy consumption was at our jewellery manufacturing site in Intergold, tricity Consumption key carbon and financial metrics (capital costs, Blue’s projected costs and carbon emission trajectory This India. Since 2016 Rosy Blue’s footprint has decreased by 4%. This predicted annual cost savings, carbon savings, estimated analysis will help to quantify the value-at-risk analysis. drop in emissions is due to: date for implementation) 4. Calculate the overall business case for investment, 2. Working with the Sustainability Manager to understand including capex budget and phasing when and where these opportunities will help to reduce the energy consumption across Rosy Blue’s factories. -19% -14% Some examples of energy audit findings that led to carbon reductions actions 7,777 Scope 1 0,240 7,603 7,270 1 develop 6 air-conditioning 0,122 0,168 6,311 Develop a dedicated energy policy for the factory. In the medium term replace the central R22 air-conditioning 0,107 We had an energy policy in place. However the audit systems in the office and factory identified some points and specifications for improveWe intend to replace the entire air conditioning Scope 2 5,256 ment. system with a more efficient solution utilizing more 5,444 5,137 4,238 environmentally friendly gases which avoid the ozone depleting potential of R22 and minimize the Global 2 improve Warming Potential from HFC refrigerant gases. This shall be carried not only in compliance with local Improve energy analysis and sub-metering. legislation but also industry best practice. Scope 3 2,281 2,037 1,965 1,967 Sub-meters were in place at two major energy con7 suming points. We have added two more sub-meters: One on the furnaces of casting department and the upgrade 2014 2015 2016 2017 other on the refining process. tonnes CO2e Upgrade the remaining fluorescent and compact fluorescent lighting to LED with improved controls. 3 implement We have this established practice of replacing all conventional type of bulbs/tubes by LED lamps/tubes Since 2014 our organisational carbon footprint has decreased by Implement a staff energy awareness campaign. as and when they get fused. During the first months of 19%. Despite a reduction in absolute emissions, emissions per FTE We have implemented this campaign via staff and 2018, we have replaced 40 4 feet old fluorescent type have increased slightly. This is due to a shift in business activity workers mailing communications and through posters tube lights with new 4’ LED tube lights. Wherever any and site numbers, resulting in lower absolute FTE numbers. displayed at appropriate positions in the factories. renovation of area is required, we use only LED lights as replacement. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 4 review 8 replace Full Time Employee Equivalent 5,491 4,135 3,818 3,453 1,769 Review the temperature set points of the air-conditioning Emissions Scope 1&2 per FTE 1.34 tCO2e 1.33 tCO2e 1.46 tCO2e 1.54 tCO2e 2.46 tCO2e systems Replace the air-compressors with a centralised system. Emissions Scope 1,2 & 3 per FTE 1.72 tCO2e 1.88 tCO2e 1.99 tCO2e 2.11 tCO2e 3.57 tCO2e We have uniformly set the temperature of 24 degree We have already initiated the process of replacing our across the factory and office areas except for server existing compressors with a single new one which will * Not all entities of Rosy Blue India are covered in this calculation room and couple of machines specifically requiring be fitted with a VFD (Variable Frequency Drive) so as lower temperature. to ensure energy savings. As part of reviewing our air Additionally, we manually control AC operations by requirement, we have recently replaced an air operatWe calculate our organisational carbon footprint in line with 1980 13 419 2258 94 1548 ed metal bar cutting machine with a hydraulic one. switching off AC during the lunch time And also half Greenhouse Gas Protocol guidance. The boundary of our footprint an hour earlier before closing time. includes: 9 improve • Onsite fuels and owned transport (Scope 1) • Electricity consumption (Scope 2) 5 minimise CLIMATE ACTION CLIMATE ACTION Non India Sites Improve the control of the extract systems. • Business travel and upstream impacts of electricity consumption India Sites Minimise building air infiltration to improve the energy perforWe have discussed opportunities with our production and fuel usage (Scope 3) mance of the air-conditioning system. staff to improve the operating procedures in the We are examining options to minimise the infiltration factory. One of the area for improvement relates to We have excluded upstream Scope 3 emissions associated with purof warm external air into the air conditioned factory improved control or stopping of idle or underutilized chased goods and services (diamond mining). Water consumption by ensuring production extract systems have adequate machines. We have also installed individual work and waste disposal (including chemicals) is measured and make up air and that interfaces between warm and stations of dust collection to avoid under utilizing monitored, however they are excluded from our carbon footprint. Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 cool areas of the building are adequately managed. existing full lines of six/eight seats. This is because they do not represent a material carbon impact. tonnes CO2e We are in talks with two consultants on this. 40 41 COMMUNITY INITIATIVES AND PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS We have a responsibility to help strengthening communities for a better, more promising tomorrow, Our partnerships are focused primarily within two areas: Education Community Partnerships ROSY BLUE We support programs and projects that improve access to primary and secondary education for children; build skills in We proudly work together with many organizations to help tackle important societal challenges. These partnerships are FOUNDATION confidence; and partnerships with higher education institutypically multi-year commitments where we contribute finanRosy Blue Blue Foundation is our best relay inlaunched in December 2015, but has seen whether a mentorship relationship can be tions to foster educational opportunities for youngsters cial and business expertise. side the surrounding communities of Rosy Blue. incredible traction. More information can developed without in person interaction. The SDGs pinpoint a series of urgencies that the be found on www.connectfor.org. Mentor Me India We have also continued COMMUNITY INITIATIVES AND PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS COMMUNITY INITIATIVES AND PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS Foundation can help address by supporting the our engagement with Mentor Me India, right non-profit organizations. 2017 was a busy ConnectFor was recently awarded the with our pilot for mentorship with “high year for the Rosy Blue Foundation (RBF), as we Solutions4Good grant by Vodafone Founrisk children” i.e. children who are even Our interpretation have continued to expand ongoing initiatives, and have grown our in-house initiative to a sigdation and Nasscom Foundation. more vulnerable due to their circumstances. The two groups we worked with nificant degree! Here’s a snapshot of our main were street children, and the daughters of Supporting non-profit organisations like the RJC and donating to charitable organisations and projects from the past year: Mentor Together sex workers in 2017-18, and now we have causes which are linked to our sector and operations. expanded the same, looking at the impact We have continued our engagement of mentorship on HIV orphans. ConnectFor with Mentor Together, resulting in the Score on relevance: 7.1/10 creation of over 100 mentorship pairs Score on performance: 9.2/10 ConnectFor is a homegrown RBF project. across 3 locations in Mumbai. The menIndian school It is a technology platform that seeks to tors, some of whom are RB employees leadership institute (ISLI) demonstrate the value of human resource. themselves, have been divided across two Our CONCRETE actions in 2017: ConnectFor acts as an intermediary beprogrammes: Flagship mentorship, which ISLI is an organization that is invested in • RJC commitment and cooperation on review Code of Practices and SDG implementation tween volunteers and NGOs, and helps to is for children from grades 8-12 who are at improving the quality of school leaders, • Goodcrowd tool in cooperation with Antwerp Management School create value add matches buy finding the risk of dropping out of school, and Work believing that they are critical to the qualiright volunteer for the right opportunity. Based Mentorship, which is in partnership ty and standard of education across the • Rosy Blue foundation activities With over 8000 volunteers, and more than with Magic Bus, and is for first generation country. We have supported them in creat140 NGO partners in Mumbai and Benstudents who are looking to transition ing a peer-to-peer mentorship network galuru, ConnectFor has already seen more into workspaces or gain employment. We that matches government school leaders than 16000 hours have also piloted a remote mentorship with private school teachers/leaders to of completed volunteering! The project programme in rural Maharashtra, called help them define and achieve growth and is only two years and a half old, having Mentor To Go, which seeks to explore a higher quality classroom experience. 42 43 COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS Children’s rights & business have a clear picture of the risks involving Social accountability international and services to address strengthening of that lends itself to sharing experiences principles them in the countries where we have management systems, supply chain manand exchanging advice during the bustle operations. We have updated our global SAI is a multi-stakeholder, non-profit agement, code of conduct monitoring and of the Games. Soft drinks, coffee and cake The leaders, decision-makers and innovainternal policies with special attention to organization dedicated to improving workcompliance, specific aspects of a compaare offered. tors of tomorrow are the children of today. Children’s rights. In our manufacturing places and communities by developing ny’s social initiatives, as well as all aspects Respecting and supporting children’s plants, we have set up employee programs and implementing social responsibility of the SA8000 code or its implementation. For the family, the experience of the rights is preserving the best future of soto support them in their caregiver’s role standards and assisting brands, retailers Games is also very heartening; they witciety. A couple of years back we asked our(enhancing health and well-being or proand suppliers in meeting labor and huness their child performing and getting selves the question: how can a business viding them decent work). We also focus man rights objectives. Family centers for Special recognition as an athlete. Parents and take concrete actions in implementing our community investments mainly on Olympics Games children share their pride and joy of this children’s rights? Children. The final step is reporting about SAI convenes stakeholders – companies, sports experience in these family centers. the progress we make in children’s rights non-governmental organizations (NGOs), Each day of the Games around 1,500 famiThis is why, in 2013, during the Global implementation. trade unions and governments – to lies were welcomed in the Family Centers. Compact LEAD meeting at the World conduct research, training and technical Economic Forum in Davos we launched Developed by UNICEF, the UN Global assistance programs focused on develCOMMUNITY INITIATIVES AND PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS COMMUNITY INITIATIVES AND PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS a forum with the main goal to promote Compact and Save the Children – the Chiloping the management systems required Children’s Rights and Business Principles dren’s Rights and Business Principles are to adequately address social compliance in Belgium and abroad. the first comprehensive set of principles issues in a sustainable manner. to guide companies on the full range of We have assessed our impact on children’s actions they can take in the workplace, As a corporate member of SAI, Rosy Blue rights. The question Rosy Blue has asked marketplace and community to respect works to improve the social performance itself is how and where we can make and support children’s rights. More of organizations and their supply chains Rosy Blue is truly a long time fan of Special a substantial difference in the lives of specifically, we enthusiastically welcomed around the world. The direct result is Olympics. Since 2004 we have been activechildren. Children are major stakeholders the practical tool on children’s rights in a better workplace for over one million ly involved in supporting this venture and to our company, but also to business in sustainability reporting that provides people around the world and a way for in 2008 Mr. Amit Bhansali was appointed general. We interact with them on a daily guidance to businesses on how to incorconsumers to trust the companies whose as Ambassador of Special Olympics in basis, both directly and indirectly. They porate children’s rights in their GRI-based products they purchase. Belgium. Every year we try to support this are family members of employees, can reporting. organisation with a specific project as part be young workers, future employees and While writing our report and using the G4 SAI Corporate Members are committed of a structural and long business leaders. At the same time, they guidelines this year, we could easily extend to the widespread attainment of social term partnership. In 2017 Rosy Blue NV are key members of the communities and the guidelines to integrate children’s responsibility and strive to further the has funded the infrastructure and the The Special Olympics is a non-profit organisation which gives environments in which we operate. rights into our sustainability measuring. development and implementation of a decoration of the 2 Family Centers at the the opportunity to people with intellectual disabilities to management system for the continual two main sites of the National Games and train and participate at special organised games according to their specific abilities. By doing this they give these people Looking at our operations, we believe prinMore info on improvement of social compliance in their Regional games in 2017. a chance to develop themselves both socially and physically, ciple 1,2,3,4 and 10 are the most relevant www.childerenandbusiness.org companies and their supply chains. SAI but also stimulate their integration into the community. for our business. provides Corporate Members with resourcThe Family Centers are meeting places for In order to really determine what we can es to assist in meeting social compliance families of the athletes. They can enjoy a do to protect their rights, it is important to goals, including customized trainings warm welcome and a relaxed atmosphere 44 45 G4-33 Assurance Statements Statement of Sightholder Best Practice Principles Statement of Sightholder Best Practice Principles for Rosy Blue NV and its Affiliates for Rosy Blue (India) Pvt. Ltd and its Affiliates Compliance Status Compliance Status Date: 25th May 2018 Date: 25th May 2018 Rosy Blue NV and its Affiliates have been actively involved in the De Beers Rosy Blue (India) Pvt. Ltd and its Affiliates have been actively involved in the Best Practice Principles through the Rosy Blue NV and Rosy Blue India De Beers Best Practice Principles through the Rosy Blue NV and Rosy Blue Sightholders since the initial cycle in 2005. India Sightholders since the initial cycle in 2005. As part of each annual cycle the Sightholders have been required to submit As part of each annual cycle the Sightholders have been required to submit self-assessment workbooks for all owned facilities. For the last few years they self-assessment workbooks for all owned facilities. For the last few years they have also been required to submit for contractors with whom they represent have also been required to submit for contractors with whom they represent 75% or more of their output. 75% or more of their output. These workbooks are reviewed by SGS for completeness and evidence is These workbooks are reviewed by SGS for completeness and evidence is tested in relation to the compliance status declared. Further, a sample of tested in relation to the compliance status declared. Further, a sample of facilities is visited to conduct a full on-site verification. facilities is visited to conduct a full on-site verification. In addition, Rosy Blue NV is part of the De Beers Forevermark programme For the 2017 cycle, this resulted in 03 workbook reviews and 03 visits. which requires all facilities used in the production of diamonds that are to be No material breaches were found as part of this verification and they are inscribed to be audited on an annual basis both for pipeline integrity and for compliant with the requirements of this programme and have provided compliance with the Best Practice Principles. corrective action plans where infringements were raised. For the 2017 cycle, this resulted in 06 workbook reviews and 02 visits. SGS has reviewed the summary of findings and statuses on Page 34 of the No material breaches were found as part of this verification and they are Rosy Blue Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 and can confirm that compliant with the requirements of this programme and have provided the information provided is aligned to the outcomes of the third party corrective action plans where infringements were raised. verification activities undertaken as part of the Best Practice Principles programme. SGS has reviewed the summary of findings and statuses on Page 34 of the Rosy Blue Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 and can confirm that Signed: the information provided is aligned to the outcomes of the third party verification activities undertaken as part of the Best Practice Principles programme. Signed: ASSURANCE STATEMENTS ASSURANCE STATEMENTS Effie Marinos Technical Governance Manager Effie Marinos Technical Governance Manager 46 47 G4-32 G4-32 Global reporting Content index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Standard Disclosures Title Page Number Material aspects DMA and Indicators Page Omissions STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS ENVIRONMENT G4-1 CEO statement Page 3 & 7 Emissions G4-DMA Page 39 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-EN15 Page 40 Partially G4-3 Company name Page 1 G4-EN16 Page 40 Partially G4-4 Principal brands, products and services Page 6 G4-EN17 Page 40 Partially G4-5 Location of headquarter Page 50 G4-EN19 Page 40 Partially G4-6 Countries where the company is established Pages 6-7; 10-11 LABOR PRACTICIES AND DECENT WORK G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Page 50 Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA Page 33 G4-8 Markets served Pages 5; 6-7; 6-11 G4-LA5 Page 33 Partially, no percentage G4-9 Scale of the organisation Pages 8; 6-7; 10-11 G4-LA6 Page 33 Partially, only injuries G4-10 Employment by contract type, worktime and gender Pages 10 G4-LA7 Page 33 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargainPage 33 Training and Education G4-LA9 Page 33 Partially, total hours not per employee ing agreements Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-DMA Page 22 G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain Pages 6 G4-LA14 Pages 35 partially, not new suppliers G4-13 Significant changes in the reporting period No significant changes G4-LA15 Pages 22,35 partially G4-14 Precautionary principle Pages 17; 21; 18-19; HUMAN RIGHTS 23; 25 Investments G4-HR2 Page 33; 35 partially. Not only on Human Rights G4-15 Charters, principles or initiatives Pages 23 Assessment G4-DMA Page 33; 35 G4-16 Memberships Pages 23 G4-HR9 Page 34 partially, not total number IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Supplier Assessment for Impacts on human rights G4-DMA Pages 35 G4-17 Entities Page 50 G4-HR10 Page 35 partially, not new suppliers, not percentage G4-18 Define report content Page 13-20 SOCIETY G4-19 Material aspects Page 18-19 Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Page 23 partially G4-20 Aspect boundaries within the organization Page 18 Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-DMA Page 13 G4-21 Aspect boundaries outside the organization Page 18 G4-SO9 Page 13 partially, not new suppliers, not percentage G4-22 Restatements No restatements G4-SO10 Pages 13 partially G4-23 Changes in the scope and aspect boundaries No changes PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA Pages 30-31 G4-24 Stakeholders list Page 16 G4-PR3 Page 30-31 partially G4-25 Stakeholders identification Page 16 G4-PR4 Page 30-31 G4-26 Stakeholders engagement Page 16 Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Pages 30-31 G4-27 Stakeholders’ concerns Page 16-19 REPORTING PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period Page 50 GLOBAL REPORTING INDEX GLOBAL REPORTING INDEX G4-29 Date of most previous report Year 2017 G4-30 Reporting cycle Page 50 G4-31 Contact point Page 50 G4-32 GRI Content index Pages 48-49 G4-33 External assurance Pages 46-47 GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure Pages 21 G4-35 Process for delegating authority Page 21 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Code of conduct Page 21 48 49 G4-5, G4-7, G4-17, G4-28, G4-30, G4-31 About this report Reporting on our performance This report has been prepared in accordance to the core option of the Global Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines. The GRI content index is included at the end of the report. In addition this report serves as Communication On Progress for the UN Global Compact. Assurance To ensure the credibility of the report content on social audit results, this report has received independent third party assurance. For more information: The assurance statement is included and indication of assurance is contact details in the GRI content index. Valerie Michel Manager Corporate Affairs Reporting period & CSR Address: Hoveniersstraat 53, The scope of this annual report covers a 12 months reporting cycle, Box 127, from 01/04/2017 until 30/03/2018, except where specifically indicat2018 Antwerp, ed. We believe it is important to only focus on relevant changes and Belgium core matters. Tel: +32 (03)206 16 00 E-mail: valerie.michel@rosyblue.com Reporting scope Website: www.rosyblue.com In this report we cover activities of the Rosy Blue Business Alliance, composed of: > Rosy Blue (India) Pvt Ltd and its subsidiaries in 5 countries, covering 8 entities, hereafter called Rosy Blue (I) (Rosy Blue India), We welcome headquartered in Mumbai, India your feedback > Rosy Blue Investments Sàrl and its subsidiaries in 11 countries, covering 20 entities, hereafter called Rosy Blue (NI) (Rosy Blue Non-India), with main operational center in Antwerp, Belgium. ABOUT THIS REPORT Rosy Blue (I) and Rosy Blue (NI) are legally independent from one another and constitute the Rosy Blue Business Alliance. Rosy Blue is a common trade name used by the Business Alliance entities, which are distinct, privately owned and independently managed. In this report we refer to the Rosy Blue Business Alliance as ‘Rosy Blue’ for convenience reasons. “*The term subsidiary is used to cover all types of parent companies Engage with us on social media and affiliate organizational structures. 50 www.rosyblue.com
