EDF Trading UNGC Communication on Progress 2018 Statement of Continued Support I am pleased to confirm that EDF Trading reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this, our third annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. John Rittenhouse Chief Executive Officer 2 EDF Trading • EDF Trading is a leader in the international wholesale energy markets. The company manages a portfolio of assets which give it the ability to source, supply, transport, store, blend and convert physical commodities around the world. These capabilities enable EDF Trading to deliver essential asset optimisation services, risk management and wholesale market access to the EDF Group and its third party customers, helping them to realise the value inherent in their asset portfolios. • EDF Trading is active in the electricity, natural gas, LNG, LPG, and environmental products markets. It is one of the largest wholesale market traders in Europe for power and gas and one of the leading marketers of gas and power in the US. Its affiliate, EDF Energy Services is one of the main providers of generation services for power generation companies in the US and a leading US energy retailer for large commercial and industrial customers. In 2017, EDF Trading broadened the scope of its coal and freight activities in the form of a minority (33%) stake in JERA Trading, one of the leading utility backed global coal traders. The EDF Trading coal and freight business was transferred to JERA Trading. • EDF Trading has around 800 employees with key offices in London, Paris, Singapore, Houston and Calgary. • EDF Trading is a 100% owned subsidiary of EDF, one of the world’s biggest electricity generators. • EDF Group has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2012 and is at the advanced level. 3 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals EDF Trading supports the International Declaration of Human Rights and will not engage with any counterparts that are known to abuse human rights. EDF Trading has adopted the EDF Group Code of Ethics which mandates respectful treatment of employees and stakeholders, including protecting their human rights. EDF Trading has a strong policy on bullying and harassment and is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and with dignity. 4 Human Rights Implementation EDF Trading has a grievance procedure in place to resolve any problems experienced in the workplace. EDF Trading Human Resources policies reflect our proactive stance on human rights and include policies on Equal Opportunities and Bullying and Harassment. The greatest risk to human rights from our activities is likely to come from our purchases of products such as IT equipment. We have published a statement in accordance with the UK Modern Slavery Act which addresses our actions in assessing the risks in our supply chains. This statement is available on our website. Outcomes EDF Trading has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving human rights. All grievances raised during 2017 were resolved internally without the need for a tribunal. In the 2017 staff survey 81% of employees said they were satisfied with the respect with which they were treated at work. 5 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals EDF Trading supports the core conventions of the International Labour Organisation. All employees of EDF Trading have a contract of employment stating their terms and conditions. An employee handbook is available, which gives information on company policies, benefits, grievance and disciplinary procedures. EDF Trading complies with all relevant health and safety legislation. All Europe-based EDF Trading employees are able to stand for election and vote for the EDF Group European Works Council. 6 Labour Implementation All EDF Trading employees are invited to regular CEO update meetings to inform them of current strategies and plans. More regular CEO updates are also distributed by email. All employees have a biannual appraisal. EDF Trading has a health and safety management system which covers all offices and sites. This includes regular external health and safety audits for all industrial sites. EDFT Trading has a range of Human Resources policies which support best practice in terms of labour and employment, including an Equal Opportunities Policy. Comparable pay for comparable work is ensured through the use of external salary benchmarking. Labour related risks in the supply chain are managed through membership of organisations such as Bettercoal. Outcomes EDF Trading has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other events related to the violation of the Global Compact labour principles, or any health and safety prosecutions. EDF Trading has a diverse workforce with employees of 34 nationalities. Each employee received, on average, 7 hours of training during 2017. EDF Trading has a very low rate of sickness absence and lost time incidents (there were two LTIs during 2017 across the whole group). In the 2017 staff survey 86% were satisfied with their physical working conditions. Since April 2015 all EDF Trading employees have been paid the London Living Wage. 7 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals EDF Training has adopted the EDF Group Sustainable Development Policy and the EDF Group Sustainable Biomass policy. The majority of our employees are office based and we encourage recycling, efficient energy usage and paper-free offices. 8 Environment Implementation EDF Trading is an active participant in the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) which encourages a worldwide reduction in carbon emissions. Outcomes EDF Trading has had no reportable environmental incidents and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. EDF Trading is involved in around 120 CDM projects. These are predominantly in Asia. 9 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals EDF Trading has a zero tolerance Anti Fraud and Bribery Policy. EDF Trading supports the UN Convention against Corruption and complies with all relevant laws, including the UK Bribery Act. EDF Trading conducts a detailed risk assessment for all new counterparts and areas of business, with a particular focus on countries and regions with a higher risk of corruption. 10 Anti-Corruption Implementation All EDF Trading employees undergo Anti Bribery & Corruption (ABC) and Anti Money Laundering (AML) training annually. EDF Trading has a comprehensive whistleblowing policy, which covers all offices and subsidiaries. A confidential hotline is available 24/7 in all relevant languages. Outcomes EDF Trading has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery. During 2017 anti bribery and corruption (ABC) and anti money laundering (AML) training was completed by 96% of relevant employees and contractors in Europe and Asia, and 93% in North America. 11 Contact information EDF Trading (Headquarters) 3rd Floor, Cardinal Place 80 Victoria Street London SW1E 5JL United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0) 20 7061 4000 Fax: +44 (0) 20 7061 5000 Email: enquiries@edftrading.com Or visit our website www.edftrading.com Terms of Use These materials have been prepared by EDF Trading for a specific purpose. Any individual or entity using these materials agrees to adhere strictly and abide by the following TERMS OF USE. The user agrees not to copy, retransmit, disseminate, reuse or redistribute these materials. Certain information contained in these materials may have been obtained from outside sources that EDF Trading considers reliable. Although EDF Trading strives to provide accurate and authoritative information, it does not warrant or guarantee the accuracy or completeness of the information contained in these materials or the accuracy of information obtained from outside sources. EDF Trading reserves the right to modify or correct any error or omissions contained in these materials without notice. You agree by and through your use of these materials to waive all claims against, and to hold harmless, EDF Trading, its directors, officers, or employees from any damages claimed to have been caused in any way from your use of these materials. © 2015, EDF Trading Limited. No portion of these materials may be reproduced, reused, or otherwise distributed. 12
