CONTENTS CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE BMCE BANK FOUNDATION FOR EDUCATION AND THE ENVIRONMENT HIGHLIGHTS AND AWARDS A SIGNATORY TO GLOBAL INITIATIVES CSR APPROACH BUSINESS ETHICS AND CUSTOMER RELATIONS SUSTAINABLE FINANCE AND SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION COMMUNITY-BASED INITIATIVES AND DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS REPORTING ANNEXES CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE B M In order to achieve the Sustainable Development Our commitment to entrepreneurship may also be Goals agreed upon by the international community seen through the African Entrepreneurship Award, and help to build a more sustainable world, we have an annual programme which, over its first three years, C adopted a collective approach to corporate social has attracted more than 12,000 participants from responsibility. Almost 15,000 Group employees 132 countries, including the 54 African countries. in more than thirty countries are committed to The 33 award winners to date are now fully-fledged upholding a set of shared values which gives meaning entrepreneurs. E to our every action. In 2017, our Bank once again received a number of Ethics, integrity and high-quality customer awards including ‘Socially Responsible Bank of the relationships play an important role in ensuring Year 2018’ by the African Banker, ‘Top Performer CSR sustainability. We attach particular importance to 2017’ by Vigeo-Eiris and ‘Arabia CSR Award 2017’, these values and strive to comply with the highest in recognition of our contribution to positive impact standards. finance and environmental protection. The ‘Best Customer Service Award 2018’ and ‘Top Employer We aspire to be an innovative pan-African banking and 2017’ awards also highlight the Bank’s commitment to financial services group which, through its activities, its customers and its human capital. has a positive impact on those communities and regions in which we have operations. We are proud of When all is said and done, social responsibility is our solid achievements each year which enhance our fundamental to our Group; it ensures that reputation as a socially-responsible organisation. we are able to perform sustainably and guarantees consistency in our striving to In 2017, a new milestone was reached. We embarked promote the values that are dear to us. upon a process of embedding a strong corporate Social responsibility gives us a sense of responsibility culture across the entire Group by legitimacy and enables us to live up to ensuring that each Group entity formally adopts each of our initiatives. BMCE Bank of Africa's Corporate Social Responsibility Charter. The Charter underpins our business model as we endeavour to achieve the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. It is the culmination of a process that we have jointly developed with our stakeholders, Othman Benjelloun inspired by the various international principles that Chairman & Chief Executive Officer we endorse the Equator Principles, the United bmc Nations Global Compact and principles for Positive Impact Finance. ban of The commitment shown by BMCE Bank of Africa afri Foundation, through the Medersat.Com programme, also underlines our strong desire to build ‘beyond our walls’. This high-quality progressive educational programme rightly respects our mother tongues as well as encouraging foreign language learning. PA G E 4 / 5 e k ca M O H A M M E D V I TA N G I E R T E C H C I T Y 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA BMCE BANK FOUNDATION FOR EDUCATION AND THE ENVIRONMENT In 2017, BMCE Bank Foundation for International symposium Education and the Environment, under on pre-school education the aegis of its Chairperson, Dr Leila in Morocco Mezian Benjelloun, continued to strive to develop high-quality teaching skills In May 2017, under the High Patronage by organising an extensive training of His Majesty King Mohammed VI programme for educators, supervisors and in conjunction with the Ministry and teachers. of National Education, BMCE Bank Foundation organised an international BMCE Bank Foundation, leveraging symposium on the theme of ‘Preits reputation and its many effective school education in Morocco – partnerships, in conjunction with B ensuring fairness and quality for the Ministry of National Education, everyone’. organised a highly successful international symposium on preschool The Minister of National Education, education both in terms of the quality M « Promoting and developing our Vocational Training, Higher national education system is a huge of the participants and the manner in Education and Scientific Research which it was organised. and the Secretary of State for Rural task and a long-term project for which we are each responsible [...]. Development, Water and Forestry, In addition to Senegal, CongoC accompanied by Mr Othman At the Foundation, we are convinced Brazzaville and Mali, the Foundation is Benjelloun, BMCE Bank of Africa’s [...] that the approach that we have endeavouring to expand the Medersat. Chairman & Chief Executive Officer com network internationally by opening taken since establishing the very first and Dr Leïla Mezian Benjelloun, E a school in Rwanda’s Kigali Province in Medersat.com network school in the Foundation’s Chairperson, in the near future. 2000, that of a partnership between the presence of the President of Parliament and the ambassadors of the public and private sectors, is the An extensive programme the participating countries, opened most appropriate and effective.» of professional training this symposium’s proceedings. The and qualifications event was hailed as a great success Dr Leïla MEZIAN BENJELLOUN with experts participating from Europe In conjunction with the Institut (France/Belgium), North America Français, training sessions were (Canada), Asia (China) and Africa organised for 180 French language (Senegal). teachers to improve their command of French. The Foundation’s experience and innovation in preschool education Similarly, training sessions were given was highlighted, inspiring the Ministry to preschool educators and educational of National Education to expand the supervisors. In the latter’s case, reach and accessibility of pre-school the training course was held at the education in Morocco, especially in International Centre for Pedagogical terms of partnership, infrastructure Studies in Sèvres, France. and equipment, educational materials, teacher training and educational As with French and Tamazight teachers, supervision. Arabic language teachers also received training in the very latest teaching methods. PA G E 6 / 7 Innovation in teaching With the support of the Institut Français and a contribution from the Foundation's teaching staff, a new teaching pack consisting of five booklets was published, replacing the original 2010 version in order to make teaching more relevant. Teaching aids were also developed in conjunction with the pack and provided free of charge to the 1,800 children enrolled in the Medersat.com network’s preschool establishments. Environmental The National Award for Excellence The Foundation continues to develop classroom-based teaching of Mandarin education in Mandarin, organised by the Chinese in a school in Bouskoura and Foundation in conjunction with Rabat’s Medersat.com schools adhere strictly Mohammed V University, was held in by videoconference in three Nadorto the Ministry of National Education’s April 2017 at Rabat University’s Faculty based schools, as part of a partnership current national curriculum as well as of Arts, attended by the Ambassador with the Confucius Institute and including an environmental educational of the People's Republic of China Casablanca’s Hassan II University. component. in Morocco and the Chairperson of Pupils enrolled in Medersat.com BMCE Bank Foundation for Education The latter is primarily focused on and the Environment. In 2017, a dozen schools continue to receive a trilingual aspects such as protecting nature and or so Moroccan students achieved the education (Arabic, Tamazight and preserving the flora and fauna and is best results in a contest organised by French) from their first year of aimed at raising children’s awareness the Confucius Institute in mastering preschool schooling until the end of about environmental issues and on how Mandarin Chinese. the primary programme. A number of to behave. In addition to classroomlessons of mathematics and life and based teaching, every school carries out As in previous years, pupils from the earth sciences, delivered in French, practical initiatives such as cultivating Medersat.com network qualified for the have also been introduced into the an educational garden, treating the final stages of the Tifinagh Olympiads, primary school curriculum. school’s water, recovering waste, a national competition organised by the cleaning classrooms and ensuring that Ministry of National Education, held in the toilets are clean. August 2017 in Taroudant. In 2017, as in previous years, three Medersat.com schools, Moulay Yakoub, Ouazzane and Nador, obtained the Eco-School label. The latter is awarded annually by the Mohammed VI Foundation for the Environment to public state schools which meet predefined criteria. Sixteen Medersat.com schools have now obtained this label. Promoting excellence A ceremony was organised in conjunction with the end-of-theacademic-year coordination and assessment meeting to present awards for excellence to those Medersat. com high school graduates who had achieved the highest grade in the high school diploma exams in 2015 and 2016. 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA Fondation BMCE Bank It is also used to transport pupils, Expanding and enhancing especially girls who, having completed the infrastructure of their primary school studies, would Medersat.com network now like to continue their secondary education at Bni Ansar College. schools As in previous years, BMCE Bank Monitoring how schools Foundation endeavoured to expand and function and supervisory enhance the educational infrastructure visits by renewing equipment in Medersat.com network schools where needed. Unannounced school visits are carried B out by the Medersat.com Programme’s Expanding Director and Head Supervisor to ensure the Medersat.Com network that schools are functioning properly, establish direct contact with teachers, in sub-Saharan Africa M raise the Foundation’s profile in schools, (Rwanda) ensure that teaching is of a high standard and meet the needs of schools in terms of In July 2017, BMCE Bank Foundation teaching materials and school equipment. and the Imbuto-Rwanda Foundation C signed a partnership agreement to Meeting with the Minister establish a ‘Medersat.com Rwanda’ school in Kigali Province. The school of National Education plans to open in 2018. As well as funding Developing E A meeting was held between the the school’s construction costs and partnerships fitting it out, the Foundation will share Minister of National Education and the Foundation’s Chairperson, Dr Leila with its partner-school the experience it At a ceremony organised to celebrate has acquired under the Medersat.com the first anniversary of the partnership Mezian Benjelloun, her Advisor and the Programme Director, to discuss how to programme in setting up and managing between BMCE Bank Foundation community schools in rural areas. and the French Institute in Morocco develop the partnership between the (IFM), presided over by Dr Leila public and private sectors. Mezian Benjelloun, the Foundation’s Chairperson and attended by Mr Co-curricular activities Othman Benjelloun, Group Chairman, the French Ambassador to Morocco In organising co-curricular activities, the and BMCE Bank of Africa’s senior staff, Foundation aims to develop a sense tribute was paid to Mr Hervé Guillou, of cultural appreciation and artistic Educational Cooperation Attaché at awareness of pupils attending Medersat. the French Embassy in Rabat, for his com schools, extend the schools’ outreach endeavours to bolster the partnership to the pupils’ home environment and between the Foundation and the IFM. involve parents in the schools’ various activities. A number of national and As part of this partnership, in 2017, international days were celebrated in the Foundation received a donation of each Medersat.com network school such 4,334 books from Le Bouquin Volant, as World Environment Day, World No a charitable organisation, which were Tobacco Day, International Women’s Day distributed to Medersat.com network and Respect for the Highway Code Day. schools in order to expand their school library collections. Boukana School, the result of a tripartite partnership with the province of Nador and the Parents’ Association, now has a 30-seat bus which is used to transport children living in Bni Ansar. This bus, has been operational since September 2017 and the running costs are covered by the Foundation. PA G E 8 / 9 Ongoing programme The aim of this programme is to to enhance and renovate instil in young Medersat.com pupils the basic concepts of sustainable Medersat.com network development and environmentallyschools friendly behaviour and lifestyles, achievable by focusing on six themes In 2017, the Foundation renovated energy, waste, water, biodiversity, food ten Medersat.com network schools and solidarity. including Medersat.com Tagleft and Tafdegna in Azilal Province, Ouled Under the terms of this partnership Sidi Bouchaib School in El Jadida agreement, the Mohammed VI Province, Haj Zaouia School in Foundation for Environmental Marrakesh Province, Lhaina School in Protection will conduct mentoring and Sidi Bennour Province, Oualili School training sessions aimed at enhancing in Meknes Province, Oulmes School the environmental capabilities of the in Khemisset Province and Bouskoura nine Medersat.com schools that have School in Nouacer Province. already obtained the Eco-School label and supporting the ten Medersat.com The Foundation also carried out network schools enrolled on the Ecomaintenance work on two schools Schools programme. built from mud, the Medersat.com The tower of the National Library Ait Hammou Ou Said Casbah school of the Kingdom of Morocco houses in Zagora Province and the Tarmigte BMCE Bank Foundation supports the National electrical cabinets to regulate airSchool in Ouarzazate Province. conditioning and humidity levels, Library of the Kingdom of necessary for conserving the Renewing equipment Morocco to install solar Kingdom’s rare and precious historical photovoltaic panels documents which are archived in the BMCE Bank Foundation renewed school building. and teaching equipment where needed. BMCE Bank Foundation, fully aware A batch of school furniture and office of its responsibility in promoting equipment, comprising blackboards, environmental protection, signed a desks, tables and chairs for kindergarten, partnership agreement in February teachers' desk and teaching equipment, 2017 with the Ministry of Culture and comprising an interactive whiteboard Communication and the National and video projectors, were dispatched to Library of the Kingdom of Morocco various schools. The total cost amounted to assist the latter in installing solar to MAD 1,248 thousand. photovoltaic panels at a cost of MAD 2,664 thousand. By adopting such an approach, the Foundation wishes to maintain its schools’ Under the terms of this partnership reputation for quality, thereby promoting agreement, BMCE Bank Foundation an optimal environment for learning. will provide financial assistance to enable the National Library to design, BMCE Bank Foundation assemble and build a 192 kWp solar striving to positively photovoltaic power station. The latter will supply electricity to the National impact the environment: Library’s conservation tower, meeting Partnership agreement 54% of the tower’s total daily demand. between the Mohamed VI-Foundation for the Environment As part of the ‘Eco-schools’ programme, a partnership agreement was signed in May 2017 for a renewable 3-year period between the Mohammed VI Foundation for Environmental Protection and BMCE Bank Foundation. 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA HIGHLIGHTS BMCE Bank named ‘Socially Responsible Bank of the Year’ in 2018 by The African Banker. ‘Top Performer CSR 2017’, awarded by Vigeo-Eiris, the global extra-financial rating agency, for the 4th consecutive year. B BMCE Bank of Africa awarded the ‘Sustainable Energy Gold Award’ by the EBRD at the 26th EBRD Annual Meeting and Business Forum on the M theme of ‘Targeting Green and Inclusive Growth’. BMCE Bank Of Africa an award winner for the 4th C consecutive year at the CSR Arabia Awards 2017. BMCE Bank Of Africa named ‘Top Employer 2018’ E by the Top Employers Institute. Awarded ‘Best Customer Service Award 2018’ in Morocco and Africa. First bank in the MENA region to obtain ISO 50001 certification for its Energy Management System in 2016 and ISO 14001 international certification for its Environmental Management System in 2011. First Moroccan bank and the second in Africa to be awarded High Environmental Quality (HQE) certification from Cerway International Certification for the new BMCE Bank Of Africa Academy head office, design and implementation phases. First Moroccan bank to obtain OHSAS 18001 certification for occupational health, safety and wellbeing. BMCE Bank of Africa, the first bank in Morocco to In October 2017, BMCE Bank of Africa published its first sign the United Nations Global Compact … progress report which was posted on the Global Compact website and on its own corporate website. The United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative, provides a platform for ... And a leading partner to the UN Global Compact’s businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially Morocco Network responsible policies. BMCE Bank of Africa is fully aware that the private sector By signing the United Nations Global Compact in 2016, needs to be involved in building a sustainable future. That BMCE Bank of Africa demonstrated its commitment to is why, at the COP 22 conference, the Group underlined adopting the Global Compact’s ten principles relating to its willingness to help set up the local Morocco Network human rights, labour standards, environmental protection of the United Nations Global Compact. As a leading and anti-corruption and to reporting regularly on their partner, since 2017, it has helped promote the values of implementation. exemplarity and social responsibility and be a catalyst for behavioural change in Morocco and throughout the region. PA G E 1 0 / 1 1 UNDERTAKINGS TO PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2017 • Becomes a member of the local Morocco Network of the United Nation Global Com2016 pact as a leading partner • Supports the Mainstreaming Climate Action • Signs the Principles for Positive Impact within Financial Institutions initiative Finance of the United Nations Environmental Programme Finance Initiative • Signs the United Nations Global Compact, (UNEP FI) underlining its commitment to the ten 2015 principles • Helps launch the Positive Impact Manifesto of the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) • Signs the EBRD-UNEP Declaration of Financial 2010 Institutions on the Environment and Sustainable Development Adopts the Equator Principles 2008 Establishes an Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) in partnership with International 2000 Finance Corporation (World Bank Group) Signs the Declaration of Financial Institutions on the Environment and Sustainable Development under the aegis of PNUE-UNEP-FI 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA BMCE BANK OF AFRICA’S SOCAL RESPONSIBILITY CHARTER Business ethics and responsible customer The goals relating to each commitment relations are guiding principles which every Sustainable director, manager, and employee finance and social within the Group is responsible for Community entrepreneurship incorporating into his or her respective interest and remit. Every effort must be made to dialogue with implement and report on them on a Generate value for stakeholders regular basis as part of the non-financial shareholders and reporting process. partners Achieve the Underpinning BMCE Bank of Africa Sustainable Group's Sustainability & csr report B Development 2017 are its six Corporate Social Goals Responsible employer Responsibility pledges, underlining the actual initiatives taken and the level of Environment maturity reached by the Bank and its M subsidiaries in incorporating sustainable development goals. Corporate governance and risk C management E 6 pledges aligned with best industry practices to ensure that CSR is embedded across the entire Group BMCE Bank of Africa Group's Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) approach is governed by universal standards, ISO 26000, ISO 14001, ISO 50001 and by international benchmarks (UN Global Compact, IFC performance standards, etc.). BMCE Bank of Africa Group shares a common conviction with each of its The Group's Corporate Social subsidiaries, which is that success is Responsibility Charter sets out 6 achieved by commitment, professional pledges underpinning our business competence and integrity. model and practices as a Group which is committed to CSR. The Charter To earn the trust of our partners, is based on the following strategic customers, shareholders and civil priorities: society representatives in countries in which the Group has operations, it is 1. Respect business ethics and our duty to uphold and disseminate customers’ interests a sense of values and demonstrate exemplarity in our undertakings. 2. Promote sustainable finance and social entrepreneurship In so doing, we must, of course, comply with legislation and regulations 3. B  e a responsible employer, scrupulously. But we must go further, attentive to the needs of our by ensuring that every decision taken is employees and supportive of their imbued with the most profound sense development of ethical responsibility. 4. Be conscientious in terms of Our operating environment is evolving governance and risk management at an ever-faster pace. BMCE Bank of Africa Group must master these 5. Protect the environment changes by constantly adapting, 6. Act in the interest of communities anticipating and innovating. We can and sustain dialogue with achieve this by ensuring that our stakeholders convictions are underpinned by solid values that are applied rigorously. Sustainability & csr report 2017 BUSINESS ETHICS AND CUSTOMER RELATIONS BMCE BANK OF AFRICA PA G E 1 2 / 1 3 BUSINESS ETHICS AND CUSTOMER RELATIONS BMCE_AP_GeneriqueAfrique_21x29,7cm-HD.pdf 1 28/03/2016 15:04 Communicating about combating 2017 also provided an opportunity corruption does not concern only to step up efforts by launching and BMCE Bank’s employees but all third working on a data reliability project for C parties including suppliers, business customer data. Awareness training is partners and customers, for whom a also regularly scheduled for the Bank’s M J non-corruption clause is now inserted employees. CM MJ CJ CMJ N into their contracts with BMCE Bank of Africa. In the event that an employee or a third party such as a business B partner fails to comply, the Group now has a system in place by which senior managers may be alerted via M a whistle-blowing mechanism, either by telephone, e-mail or by post, anonymously or not, at the user’s convenience. C The supervisory framework for the anti-corruption measures adopted by the Group will be appraised in Combating corruption E 2018 based on a set of reliable Our Group has stepped up efforts to indicators, so as to constantly prevent corruption by implementing a improve the effectiveness of training, corruption risk-mapping process which communication, and management of will be reviewed and updated each those incidents of non-compliance year as well as an action plan detailing identified during audits. the initiatives that need to be adopted by each business line, such as training, Anti-money laundering raising awareness, communication, and countering the inspection and formalising the Bank's financing of terrorism pledges and processes to comply (AML/CFT) with domestic and international regulatory requirements for combating With the regulatory environment corruption, including the OECD constantly evolving, Group Compliance Convention, UN Convention, FCPA, is faced with the task of having to Bribery Act, etc. improve its AML/CFT system on an ongoing basis by: The new anti-corruption policy is part of a proactive approach which is Bolstering AML/CFT standards applicable to the entire Group. Upgrading AML/CFT-related The action plan implemented procedures domestically is a first step which Upgrading its systems and controls: will be subsequently extended to 2017 provided an opportunity to every BMCE Bank of Africa Group improve the existing system for subsidiary, ensuring that the combat profiling customers and enhance against corruption is part of a global customer transaction monitoring strategy. Introducing a procedure for Preventive measures mainly involve appraising the Bank's risk policy in raising awareness among the Bank’s relation to money laundering and staff by communicating appropriately terrorism financing. and, in particular, providing training that is tailored to the target audience and the extent to which employees are exposed to the pre-identified risk of corruption. PA G E 1 4 / 1 5 Ethics and professional conduct Preventing fraud and corruption Compliance with ethics and Fraud prevention is first and foremost professional conduct is a key aspect the responsibility of operational of the rules of proper conduct to and functional entities and their which every Group employee must supervisors. adhere. Close monitoring is carried out to ensure that procedures are The fraud prevention system properly implemented by internal and established by the Group is based on external resources – service providers, developing an attitude of vigilance temporary staff and interns. Training as to the risk of fraud, identifying and awareness initiatives relating to different types of fraud, frequently ethics and professional conduct are appraising fraud risk, incorporating regularly organised for staff by Group fraud risk in operating systems, Compliance. implementing employee management policies aimed at bolstering fraud Group Compliance is responsible prevention and informing staff about for establishing the ethical principles any penalties incurred. adopted by BMCE Bank of Africa Group which underpin its Code of Group-wide approach adopted Ethics, Rules of Proper Conduct and A standardised approach is taken Gifts and Benefits Policy. to implementing each component Preventing, detecting and managing of the compliance system (AML/ conflicts of interest CFT, preventing corruption, ethics and professional conduct, preventing A system for preventing (policies, conflicts of interest, etc.) across internal procedures), detecting the entire BMCE Bank of Africa (whistle-blowing, declaring conflicts Group within the framework of the of interest) and managing conflicts Convergence program. of interest (internal committees, management rules) is implemented by Each Group entity will see its existing Compliance in conjunction with other system gradually upgraded to the same control functions. level as far as norms and standards are concerned. In 2017, six new entities Personal data protection underwent ‘Convergence’, taking the total number of subsidiaries which In 2017, the Group continued to have now been fully integrated to improve the adopted system to twelve. ensure compliance with the regulatory requirements regarding personal data protection including criteria for processing personal data and respect for the rights of the persons concerned when processing and transferring their data. 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA Information Security The Group Information Systems (IS) Activity-monitoring indicators Personal data protection Governance business unit, attached to and sensitive systems have been the Group Technology, Processes and introduced and are monitored on a The Head of Group Information Systems Organisation (TPOG) Division, which monthly basis by the Bank’s and EAI’s Security (RSSIG) is responsible for reports to General Management-Group security committees. Information risk management at Group Operations, in conjunction with Eurafriclevel. Management responsibilities Information’s staff, participates in and Furthermore, in the wake of these include monitoring, raising awareness steers: various initiatives, the Bank has and detection and response. inserted clauses into contracts with Underpinning the management process • The bi-annual IS global audit new suppliers that require service are sound security practices as well as providers to comply with professional B the recommendations made by BMCE • Quarterly intrusion tests covering secrecy and personal data protection Bank’s Group General Control, General various areas obligations. These clauses also require Management for information systems that suppliers take every necessary • Ongoing internal programmes to M security (DGSSI), Bank Al Maghrib, the technical and organisational measure raise awareness about the different Central Bank, international standards to ensure personal data security and types of cyber-attack such as ISO 27001 and international protection. payment brands, VISA, MasterCard and • Monitoring and managing C SWIFT. In conjunction with Group Compliance outsourced services and Group Purchasing, TPOG initiated Furthermore, Eurafric• Compliance with the Payment a project requesting that those Information (EAI), which is ISO Card Industry Data Security suppliers which work with the Bank on E 27001:2013-certified, is the delegated Standard (PCIDSS), an international an ongoing basis sign the addendums manager of BMCE Bank of Africa's information security standard for to Act No. 09-08. Each of the information systems. EAI participates organisations handling credit cards Bank's purchasing departments was more in establishing the foundations of involved in helping to identify more IT security within the Group. It is worth • Compliance with the SWIFT than 270 active contracts. The Group noting that our Data Centre is Tier III+ Customer Security Programme (CSP) Purchasing Division then steered certified, which reduces interruptions relating to SWIFT payments and the process of getting the service to services and ensures high availability transfers providers to sign the said addendums. of data, applications and services to the Bank’s customers. • Crisis management and drawing up IT service continuity plans As far as the operational side is concerned, BMCE Bank of Africa Furthermore, a Group IS security is constantly investing to improve its master plan (2016-19) is in place, management of customer security which deals with a number of aspects: and customer data in the face of a • Group IS governance growing threat from cyber-attacks, both quantitatively and qualitatively. • Tightening up systems and end-user security • Ensuring that all customer, banking and personal data are secure • Ensuring that the changes made and developments to IS are secure • Training and awareness. PA G E 1 6 / 1 7 • Establish a body of documentation identifying methods for improvement as well as customers’ requirements and • Establish an IS risk analysis system expectations vis-à-vis SALAFIN. • Bolster the business continuity plan This approach is consistent with SALAFIN’s corporate strategy, which is • Implement a control and reporting underpinned by fundamentals such as system commitment, know-how and excellent SALAFIN has also embarked on a relations. process of complying with Directive The results obtained from the market 3/W/16, requiring annual IS security analysis were entirely consistent with audits. SALAFIN’s philosophy, that customer SALAFIN As far as human resources are relations lie at the very centre of its concerned, SALAFIN has embarked corporate strategy; a unique promise SALAFIN, fully aware of the on a process of behavioural change to which has been kept and which has importance of information security ensure that staff are at the centre of the met the approval of its customers. management, has established an company’s IS Security strategy. Each Information Security Management SALAFIN ran a successful employee is aware of his or her duty System (ISMS) to ensure that it is communications campaign as part of to ensure that information assets are aligned with best practices. Its aim is to its rebranding, focusing primarily on secure, having read the best practice procure the organisational and technical the excellent satisfaction rates obtained guide. means to be able to guarantee, at all from the market analysis carried out. times, the integrity, confidentiality and SALAFIN’s IS Security Management availability of all information. The A few figures from the survey illustrate System is also an essential tool for ISO 27001 standard was adopted by the point: mitigating the IT risks related to the SALAFIN as a reference framework, company’s digital transformation in order to design, implement, process so as to ensure that operations n 91% of our customers monitor and continuously improve its are secure, and data fully protected. considered the credit approval information security systems. process to be simple and effective Customer relations SALAFIN’s ISMS strategy is n 87% of car loan customers were underpinned by four guiding principles: Customer satisfaction satisfied with SALAFIN’s finance terms at the very centre of • Defining roles and responsibilities at n 96% of customers were satisfied each decision-making level in relation Salafin’s strategy with the way in which they were to security, under the aegis of the Chief Customer satisfaction is an absolute greeted at the branch Information Security Officer (CISO); priority for SALAFIN. That is why n 91% of customers were satisfied it hired a consulting firm to conduct with how their requests were • Identifying and complying with a survey of the various segments handled by SALAFIN during the the legal, regulatory and contractual of the Personal and Professional credit application phase requirements applicable to SALAFIN and its information systems; customer market. The market analysis n 86% found that the information encompassed the different stages of provided during the credit • Collectively defining risk assessment SALAFIN’s loan application process application phase was clear and criteria relating to the availability, from providing initial information, reliable integrity and confidentiality of to subscription and then after-sales n 82% of our customers would information assets; service. recommend SALAFIN to family and friends • Raising awareness among staff by The aim was to evaluate how SALAFIN publishing a best practice guide and is perceived by customers and their sending alerts whenever a major new overall satisfaction. This was done by threat is detected. identifying the criteria for measuring levels of satisfaction or dissatisfaction, SALAFIN’s ISMS philosophy is analysing those aspects of SALAFIN’s embodied in four initiatives: products and services that do not meet the company’s exacting standards, 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA BMCE Bank wins ‘Best Customer Service of the Year’ award in the Banks category BMCE Bank won the prestigious title of ‘Customer Service of the Year in Morocco 2018’ in the Banks category. This was the first time that this competition had been held in Morocco and Africa. The ‘Customer Service of the Year’ award was held in Morocco for the first time after the experience gained in France and Europe over the past 11 years. C The competition, involving the Transparent and clear country’s largest companies, was held information June-August 2017, with an award SALAFIN’s communications presented to the company in each E campaign – ‘Rate posted = industry offering the best customer Rate applied’ service. The chosen industries were those for which customer service is In April 2017, SALAFIN launched a essential, such as the banks, telecoms communications campaign conveying and automotive industries. The a clear and transparent message competition was based on mystery to consumers, ‘Rate posted = Rate shopping surveys and a multi-channel applied’. approach: all customer-oriented channels were audited with visits The Hand of Fatima symbol was made in person to the Personal and chosen to highlight the 5% headline Professional Banking network across rate, which was the campaign’s core the country, telephone calls, emails/ message. forms and browsing through the Bank's website. SALAFIN decided to take a bold approach with its campaign so as This success is all the more striking to stand out it from its competitors in that it reflects the commitment and foster its reputation for being a of the entire Bank to serving its company which is committed and customers more effectively. The caring towards consumers. ‘Customer Service of the Year’ award sends a strong message that the Ever true to its values, SALAFIN Bank is committed to its existing and conveyed the bold message, ‘Rate prospective customers. posted = Rate applied’, thereby underlining a sense of commitment and dependability vis-à-vis its customers. PA G E 1 8 / 1 9 Quality surveys The overall level of customer to ascertain customers’ satisfaction improved significantly needs more effectively to 94% in 2017 compared to 81% in 2016, underlining the professionalism • Young Professionals satisfaction and expertise of the Bank’s call centre survey agents. A satisfaction survey was carried Preventing out among Young Professionals, over-indebtedness a strategically-important customer Specific support for financiallysegment for the Bank’s development. vulnerable customers This survey, initiated in May 2017, was conducted in two phases: The Bank has incorporated a set of controls and audits within its retail A qualitative phase, during which customer credit approval process, Focus Groups were conducted with which will help it to determine whether This award may be regarded BMCE Bank’s customers, to: to grant a consumer loan or mortgage a victory which reflects the for any particular customer. Prior Identify customers’ levels of commitment of the entire Bank checks of this kind are intended to knowledge and satisfaction with to serving its customers more products and services; prevent from customers becoming effectively. Service quality is a battle over-indebted and automatically result that is waged every day. BMCE Appraise BMCE Bank’s ‘Young in those credit applications which are Bank of Africa has been, and will Professionals’ package by comparison categorised as high-risk being rejected. with competitors’; This is in the best interests of the always be, an incubator for large customer as well as the Bank. During ambitious projects that benefit its Identify expectations for the process, the Bank has a number customers. The approach that we improvement. of tools at its disposal to help and have decided to take requires that assist customers encountering financial we constantly rise to this challenge A quantitative phase, conducted by difficulties. of meeting the expectations of our telephone of a sample of 500 BMCE customers and the thousands of Bank customers with the ‘Premium The Bank's amicable debt recovery Package’, to: process aims to support financiallyother new contacts who will become vulnerable customers through a members of the BMCE Bank of Measure the overall level of number of different approaches: Africa family every year. customer satisfaction among Young Professionals; Right to information: Measure the level of satisfaction with • Providing customers with accurate the main components of the packages information about the criteria and terms of restructuring plans and Identify the main expectations of arrangements; the Young Professionals customer segment. • Continuously improving the conditions and content of the dialogue Young Professionals’ overall level of and negotiations. satisfaction level stands at 86%. Respecting customers interests: BMCE Ligne Directe (CRC) satisfaction survey • Respecting customers’ privacy and protecting their personal data; To evaluate the services provided by the Bank's Customer Relations Centre • Drawing up transparent procedures to and gather feedback about customers’ ensure that customers’ complaints, rights experience, needs and expectations, and obligations are dealt with. a satisfaction survey was conducted in June 2017 of a sample of 100 BMCE Bank customers who had used CRC services over the period March-May 2017. 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA Preventing over-indebtedness Bolstering transparency: seeks to jointly identify opportunities through: to improve business practices. • Drawing up objective systems for • Identifying as early as possible those appraising debt recovery managers Making cost savings is no longer customers who are in a precarious against measurable performance criteria. the Purchasing function’s sole goal. situation so as to be able to offer them BMCE Bank of Africa adopts a fair customised solutions; Appraising the effectiveness of and responsible approach to managing policies aimed at preventing customers relations with its suppliers by taking • Proposing bespoke and long-term from getting into financial difficulty and into account the following rules: amicable solutions. helping them by: • Prevent the risk of new suppliers B Providing specific training for the • Ensuring customer satisfaction, by becoming financially dependent; managers in question: adopting a customised approach to their specific situation; • Ensure equal opportunity when • Debt recovery managers specialising awarding contracts, by establishing M in dealing with sensitive and • Improving the rehabilitation rate for objective and quantifiable selection vulnerable cases, known as ‘amicable accounts in arrears. At 31 December criteria, including those related to recovery advisors’, receive specific 2016, the rate was 95.1% in terms of CSR; training, as advertised in the Group's the number of customers and 81.5% in C training catalogue. terms of the amount in arrears. • Comply with the rules of professional conduct outlined in the Support programmes for customers responsible Purchasing Responsible Purchasing Charter; encountering financial difficulties: E charter favours SMEs and very small businesses • Encourage suppliers to draw up • Maintaining an inventory of every and implement a CSR policy that is customer satisfying a number of and compliance with consistent with the Bank's pledges; vulnerability criteria (extended environmental and social authorised overruns, loan arrears, etc.); standards • Establish CSR audits for suppliers to ensure best practice and oversee • Systematically adopting a proactive Consistent with BMCE Bank of recommendation plans. approach to these customers by having Africa's CSR strategy, environmental two teams (central and regional) of and social aspects are being specialised advisors temporarily manage increasingly incorporated into the the commercial relationship rather than Bank’s purchasing policy. The aim is the branch, until customers’ accounts to ensure that the Bank’s purchases have returned to normal; give it a competitive advantage versus its peers while maintaining a balanced • Exploring, in conjunction with the relationship with suppliers, service customers in question, various solutions providers and subcontractors. to enable them to gradually clear their loan arrears, with priority given, as far as This approach is designed to make possible, to amicable settlement rather CSR as important a selection than litigation; criterion as other factors such as cost, quality, service, innovation and risk • Resuming, at the end of the management. rehabilitation period, the customer relationship at branch level. The Bank’s purchases provide an excellent means of communication Preventing corruption: and are a catalyst for best practices that respect the economic fabric. • Raising employee awareness of the measures taken by the Bank in this We therefore strongly encourage respect; our suppliers, service providers and their subcontractors to join with us in • Not accepting bribes or gifts from adopting a sustainable approach that counterparties. Sustainability & csr report 2017 SUSTAINABLE FINANCE AND SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP BMCE BANK OF AFRICA PA G E 2 0 / 2 1 SUSTAINABLE FINANCE AND SOCIAL ENTREPRENEURSHIP ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL Breakdown of funded projects by RISK MANAGEMENT category Equator Principles In 2010, BMCE Bank adopted the Equator Principles, a risk management framework for determining, assessing and managing environmental and social (E&S) risk in funded projects. 57% B These principles, which are applied to projects of USD 10 million or more, 29% are primarily based on: The eight International Finance M 14% Corporation (IFC) performance standards the World Bank Group’s Category A – Projects with significant adverse Environmental, Health and Safety C environmental and social risks and/or impacts Guidelines that are diverse, irreversible or unprecedented. Category B – Projects with limited adverse Principle 1: Review and Categorisation environmental and social risks and/or impacts E Principle 2: Environmental and Social that are few in number, generally site-specific, Assessment largely reversible and readily addressed through Principle 3: Applicable Environmental mitigation measures. and Social Standards Principle 4: Environmental & Social Category C – Service company projects with minimal or no adverse environmental and social Management System and EP Action risks and/or impacts. Plan Principle 5: Stakeholder Engagement Breakdown of funded projects by Principle 6: Grievance Mechanism industry Principle 7: Independent Review Principle 8: Covenants Principle 9: Independent Monitoring and Reporting Principle 10: Reporting and 57% Transparency Currently, 92 Equator Principles Financial Institutions (EPFIs) in 37 countries have officially adopted the EPs, covering the majority of international project finance debt 29% within developed and emerging 29% markets. In 2017, the Bank participated in the EP annual general meeting as well as In addition to drawing up an regional webinars held by the Equator environmental and social action plan Principles Association. so as to better manage the E&S risks in the projects that we finance, the Seven funded projects were identified Bank is now evaluating the positive as meeting Equator Principles criteria. impacts of funded projects. This Eligible projects fall under the approach will contribute positively following 3 risk categories: to one or more of the sustainable development pillars, in the context of the Bank's of UNEPFI's co-founding Principles for Positive Impact Finance . PA G E 2 2 / 2 3 Financing resource More than 88 projects across a efficiency variety of business sectors such as manufacturing, agribusiness and Cap Energie : financing transport have benefited from the credit line. All share the same goal, sustainable energy which is to cut energy costs by more € 55 million credit line, of which 80% than 20%, reduce carbon dioxide has been disbursed. emissions by at least 20% or install small-scale renewable energy systems. In launching Cap Energie, BMCE Bank of Africa became the first Moroccan Energy-efficiency projects will generate institution to offer a sustainable around 88,450 MWh of annual energy energy financing facility to Moroccan savings and will cut annual CO2 private-sector companies. This facility emissions by 18,210 tonnes. was launched in partnership with the Environmental and social impacts are European Bank for Reconstruction measured with KPIs by an external and Development (EBRD), the French n 88 funded projects firm: The environmental benefit is the Development Agency (AFD) and n 83 energy-efficiency projects eradication of environmental waste, Germany’s development bank (KfW). n 5 renewable energy projects the recovery of waste, the circular economy, the avoidance of GHG. On Cap Energie enables Moroccan n 18,210 tonnes/year CO2 the social level the project stimulates companies to secure financing to emissions reduced the solidarity and social economy by purchase, lease equipment or invest in n 88,420 KWh of annual energy hiring ragpickers. It should be noted energy-efficiency or renewable-energy savings that the environmental and social projects. Free-of-charge technical n 8,174 KWh/year of electricity risks of each project are systematically assistance is also provided to evaluate, generated by renewable energy analyzed and monitored with the client. implement and monitor projects while up to 10% of the loan qualifies for an Overall, this credit line endeavors investment subsidy. to be a positive impact financing A solution for solid model to address SDG No. 12 related waste management to Sustainable Consumption and Production. A EUR 20 million solid waste management financing facility exists for Alongside the launch of Cap Valoris, BBOA_ANP_FinanceClimat_Gen_21,5x28cm_VF-HD.pdf 1 03/11/2016 17:01 waste-to-energy or waste-from energy the Sustainability and CSR department companies. First of its kind in Morocco organised a training programme for and in the African continent, BMCE BMCE Bank’s head office departments, Bank of Africa’s innovative “Solid Waste held 22nd December 2017 at the Management” financing facility of BMCE Bank of Academy. 20 million Euros is dedicated to the circular economy, co-financed by the BOA GHANA Dutch Development Bank – FMO and the European Investment Bank – EIB. In 2017, BMCE Bank of Africa Ghana and Electricity Company of Ghana This sustainable finance facility has signed three agreements, one of which set itself the objective of assisting was a USD 10 million credit line. operators in the area of waste recovery The latter is designed to support the and treatment. The aim is to promote national electricity company with its the sustainability of the environment modernisation and development. This and the actions made under Morocco’s credit line illustrates the extent to which National Household Waste Program BOA Ghana is involved in the country’s (PNMD). economic development, a country in which the Group has already successfully BMCE Bank of Africa therefore aims to bid for a number of technical and stimulate the local market by financing engineering services contracts as part of a sector that many have perceived as a major programme to create an urban riddled with risks. With a free Technical pole and extend the country’s capital Assistance for the Bank and its clients, city. an expert is always available to provide guidance and build capacity. As an incentive, customers are offered a lower interest rate financing and will be invited to an exchange program in the Netherlands to meet key stakeholders in the waste management sector. 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA of this customer segment, which is a major growth driver for the Moroccan economy and an important segment for the Bank in the future. The Bank has therefore developed a range of products and services which complement the existing range of products and services for professional customers and which meet a variety of needs: BMCE Tamwil, a post-start-up cash facility in the form of an amortised operating loan to best meet the needs of entrepreneurs (very small businesses, self-employed) and autoentrepreneurs along the entire business cycle and the company’s entire existence. This loan aims to provide breathing space as far as short-term cash flow needs are concerned; E Supporting customers that would Low-carbon economy and like to tender for public or private clean energy The project will see the number of sector contracts through formatted Desalination, a pioneering people who have access to drinking administrative warranties; commitment to promoting water in rural areas rise to 100%, Providing insurance cover for the ‘blue’ economy thereby boosting the region’s sociooccupational risks by extending the economic development and protecting range of insurance products to include The Group has provided MAD groundwater resources. personal accident and occupational 1.5 billion of funding as part of a accident cover for professional megaproject to build a collective A catalyst for sustainable sociocustomers; seawater desalination unit for irrigation economic growth across the entire New types of cover specifically for and to supply drinking water in the region, it is the world’s largest renewable entrepreneurs, regardless of whether Souss-Massa region. energy-powered collective seawater they are individuals, self-employed or desalination project for irrigation and companies; The overall cost of this large-scale drinking water purposes. By helping Introducing next-generation tailorproject is about MAD 4 billion, to finance a gigantic project of such made packages, designed to simplify divided into two parts. The first relates socio-economic importance, BMCE and personalise account management to drinking water and requires an Bank of Africa, consistent with its ecoand which may be adapted to a investment of MAD 2 billion, 80% of responsible vision and philosophy, has professional customer’s or SME’s which is to be financed via a bank loan. once again underlined its credentials volume of business; The second part relates to irrigation, for as a supporter of the ‘blue’ and ‘green’ A new range of business cards, which the Ministry of Agriculture and economies. Mastercard Business Pro and Fisheries will assume responsibility via Mastercard Business Exclusive a specific grant. Supporting the Pro, enabling customers to make development of SMEs and international payments and providing The seawater desalination project will very small businesses access to many services. have a start-up capacity of 275,000 m3/day, which will eventually reach Following on from the Pro-Actif project 400,000 m3/day. Its purpose is to carried out in 2014, in 2017, BMCE secure the drinking water supply for Bank of Africa pursued its very small 2.3 million inhabitants by 2030, 20% business-centric strategy on the theme of whom live in rural areas. It should of ‘an entrepreneurial approach, very also enhance irrigated agricultural small business development strategy. productivity by improving irrigation and The latter is aimed at increasing water supply. BMCE Bank of Africa’s penetration PA G E 2 4 / 2 5 Mediterranean Conference-Debate on Laboratories ‘ very Small businesses, Entrepreneurship Forum a catalyst for regional development’ BMCE Bank of Africa has embarked on a series of initiatives that demonstrate A conference debate was organised by that it intends to make an impact in the Young Business Leaders Centre, the ‘entrepreneurs’ customer segment, El Jadida branch, and held 15th June an important market segment from a 2017 at the Hotel Pullman Royal wealth-creation perspective, comprising Golf El Jadida. The 90 participants Morocco’s future economic agents. discussed the following issues: As far as its sales and marketing The importance of small business to strategy was concerned, in 2017, the the economic fabric; Banking for Professionals and Very Small Businesses Department made a The challenges encountered by very priority of supporting entrepreneurs, small businesses; particularly young entrepreneurs during the start-up phase. Support mechanisms and measures for very small businesses. By participating in the MED LAB SME Club 2017 Entrepreneurship Forum 2017, The conference-debate provided an the Bank was able to reach out to opportunity for the Bank to outline its The concept is gaining traction among this target customer segment as a approach towards very small businesses the Bank's existing and prospective leading financial partner, adopting an and the support measures available to customers through the agreements ecosystem-based approach. them. signed with our various partners. The SME Club was initially designed to Consistent with the Bank’s ongoing Awareness-raising foster loyalty among SME customers investment in supporting this year’s seminars about ‘autobut has now become a source of batch of MED LAB entrepreneurs, 120 entrepreneur’ status differentiation for the Bank versus its entrepreneurs were invited to attend peers. training courses, seminars and coaching In 2017, BMCE Bank organised a sessions and meet various institutions number of seminars to raise awareness Women session organised within the entrepreneurial ecosystem. about the ‘auto-entrepreneur’ status, particularly for graduates of vocational To celebrate International Women's Representatives of the Bank training institutes, shopkeepers and Day, a special SME Club event was held participated in a conference on the tradesmen. 7th March 2017, attended by some thirty theme of ‘How to prepare a bankable women executives, finance directors, funding application’. 20 awareness-raising seminars were administrative directors and business organised in March, April and May leaders. 2017 in Settat, Tangier, Casablanca, Khouribga, Ouarzazate, Ksar el Kebir, Safi, Berrechid and Mohammedia. 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA small businesses and SMEs. partner-mentors include entrepreneurs, business angel investors, venture The agreement provides a guarantee capitalists, business owners and of up to EUR 1 million i.e. a total loan coaches from 40 countries from five volume of EUR 2 million. This initiative continents, Africa, Europe, Asia, North aims to make it easier for tradesmen and America and South America. In just small businesses to gain access to finance three years, 112 entrepreneurs from 32 as well as reducing risk for the Bank and countries have participated in a bootenabling the latter to develop its portfolio. camp, enabling them to benefit from personalised coaching and mentoring BOA-UGANDA launches a from 14 coaches. B new offer for SMEs The entrepreneurs selected for the In keeping with its reputation as the 3rd phase of the Award hail from 43 ‘Preferred bank for SMEs’, BOA different countries. Nigeria leads the M Uganda launched a new offer for this way with 75 candidates followed by market segment 17th March 2017 at Kenya and Tanzania, with 27 and 26 Session organised in Rabat for Kampala’s Afrikana Hotel. This offer participants respectively. Morocco, with Rabat-Salé-Kénitra CGEM members is designed to provide an all-in-one 5 entrepreneurs, is ranked 11th, on par C In the wake of the partnership solution for their financial needs. with Guinea and Togo. The 40 finalists, agreement signed between BMCE hailing from 19 different countries, With more than 200 of the Bank’s were announced on 7th November Bank and the General Confederation customers attending, the offer was E of Moroccan Enterprises (Rabat-Salé2017 and were invited to a boot camp presented at the inaugural SME which took place in Casablanca 6th-12th Kénitra Region), 17 senior executives of Forum organised by BOA Uganda in member companies benefited from the December 2017, once their projects partnership with the Uganda Insurers had been validated by on-site visits SME Club’s 7 training modules. Association (UIA) and the Private from entrepreneurs. As soon as the Session organised in Laâyoune for Sector Foundation Uganda (PSFU) on jury, chaired by the Chairman, had Southern Region customers the theme, ‘Supporting Businesses in deliberated, 12 winners from 9 countries the Current Economic Environment’. were selected for the 3rd year’s finals. Session organised in Laâyoune for Southern Region customers Given the rapid development of Uganda’s economy, SMEs, which In response to requests from the account for more than 90% of the Bank's customers, especially from the private sector and employ more than Southern Region, an SME Club session 2.5 million people, are encountering was organised in Laayoune for various a variety of challenges. All the corporate customers. more reason, therefore, for BOA Uganda to focus on this absolutely As an adjunct to the Laayoune training crucial segment. Bank of Africa has programme, a signing ceremony was understood the need to respond to organised to celebrate a partnership loan applications within 48 hours. The agreement between BMCE Bank and new SME offer comprises unsecured the french chamber of commerce, loans, unsecured factoring, commercial aimed at establishing a joint support loan and equipment loans and faster mechanism for businesses, so financing solutions to facilitate the as to generate entrepreneurship growth of thousands of SMEs in opportunities around the country. Uganda. BOA-Niger promoting very Social entrepreneurship small businesses This year’s Award provided Eurafric In 2017, the African Entrepreneurship Information with an opportunity to The so-called ARIZ agreement was Award (AEA) was held for a third migrate the AEA Award Management signed 23rd March 2017 between the consecutive year and again proved a System to the Bank's infrastructure, French Development Agency (AFD) great success. thereby ensuring that mentors and and Bank of Africa Niger. ARIZ is a entrepreneurs could communicate risk-sharing scheme for very small, The African Entrepreneurship Award, over its first three years, has attracted with each other online in 3 languages – small and medium-sized enterprises English, French and Portuguese. and micro-finance institutions, designed nearly 12,000 entrepreneurs from to make it easier for them to gain 132 countries, including all 54 African access to finance. Its goal is to support countries, and 400 partner-mentors the creation and development of very who work as volunteers. These PA G E 2 6 / 2 7 Similarly, Biscate, an online platform founded by Frederico Peres da Silva, winner of the 2016 Award in the Pioneering category, has enabled more than 34,000 customers to access secure and efficient services, providing job opportunities for plumbers, electricians and other informal workers in Mozambique. The 33 AEA-winners have seen their customer numbers rise by 370% to 264,000 as a result of the funding as well as the coaching and mentoring received from the post-Award team. Since its launch, AEA has awarded Impact on the 33 prize-money amounting to USD companies financed by 3 million on aggregate to 33 the AEA Award entrepreneurs from 13 African countries – South Africa, Cameroon, The annual revenues of those Ethiopia, Ghana, Uganda, Kenya, companies which have won the Liberia, Morocco, Mozambique, African Entrepreneurship Award have Nigeria, Senegal, Tanzania and Rwanda. increased by 383% on average since release of funds, thereby transforming The programme has a team that is the projects and the start-ups receiving specifically responsible for monitoring funding into sustainable revenuethe award-winning projects to ensure generating businesses. that targets are met. Funds are then gradually disbursed to the winners of Alongside the revenue gains, there the first, second and third competitions. has also been a social impact on the “The mentorship I received, as well as respective communities of the Awardthe way in which the questions were As of 31st August 2017, the entire USD winning entrepreneurs since a large structured, allowed me to take a step 1 million prize-money from the first part of the funds and revenues are back and think about where I wanted year’s award had been disbursed by the invested in salaries and an increased to be in two, three or five years’ time.” Bank to the 10 award-winners who had number of employees. Mahmud Johnson, Liberia achieved their goals and had entered new markets. 95% of the second year’s The winners of the first two Awards “AEA mentoring gave me a different prize-money, USD 950,000, had been have generated 2,281 jobs in total, perspective on my project. In a single released to the 11 award-winners. The an overall increase of 277%. Each day, it enabled me to see things that I first tranche of the prize-money for the job created represents not only had not noticed over the previous two third year is in the process of being an employee, but also the family years, especially regarding the financial disbursed. The entire prize-money will members who depend on it. aspects.” be disbursed by the end of 2018 prior A second indicator of the Award’s Kwame Ababio, Ghana to announcing the winners of the 4th social impact is reflected in the competition. number of persons who actually “ AEA mentoring helped me identify benefit from the funded projects. For the weaknesses in my business example, those benefiting from the model.” VulaMobile Mobile App created by Adan Mohammed, Kenya William Mapham, winner of the 2015 Award in the Uncharted category, have risen from 150 to over 2,000 per month, totalling 25,703 patients on a cumulative basis. 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA M POSITIVE IMPACT INVESTMENTs In March 2015, BMCE Capital Gestion C launched ‘FCP Capital ISR’, Morocco’s first ever socially-responsible mutual fund, which reconciles financial performance with the environmental E and social footprint of the companies in which it invests. Three years on, thanks to the rigorous investment process adopted, the FCP Capital socially-responsible investment fund has gained +35.8% in performance terms versus a return of +25.4% for the equity market as a whole over the same period. The management choices taken have enabled the fund to outperform the market by +10.4% since launch. Sustainability & csr report 2017 A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER BMCE BANK OF AFRICA PA G E 2 8 / 2 9 A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER Diversity and equal Gender equality in all HR opportunity between processes women and men A project has been initiated to Non-discrimination implement the principles of the Bank’s and promoting gender HR policy across the entire Group. equality At BMCE Bank SA level, the principles The Group ensures equal opportunity of equality are reflected in the different among employees and nonHR processes. Criteria such as age, Top Employer Morocco discrimination with regard to economic gender, ethnic origin, medical or B or socio-demographic criteria such disability status, family situation or In 2017, BMCE Bank of Africa was as nationality, ethnic origin, religion, affiliation to a trade union are not under honoured to be awarded a global disability, age, gender, etc. any circumstance taken into account certification for the first time from Top when implementing HR processes, in M Employers Institute, in recognition of As such, it ensures that it applies the accordance with the principles of HR the Bank’s excellent HR practices. universal principles that have been duly policy. formalised in the Group's HR Policy This distinction is just a reward for the and the various procedures covering C investment that BMCE Bank of Africa the different areas of the business has made in its human capital. (recruitment, career management, training and performance management). Certification was obtained following a E comprehensive audit of each of the Consistent with the Group’s commitment Bank’s human resources processes to promoting gender equality, the ratio including career management, of female employees to total employees recruitment, employee training and was 42% at Group level and at 38% at development and its strong corporate Bank level (versus 35% in 2013). culture. The ratio of female recruits to total BMCE Bank of Africa places human recruits was 40% at Bank level in 2017. capital at the very centre of its Similarly, BMCE Bank welcomed corporate strategy. It aspires to be 1,392 student interns across the Bank’s an effective and sustainable human different business lines, nearly 70% of platform that strives for collective, whom were women. social and responsible development. The Bank’s state-of-the-art HR system is underpinned by solid principles and fundamentals, cemented by a strong corporate culture. PA G E 3 0 / 3 1 The Bank encourages the integration Employment prospects of youngsters into the workplace. As and training a result, 41% of the staff recruited in 2017 were graduates aged under 25 BMCE Bank of Africa Group ensures years. The Bank also endeavours to that its employees are supported by promote diversity by encouraging the developing their competencies and recruitment and integration of persons employment prospects. with disabilities. In 2017, Group employees benefited BMCE Bank has participated in the from 11,767 hours of training Morocco Handicap Employment provided by the BMCE Bank of Africa Forum in each of the past three years, Academy. in 2015, 2016 and 2017. Also, in 2017, a new recruit with disabilities joined A training plan is drawn up annually the Bank's workforce. which comprises every initiative that needs to be carried out, the requisite BMCE Bank has also reconfigured means and the resources that need to Effective means of some of its branches to give easier be mobilised. access to persons with disabilities. redress and duty of In 2017, no fewer than 32% of the vigilance mechanisms Career management and Bank's employees attended a training training course at the BMCE Bank of Africa Group Compliance is responsible Academy. for managing the means of redress Anticipating staffing and duty of vigilance mechanisms. levels and competencies An employee may alert Group Compliance anonymously or by name, BMCE Bank has formalised a draft by telephone, email, post or in person. version of its career management system for all employees, which The whistle-blowing process enables includes the possibility of transferring employees to highlight problems, between business lines. This approach report individuals or situations that is expected to be extended to the do not comply with the fundamental entire Group. rules and principles governing the company’s operations which may BMCE Bank of Africa has also seriously affect the company’s established a prototype system business or for which it may incur for anticipating staffing levels and grave liability (discrimination, competencies, consistent with General corruption, harassment, inappropriate Management’s strategic goals, and for behaviour, conflicts of interest, fraud, identifying the levers so as to be able etc.). to respond as effectively as possible. Non-discrimination with This major project that the Bank has embarked on to overhaul the Jobs and regard to vulnerable Competencies Framework is designed groups to adopt a more scientific approach to anticipating staffing levels and Discrimination against vulnerable competencies. groups is not tolerated in any form by the Group. The latter therefore HR committees are held regularly to ensures equal opportunity and nonreview needs as far as recruitment, discrimination with regard to economic internal transfers and career or socio-demographic criteria such development are concerned. An inas nationality, ethnic origin, religion, company jobs exchange is regularly disability, age, gender, etc. updated to highlight the various job opportunities available to employees. As far as age is concerned, 81% of BMCE Bank employees were under 45 years of age at 31st December 2017 while the average age was 37. 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA Politique Santé, Sécurité & Bien-être à BMCE Bank Of Africa Occupational health, Occupational accidents safety and wellbeing and work-related diseases High-quality social security cover BMCE Bank has formalised an ‘Occupational Accidents’ guide so Objective and BMCE Bank of Africa Group ensures as to raise awareness among the transparent that it complies with social security Bank’s entire staff about procedures remuneration and annual regulations and with labour law. for managing occupational accidents and possible remedies. In 2017, 46 appraisal systems The Bank’s social security cover goes occupational accidents were dealt B well beyond the regulatory framework, with. The Group has adopted performance providing employees with additional management and remuneration social security and retirement benefits Occupational Health systems across its various business such as a top-up pension, while the and Safety Management M lines which are aligned to standard solidarity fund’s benefits have been industry practices for: (i) promoting System extended to include (i) financial transparency and fairness (ii) support for the widows of deceased BMCE Bank is the first commercial complying with local requirements employees with school children, (ii) C and rules and (iii) discretionary bank in Morocco to be OHSAS welfare benefits for children with 18001-certified in preventing performance-based remuneration. disabilities, on-death benefits and occupational health and safety risks. retirement benefits (iii) scholarships Supporting career E for postgraduate study, and (iv) The Bank's Health and Safety changes and internal artificial insemination and in-vitro Management System is an integral part transfers fertility treatment. of an ongoing process of improvement and is structured around 8 strategic As a major economic player, BMCE BMCE Bank of Africa has also goals: Bank of Africa Group has formalised signed a partnership agreement its undertaking to be a responsible with Sphera Global Health Care, an • Comply with regulatory requirements employer by adopting universal international healthcare marketing relating to health and safety principles governing employercompany, enabling employees to employee relations. access innovative and quality e-health • Prevent occupational illnesses and solutions, including (i) medical advice accidents From an operational point of view, and guidance 24/7, (ii) remote the impact from projects having medical consultations, (iii) second • Strengthen emergency response a high HR impact is managed medical opinions and (iv) medical responsibly in partnership with trade assistance and coordination overseas • Prevent traffic accidents union representatives. Every person at negotiated rates. impacted by the structural changes • Promote wellbeing at work over the past five years has been Occupational health trained, redeployed and/or transferred • Foster social dialogue and to another job within the Bank. responsible behaviour BMCE Bank promotes employee health protection by implementing • Promote risk prevention at servicepreventive measures and vaccination providers campaigns and organising annual health check-ups and hygiene • Prevent risks related to buildings and inspections. The Bank’s health and structures social unit remains attentive and available to all employees. In 2017, BMCE Bank carried out 1,819 occupational health check-ups and 8 hygiene inspections, 72 tropical medicine consultations (vaccines, blood tests, anti-malaria treatment, etc.) and 450 cardiology consultations (preventing cardiovascular disease for employees aged over 40 years). PA G E 3 2 / 3 3 OHSAS 18001 certification • A safety and environmental PSRs are an integral part of the protection plan for subcontractors workplace and may have an adverse BMCE Bank of Africa was the when subcontracting work is being effect on employees’ health and that first bank in Morocco to have its done; of the company. As a result, in 2017, occupational health and safety BMCE Bank's General Management, management system OHSAS • A dedicated emergency Group Human Capital Division and 18001-certified by Bureau Veritas management platform and relevant employee representatives, supported Certification. training to be able to respond to these by the Sustainable Development & types of situation; CSR Department, initiated a pilot This international standard aims survey among 700 branch network to reduce the risks with which • A specific regulatory fire risk employees in the Casablanca North employees, as well as any person assessment to improve prevention Regional Division to detect PSRs. under the Bank’s responsibility, may systems; be confronted, affecting their physical Prior to the survey, training was or psychological health. • An internal communications organised for 130 regional managers to system including anger management, raise awareness about PSRs. Practical initiatives have been taken preventing psychosocial on behalf of internal and external risks, preventing work-related A joint-PSR committee, comprising stakeholders: musculoskeletal disorders. General Management, Group Human Capital, employee representative • An approach to identifying Preventing work-related bodies, branch network managers psychosocial risks, in conjunction with musculoskeletal disorders (MSD) and the Sustainable Development & the Casa North pilot region, which saw and psychosocial risks (PSR) CSR department, is responsible for an exceptionally high level (80%) of steering the process and defining and staff participation; As part of BMCE Bank of Africa's implementing action plans. commitment to reducing occupational • An employee benefits system health and safety risks and improving adopted by the Bank (medical checkthe working environment, a prevention ups, tropical medicine consultations, campaign was carried out regarding business trip monitoring, ad hoc musculoskeletal disorders (MSD), consultations, welfare benefits, sports consisting of a number of initiatives: programmes, etc.) A guide was circulated about postures in the workplace Equipment was provided to improve workstation ergonomics including adjustable screen stands, footrests, CPU casing, adjustable desk heights and ergonomic chairs An MSD screening campaign as part of annual medical check-ups Diagnostic visits by occupational physicians of branch-based workstations and a video made about how to improve workstation ergonomics. Psychosocial risks include occupational risks which affect employees’ mental health, and which could affect their physical health. A large number of employees in the banking industry state that they have suffered symptoms relating to psychosocial risks (PSR) such as concentration, sleep, anxiety, or permanent fatigue disorders. 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA First Aid training for employees These provisions complement the Promoting social environmental provisions already in dialogue and collective In accordance with BMCE Bank place and are part of the Occupational of Africa's pledges in occupational bargaining Health and Safety certification health and safety, first aid training was process. A Memorandum of Understanding organised for around 10% of staff at was signed in 2017 to extend the each site. Collective bargaining Solidarity Fund’s benefits and promote and social dialogue employee wellbeing initiatives. Social This training was designed to dialogue is carried out at the very make first aid officers genuine Freedom of association highest levels of the organisation, stakeholders in the Bank's OHS and trade union rights for which the Group Chief Executive B policy by introducing them to first aid Officer is personally responsible and is techniques and the behaviour required BMCE Bank of Africa is a signatory jointly overseen by the HR Services & for dealing with workplace accidents. to the Collective Labour Agreement Business Lines Centre. The goal was also to provide them with for Moroccan Bank Employees, which M the necessary know-how and skills governs relations between the GPBM Social dialogue is underpinned by a so as to provide an initial response in and the USIB-UMT. This agreement number of joint committees which the event of an accident at work or to guarantees the right to organise. The deal with a variety of issues such as assist an employee in distress. training, appraisals, remuneration, C fact that Mr Othman BENJELLOUN, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, managing staff loans, occupational Awareness days about Occupational has given his personal pledge to health and employee wellbeing Health and Safety risks held for the respect the right to organise is a key initiatives. Bank’s service providers E factor in regulating labour relations The Sustainable Development & CSR within the Bank. Physical resources department, in conjunction with Group are made available to trade union Purchasing, organised three morning representatives, which makes it easier awareness sessions on BMCE Bank’s for them to carry out their duties. new Health, Safety and Environment Charter for architects, companies and maintenance staff working on the Bank’s behalf. The purpose of these meetings was to present the latest mandatory riskprevention requirements, applicable to any type of on-site intervention by the above parties, and to consult the Bank’s partners about support measures that may be required. Sustainability & csr report 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT BMCE BANK OF AFRICA PA G E 3 4 / 3 5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT operational Risk CSR risk audit management: social and CSR aspects are now an integral part environmental aspects of Group General Control’s remit in integrated accordance with guidelines set by the Chairman & Chief Executive Officer CSR issues are at the very centre of and the Bank’s senior management the operational risk management who have made CSR pledges one of system which is focused on identifying, the Bank’s priorities. evaluating, managing and steering operational risks. General Control, through the Group B Internal Audit Division, in its role as a At the end of 2017, CSR aspects, trusted advisor and business support such as those involving reputational agent contributing proactively to the risk, legal security and operational value-creation process, carried out efficiency, were incorporated within the M due diligence in 2017, in support of operational risk-mapping process in 9 initiatives carried out by different aspects of the Bank's operations. Risks business units aimed at implementing incorporated include the challenge these aspects. C of preventing corruption, nondiscrimination, collective bargaining, A number of business units, such suppliers’ compliance with social as Sustainable Development & standards, respect for customers’ CSR, Group Human Capital, Group E interests, information security Purchasing, Group Logistics, Group and protection of customers’ and Legal, were asked to be involved. employees’ data. The approach relied heavily on the ISO The operational risk management 26000 standard, whose main goals can system established by BMCE Bank be summarised as follows: of Africa enables it to manage and mitigate every type of risk relating to • Evaluate compliance with current the Group's CSR pledges. legislation; Managing and monitoring • Appraise the management, internal implementation of remedial action control and risk management system plans when confronted by critical risks relating to social and environmental is carried out by quarterly operational responsibility; risk monitoring committees held at Group level. • Ensure that CSR aspects are incorporated within each of the Bank As far as credit risk is concerned, operations, including undertakings criteria for appraising environmental given to funding partners and other and social risks have been included in international organisations. the overall counterparty appraisal form as part of the credit approval/renewal CSR aspects are regularly audited since process. they are now part of the Bank's internal audit remit. PA G E 3 6 / 3 7 Solid corporate Composition of the Board of In accordance with current legislation, governance system Directors each Director received a selfassessment questionnaire about the Board of Directors The composition of BMCE Bank of work accomplished by the Board of Africa’s Board of Directors has been Directors in 2017. Members of the As a multinational enterprise with reorganised to better reflect the subtle Corporate Governance, Appointments operations on four continents and balance between the competencies & Remuneration Committee keen to best meet the requirements and experience of members, who acknowledged that the questionnaire of best international practices, hail from diverse geographical had been duly returned and were BMCE Bank of Africa is engaged in backgrounds, in line with the Group’s satisfied with the results obtained. an ongoing process of bolstering its growing international stature. corporate governance system. Internal rules Corporate Governance Charter BMCE Bank of Africa’s Board of In drawing up a Corporate Governance Directors, which is committed to Charter in accordance with Bank Al aligning its managerial practices with Maghrib Directive 1/W/2014BMCE, international corporate governance Bank’s Board of Directors, an standards for publicly-listed integral component of the corporate companies, has decided to draw up governance system, procured the its own Internal Rules. Adopting means needed for it to fully assume its and implementing these Internal role as a responsible agent within the Rules will help to enhance the Bank’s Bank. international stature and leadership vis-a-vis its shareholders, customers This Charter is primarily aimed and partners at home and abroad. at defining the powers of each stakeholder, the borders between These Internal Rules are applicable to: these powers and how they interact. The Corporate Governance Charter 1. The composition and responsibilities therefore enables BMCE Bank Group of the Board of Directors to more effectively organise the 2. The Board of Directors’ modus functioning and the decision-making operandi processes of its most important bodies – the Annual General Meeting of 3. The special mandates and Shareholders, the Board of Directors specialised committees which report and General Management. directly to the Board Board of Directors’ responsibilities 4. The Ethics Charter for Directors The primary responsibility of the The Board of Directors met on Board of Directors is to maintain 6 occasions in 2017 with a 94% a balance between shareholders’ attendance rate. interests and growth prospects, longterm value creation and depositor The main issues dealt with by the protection. Board of Directors included reviewing the 2016-20 Strategic Development The Board of Directors has the Plan, reorganising the Board’s following responsibilities: (i) Strategic composition, authorising a perpetual planning, (ii) Determining and subordinated bond with a loss managing risk, (iii) Internal control, absorption provision and a mechanism (iv) Corporate governance, and (v) for cancelling interest payments, Corporate Social Responsibility issuing the first MAD 1 billion tranche, issuing the second MAD 400 million tranche of the subordinated bond authorised in 2016, appointing and renewing the Statutory Auditors’ terms of office. 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA Directors’ training Group Audit and Internal Control Committee Newly-appointed Directors receive all information required for them to fulfil The Group Audit and Internal Control their responsibilities. Committee assists the Board of Directors with regard to internal Directors may also request, on being control while ensuring that (i) the appointed or at any time during their internal control system and resources term of office, to attend information are adequate to be able to monitor seminars on aspects relating to their and control risk within the Bank role as a Director or on any other and at subsidiary level and produce B specific issue of their choice, such information required by the regulatory as those relating to the Group’s authority as part of the process Combining the function of operations or the work of the Board of monitoring the consolidated Chairman with that of Chief and/or Specialised Committees entity; (ii) the financial information M Executive Officer to enable them to fulfil their intended for the Board of Directors responsibilities as a member of the is reliable and accurate such that the Combining the function of Chairman Board of Directors. legitimate interests of shareholders, with that of Chief Executive Officer depositors and other stakeholders C is a major asset for the Group due BMCE BANK’s specialised are safeguarded; and (iii) review the to Mr Othman Benjelloun’s personal committees parent and consolidated financial involvement in the Group's operations, statements prior to submitting them to thereby mobilising the inherent In accordance with Bank Al-Maghrib’s E the Board of Directors. attributes of these functions so as to requirements, the Board of Directors is enhance the Group’s performance. supported by specialised committees that are responsible for conducting Corporate governance in-depth analysis of priority issues and system bolstered advising it on matters relating to its responsibilities. Drawing on internationally-recognized principles of good governance and its Corporate Governance Committee own specific regulatory framework, Corporate Governance, BMCE Bank has continued to bolster Appointments & Remuneration its corporate governance system and Committee roll out a standardised system to subsidiaries in Morocco and overseas. The Corporate Governance Committee is a body reporting directly The process of bolstering the Group’s to the Board of Directors. It advises corporate governance system has and makes recommendations to the seen it comply with Bank Al-Maghrib’s Board on how to adopt and maintain a regulatory requirements by developing good corporate governance policy. a body of corporate governance standards. Group Risks Committee In addition, as part of the Convergence The Group Risks Committee assists programme aimed at harmonising the Board of Directors in matters such Group practices, the standardised as strategy and risk management. In corporate governance system, particular, it ensures that overall risk approved and implemented at Bank policy is adapted to the risk profile level, is currently being rolled out to of both the Bank and the Group, the Moroccan subsidiaries. degree of risk aversion, its systemic importance, its size and its capital base. PA G E 3 8 / 3 9 Frequency Composition of Committees Number of members including Attendance Independence (Number of in 2017 Independent Directors rate ratio meetings held) Corporate Governance, 3 members including Appointments & Remuneration Annually 1 100% 66% 2 Independent Directors Committee 7 members including Group Risks Committee Quarterly 4 97% 57% 4 Independent Directors Audit & Internal Control 5 members including Quarterly 4 95% 60% Committee 3 Independent Directors Remuneration As far as Directors’ remuneration is concerned, the total amount allocated for Directors’ fees is made up of two parts, a fixed part and a variable part, depending on their status as Chairman or Member, in relation to their level of participation in the Board of Directors’ Specialised Committees. Directors’ fees paid to Board members 31/12/17 31/12/16 Gross Tax Net amount Gross Tax Net amount amount* withheld paid amount withheld paid Morocco-domiciled individuals 2 842 692 2 150 2 985 735 2 250 and legal entities Foreign-domiciled 3 353 503 2 850 588 88 500 individuals and legal entities TOTAL 6 195 1 195 5 000 3 573 823 2 750 (MAD thousands) (*) Previous year’s Directors’ fees. The following table shows the remuneration of the members of General Management team in 2017 : Remuneration of the main corporate executives 31/12/17 31/12/16 Short-term benefits 20 278 14 342 Post-retirement benefits 634 631 Other long-term benefits 4 846 5 298 (MAD thousands) It is worth noting that short-term employee benefits relate to the fixed remuneration, inclusive of employer contributions, received by corporate executives in 2017. Post-retirement benefits relate to outstanding leave to be reimbursed in the event that employee leaves the company, while termination benefits encompass end-of-career bonuses and long-service awards to be paid to those in question on leaving the company. Corporate executives’ borrowings 31/12/17 31/12/16 A. Short-term outstanding loans 18 087 19 765 B. Outstanding property loans 9 331 12 393 TOTAL OUTSTANDING LOAN 27 418 32 158 (MAD thousands) 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA Internal Control system Permanent Control Compliance-related advisory, which aims to provide operational entities In 2017, BMCE Bank continued The Permanent Control function is with the support needed for them to to implement initiatives aimed at implemented within BMCE Bank of perform their duties domestically and bolstering its internal control system. Africa Group as part of an overall overseas and mitigate non-compliance approach and as part of a general trend risk; BMCE Bank Group’s Internal Control towards transformation, so as to raise system consists of a permanent the level of vigilance within the Group’s Steering Group Compliance, which control system and an ad hoc control business units. is responsible for enforcing Group system which, although distinct standards at subsidiary level and and independent of each other, are The Permanent Control function providing subsidiaries with assistance B complementary and well-coordinated. has the following responsibilities: (i) and support. ensure that the permanent control Ad hoc Control system is implemented consistently, Group Compliance organises and effectively and comprehensively across carries out compliance checks in M The Group General Control Division, the entire BMCE Bank Group; (ii) conjunction with the other compliancewhich reports to the Chairman & ensure that a formal permanent control related functions and coordinates the Chief Executive Officer, is responsible framework exists across the entire Compliance function at Group level for carrying out Level 3 ad hoc Group and coordinate its adoption; by providing practical support to each C inspections. (iii) establish and update the methods Group entity domiciled in Morocco or and systems needed to carry out and overseas. Its responsibilities also include acting steer permanent control activities; (iv) as coordinator vis-à-vis the Board of In 2017, the Compliance function act as coordinator between all parties E Directors and the Group Audit and was rolled out under the Group involved in the internal control and risk Internal Control Committee. Convergence Programme to 16 systems; and (v) establish indicators for monitoring activity relating to the subsidiaries while implementation is As such, Group General Control, Permanent Control function. scheduled at a further 2 subsidiaries. which is responsible for the ad hoc control system, is tasked with the In 2017, the permanent control following: (i) providing the Group’s system was rolled out under the Management with assurance as to the Group Convergence Programme to degree of control of its operations, 23 subsidiaries while implementation offering guidance for improvement is scheduled to begin at a further 2 and contributing to value creation; subsidiaries in first quarter 2018. (ii) helping the Group’s senior management to achieve its goals A system for steering the Permanent by appraising its risk management, Control function was similarly drawn internal control and governance up. processes, using a systematic and methodical approach and by making Group Compliance recommendations for enhancing their effectiveness; (iii) carrying out ad hoc The Compliance function is responsible controls on operational compliance, for drawing up and implementing the the level of actual risks incurred, the system for managing non-compliance reliability, efficiency and integrity risk at Group level. It covers a number of information systems, compliance of areas including: with procedures, with the Board of Directors’ guidelines and with the Financial security, which encompasses General Management’s instructions; issues such as anti-money laundering and (iv) comprehensively monitoring (AML) and countering the financing of BMCE Bank Group’s internal control terrorism (CFT), Know Your Customer system and ensuring consistency by (KYC) and compliance with financial appraising the various control levels. embargoes; Ethics and professional conduct, which encompasses matters relating to rules In 2017, the ad hoc control system of proper conduct, managing conflicts was rolled out under the Group of interest, insider trading incidents, Convergence Programme to 22 whistle-blowing, the prevention of subsidiaries while implementation is fraud and corruption and personal data ongoing at a further 2 subsidiaries. protection; PA G E 4 0 / 4 1 Directors’ independence Independence criteria – Respect for Directive n°1/W/2014 of Bank shareholders’ rights BMCE Bank Group’s Board of Al-Maghrib’s Governor relating to Directors comprises thirteen Directors, corporate governance within credit BMCE Bank complies strictly with all four of whom are independent. The institutions. requirements relating to publicity and term of office of Directors is six years. information as prescribed by current For a Director to qualify as legislation regarding communicating BMCE Bank’s independent directors independent, the following criteria must with shareholders, regardless of the are: be complied with in their entirety: size of shareholdings, about major corporate events and, in particular, Mr François HENROT, a French Criterion 1: The Director must any fresh news likely to bring about a citizen not be an employee or member of change in the Bank’s share price. the managing body of the Bank, a Mr Brian C. McK. HENDERSON, representative, employee or member Shareholders have a right to access a US citizen of the governing body of a major information on a permanent and shareholder or a consolidated company temporary basis. The annual financial Mr Philippe DE FONTAINE VIVE, and must not have been so during the statements for the previous three a French citizen previous three years. financial years are available to Mr Christian de BOISSIEU, French shareholders at the Bank’s head office Criterion 2: The Director must not be and on its website. citizen a member of the managing body of a company in which the Bank directly or Similarly, the Bank's shareholders may indirectly holds office on its governing ask questions of the management at body or in which a member of the a General Meeting or submit written Bank’s managing body, currently in questions beforehand to the Board of 4 independent office or having been in office during Directors. One or more shareholders directors the previous three years, holds office on together holding at least five percent its governing body. of the share capital is/are entitled to include one or more draft resolutions Criterion 3: The Director must not be a on the agenda of a shareholder member of the governing or managing meeting. However, as BMCE Capital’s bodies of a major customer or supplier share capital is above the MAD 5 of the Bank or the Group, such as for million ceiling, the amount of capital consulting and project management that is required to be held shall be services or for whom the Bank or the reduced to 2% above this ceiling in Group accounts for a significant share accordance with Article 117 of Act No. of their business. 1795 relating to limited companies. Criterion 4: The Director must not Each share is assigned a voting right have close family ties with a member of that any shareholder may exercise the managing or governing bodies of a to be able to vote on the resolutions major shareholder of the Bank. proposed at the Meeting. Shareholders Criterion 5: The Director must not may exercise their voting rights either have been a statutory auditor of the by attending the Meeting in person Bank during the previous three years. or by appointing another shareholder as proxy or the Chairman of the Criterion 6: The Director must not Meeting who will vote in favour of the have been a member of the governing resolutions approved by the Board. body of the Bank during the previous twelve years. Shareholders may also vote by correspondence using a form which is available online on the Bank's website. Each shareholder is entitled to the distribution of profits generated by the Bank in the form of a dividend, provided that distributable profits have been made and that their distribution has been approved by the Annual General Meeting. 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA Comprehensive financial One of the strategic priorities of the information providing a Bank’s financial communications true and fair view strategy is to meet the expectations of its stakeholders by communicating BMCE Bank of Africa has been listed clearly about its fundamentals on an on the Casablanca Stock Exchange ongoing basis. Senior management, since 1975, on the London Stock therefore, has every reason to enhance Exchange since 1996 when it issued the market’s perception of the Bank Global Depositary Receipts (GDRs) by conducting press conferences and on the Luxembourg Stock and holding meetings with analysts, Exchange since 2013 in the wake of its investors or credit rating agencies. B Eurobond issue. The Bank’s financial communications strategy aims to BMCE Bank’s financial convey information that is accurate, communications strategy aims to precise and true to every type of provide the domestic and international M audience, in accordance with current financial community with a true and fair regulations. view of the Bank by conveying accurate and appropriate information enabling BMCE Bank has developed various the latter to appraise its corporate C means of communication and strategy, performance and growth and information media to respond to the development prospects. needs and expectations of different In addition to providing both general E stakeholders within the financial community, including shareholders, and regulatory information, the Bank’s investors, analysts, journalists, regulatory financial communications activity is authorities and credit rating agencies. also interpersonal in nature, in that it It adopts a proactive approach, aims to develop ever closer relations designed to enhance the Bank’s with a specific target audience to which corporate image and increase visibility it is pleased to provide information and regarding its share price. documentation on request. Financial communication’s main target audiences Specialist press Shareholders Credit rating agencies: Moody’s, Financial analysts Fitch, Capital Intelligence Financial communication, underpinning relations with: Casablanca Stock Exchange London Stock Exchange Regulatory authorities: BAM, Luxembourg Stock exchange AMMC, FSA, etc. Domestic and international institutional investors Sustainability & csr report 2017 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT BMCE BANK OF AFRICA PA G E 4 2 / 4 3 PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT product contributing to climate change daily basis with real-time intervention mitigation; to deal with anomalies. This approach also involves all service providers, • Conscientiously implementing maintenance and catering staff. the Equator Principles and hiring consulting firms and experts in impact The Bank aims to generate saving of studies to support this initiative; up to 20% by implementing a series of energy-efficiency projects and through • Adopting an appropriate method the commitment of its entire staff. for identifying and evaluating environmental risks, opportunities and Carbon assessment impacts; In 2016, BMCE Bank measured its • Fully implementing a very high carbon footprint, which stood at proportion of EMS provisions by the 5.06 tonnes of CO2 equivalent per majority of the Bank's business units employee, accounting for as little (head office and branch network); as 0.064% of the country’s total emissions. • In-company and external C communications media showing a remarkably high level of maturity in BMCE Bank of Africa terms of their focus on sustainable renews its ISO 14001 E development issues; certification, with transition towards the • Adopting advanced reporting, using new 2015 version the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) standards, and a stakeholder-centric BMCE Bank of Africa is the only bank approach. in Morocco and the MENA region to obtain ISO 14001-certification for Energy performance its entire operations. BMCE Bank of BMCE Bank sees its ISO Africa’s ISO 14001 certification was 50001 certification renewed in 2017, on the basis of the renewed and registers more recent 2015 version, by Bureau a 15% improvement in Veritas Certification. energy consumption in Certification renewal underlines the 2017 following: BMCE Bank of Africa’s Energy • The Bank’s senior management is Management System was awarded ISO strongly committed to improving the 50001 certification in October 2016 Environmental Management System and this was renewed for 2017. (EMS) on an ongoing basis; The Bank saw its energy performance • Additional pledges have been given, improve by 15% in 2017 compared to becoming a signatory to international the same period in base year 2015, initiatives such as Mainstreaming generating energy savings of 369,119 Climate Action, the Global Compact’s kWh. These savings were made as a Universal Principles and the Principles result of highly effective management for Positive Impact Finance; of buildings and employees’ ecofriendly behaviour. • BMCE Bank of Africa continues to enhance its stand-out reputation The new buildings management in sustainable finance by launching programme initiated by BMCE Bank of new products – green bonds, the Africa consists of monitoring operating first facility for financing adaptation procedures relating to the way in which to climate change in Africa focusing different energy types are used (air on optimising water resources and conditioning, lighting, IT equipment, a solid waste recovery and recycling catering and the data centre) on a PA G E 4 4 / 4 5 Promoting sustainable construction BMCE Bank of Africa remains committed to reducing the carbon footprint of its property portfolio through the ISO 14001, ISO 50001, OHSAS 18001 and HQE (High Environmental Quality) certification programmes. As part of the ISO 50001 certification process for its three head office buildings, the Bank adopted an environmental and energy policy aimed at: • Meeting legal and regulatory requirements for buildings; • Attaining an optimal level of energy and environmental performance for buildings, while ensuring occupants’ ongoing comfort; • Programme for sorting and • Taking advantage of market collecting waste for recycling. opportunities and the current state of the property market to fit out BMCE Efforts made in 2017 had the branches as effectively as possible following results: with sustainable equipment while meeting occupants’ expectations • A reduction of more than 10% in in terms of comfort, health and energy consumption at head office accessibility; buildings; The Bouskoura campus, which • ISO 50001 certification maintained epitomises the Group's ecofor head office and ISO 14001 responsible approach, has been certification for the Bank's entire HQE-certified since 2016. This property portfolio; reflects a desire to put sustainability at the very centre of our approach to • Best Energy Efficiency Performance construction. awarded to 5 sites across the Bank’s network (region, Group, business The functioning of this campus, which centre and branches); includes the BMCE Bank of Africa Academy's vocational training centre • 15 branches across the Bank's for bank staff, an office complex, network redesigned to improve a data centre and a restaurant, accessibility. continues to comply with the 14 HQE challenges: In 2017, 37 business development officers attended a number of • Centrally-managed resources (LED training workshops and received lighting, presence sensors and light on-site support to acquire the audit sensors, water-saving equipment for techniques relating to the Bank's drinking water, centralised control various management systems, ISO system); 14001, ISO 50001 and OHSAS 18001. • Management and maintenance to As a result of their efforts, 80% of the ensure site accessibility for persons branch network was audited in 2017, with reduced mobility, ranging from while employees and service providers car parking to training rooms; now have a greater awareness of the Bank’s environmental and energy • Maintenance of green spaces to policy. ensure the site’s ecological quality and humidity levels; 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA In 2017, 37 front-office bankers have benefited from several workshops, training and support to acquire knowledge on audits related to the different Management Systems of the Bank, from ISO 14 001 and ISO 50 001 to OHSAS 18 001. Thanks to their involvement, 80% of the branch network has been audited in 2017, to raise awareness among employees and service providers of B the Environmental and Energy policy. M C E Developing a sustainable culture and behaviour Training and raising awareness to foster an environmental culture Environment & Energy internal auditors, ambassadors who are committed to protecting the environment BMCE Bank’s internal auditors are key players in environmental and energy performance and are genuine environmental ambassadors. They play a significant role in the Bank's ISO certification process through monitoring, to ensure that the Bank complies with environmental and energy regulations at branch level. Sustainability & csr report 2017 COMMUNITY-BASED INITIATIVES AND DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS BMCE BANK OF AFRICA PA G E 4 6 / 4 7 COMMUNITY-BASED INITIATIVES AND DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS The Observatoire de n In 2017, the Club provided training l’Entrepreneuriat (ODE) free-of-charge to more than 150 existing and prospective customers on BMCE Bank’s Observatoire de how to tackle everyday issues. This l’Entrepreneuriat (ODE) offers a programme also provides participants range of services to businesses, with an excellent platform to network. thereby playing a key role in the entrepreneurial ecosystem. n An incubator network is being developed across the entire country. n Its website, regarded as a bespoke The first incubator, which will be housed library for entrepreneurs or anyone at ISCAE, is intended for entrepreneurs aged 18-45 years in the Casablanca area. B interested in entrepreneurship, aims to provide additional information on The aim is to support entrepreneurs at a wide variety of issues and introduce the idea stage. entrepreneurs to Morocco’s key Theme-based conferences Born M institutions. of a desire to meet the training and In 2017, the site was redesigned to information needs of BMCE Bank of include more variables and issues Africa’s customers, the ODE offers a C that affect Moroccan entrepreneurs wide range of non-commercial services directly and meet the needs of to existing and prospective customers different types of entrepreneur. The in different market segments. Among new version will come online in second these, several conference series have E half 2018. been organised for different target customers to meet their expectations. Financial education n ODE training is provided via two clubs. This flexible and adaptable concept for very small businesses, SMEs, The 6th ‘Financial Days for Children Le Club PME is aimed at SME large enterprises, private clients and and Young People’ was held 19th-25th customers looking for expert advice. Moroccans living abroad, keeps April 2017. This event was designed to The chosen topics are specialised and existing and prospective customers familiarise children with basic banking specific while training programmes are updated about current trends. and financial concepts. organised by theme, business sector or type. In general, 8 modules are A dozen or so meetings were The Moroccan Foundation for delivered over a 12-day period. organised in 2017, attracting more than Financial Education (FMEF) also 2,500 entrepreneurs. demonstrated a growing interest in In 2017, the Club provided free-ofprimary schools, colleges and high charge certification for more than schools. 120 SME business owners and BMCE Bank of Africa’s existing or prospective 15,000 pupils participated in the event customers. The Club is an unmissable across the entire country. forum for more established entrepreneurs and, in addition to BMCE Bank of Africa’s initiatives: the training aspect, provides an opportunity for SMEs to network via 93 branches involved order forms. 8 regions participated in this event Le Club de l’Entreprenariat offers (Casa South, Casa North, Central bespoke training. Training, which lasts Atlantic, Central, Eastern, North for eight-and-a-half days, spread over Mediterranean, Greater South and a 2-month period, is provided across Southern Central) the entire Kingdom. The club certifies More than 100 employees were more than 120 SME business owners involved in this event each year. 2,043 pupils participated PA G E 4 8 / 4 9 The ‘Training for the Future’ project, in its third year, achieved the goals that had been set. These included enhancing the employment prospects of 6,000 youngsters as a result of the Emplea+ online platform, providing 1,500 youngsters with classroombased training and helping more than 1,000 youngsters throughout Morocco to find a job. Another project, focusing on the town of Safi because of its particularly high youth unemployment rate, also reached completion. More than 1,400 youngsters from Safi received training and more than 350 of them found a job. In addition, a new project with the U.S.-Middle East Partnership Initiative to train more than 600 persons and A partnership Enactus also organises regional find employment for more than 100 in support of seminars, awareness-raising youngsters in one year was launched in entrepreneurship conferences and training the region of Fez-Meknes. about social entrepreneurship, ENACTUS leadership and sustainable development, which have attracted more than 6,000 students. BMCE Bank participates in the annual Enactus Morocco competition as a member of the jury. Those entrepreneurial projects with the greatest potential then participate in the Enactus World Cup. Enhancing youth employment prospects Striving to promote social and integrating them entrepreneurship and sustainable into the workplace A pilot project in the Tangier-Tétouandevelopment, Enactus is an Hoceima region was also initiated to international organisation which EFE help more than 1,500 high school develops partnerships between graduates with their educational higher education and the business The Moroccan Foundation for and vocational choices and to train world. Enactus, which has been Education and Employment (EFE) teachers to ensure the project’s supported by BMCE Bank ever since aims to promote the employability of sustainability. it was founded, now has 119 affiliated young job seekers from the Kingdom’s institutions. state universities and vocational An all-woman project with Boeing was training centres and help them to launched, aimed at enhancing the 200 high-impact projects were become integrated into the workplace. employment prospects of 120 women developed and implemented in 2017 and integrating 35 of them into the by more than 5,000 of the Kingdom’s 2017 was a year of expansion for EFElabour force. high-school students. Morocco. In just one year, 12,600 youngsters enrolled on the various This project portfolio has generated courses received training, a record 335 direct jobs, impacting the lives until now. of more than 27,000 people. 32 start-ups have been supported, 28 of which are now operational, while the remainder are in the process of being set up. 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA Group community-based initiatives Supporting educational excellence in Burkina Faso The Bank of Africa Foundation, in partnership with Burkina Faso's RadioTelevision broadcasting corporation, presented awards to 20 students in May 2017 for excellence and being committed to their schooling. B These students, whose daily lives came under the spotlight in the TV show ‘Tableau d'Honneur’, for which M BOA Foundation has been the official partner since 2010, each received a EUR 150 cheque and gifts from Landslides and high winds also caused extensive damage to infrastructure. Cultural events the BOA Foundation in recognition In solidarity with the victims, Bank C of their civic-mindedness and their BMCE Bank of Africa remains strongly academic performance. The aim is to of Africa Madagascar and the BOA Foundation donated reconstruction committed to sponsoring culture make them a source of inspiration and in Morocco by providing ongoing role models for other Burkina Faso equipment worth more than EUR 17,000. This aid package was financial support for flagship national E students. and international festivals such as the handed over 17th March 2017 to the National Office of Risk and Disaster Fez Festival of World Sacred Music, Health centres built in the Timitar Signs and Culture Festival Burkina Faso Management by the Bank’s Chairman and senior management. and the Salé International Women's The Bank of Africa Foundation Film Festival. financed the construction of two Philanthropic initiatives Business-related events health and social welfare centres and sponsorship in May 2017. These new facilities, The Bank participates in businesslocated in the villages of Saraba and The Group is committed to related events aimed at fostering Bandoudou, are in the west of the maintaining an appropriate balance closer relations with different country, more than 450 km from the when sponsoring cultural, businesseconomic agents in sectors with strong capital, Ouagadougou. related, social, environmental and growth potential. sporting events, adopting a transversal Each centre consists of a maternity approach. That is why BMCE Bank of Africa ward, a dispensary, a fully-stocked sponsored events such as the 8th pharmacy, housing, kitchens, a Inspired by humanitarian values, Women's Tribune, the 2nd Smart Cities borehole, an incinerator and a tricycle BMCE Bank of Africa remains ever Africa summit, African Network of ambulance. The entire complex true to its philanthropic goals, which Employment Policies and Services, is fully equipped and supplied by are achievable by promoting a culture an international event, the 2nd China solar-powered electricity, providing of social responsibility and ethics Africa Investment Forum and the a sustainable energy supply. The more extensively within the institution, Franco-Moroccan entrepreneurship required investment, amounting to taking into account every aspect of its challenged organised by Casablanca’s more than EUR 480,000, was fully socio-cultural environment. EM-LYON Business School. funded by the BOA Foundation as part of its community-based initiatives. An appraisal was conducted By participating in conferences, throughout the year of six major areas seminars and trade fairs, the Bank Aid for victims of Cyclone of corporate philanthropy so as to is helping to promote the corporate Enawo enhance performance and become as sector and sectors of excellence. efficient as possible. BOA Madagascar and the BOA Foundation supported families affected by Cyclone Enawo, which struck the Big Island 7th March 2017, leaving 78 dead, 250 injured, 18 missing and 250,000 displaced. PA G E 5 0 / 5 1 Social events Sporting events best initiatives and ideas and provide high-potential employees (initiative, BMCE Bank of Africa contributes to BMCE Bank's commitment to motivation, innovation, creativity, civic life by providing financial support sponsoring sport is reflected, in formulating proposals, etc.) with to various charitable organisations particular, in its support for associations, an opportunity to become actively such as the Ribat Al Fath Association clubs and academies as well as young involved in the Bank’s transformation. for Sustainable Development and the athletes with proven potential, consistent Al Anamil Addahabia Association for with the Bank’s logo, ‘Our World is Of the 150 applications received, Global Development. Capital’. 24 candidates were selected for the second and final selection stage on the Philanthropic and social The Bank sponsored a number of basis of the appropriateness of their initiatives sporting initiatives in 2017 such as the ideas, creativity and arguments. 12th Rabat Bouregreg Jet Ski Club, the We remain equally committed Mohammed VI Football Academy and After going before a selection jury to serving public causes through the Royal Moroccan Federation for composed of the programme’s donations and grants to non-profit Equestrian Sports. directors, each employee was given organisations and foundations that a score. 13 employees were then support worthy causes. Dialogue with selected to form this Digital Think stakeholders Tank. BMCE Bank of Africa’s digital think tank, In addition to working remotely, the innovation in support of Digital Think Tank meets in person transformation from time to time, to challenge, provide advisory opinions and As part of its digital transformation generate innovations collectively. programme, BMCE Bank of Africa is pursuing its innovation drive so as to adapt to the context of a digitised society and an ultra-connected generation and deal with the internal and external changes relating to the Bank’s digital revolution. As a result, to encourage each employee to become an active change agent, BMCE Bank of Africa has launched a Digital Think Tank. Transformation Digitale, soyons tous acteurs ... The idea behind adopting such a novel concept within the Moroccan banking Rencontre du Think Tank Digital industry is, in the context of the Bank's digital transformation programme, to generate ideas for new initiatives, new ways of functioning and new solutions, Sponsor Argent products and services. Another of the Digital Think Tank’s aims is to provide Du 4 au 7 juillet 2018 à Agadir a platform for employees to provide feedback on the daily challenges that they face. In this respect, a digital approach might be disruptive and Various donations were made, for efficient, thereby becoming a catalyst example, to the Maroc Génération for the Bank’s cultural and operational Association, the Alaouite Organisation transformation. The ultimate goal, for the Protection of the Blind in however, is to offer customers a better Morocco, the Moroccan Association banking experience. for the Disabled, the ATTAWASSOL Association for the Hard of Hearing The Bank launched the Digital Think and the LALLA ASMAA Foundation Tank project in December 2017 with for Deaf Children, among others. an invitation to all staff working at head office and across the branch network to respond to the question, ‘How do you imagine the Bank in 10 years?’. The aim was to garner the 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA Moroccan Sustainable BMCE Bank of Africa’s BMCE Bank of Africa Insurance Day 2017 participates in ‘green participated in the investment’ panel European Union’s flagship BMCE Bank of Africa participated in discussion at the PAGE conference on the the inaugural ‘Moroccan Sustainable Ministerial Conference in circular economy Insurance Day 2017’ on the theme of Berlin, 28th March 2017 ‘The role of the insurance industry BMCE Bank of Africa participated 7th B in Sustainable Development’. In his BMCE Bank of Africa participated March 2017 in a major conference on address, Mr Brahim Benjelloun-Touimi, in a panel discussion about ‘green the circular economy, organised by the Group Chief Executive Director, investment’, moderated by Mr Eric European Commission in partnership emphasised the important role played Usher, Director of the United Nations with the European Economic and M by financial institutions in promoting Environment Programme Finance Social Committee. new approaches and mechanisms for Initiative (UNEP-FI), at the 2017 achieving sustainable development PAGE Ministerial Conference on the The conference was attended by more than 300 stakeholders, including major C goals. He also highlighted, in his theme of ‘Partnership for Action to speech, that each of the three pillars promote the Green Economy , held innovative European companies, of sustainable development – the 27th-28th March in Berlin. senior representatives of the European economy, society and the environment Parliament, the European Investment E – benefited from engaging in dialogue Alongside BMCE Bank of Africa, Bank, regional authorities and with the different stakeholders of which was the only participating committees and investors. the financial ecosystem to develop African commercial bank, high-level Sustainable and Positive Impact representatives exchanged views about BMCE Bank of Africa shared with the Finance. green finance and shared a whole audience its experience of setting up a host of ideas as to how the financial EUR 20 million credit line specifically Another event highlight was the industry could support transition to for solid waste management, cosigning of a framework partnership a green economy. The discussions financed by the European Investment agreement to promote investment culminated in a presentation by Mr Bank (EIB) and FMO, the Dutch in the environment and sustainable Marcos Eguiguren, Managing Director Development Bank. development and the Insurers of Global Alliance for Banking on Association giving a formal pledge to Values, a network of banking leaders comply with the principles governing from around the world who are Sustainable Insurance. committed to advancing positive change in the banking sector. Sustainability & csr report 2017 BMCE BANK IN AFRICA BMCE BANK OF AFRICA INDEX GRI Standards 2017 Reporting option: Core UNIVERSAL STANDARDS General Disclosures Organisational profile Disclosure 102-1 BMCE Bank of Africa Disclosure 102-2 Annual Report pages 16 to 46 Disclosure 102-3 140 Avenue Hassan II, Casablanca Disclosure 102-4 Annual Report page 10 Disclosure 102-5 Annual Report page 13 Disclosure 102-6 Annual Report page 10 and pages 24 to 46 Disclosure 102-7 Annual Report page 10 Disclosure 102-8 Annex Table No. 1 Disclosure 102-9 Annex Table No. 2 Disclosure 102-10 No significant change in 2017 Disclosure 102-11 Sustainability & CSR Report pages 22 and 36 Disclosure 102-12 Sustainability & CSR Report page 11 Disclosure 102-13 Sustainability & CSR Report page 11; BMCE Bank is also a member of the Professional Association of Moroccan Banks Strategy B Disclosure 102-14 Sustainability & CSR Report page 4 Ethics and integrity Disclosure 102-16 Sustainability & CSR Report pages 14 to 16 M Governance Disclosure 102-18 Annual Report pages 8, 9 and 54 to 84 Stakeholder engagement Disclosure 102-40 Annex Table No. 3 C Disclosure 102-41 100% Disclosure 102-42 Annex Table No. 3 Disclosure 102-43 Annex Table No. 3 Disclosure 102-44 Annex Table No. 3 E Reporting practice Disclosure 102-45 Annual Report page 12 Disclosure 102-46 Annex Table No. 4 Disclosure 102-47 Annex Table No. 3 & 4 Disclosure 102-48 No significant restatement in 2017 Disclosure 102-49 No significant change in 2017 Disclosure 102-50 2017 Disclosure 102-51 September 2017 Disclosure 102-52 Annual cycle Disclosure 102-53 Ms. Soraya Sebti, Head of Sustainable Development Disclosure 102-54 This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option Disclosure 102-55 Sustainability & CSR Report pages 54 and 55 Disclosure 102-56 This report has not been externally assured Reporting practice Disclosure 103-1 Annex Table No. 5 Disclosure 103-2 Information unavailable Disclosure 103-3 Information unavailable PA G E 5 2 / 5 5 INDEX GRI Standards 2017 Reporting option: Core TOPIC-SPECIFIC STANDARDS ECONOMY Economic Performance Disclosure 201-1 Financial Report (Annual Report page 121) Market presence Disclosure 202-1 Every BMCE Bank employee is remunerated above the minimum wage level Procurement Practices Disclosure 204-1 100%. Local is defined as 'originating from the country' Anti-corruption Disclosure 205-1 100%. Due to the nature of our business, risks related to corruption exist and are specifically assessed by Group General Control Disclosure 205-2 Sustainability & CSR Report pages 14 and 15 Anti-competitive Behavior Disclosure 206-1 No legal action for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices against BMCE Bank Energy Disclosure 302-1 Annex Table No. 6 Disclosure 302-3 Sustainability & CSR Report page 44 Disclosure 302-4 Sustainability & CSR Report page 44 Emissions Disclosure 305-1 Sustainability & CSR Report page 44 and Annex Table No. 7 Disclosure 305-2 Sustainability & CSR Report page 44 and Annex Table No. 7 Disclosure 305-3 Sustainability & CSR Report page 44 and Annex Table No. 7 Effluent and waste Disclosure 306-2 Annex Table No. 8 Social Employment Disclosure 401-1 384 new employee hires across the Group in 2017, 40% of whom were women 214 employee departures across the Group in 2017, 34.2% of whom were women; employee turnover rate was 5.1% Disclosure 401-2 Annex Table No. 9 Disclosure 401-3 167 employees took maternity leave in 2017 Retention rate and return to work rate were both 100% Labor/Management Relations Disclosure 402-1 Annex Table No. 10 Occupational Health and Safety Disclosure 403-1 Annex Table No. 11 Training and Education Disclosure 404-1 Annex Table No. 12 Disclosure 404-3 92% of employees underwent an annual performance review Diversity and Equal Opportunity Disclosure 405-1 Annual Report 2015 pages 54 to 75 Non-discrimination Disclosure 406-1 No incident of discrimination was registered in 2017 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Disclosure 407-1 No supplier was identified in 2017 in which workers’ rights to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining might have been violated or at significant risk Marketing and Labeling Disclosure 417-1 Sustainability & CSR Report pages 17 to 19 Disclosure 417-2 No incident of non-compliance with regulations concerning products and services resulting in a fine for BMCE Bank in 2017 Disclosure 417-3 No incident of non-compliance with regulations concerning marketing communications resulting in a fine for BMCE Bank in 2017 Customer Privacy Disclosure 418-1 No substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy or confidentiality by BMCE Bank in 2017 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA Table No. 1: Total number of employees by contract type, gender and geographical region a. Total number of employees by contract type (permanent, temporary, ANAPEC) and gender BMCE Bank BMCE Bank of Africa Group 2017 2017 Permanent Temporary ANAPEC conTotal Staff contracts contracts tracts Men 3120 23 162 3305 Men 8 790 Women 1936 25 104 2065 Women 6 052 Total 5056 48 266 5370 Total 14 842 b. Total number of employees by contract type (permanent, temporary, c. Total number of employees by employment type (full-time, part-time) and ANAPEC-National Agency for Employment) and geographical region gender 2017 2017 Temporary contracts Permanent contracts Full-time Part-time (interns) Casa North 53 643 Men 3305 159 Women 2065 213 Casa South 60 676 Total 5370 372 Central 20 363 Central Atlantic 51 505 d. Non-employee workers do not represent a significant proportion of Central Southern 52 482 the organisation's operations B Greater South 35 309 North Mediterranean 27 323 e. No significant change in the figures declared in Items of information Eastern 14 241 102-8-a, 102-8-b and 102-8-c Head Office 2 1514 M f. The above data has been processed and and centralised by Group Total Network 312 3542 Human Capital Total BMCE Bank 314 5056 C The supply chain is organised as follows: Group Purchasing unit receives purchase requests from business lines Selects suppliers to participate in the consultative or bidding process Starts the bidding process and consultation E Selects the supplier based on the best offer or lowest bid depending on the type of purchase Table No. 2 Adjudicates and draws up contracts Disseminates terms negotiated with those business lines which will make contact with the chosen Provider or Supplier in order to enforce the contract and start the process of providing the services or supplies The proportion of local companies involved in all our projects/services is 95% An additional clause was included in existing purchasing procedures in 2014 to take into consideration suppliers' attitudes to environmental issues as part of the selection/appraisal process Modes of information and Stakeholder’s main expecActions undertaken to Main stakeholders Frequency dialogue tations meet those expectations BMCE Bank’s CSR approach Transparent non-financial BMCE Bank website – BMCE Bank’s Sustainable Ongoing communications Development policy Compliance with laws and Progress report indicators All stakeholders Sustainability & CSR Report regulations adopted such as GRI Continuous improvement in Annual Ethical and responsible Annual report BMCE Bank’s communicabehaviour tion about its CSR approach BMCE Bank’s intranet Remuneration based on fairSocial policy Ongoing website ness and competitiveness In-company communications Development opportunities Ethics and Compliance Code Employees initiatives (career, training) Career management policy Individual interviews Values and corporate culture Risk mapping approach Ethics Psychological support providDialogue with trade unions Table No. 3 Health and safety ed by company doctors Business meetings with Lowering interest rates Quality Charter customers Ongoing (CRC, Customer surveys Welcome and service quality business meetings), Customers Dealing with complaints CRC ‘CRC quality undertakings’ recurring (customer rapidly policy satisfaction surveys) Website Waiting periods for approvSocial media ing loans Delivering growth, profitabiliGeneral Meetings Financial publications ty and sustainability Information on governance Publication of the annual Board of Directors meetings and financial and non-finanreport and the Sustainability Recurring (Board of Shareholders cial risk management & CSR Report Directors meetings, Information about the Bank’s AGM, EGM) Press releases and shareholdresults and goals and about Presenting CSR policy on the er letters the resources adopted to Bank’s website achieving them PA G E 5 4 / 5 7 Staff representation bodies (unions, Works Council, staff Equity and social justice representatives, Health and Trade unions Trade union agreements Ongoing Safety Committee) Information on HR policies Dialogue sessions and corporate organisation Suppliers Responsible Meetings Fair remuneration Buying Charter Ongoing and ad Suppliers and Respecting supplier payment hoc (satisfaction sub-contractors periods Replies to appeals Ethics and Compliance Code report) Sustaining commercial relations Institutional support initiaIncorporating BMCE Bank’s Meetings Ad hoc Charitable tives commitment to disadvantaged associations Offer expertise (mentoring, communities in the Bank’s Replies to appeals skills) CSR policy Meetings with Heads of Buying Meetings with business line Sub-contractor Supplier Responsible Buying coordinators To be defined Ad hoc staff Charter Meetings to raise awareness about sustainable development issues Meetings Process of determining Ongoing and ad Converting temporary Staff on temporary Intranet site eligibility criteria for converting hoc contracts into permanent contracts temporary contracts into Contract/ Clauses contracts permanent contracts Sharing and enabling access Partnerships with academia Meetings to the Bank’s expertise (universities, schools, etc.) Financial support for Providing internships Academia research En continu Participating in forums Programme de mentoring Career opportunities for Soutien financier des associstudents ations d’étudiants Participating in forums Career opportunities Ongoing (website HR pack Working conditions Future employees Recruitment policy internet) and recur‘Careers’ section on the ring (forums) Remuneration Bank’s website Targeted communications Press conferences strategy Press releases Steering communications by Ongoing Replies to requests (for Clear and relevant the Group Communications Media interviews, information) information and Financial Communications departments under Various communications the supervision of General publications Management Institutional presentations Non-financial risk control CSR policy about the Bank Continuously improving the Environmental policy and manner by which the Bank Website environmental management handles its environmental, system ISO 14001 certified social and societal risks Compliance with Equator Transparent communications Principles Commitment to sustainable Recurring (annual Sponsors SEMS adopted and quarterly) and finance CSR reporting ad hoc SEMS reporting Meetings EP reporting Commitment to financing energy efficiency and renewSME reporting able energy projects Signing a MorSEFF credit line – financing for energy efficiency and renewable energy projects 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA Table No. 4 The content of this relationship was drawn up on the basis of discussions with stakeholders who highlighted the issues that were of greatest importance to BMCE Bank and their vulnerability to these issues K A D B M L N C E Vulnerability (materiality for stakeholders) O F G H Q P I J B M C Materiality for BMCE Bank potential impact on performance E The Group's longevity thanks to a risk management strategy which incorporates environmental, social and governance aspects Compliance with rules and regulations Training and employment prospects/Career management Equality in the workplace principles and policies of non-discrimination and to increase women's participation in managerial positions Employer-employee dialogue Customer satisfaction, complaints management A B C D E F Respecting and protecting customers' interests/personal data, cyber security G Ethics, integrity, prevention of fraud and corruption H Preventing over-indebtedness I Corporate governance Audit and internal control mechanisms J Sustainable finance Positive Impact Finance solutions SRI K Initiatives promoting occupational wellbeing L Responsible business conduct CSR at suppliers/Respecting suppliers' interests M Occupational health, safety and wellbeing N Reducing direct negative impacts Environmental management O Respecting and promoting fundamental human rights in society health, education, access to basic social services P Helping to eliminate child labour from the supply chain and in society Social engagement: Medersat.com educational programme Q PA G E 5 6 / 5 9 Table No. 5 Issue Reason why it is Scope material The Group's longevity thanks to a risk management strategy which incorporates These issues have been BMCE Bank environmental, social and governance aspects identified as 'material' Compliance with rules and regulations (Tables No.3 and BMCE Bank/regulators Training and employment prospects/Career management No. 4) i.e. as being BMCE Bank's employees Equality in the workplace principles and policies of non-discrimination and to important for BMCE BMCE Bank's employees increase women's participation in managerial positions Bank's performance Employer-employee dialogue and liable to have a BMCE Bank's employees significant impact on our Customer satisfaction, complaints management Customers stakeholders Respecting and protecting customers' interests/personal data, cyber security Customers Ethics, integrity, prevention of fraud and corruption BMCE Bank/regulators Preventing over-indebtedness BMCE Bank/customers Corporate governance Audit and internal control mechanisms BMCE Bank Sustainable finance Positive Impact Finance solutions SRI BMCE Bank/customers Initiatives promoting occupational wellbeing BMCE Bank's employees Responsible business conduct CSR at suppliers/Respecting suppliers' inteSuppliers rests Occupational health, safety and wellbeing BMCE Bank's employees Reducing direct negative impacts Environmental management Suppliers/Society Respecting and promoting fundamental human rights in society health, educaSociety tion, access to basic social services Helping to eliminate child labour from the supply chain and in society Social Society engagement: Medersat.com educational programme Table of changes in energy consumption by the branch network 2017/2016 REGION Consumption volume (kWh) Changes in energy consumption 2017/2016 Greater South 1 208 970,09 -29,76% North Mediterranean 1 743 869,82 -13,63% Central Southern 2 444 378,15 -1,14% Table No. 6 Eastern 1 337 072,99 6,13% Casa North 3 148 210,17 8,46% Casa South 3 283 611,15 11,09% Central Atlantic 2 468 684,22 16,77% Central 2 455 128,36 17,20% BBOA Academy* 361 247 4.62% *BMCE Bank of Africa Academy 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA Table No. 7 For its carbon assessment, BMCE Bank used a Morocco-specific GHG emissions assessment tool, developed by the Mohammed VI Foundation for the Protection of the Environment in partnership with the Environment & Energy Management Agency (ADEME). This method is ISO 14069-compliant. GHG emissions assessment Analysis by scope Scope 2 28% Scope 1 4% Scope 3 68% B M C Upstream Downstream Waste Supply Production processing freight freight E Scope 3 : Upstream activities Scope 3 : Downstream activities 9. Products and services purchase 11. Waste 10. Fixed assets Scope 1 16. Freight (cash transportation and 1. Stationary mails) 13. Business combustion travel sources 2. Mobile combustion sources 3. Fugitive emissions Scope 2 Electric consumption PA G E 5 8 / 6 1 Type of waste Net weight (kg) Treatment method PS plastic 143,52 Dispatched to local unit for injection moulding PPE plastic 2,67 Dispatched to local unit for injection moulding PC plastic 5,12 Dispatched to local unit for injection moulding PE plastic 0,99 Dispatched to local unit for injection moulding PP plastic 1,33 Dispatched to local unit for injection moulding ABS plastic 57,78 Dispatched to local unit for injection moulding POM plastic 6,47 Dispatched to local unit for injection moulding PS (Crystal) plastic 0,21 Dispatched to local unit for injection moulding Micro-chips and wires 0,04 Dispatched to local WEEE unit Aluminium 15,35 Dispatched to local scrap metal merchant Copper 0,14 Dispatched to local scrap metal merchant Scrap iron 91,23 Dispatched to local scrap metal merchant Toner powder 112,87 Dispatched to partner organisations for re-use Table No. 8 Components and parts 1,86 Re-used by Revialis or dispatched to partner organisations for re-use Reusable laser cartridges 6691,65 Dispatched to partner organisations for re-use Ink jet cartridges 3,95 Dispatched to partner organisations for re-use Others 0 Dispatched to local WEEE unit Pallets 0 Dispatched to local unit for re-use Cardboard boxes 684 Dispatched to local unit for re-use Recycled paper 71000 Dispatched to recycling unit IT equipment 223 Unités Material recycled and donated to schools and charitable organisations IT equipment 891 Unités Equipment dismantled and delivered to MANAGEM for treatment Cooking oils 1036 Dispatched to recycling unit Steel 289 Dispatched to treatment unit Stainless steel 27 Dispatched to treatment unit Plastic 54 Dispatched to treatment unit Air-conditioning units 1737 Dispatched to treatment unit Light bulbs 240.05 Dispatched to treatment unit EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PROVIDED TO FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES BUT NOT TO TEMPORARY STAFF NOR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES WELFARE BENEFITS 1. CMIM health and maternity insurance scheme 2. Solidarity fund 3. Emergency assistance 4. Other types of insurance • On-death and permanent disability insurance • Occupational injury insurance • Housing loan insurance • Sports injuries insurance SICKNESS AND MATERNITY BENEFITS 1. CNSS daily sickness allowance 2. RMA Watanya daily sickness allowance 3. CNSS daily maternity allowance RETIREMENT BENEFITS 1. Compulsory retirement scheme 2. Caisse Interprofessionnelle Marocaine de Retraite retirement scheme 3. Supplementary retirement scheme Employee Benefits Guide BONUSES AND OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 1. Bonuses Table No. 9 • Marriage bonus • New-born baby bonus • Achoura bonus • Education bonus • Pilgrimage bonus • Aïd Al Adha bonus • Ouissam Achoghle bonus • Retirement allowance 2. Interest-free loans and subsidised loans • Social loans for events • Loans for family needs • Car loans • Housing loans 3. Other social benefits • Holiday centres • Summer camps • Staff canteen • BMCE Bank Club LEAVE 1. Annual holiday entitlement 2. Holidays and special events 3. Maternity leave 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA A 3-6 month waiting period can be expected prior to actual implementation of a major project, during which time: The project is announced at a General Management Committee meeting Table No. 10 The project is presented to the Works Committee The project undergoes a pilot phase consisting of a programme of communication, training and information-sharing with representatives of staff representative bodies Mixed occupational health and safety committees are organised by Group Human Capital comprising: Chairman: Chief Executive Officer Head or Deputy Head of Group Human Capital Group Human Capital repreHead of CSM sentatives: Head of Employer-Employee Relations Trade union representatives Table No. 11 Staff representatives: Staff representatives Occupational physicians Members: Representatives of the Security department Social worker b. Indicate the percentage of total staff represented on these mixed committees: B 100% of staff are represented on mixed committees Table No. 12 In 2017, each employee received 21 hours of training on average M Of those employees receiving training, 69.5% were women (vs. 39% in 2016) and 30.5% men BMCE Bank Managers 2017 % C Women 329 28% Men 833 72% TOTAL 1162 100,0% E By age group 2017 % Less than 30 years 1137 21% 30-50 years 3596 67% More than 50 years 637 12% Total 5370 100% Table No. 13 BMCE Bank 2017 Category Men Women % Men % Women Managerial 1947 1363 36% 25% Graded 1013 566 19% 11% Employees 149 67 3% 1% Unclassified 196 69 4% 1% Total 3305 2065 62% 38% 5370 By age group 2017 % Less than 30 years 1137 21% 30-50 years 3596 67% More than 50 years 637 12% Total 5370 100% PA G E 6 0 / 6 3 20 BMCE BANK 17 Sus ta i n a b i l i t y & cs r r e p o rt OF AFRICA BMCE BANK PO Box 20039 Casa Principale Tel: 05 22 20 04 92 / 96 Fax: 05 22 20 05 12 Share capital: MAD 1,794,633,900 Swift: BMCEMAMC Telex: 21.931 24.004 Commercial register: Casablanca 27.129 CCP: Rabat 1030 CNSS: 10.2808.5 Tax ID number: 01085112 Trading licence: 35502790 Group Corporate Governance and Development – Sustainable Development & CSR Tel: 05 22 49 80 18 / 05 22 46 28 06 Fax: 05 22 26 49 65 E-mail: relationsinvestisseurs@bmcebank.co.ma BMCE Bank’s website www.bmcebank.ma www.notremondeestcapital.com International trade website www.bmcetrade.com BMCE Capital’s website www.bmcecapital.com Artistic Director: Amina Bennani – Printing: Direct Print
