COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: September 1, 2017 To: September 1, 2018 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) Friday September 7, 2018 Creating Communities affirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Creating Communities has now been a member of the UN Global Compact for one year. We are committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Creating Communities is a team of 20 change-makers dedicated to using the power of community to drive positive economic, social and environmental outcomes. At Creating Communities, our sole purpose is to transform communities by uniting the interests of people, industry and government. Founded on the belief that vibrant, functioning communities are in everyone’s best interests, and that community members, industry and government all have a role to play, we blend the needs and aspirations of all stakeholders with the broader benefits of social, economic and environmental sustainability to help communities flourish. Creating Communities has been the driving force behind significant investment in a diverse range of communities across Australia. We strive for innovation in community and economic development, recognising the uniqueness of communities and the need for a customised, human-centred approach. Our drive to develop shared value, community capacity and sustainability sets us apart: we consult, engage and listen. Our methodology builds durable relationships between multiple stakeholders and this collaboration provides tangible and lasting benefits. In this annual Communication on Progress, our past, present and future actions are driven towards integrating responsible and sustainable business practices across our operations. The UN Global Compact principles have been, and continue to be, an essential framework that provides Creating Communities with the necessary guidance and tools to achieve this outcome. We are proud to share this information with our stakeholders and the general public. Sincerely yours, Donna Shepherd Managing Director Creating Communities 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Creating Communities is committed to policies, practices and processes that fully support and abide by the current human rights laws and regulations. We work with clients to build social licence and shared value to benefit communities and build sustainable outcomes. We support communities to effectively engage with industry and government and we seek to build the capacity of communities to advocate. We also contribute to the planning and delivery of activities to build the wellbeing and social capital of communities. In all our work we uphold the protection of human rights and use our sphere of influence to ensure the behaviour of others does not violate the rights of any human. OUR KEY ACTIONS • Encourage a human-rights-aware approach across our operations and in the way we work with our clients, stakeholders and communities. • Research community context and plan for improvements in community outcomes on all projects. • Implement projects to strengthen community fabric. • Measure levels of engagement, wellbeing and social capital in the communities where we work and influence industry and government to improve outcomes for communities. • Ensure the activities and events we deliver in communities are inclusive for persons of all backgrounds and abilities. • Implement the strategies outlined in our 2018-2020 Reconciliation Action Plan. • Provide flexible employment options that are accessible to all our employees. • Provide employment benefits (e.g. leave entitlements, internal professional development sessions, internal mentoring program, end-of-financial year bonuses etc.) that are accessible to all our employees. • Promote a healthy and supportive work environment that is free from harassment and discrimination and respectful of all persons. • Offer internal reporting processes to manage grievances and disputes in the most respectful and fair way possible. • Maintain gender equality in our workplace and Leadership Team. • Engage our employees in strategic and succession planning for the company. • Ensure every employee has regular, one-on-one discussions with a member of the Leadership Team regarding the culture of our organisation. Labour Creating Communities recognises that we are responsible for the health and safety of all our employees, whether that be on the company’s premises or carrying out the company’s business elsewhere. We are committed to keeping our employees, contractors, suppliers, clients, stakeholders and communities safe from any adverse consequences of our work activities and ensure that every effort is made to remove or reduce the risks of any potential negative impact. OUR KEY ACTIONS • Only engage with contractors, suppliers, clients and stakeholders who uphold the elimination of forced or compulsory labour. • Implement a comprehensive Child Protection policy that ensures all children involved in Creating Communities activities, events and workshops are safe, valued and respected at all times. • Ensure all employees, contractors and suppliers have a valid national Working with Children Check. • Provide all our employees with equal access to a range of employee benefits, including ongoing professional development and training opportunities. • Ensure all employees are provided a safe and healthy work environment through the implementation of occupational health and safety policies and procedures and risk management planning. • Provide all our employees with individual ergonomic assessments and special ergonomic chairs. Environment Creating Communities is a community development consultancy with a minimal footprint on our natural environment. However, we aim to maximise our positive impact on the natural environment through the adoption of business operations that promote energy efficiency and effective waste management. We also work with our clients, stakeholders and communities in the delivery of activities and events that encourage communities and individuals to be responsible for protecting the natural environment. OUR KEY ACTIONS • Avoid excessive waste by encouraging employees to minimise the use and maximise the recycling of paper, cardboard, plastics, glass and aluminium. • Encourage employees to participate in national environmental initiatives such as Plastic Free July. • Encourage employees to work with our client, stakeholders and communities in the delivery of activities and events that educate communities and involve them in protecting and caring for the natural environment – e.g. community tree-planting days, environmental sustainability workshops, Clean Up Australia Day events etc. Anti-Corruption Creating Communities actively works against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We also encourage our employees to behave respectfully and transparently in order to maintain our reputation as a fair and responsible company and an employer that offers a positive and productive work environment. OUR KEY ACTIONS • Encourage our employees to uphold the company’s values and contribute to enhancing our workplace culture. • Ensure our employees abide by our code of conduct and are ethical, accountable and transparent in all their actions. • Offer internal reporting processes to manage grievances and disputes in the most respectful and fair way possible. • Request all employees sign a confidentiality agreement to protect the confidentiality of our business, employees, contractors and clients. • Utilise a customised software platform called ADAPT that assists in embedding quality control and transparency of our operations, business development and succession planning. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Human Rights • Strong social capital and wellness metrics in the communities where we work linked to our theory of change • Demographics of Leadership Team and employees • Cultural Catch Ups up-to-date • Achieving an average Cultural Index < 0.5 • Achieving our Reconciliation Action Plan targets • Social capital indicators improving on projects • All employees have valid Working with Children Checks Labour • Strong team career and cultural index metrics (Average career valuation < 80%, Average cultural index < .50) • Biannual cultural catch-ups up to date • Speed catch-ups up to date • Evidence of career progression • >10% attrition • Lower leave days • Development of emerging leads of value streams Environment • Reduced use of paper and less outgoing waste • Number of activities and events involving communities in protecting and caring for the natural environment Anti-Corruption • Purchasing policies audited annually • ADAPT fully implemented on projects
