Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 GET CONNECTED www.Avasant.com Table of Contents Letter from our CEO .............................................................................................................................. 3 About Us ………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 4 Social Responsibility at a Glance ………………………………………………………………………….. 5 Social Responsibility Through the Years …………………………………………………………………... 8 Global Initiatives ………………………………………………………………………………………………. 11 Commitment to the Global Community ………………………………………………………………….. 12 Leveraging ICT Enabled Innovation for Improved Public Service Delivery in Uganda ………….. 12 BPO Sector Development and Capacity Development in Haiti …………………………………….. 13 Investment Promotion in Palestine………………………………………………………………………….. 14 Avasant Foundation Objectives ……………………………………………………………………………. 15 Commitment to Human Rights and Fair Trade Labour Practice (Adhering to UN Global Compact Goals 1, 3, 4, 5 and 10) …………………………………………… 16 Commitment to the Environment and Sustainability (Adhering to UN Global Compact Goals 8-9) …………………………………………………………… 18 Golf for Impact 2018 …………………………………………………………………………………………... 20 Primary Community Outreach Programs for 2017-2018 ………………………………………………... 22 Avasant Digital Youth Employment Initiative (ADYEI): Empowering deserving youth in the Caribbean ……………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 22 Skills for Global Services in Trinidad and Tobago ……….….…………………………………………….. 23 Digital Equalizer Program with American India Foundation …………………………………………… 23 SDG Funders Network …………………………………………………………………………………………. 25 Microsoft Youth Web Portal ………………………………………………………………………………….. 25 The Road Ahead: FY18-19 CSR Targets ……………………………………………………………………. 26 2|Page | Letter from our CEO At Avasant, our business of providing advisory services is guided by our core objective of empowering beyond empowering people, businesses, communities and countries to reach beyond the status quo and challenge their potential to acquire new levels of success. As a UN Global Compact member since 2011, Avasant has aligned its corporate vision and business practices with the ten principles of the Global Compact spanning human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. For Avasant, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) means that we discharge this responsibility every day during the regular course of our Kevin S. Parikh business. Avasant works closely with Global CEO, Avasant Chairman governments and investment promotion agencies in Avasant Foundation Board Member emerging regions to bring sustainable investment. Girl Rising Advisory Avasant has been accredited for its efforts in attracting investments that have resulted in employment generation, taxation revenues and skills development for local youth. Avasant has assisted multiple governments in creating frameworks for the development of IT and BPO industries by creating the enabling frameworks of standards, policy and human capital. These engagements have earned Avasant global appreciation for its philanthropic efforts, such as recognition in the Vault Consulting Survey 2016, recognition as Impact Sourcing Influencer from IAOP 2018, recognition from the American India Foundation in 2018, and recognition from the Stevie Awards for Women in Business 2018. In addition, Avasant has incorporated a not-for-profit organization to spearhead its community involvement initiatives. Avasant Foundation empowers youth in underdeveloped and emerging economies through the creation of employment opportunities through skill development training programs, while supporting local efforts toward science, technology, engineering, arts, and math (STEAM) education and entrepreneurship. Avasant Foundation also raises funds for financing other social programs through the Foundation’s annual charity event, Golf for Impact. It is the firm’s responsibility as a global corporate citizen to build, develop and provide programs that help create jobs for youth in the US and globally. Avasant is strongly committed to environmental sustainability and is an equal opportunity employer that does not tolerate any kind of discrimination among its employees. By extension, we also treat our partners and vendors with dignity and deploy fair practices in the selection and procurement process. I am pleased to inform that Avasant remains firmly committed to enhancing its CSR efforts and ensuring that it conducts its business in a socially responsible and ethical manner. Kevin S. Parikh – Global Chief Executive Officer 3|Page | About Us With its headquarters in Los Angeles, California, Avasant is a leading management consulting firm providing digital transformation, sourcing advisory, country capacity development and governance services to Fortune 1000 clients around the globe. Our talented team of consultants, technologists and lawyers average over 20 years of industry-honed experience and have conducted over 1,000 engagements in more Graduating students from Avasant Digital Youth Employment than 50 countries worldwide. Initiative training (ADYEI) in Jamaica. Avasant drives customer value through the use of its proprietary consulting and advisory methods, which have been refined over decades of real-world transaction and engagement experience. Avasant advises governments and private enterprises in developing and implementing business strategies and improving process efficiencies. It also helps small and medium-sized organizations increase their market share by enhancing their process efficiencies and customer reach. Avasant’s management consultants and advisors offer focused advisory services on marketexpansion strategy, business process assessment, public-private partnerships as well as operations and compliance. Avasant has been at the forefront of the global expansion of outsourcing services. Our credentials include being recognized by the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals (IAOP) as being among the World’s Best Outsourcing Advisors’ for nine consecutive years, 2009-2017. In 2016, 2017 and 2018, Avasant was one of only a few firms to be awarded a 5-star ranking by IAOP. In 2015, IAOP ranked Avasant as the most distinguished sourcing advisory firm in North America. In 2014, IAOP ranked Avasant #2 on its ‘World’s Best Outsourcing Advisors’ list. Avasant has also received the ‘Award for Corporate Social Responsibility’ from the European Outsourcing Association (EOA) in 2015. Also in 2015, The National Outsourcing Association (NOA) nominated Avasant in ‘Outsourcing Advisory of the Year’ and ‘Best Contribution to the Reputation of Outsourcing’ with the Rockefeller Foundation. The Vault Consulting Survey consistently ranked Avasant among the Top 50 and “Best to Work For” management consulting firms for 2016, 2015, 2014, and 2013. For 2019, Avasant was top ranked among the Best 4|Page Consulting Firms for International Opportunities, Innovation, and Diversity. The Black Book of Outsourcing has ranked Avasant as the ‘Number 1 BPO Advisor’ and one of the ‘Top 10 Full Service Advisors’. Kevin S. Parikh, Avasant’s Global Chief Executive Officer, has been recognized by the Corporate Vision magazine as ‘California CEO of the Year’, Industry Era among the 10 Best CEOs of 2018, and has been distinguished as a Top-Rated CEO by the new community-based insights platform, Owler. Avasant has extensive experience working with various governments and donor agencies such as The World Bank, USAID, The Commonwealth Secretariat, and The Rockefeller Foundation, among others to promote and expand markets in countries such as Ghana, South Africa, Rwanda, Uganda, Jordan, Jamaica, Trinidad & Tobago, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Belize, Albania, Moldova and China. In 2012, Avasant, with The Rockefeller Foundation, produced a report designed to enhance the understanding of the Impact Sourcing sector and specifically focuses on key initiatives that will help to develop and sustain the sector. As a strategic advisor, Avasant plays a unique intermediary role between multinational and government clients seeking consulting and implementation services and the global service providers who offer them. With our deep relationships in “buyer” markets like the US and UK, we maintain close relationships with many Fortune 1000 companies, as well as a strong presence in leading service provider geographies such as India and China. | Social Responsibility at a Glance Avasant believes in giving back to society, and 2018 saw us reaffirming our focus on people policies, business ethics, environmental sustainability, and empowering women and youth. As a consulting firm, we deliver on engagements that have a direct and significant impact on people in our clients’ geographies. Over the years, we have made a conscious effort to work with local organizations in the US and emerging countries to support them in one of the biggest challenges they face – youth unemployment. Our projects in Africa and Latin America have been focused on STEAM education, particularly in IT/BPO sectors, which in turn create Award presentation at Jamaican graduating class. large numbers of knowledge-based jobs for the youth. Avasant has worked in over 50 countries including Palestine, Albania, Moldova, Uganda, 5|Page Kenya, South Africa and Ghana in Africa and Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, and Haiti in the Caribbean region. We understand that a firm’s social responsibility must not be limited to its outreach initiatives. It should be an all-encompassing concept covering all stakeholders (such as employees and vendors) and based on moral, ethical and justifiable business principles (such as fair trade, nondiscriminatory policies, zero corruption, etc.). Despite being a consulting organization where employees need to travel to client sites, we try to minimize travel through the use of techcollaboration tools. This is one example of the many ways that Avasant contributes to the environmental sustainability of our business. Avasant works with leading institutional bodies, including the World Bank, InterAmerican Development Bank, African Development Bank, EBRD, Asia Development Bank, United Nations Agency for International Development (USAID), United States Trade Development Agency (USTDA), Rockefeller Foundation, Clinton Global Initiative, American India Foundation, Girl Rising, United Nations and SDG Funders Philanthropy Platform in their pursuits to end poverty and enable societies globally to realize their potential. Avasant works towards this through enabling an environment for the use and adoption of ICTs for economic development, which directly results in increased employment opportunities in the IT and ITES sector. Through Avasant Foundation (AF), our not-for-profit venture, Avasant directly impacts the lives of thousands in emerging economies across the globe by providing education enabling employment opportunities and entrepreneurial skills. Avasant and its foundation are aligned in supporting the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, especially goals 1No Poverty, 4Quality Education, 5Gender Equality, 8Decent Work and Economic growth and 10Reduced Inequalities. AF’s Avasant Digital Youth Employment Initiative (ADYEI) provides deserving youth with job-related skills training to enable employment in the leading ICT BPO industries in the Caribbean. This initiative has provided over 600 deserving youth with vocational and life skills trainings and connected over 94% of them to employment through Impact Sourcing practices. We do this by educating the business partners on Impact Sourcing job hiring, which complements the traditional outsourcing model to provide business value along with an added advantage of social benefit. 6|Page Avasant Foundation Chairman Kevin Parikh and Executive Director Chitra Rajeshwari were recognized by the Clinton Global Initiative in 2015 and 2016 for their hugely successful youth employment initiatives in the Caribbean. Kevin Parikh, AF’s Chairman, and Chitra Rajeshwari, AF’s Executive Director, were recognized two years in a row by the Clinton Global Initiative in 2015 and 2016, for enabling employment for over 94% of the deserving youth in Jamaica and Haiti who graduated from AF’s Digital Youth Employment Initiative. Avasant also supports various organizations which have been working around the globe for economic stability and betterment of lives of people. Among the organizations to receive charitable contributions from Avasant and AF are Clinton Global Initiative, Rockefeller Philanthropies, Association Haitienne pour le Developpement des Technologies de L'Information et de la Communication (AHTIC), Sharefest Community, American India Foundation, TiE Foundation, Project HANDUP and Business Process Industry Association Jamaica (BPIAJ). In 2017, Avasant partnered with IAOP to analyze at present the results of the Women Empowerment survey at OWS 2017, the purpose being to gather data on the perceptions of gender equality, empowerment and opportunities for women in the outsourcing industry and to identify where and how outsourcing has internationally empowered the lives of women, both inside and outside the workplace. Chitra Rajeshwari is the chair of the Women Empowerment, Leadership and Diversity chapter. In 2018, WE chapter hosted series of webinars on topics that were key to the diversity, leadership and empowering women at all levels within the industry . As part of our participation in the UNGC, we as a company pledged our commitment to the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) – an initiative that is at the cornerstone of our company mission. Through the recognition of gender equality, we contribute to critical 7|Page predictors of stability, economic growth and security, and entrepreneurialism, that positively impact our business in a myriad of ways. As part of our commitment, as the CEO of Avasant, Kevin will be signing the CEO Statement of Support, committing to the development of the “initiate, implement, report” framework, as a guide and benchmarking tool for Avasant’s SDG success. Avasant also pledged support to the Clinton Global Initiative’s efforts to digitally transform regions in the Caribbean, including Dominica, and the US Virgin Islands in conjunction with the World Bank and other similar organizations. An additional training program was also launched in Trinidad and Tobago in partnership with Massy Group and CTS College to provide professional and digital skills training to 50 students in Trinidad and Tobago. Chitra Rajeshwari, Executive Director of Avasant Foundation, was awarded Gold in the Transformational Sourcing Relations Leadership category at this year’s Stevie Awards for Women in Business. | Social Responsibility Through the Years  2006 Avasant LLC founded by CEO Kevin S. Parikh.  2008-2018 Avasant’s Globalization team works for capacity building, strengthening investment attraction, identifying market growth opportunities, and developing strategy for expansion and promotion of the sourcing industry leading to job creation, skill development and economic growth in South Africa, Uganda, Rwanda, Malawi, Nigeria, Kenya, St. Vincent & the Grenadines, Jamaica, Haiti, Belize, Colombia, Barbuda, Barbados, Jordan, Philippines, Albania, Moldova, and more.  2011 Avasant receives a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation and conducts a study to scale the Impact Sourcing sector. 8|Page  2011 Avasant becomes a participant member of the UN Global Compact and is committed to upholding the ten principles with respect to Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiCorruption.  2011 Avasant Foundation is formed with Kevin Parikh as Chairman, Anupam Govil and Dr. P.K. Mukherji as Co-chair.  2014 Chitra Rajeshwari hired as Avasant Foundation’s Executive Director.  2014 Avasant Foundation hosts ‘Golf for Impact,’ an annual charity golf tournament to fund their initiatives.  2014 Avasant Foundation becomes associated with American India Foundation and funds them for their Digital Equalizer Program in India. Through the Digital Equalizer program, we provide 80 educators the technology tools they need to support 16874 Indian students in 50 public schools in Delhi, Odisha and Bangalore with access to technology education.  2015 Avasant Foundation gets a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation for their DJA (Digital Jobs Africa) Initiative and works for promotion of Impact Sourcing.  2015 Avasant Foundation starts the Avasant Digital Youth Employment Initiative (ADYEI) in Jamaica, training high potential, deserving youth and connecting them to employment.  2015 Avasant Foundation is recognized by Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) for the high impact and growth of its Avasant Digital Youth Employment initiatives in Jamaica Avasant Foundation’s Executive Director, Chitra  2015 ‘Golf for Impact’ continues in its Rajeshwari accepts certificate of recognition for second year of inception drawing even the high impact and growth of Avasant Digital more sponsors than the first year. Youth Employment Initiatives in Jamaica from President Clinton.  2015 Avasant Foundation becomes an associate member of GISCGlobal Impact Sourcing Coalitionan association of businesses, service providers and NGOs with a goal of expanding the global supply chain through Impact Sourcing.  2015 Kevin S. Parikh joins the advisory board of the gender equality NGO GIRLRISING.  2016 2016 ADYEI pilot in Haiti, graduating 30 youths, with 100% gaining employment in the telecommunication sectors. 9|Page  2016 Avasant Foundation receives the CGI recognition for a second year in a row for the Avasant Digital Youth Employment initiative in Haiti.  2016 ADYEI continues training, graduating a total of 153 youth, 93% of find jobs immediately after the training.  2016 ‘Golf for Impact’ helps raise funds again for youth employment and skills development programs.  2016 In Trinidad & Tobago, Avasant Foundation launches Digital Works, a new initiative as part of their commitment to ensure job creation and skills enhancement for high caliber graduates.  2016 Kevin S. Parikh is a founding VIP member of Womensphere, a not-for-profit for women advancement.  2017 ADYEI in its third-year trains 247 youth in Jamaica (more cohorts under way). 94% of the students get hired immediately after the training.  2017 Avasant Foundation is a founding funder for India of the SDG Philanthropy Platform focused on SDG#5 gender equality  2017 ‘Golf for Impact’ continues attracting sponsors and attendees. USD 782,167 raised thus far.  2017 Avasant and IAOP present the results of the Women Empowerment Survey at OWS17.  2017 Chitra Rajeshwari is the Lead Chair for the IAOP Women Empowerment Leadership and Diversity Chapter..  2018 Kevin S. Parikh honored by American India Foundation (AIF) for his contributions to educational and job creation programs for deserving youth across emerging economies.  2018 Avasant Foundation partners with Massy Group and CTS College to provide professional and digital skills training to 50 Kevin S. Parikh, Chairman of Avasant Foundation is students in Trinidad and Tobago. honored by American India Foundation in 2018 for the educational and job creation programs for deserving youth across emerging economies  2018 Avasant commits to Women powered by Avasant Foundation. Empowerment Principles, with Kevin S. Parikh signing the CEO Statement of Support, committing to the development of a guide and benchmarking tool for Avasant’s SDG success. 10 | P a g e  2018 Kevin S. Parikh commits to supporting the Clinton Global Initiative’s efforts to digitally transform regions in the Caribbean, including Dominica, and the US Virgin Islands in conjunction with the World Bank and other similar organizations.  2018 Avasant Foundation Executive Director, Chitra Rajeshwari awarded Gold in the Transformational Sourcing Relations Leadership category at this year’s Stevie Awards for Women in Business. | Global Initiatives Avasant supports numerous eminent global initiatives aimed at creating opportunities for youth employment. 11 | P a g e | Commitment to the Global Community Leveraging ICT Enabled Innovation for Improved Public Service Delivery in Uganda Avasant worked with the Government of Uganda to develop and strengthen ICT led innovation among the youth to enhance productivity competitiveness and promote efficient delivery of public services. Avasant and its Foundation helped the government of Uganda promote entrepreneurship by creating and piloting a “TechnoSpark” training. Through this World Bank funded effort, Avasant partnered with the RAN World Bank Funded the TechnoSpark training, which had a Innovation Lab and NITA-UICT majority of women attendees. industry association to offer the training in Kampala, primarily for women. Avasant Foundation is now looking to expand its iGNITE entrepreneurship training and incubation model in Africa and globally. Budding entrepreneurs developed Tech-applications and learned Business Skills from Trainers Abhijeet Nayak and Chirag Rawat from Avasant. Abhijeet Nayak, Consultant, Avasant, delivered the Technospark training in Uganda. 12 | P a g e Key Accomplishments • Researched global best practices in innovation ecosystems of different countries. Conducted a workshop where regional and international innovation experts brainstormed to decide on the innovation framework suitable for Uganda. • Developed a detailed business plan for establishing an Innovation Center of Excellence. This included the vision, operating model, revenue model, funding mechanism, stakeholder engagement, etc. • Designed and implemented a training program on business skills for young entrepreneurs of Uganda. The training content was packaged and delivered in ‘train the trainer’ mode. • The TechnoSpark training helped 49 budding entrepreneurs develop tech applications that enhanced government service delivery. BPO Sector Development and Capacity Development in Haiti Avasant is engaged by the Centre de Facilitation des Investissements (CFIHAITI) and Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) in a project that will end in January, 2018 for developing the BPO Sector and promote capacity development and entrepreneurship skills in the country. Key Objectives • Promote Haiti as an ideal outsourcing destination and spur development in Haiti’s BPO Sector. • Build capacity in the local workforce enabling faster uptake into newly created jobs within the sector. • Support the development of incubation capabilities to promote entrepreneurship in the country. 13 | P a g e • Organize a national-level job fair initiative that brings young students, professionals & experts from the IT-BPO industry under one roof on the same day. The objective of the job fair is to attract candidates who are interested in working in the IT-BPO sector in Haiti, and familiarize them on the industry and the opportunities that are available to them. • Develop an online platform that brings together BPO investors/employers and job seekers who are interested in working in the sector. Investment Promotion in Palestine Avasant was engaged by HM Department for International Development (“DfID”), UK, in July 2018 to consult on its Palestine Market Development Program (“PMDP”) for the Occupied Palestinian Territories (“oPt”). The UK Government’s PMDP is designed to build institutional and human capacity, and business linkages with the UK market to drive economic development in the troubled region with the IT sector being one of its key pillars. This initiative is key to the overall development of the oPt, both by itself, and within the overall context of the political firmament of the region. Whilst overall economic development has been recognized as key to driving peace in troubled regions across the world, the IT sector plays a pivotal role in Palestine’s development. The sector has a young demographic, its workforce largely below the 35 years age group and absorbs close to 3,000 graduates from Palestine’s universities each year. With growing digital penetration in the Palestinian society, this sector plays a significant role in shaping the future aspirational psyche of the Palestinian youth helping move them away from the historical political challenges that has plagued the region. Further women constitute just a fifth of the overall workforce despite a 96% literacy rate. This sector’s growth, in size and breadth, is key to empowering Palestinian women through economic independence. There is early evidence of this with the ICT sector driving a growth in women’s registration to STEM and business management courses in local Universities and women entrepreneurship. Avasant crafted a broad value proposition for the ICT sector in Palestine, highlighting the availability of surplus talent & skills to support remote delivery of digital services and developed marketing collateral. The team also advised on the content of a promotional film being developed within the broader PMDP. We helped create a broad ecosystem of potential target buyer community in the UK comprising, large corporates, not-for-profit sector, small and medium enterprises and start-ups. We shared this proposition with close to 70 UK organizations in the ecosystem to elicit interest in the Palestinian ICT sector. Opportunities emanating from this interaction are now being pursued by the DfID to provide continuity to the progress made on our engagement. Avasant’s engagement was termed as “a first, but very significant milestone in the long journey to creating sustainable economic development in the region” by Arsalan Ali Faheem, Market Development Lead, Palestine Market Development Programme. Matthew Gould, Director General for Digital and Media Policy in HM Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, and British Ambassador to Israel (2011-15), also commented regarding Avasant’s work, “Finally, someone has brought professionalism to the 1% initiative and achieved tremendous progress that the programme has been lacking the past three years.” 14 | P a g e Avasant Foundation Objectives Avasant Foundation leverages its expertise in the Digital Economy to bring together diverse stakeholders to create opportunities for youth to succeed in the workforce of today and tomorrow. Our Mission Our Vision Our Strategy Avasant Foundation To improve lives and That all youth are leverages the expertise communities by afforded opportunities and relationships empowering youth in to become contributing of Avasant, a global emerging economies members of the global business management through education, community and & ICT strategy firm, in employment and succeed in the new the design and delivery entrepreneurship. digital economy. of initiatives. Our Values Service: to humanity Teamwork: working together for better results Responsibility: taking accountability for our actions Integrity: doing the right thing Vision: working with purpose Excellence: in our commitment 15 | P a g e | Commitment to Human Rights and Fair Trade Labor Practices Avasant is committed to the UN Global Compact Principles 1, 3, 4, 5, and 10 as they relate to human rights, labor practices and fighting corruption. Our commitment to labor principles spans across our supplier base and employees, which includes ensuring no use of child labor, forced and bonded labor in the value chain. Our organization is transparent in its management and commercial relations. It is accountable to all its stakeholders and respects the sensitivity and confidentiality of commercial information supplied. Avasant focuses on the social, economic and environmental well-being of marginalized small suppliers and does not maximize profit at their expense. Avasant is committed to a consistent and fair tender process and to facilitate this, all potential suppliers receive: Request for quotation/proposal RFP/RFQ letters inviting suppliers to participate, Intent to respond documents, and Nondisclosure documents. Upon completion of these documents, suppliers who wish to offer a tender will receive the RFQ/RFP, which includes process timeframes and response formats to which suppliers must strictly adhere. All tenders provide an opportunity to allow suppliers to respond with questions and give an identical time-period for all Avasant employees at the most recent annual Offsite 2018. to respond. Through this process, Avasant ensures that the supplier bidding process is fair and is conducted through an effective mechanism, which creates a win-win situation for both suppliers and Avasant. Avasant envisions a more integrated and inclusive supply chain in key geographies in which we operate and a better alignment of our corporate social initiatives with the needs of the outsourcing industry and our business. Fostering the social bettering of underprivileged communities helps Avasant to create a positive economic growth and employable workforce in emerging nations where we are directly engaged with governments. As an equal opportunity employer, Avasant believes that its inherent strength lies in the intellectual and cultural diversity of its workforce. It strongly believes that employees are its biggest asset. Respect for employees is the cornerstone of Avasant’s Business Code of Conduct. 16 | P a g e Avasant’s workforce contributes towards the firm’s goal of guiding its clients through often difficult, uncertain and ambiguous situations through their extensive knowledge, implicit understanding and passion. The firm, through its policies, upholds human and employee rights and strongly believes in acknowledging and respecting individuals’ dignity, rights and ambitions. Avasant maintains a zero tolerance policy towards any kind of harassment, discrimination, coercion and misconduct. Avasant does not discriminate in hiring, remuneration, access to training, promotion, termination or retirement based on age, race, caste, national origin, religion, disability, gender, sexual orientation, union membership, or political affiliation. Avasant conducts formal 360-degree feedback sessions twice a year along with informal, interactive “happy hour” sessions at least twice a month. Through these interactions, employees voice their concerns and A number of Avasant employees gathered on the beach at Puerto Vallarta, suggest changes to any Mexico as part of a bonding activity at the most recent company offsite. policy or practice that helps nurture and develop them personally and professionally. Ideas are principally focused around areas that integrate teams globally and provide equal opportunities. Any idea supported by the majority is then taken up in a time bound initiative. Avasant’s 8-week training program and mentor-mentee initiative is aimed at grooming the associates through regular one-on-one sessions on career progression, firm development and honing consulting skill sets. Avasant adheres to health and safety standards for its employees, contractors, partners and clients. We also support flexi-working, which allows our consultants to work from his/her home and focus more on their demanding workload and less on unproductive and often stressful office commutes. We encourage our workforce to maintain a healthy work life-balance and offer them more control of their own time. At all our offices across the world, employees take breaks to catch a gym workout, a set of tennis or a badminton match, all of which is subsidized by Avasant through a monthly fitness reimbursement. Avasant also offers health insurance to all its associates, offering products of choice for their family through company reimbursement. We continually receive positive feedback from our employees on our policies and believe that it has created goodwill, not just among our employees, but also our stakeholders and clients. Based on the feedback from Avasant employees, the Vault Consulting Survey has recognized 17 | P a g e Avasant among the Best Places to Work For for management consulting firms from 2014-2016. The Vault Consulting Survey also ranks Avasant among the top management consulting firms offering “International Opportunities”, “Innovation”, and “Diversity” across departments to its associates. In 2016, the Vault Consulting Survey recognized Avasant among the “Best Consulting Firms for Diversity.” This included our representation of minorities, military veterans, and individuals with disabilities in our workforce. Avasant fully complies with local labor laws applicable to its global Avasant employees during the formal Awards Ceremony at workforce. the annual Offsite 2018. Avasant strongly adheres to a zero-tolerance policy against bribery, extortion and other corrupt malpractices. We strictly follow and adhere to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA) following a disclosure by the Securities and Exchange Commission of the extensive practice by American businesses operating abroad of making payment to foreign government officials, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have a centralized whistle-blowing cell that takes strict action against any reported malpractices observed by employees, stakeholders or clients or activities in deviance from those suggested by FCPA. | Commitment to the Environment and Sustainability Avasant’s corporate and operational policies support environmentally responsible objectives and adhere to the UN Global Compact Principles 7 through 9. Avasant complies with all statutory and regulatory requirements, national and international standards, and industry practices. Avasant has committed itself to raising employee awareness on environmental issues and utilizing industry best practices. Avasant leaders have regularly promoted green sourcing through industry forums related to the importance and benefits of ‘green information technology sourcing’. Avasant undertakes environment-friendly initiatives and sets annual targets, which it shares regularly with its employees and stakeholders. Avasant also strives to reduce its carbon footprints by minimizing travel to client locations and promoting video conferencing facilities using UberConference and Skype for Business with its clients. Some of the key environmental initiatives we have taken within the firm include: • Increasing the use of video conferencing and web-collaboration tools (screen sharing, chat, Microsoft SharePoint, Skype for Business, Yammer, etc.) to reduce international workforce travel. 18 | P a g e • Providing a flexible work policy to reduce long office commutes. • Utilization of recycled paper and published material in all of our global offices. • Using online record keeping as a de-facto standard instead of maintaining a paperbased bookkeeping and record inventory. For example: • Avasant maintains, stores, and updated employee files on Zenefits, our HR software tool, instead of maintaining a paper-based record. • Avasant utilizes an online tool, Projector PSA, for employees to submit expenses, invoices, and timesheets, instead of maintaining a paper-based record. • Using double-side printing unless absolutely necessary. • Maximizing the use of email, and communication tools like Skype for Business, Yammer and Delve to communicate externally as well as internally. • Adoption of best practices in our offices such as switching off fans, lights and devices when not required, recycling of water and carpooling. Avasant continually promotes green sourcing as one of its practice areas, where it provides consulting services centered around the purchase of environmentally responsible hardware and server components. This includes conducting significant research and analysis before selecting an outsourcing service provider or partner. Our sourcing practice aims at: • Identifying green compliance risks in sourcing strategies. • Inviting providers with a green record. • Incorporating regulatory guidelines into contractual language of service provider agreements. • Assessing financial impact. • Incorporating the use of welldefined checklists of agreed environmental considerations to ensure operational compliance. Avasant spearheads green sourcing initiatives within the IT outsourcing industry. Its leadership team has been a proponent of green sourcing at multiple industry conferences around the globe and has been coaching organizations on the need to move more towards green solutions 19 | P a g e and has emphasized the need in the technology sourcing cycle. As a result of our green initiatives, we have been able to: • Reduce the usage of paper in our day-to-day business operations. • Reduce staff travel, both internationally and locally. • Reduce electricity and water consumption. • Adopt best practices by employees at their homes leading to further decline in electricity, water and fossil fuel consumption. • Build awareness among our clients and stakeholders that ‘going green’ makes a viable business case. • Spread awareness in the industry of the importance and advantages of green sourcing. | Golf for Impact 2018 Avasant Foundation hosts an annual charity golf tournament to fund its initiatives. The goal of Golf for Impact is to raise money to empower high potential youth in developing and emerging economies to create better futures for themselves, their families and their communities. Thanks to our many sponsors, Avasant Foundation has been able to make a significant impact for youth education and employment as well. 20 | P a g e 21 | P a g e | Primary Community Outreach Programs for 2017-2018 Avasant Digital Youth Employment Initiative (ADYEI): Empowering deserving youth in the Caribbean Avasant Foundation is involved with the Government of Jamaica in drafting policy interventions that will enhance Jamaica’s outsourcing sector, develop related skills, and create employment opportunity for the youth in Jamaica. The Foundation, in partnership with the Jamaica Promotion Corporation (JAMPRO), BPIAJ (Business Process Industry Association Jamaica), the University of Technology Jamaica, the Fi Wi Jamaica Project and leading ITC employers, launched its Avasant Digital Youth Employment Initiative in June 2015 to foster employment opportunities in Jamaica. The Initiative continues providing deserving youth with job related skills training to enable employment in the leading ICT BPO industries in the Caribbean. For its 2015 Commitment to Action, Avasant Foundation developed a sustainable and scalable technology training program to prepare high potential, disadvantaged youth aged 18-28 for employment in the expanding ICT and BPO industries in Jamaica. This pilot training initiative was part of Avasant Foundation’s 2016 Commitment to Action for the Clinton Global Initiative on tackling youth unemployment in Haiti. In 2017, in its third consecutive and highly successful year, the initiative continues to make an impact through skills trainings and getting the youth hired by companies committed to Impact Sourcing. Key Accomplishments • Model partnership with University of Technology, Jamaica, USAID and the FiWi Jamaica project graduating 30 youths in 2015, 123 youth in 2016, 250 youth in 2017 and 250 youths in 2018 in Jamaica. • Success of pilot initiative in Port-au-Prince, Haiti to train and connect 30 youth to employment opportunities in partnership with Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), Center for Facilitation of Investments, BIMA, NATCOM, Digicel and other leading employers. • 94% of trainees secured ICT/BPO employment within two months of graduation with companies like Conduent, HGS, IBEX, VXI, iTEL BPO Solutions, Sutherland, TelePerformance, ACT, Scotia Bank, and Alorica. • The Foundation received recognition from the Clinton Global Initiative in both 2015 and 2016 for achieving over 90% employment for its Jamaican and Haitian youth trainees. 22 | P a g e Skills for Global Services in Trinidad and Tobago In Trinidad and Tobago, Avasant Foundation forged a partnership with CTS College and the Massy Group, a diversified regional conglomerate with operations throughout the Caribbean basin, Colombia and South Florida. Massy Group employs over 11,000 over 60 operating companies across six business segments comprising Massy Holdings. By committing to partner with Avasant Foundation on the Skills for Global Services program, Massy Group has affirmed the value of Avasant Foundation’s digital training experience and effectiveness as they plan to expand into other geographies. With members of their own staff enrolled in the Skills for Global Services program, Massy Group has doubled down on its investment with Avasant Foundation because of the high-value recognition of the training program. Digital Equalizer Program with American India Foundation in India Avasant Foundation supports efforts in India to increase access to technology and a quality education as well as sustainable livelihoods through employment and entrepreneurship. With 70% of India’s one million public schools lacking basic computing technology, the country is facing significant challenges to prepare its youth for success in the 21st century global economy. Chitra Rajeshwari, Executive Director of Avasant Foundation, speaking at CTS College for the Skills for Global Services Program. Avasant Foundation, in partnership with the American India Foundation, helps equip students with practical digital literacy skills that play a lifechanging role throughout their academic journey. Key Accomplishments • Provided over 16,874 students with access to technology across 36 schools in Odisha and Karnataka through the Digital Equalizer Program. Student learns digital skills in Odisha schools aided through AIF. • Trained over 100 teachers in interactive and dynamic approaches for incorporating technology into instruction to replace rote learning. • Incorporated basic computer literacy, internet research and refreshed teaching methodologies into teachers’ training programs. 23 | P a g e 24 | P a g e SDG Funders Network Avasant Foundation supports progress on the 17 SDG goals, with a focus on Goals 1,4,5 8 & 10. Avasant, Avasant Foundation and all our affiliates support the mission of No Poverty via the Avasant Digital Youth Employment Initiative, Digital Jobs Africa, Digital Equalizer India, and the Skills for Global Services Programme in Trinidad and Tobago. Avasant, Avasant Foundation, the American India Foundation, Rockefeller Philantrophy, Pratham, Akshay Patra, and the Sharefest Community support Quality Education via the Avasant Digital Youth Employment Initiative, Digital Jobs Africa, and Digital Equalizer India. Avasant, Avasant Foundation, Plan International Girl Rising, IAOP Women Empowerment, Leadership and Diversity, FiWi Jamaica and UTech Jamaica support Gender Equality via the Women Empowerment Survey, Technopreneurship Program in Uganda, and the Avasant Digital Youth Employment Initiative. Avasant, Avasant Foundation, Jampro, BPIAJ, UTech Jamaica, Rockefeller Foundation, GISC, Sutherland, VXL, Ibex Global, Microsoft, ITel BPO Solutions, Conduent, TelePerformance, The Massy group, Alorica SDG Philanthropy Platform, TIE Foundation, GISC support Decent Work and Economic Growth via Digital Jobs Africa and the Avasant Digital Youth Employment Initiative Avasant, Avasant Foundation, Plan International Girl Rising, IAOP Women Empowerment, Leadership and Diversity, American India Foundation IDB, World Bank, DfID support Reduced Inequalities via the Avasant Digital Youth Employment Initiative. Avasant Foundation is a founding member of SDG Funders, a global philanthropic platform with a focus on India for 2017. SDG Funders was founded by Rockefeller Philanthropic Advisors. Of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the UN's 2030 Agenda, Avasant Foundation works primarily on three: Quality Education, Gender Equality and Decent Work & Economic Growth, all of which are squarely aligned with our vision and mission. Microsoft Youth Web Portal Avasant Foundation, in association with Microsoft, offers a customized version of Microsoft’s YouthSpark web portal, which is a global initiative to increase access for all disadvantaged youth in the Caribbean to learn computer science, empowering them to achieve more for themselves, their families and their communities. The custom-made state-of-the-art hub offers more than 7,000 free, online, selfpaced courses with certifications in fields such as Coding and App Development, Entrepreneurial Skills, Business Development, Soft Skills, Sales and Marketing, College Algebra and Mathematics, working with Windows to enable them to learn relevant skills needed to get a job. 25 | P a g e | The Road Ahead: FY18-19 CSR Targets We understand that the CSR commitment to all stakeholders should be measurable and lasting. The following list provides a sample of some CSR-related activities that Avasant will be undertaking over its next fiscal year. • Raise cash and other support equivalent to $1M for Avasant Foundation to support community initiatives. • Continue to expand CSR initiatives in APAC, EMEA and LAC. • Assist the governments of 8 countries in developing their services sector through consulting engagements leading to investment, employment, skill enhancement, and improvement of living standards and tax revenues. • Provide employment, STEAM, and entrepreneurship skills training to students globally through in-person and online instruction through Avasant Foundation. • Enable employment for disadvantaged youth globally by working with key stakeholders including service providers. • Continue membership and support of the UN Global Compact and the UN Sustainable Development Goals with a focus on youth education and gender equality. • Continue to support IAOP’s efforts on its Women Empowerment initiative to catalyze changes in the global outsourcing industry to empower the lives of women both inside and outside the workplace. • Continue playing a leadership role in Womensphere Foundation’s efforts to empower women and girls. • Increase awareness of Impact Sourcing through online channels such as YouTube, Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter. • Expand our skills and iGNITE entrepreneurship training model to disadvantaged youth globally • Fund inclusion of technology in instruction for students in India through the American Indian Foundation’s Digital Equalizer program. 26 | P a g e • Provide career mentorship and business coaching to budding entrepreneurs across the globe and arrange funding for 10 tech start-ups in Africa, the Caribbean and India. • Bring our youth employment and entrepreneurship training model to new countries including the Bahamas, El Salvador, Colombia, Rwanda, Uganda and South Africa. • Assist regional implementers to scale Impact Hiring in the BPO and hospitality sectors across the globe through Global Impact Sourcing Coalition. • Continue working for disadvantaged youth in all our impact regions to ensure that youth get quality education which leads to decent work and economic growth. • Support progress on the 17 UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s) and especially in India as a founding supporter of SDG Philanthropy Network. • Fund thousands of mid-day meals for school children in India through Akshara Patra. • Continue to support education and empowerment efforts of girls in India through Girl Rising. • Further reduce in each Avasant employee’s water and electricity usage. • Increase time spent per employee on usage of collaboration and communication tools which will lead to a proportionate reduction in travel. • Provide solar powered solutions to disadvantaged communities that do not have access to electricity. • Engage employees in planting trees across the globe. Avasant remains committed to enhancing its Corporate Social Responsibility and ensuring that we conduct our business in a socially responsible way that adheres to the ten UN Global Compact principles. 27 | P a g e
