ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE REPORT 2018 INTRODUCTION R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U S TA I N A B LY B R E W I N G C O L L E C T I V E LY C R A F T E D About This Report We are excited to share with you the progress we have made against Our Beer Print 2025 – our strategy and goals, which we launched in 2017. Similar to the approach we established last year, we are releasing Molson Coors’ Our Beer Print Report 2018 to highlight our progress to date against our strategy, while this separate Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Report details the performance data for what we believe are our most material environmental, social and governance issues in 2017. It also demonstrates our continued commitment to reporting against best practice international frameworks, such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, the CEO Water Mandate, the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and our alignment to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). CONTENTS The reporting scope covers Molson Our reporting, which also includes the 3 Introduction Coors Brewing Company’s (Molson separate Our Beer Print Report 2018, 6 Responsibly Refreshing Coors) direct operations: Molson has been prepared in reference to the Coors Canada (MCC), Molson Coors GRI Standards. This report also serves 7 Sustainably Brewing Europe (MCE), Molson Coors as our Communication on Progress International (MCI) and MillerCoors. (COP) for our commitment to the 12 Collectively Crafted We also have employees in our Global UNGC and CEO Water Mandate. The Headquarters in Denver. Data and GRI Index and the UNGC COP Index metrics included in this report cover can be found at the back of this report. our global activities and performance Corporate Citizenship have assured in the fiscal year from January 1 data related to our absolute water, to December 31, 2017. We report energy & carbon, waste, health & annually on our sustainability safety, and environmental compliance progress. Unless otherwise noted, metrics in accordance with ISAE 3000. the 2025 goals covered in this report Please see the Assurance Statement have been set against a 2016 baseline for scope details. that incorporates the total performance of our business. For full details of our strategy and goals to 2025, key stories and highlights, please see Our Beer Print Report 2018. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2018 2 INTRODUCTION R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U S TA I N A B LY B R E W I N G C O L L E C T I V E LY C R A F T E D Introduction Our Beer Print 2025: Raising the Bar on Beer Our Approach to Sustainability We believe that wherever we brew and sell our beer, we leave Our Global Senior Director of Corporate Responsibility is accountable for driving and an imprint on our communities, on our environment and on tracking progress against Our Beer Print our business. We call it Our Beer Print and by working toward 2025 strategy and goals. Our sustainability our 2025 goals, we’ve been making sure our imprint is a positive performance is regularly reported to our Chief Legal and Corporate Affairs Officer, Global Chief one. For full details of Our Beer Print 2025 strategy and goals, Supply Chain Officer, Chief People and Diversity key stories and highlights, please see Our Beer Print Report 2018. Officer, Chief Growth Officer and, at least annually, to the Executive Leadership Team and directly to the Board of Directors. “ Since launching our goals a year ago, Identifying Key Issues we’ve rallied our people behind them In early 2017, we updated our materiality To enhance our sustainability governance and and embedded the goals across our assessment to assess the most significant meet external stakeholder expectations, we will business. There’s a lot to be proud of in environmental, social and economic issues facing launch a Sustainability Leadership Council (SLC) this report, and I’m pleased to share our integrated global business. The assessment to provide proper oversight of sustainability with you how we are making a positive identified these priority issues: Alcohol topics across our integrated organization. The impact in our communities and our Responsibility, Water Stewardship, Sustainable SLC will consist of executive leadership and environment in our first year of reporting Packaging and Sustainable Agriculture, which senior managers representing key corporate progress against our 2025 goals. became the basis for our 2025 goals. functions, who are responsible for leading our With this report we’re continuing our performance against Our Beer Print 2025 goals. support for the UN Global Compact and ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS The SLC will be accountable for aligning our renewing our ongoing commitment.” We engage with stakeholders throughout the business units and functional teams to meet year in roundtables, meetings and discussions, emerging environmental, social and governance Mark Hunter, CEO particularly in the countries and key markets issues facing our industry. In preparation for where we operate. This engagement keeps us the launch, the SLC is sent weekly sustainability current with the changing sustainability landscape newsletters that aim to increase their awareness and enables us to develop long-term relationships of the emerging trends and topics in the everwith our stakeholders to better understand their changing sustainability landscape. This will evolving expectations of us as a company. enable the SLC to proactively plan, address and participate in industry and regulatory We formally engaged with multiple stakeholders conversations around these key issues. in early 2017 to gather information for our most recent materiality assessment. We surveyed Find out more about our approach to stakeholder groups we believed were most governance and ethics on our corporate relevant to Molson Coors in our local markets, website and meet our Board of Directors and including regulators, government bodies, leadership team. industry groups, customers, suppliers, investors and non-governmental organizations (NGOs), TAX STRATEGY about issues that they believe are most relevant As a global brewer, Molson Coors recognizes to our business. These results inform strategy that the taxes we pay are a significant part of today, and we plan to reassess our material risks our economic contribution to the countries in and opportunities every three to five years. which we operate. Additionally, we financially support governments and communities across More details of the materiality process and the globe through employment of our people results are available on our website. and our wider value chains, investment in skills and new technologies, and the manufacture and promotion of our products. We govern the management of our tax affairs based on principles that align fully with our global commercial, sustainability and corporate Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2018 3 INTRODUCTION R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U S TA I N A B LY B R E W I N G C O L L E C T I V E LY C R A F T E D governance practices, including compliance with all local tax laws and regulations. Find out more about our Tax Principles on our corporate website. RISK MANAGEMENT At Molson Coors, the Associate General Counsel – Procurement, Supply Chain and Risk Management is responsible for the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process. In every region, there are individuals who oversee risk management and they report to the Global Director of Risk Management on ERM issues. The ERM process is executed and reported to the Board of Directors every six months. As part of this process, emerging risks are identified and reported, and mitigation plans are developed where they are considered essential. For example, geopolitical tensions and climaterelated weather volatility are two emerging risks that could have potential impacts on our business. These issues may affect our ability to operate effectively by impacting the safety of our employees, security of our facilities, availability of our raw materials and consumer demand. They can also disrupt both our own and our partners’ production and availability of supplies, as well as logistics and transportation. To address these possible risks, we monitor changes in the regulatory, legislative and political landscapes, analyze climate-related accountable to achieve key milestones against communication, training, policies, and scenarios and prepare contingency plans to their respective 2025 goals. monitoring and auditing procedures on a variety ensure business continuity. of relevant topics, including: Additionally, we launched World Class Supply • Accurate books and records Chain 2.0 (WCSC 2.0), which transforms how Find out more about our Risk Factors in • Alcohol responsibility our Form 10-K. we work to drive world class performance. • Anti-bribery and corruption WCSC 2.0 includes 12 pillars focused on key • Conflicts of interest best practices – including environmental, • Competition Remuneration Aligned with health and safety. Each brewery is responsible • Data privacy Sustainability for driving WCSC 2.0, including the following • Discrimination and harassment relevant metrics: Our CEO drives Our Brew, which is Molson • Social media Coors’ strategic and cultural roadmap, and • Fuel used per hectoliter of production (MJ/hl) • Speaking up Our Beer Print, which is at the heart of how we • Electricity consumed per hectoliter of operate our business. As such, our CEO also production (MJ/hl) All our employees, including all our leaders, drives Molson Coors’ advancement toward • Water consumption per hl of production (hl/hl) are required to uphold the Code. We provide Our Beer Print 2025 goals. corresponding mandatory Code training Ethics and Integrity globally, either online or in a live facilitated Championing Our Beer Print and its goals is session, with the document available in all of our At the heart of our ethical culture is the “Code of grounded in the Our Brew framework, and all languages.1 The Code training is also integrated Business Conduct: Living Our Brew.” We believe Molson Coors employees are encouraged to into our new-hire program, which all employees we have a duty to our employees, communities, champion Our Brew in their performance and are required to complete as part of their suppliers, customers and consumers to always development plans. onboarding, with refresher training planned for do the right thing. Under the Vice President of every two years thereafter. Functional leads who manage the achievement of Ethics and Compliance and our Executive Ethics Our Beer Print 2025 strategy and goals, including and Compliance Committee, we work with our ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION our Chief People & Diversity Officer, Chief Legal regional partners to promote a consistent global Molson Coors prohibits bribery and corruption & Corporate Affairs Officer, Chief Growth Officer approach to doing things the “right way.” by its employees or by anyone who is acting and the Global Chief Supply Chain Officer, as The Code is the cornerstone of our ethics on behalf of the company. We expect our well as their appropriate functional teams, are all and compliance program, which includes employees and business partners to “win the Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2018 4 INTRODUCTION R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U S TA I N A B LY B R E W I N G C O L L E C T I V E LY C R A F T E D right way” through ethical and transparent potential misconduct is highlighted in our made contributions to candidates totaling business practices. Our anti-bribery and Code of Conduct and in our global “Speaking $102,000 in calendar year 2017, through corruption program takes employees through Up” policy. voluntary contributions from a restricted class of our policy, and an intranet site provides them eligible employees. with tools and other resources to recognize and POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS report bribery and corruption. Due diligence Molson Coors actively engages in the political MillerCoors (US) follows rigorous internal procedures and standard contract clauses environment. We inform public policymakers protocols, legal policies and external controls support our business partners, complemented on company and industry issues and practices, to ensure that all political contributions are by internal and external audits for monitoring any and we promote sustainability, including the made and reported in strict compliance with issues. Our anti-bribery and corruption program responsible promotion and consumption of our appropriate state or federal laws and regulations. activities and updates on our broader ethics products. Only designated company employees Contributions to candidates or parties at the and compliance program are communicated to may engage in public policy work on behalf state level are largely publicly available on the our Executive Leadership Team and the Audit of the company, and these employees must individual state’s website as disclosures on Committee of our Board on a quarterly basis. adhere to registration, ethics and disclosure the campaign finance reports required by that requirements in their jurisdiction. Guidance on jurisdiction. Employee contributions to the Ethics and Compliance Helpline political contributions for employees is covered MillerCoors PAC over $200 and expenditures Our employees have access to EthicsPoint, a in our Code of Business Conduct. by the PAC are publicly available on the third-party Ethics and Compliance helpline, PAC’s reports filed with the Federal Election 24 hours a day. The helpline allows employees, In Canada, our total political donation for 2017 Commission at www.fec.gov. or any stakeholder, to ask a question or raise a was approximately CAN $29,250. Further details concern in their native language in a confidential can be found on the relevant provincial websites: We do not make political contributions at Molson and/or anonymous way. Questions and issues Alberta; British Columbia; New Brunswick; Coors Europe and Molson Coors International. raised are addressed by the Molson Coors Ethics Newfoundland and Labrador; Ontario; Prince and Compliance Office. Edward Island; and Saskatchewan. See our Political Contributions Principles for more information. In 2017, we had 161 reports through the In the US, our political contributions support helpline. Of the reports where we followed up candidates, political parties and committees with investigative action, approximately 50% at the federal and state levels. We made were substantiated and resulted in corrective or contributions totaling $530,331 to candidates Notes disciplinary action. for state office, state political entities and 1 English, French Canadian, Chinese, Japanese, Spanish, Czech, Serbian, Montenegrin, Croatian, ballot initiatives. Additionally, MillerCoors Romanian, Hungarian and Bulgarian. Human Rights (US) operates the MillerCoors Political Action Committee (PAC). The MillerCoors PAC Molson Coors is committed to fostering open and inclusive workplaces that are based on recognized workplace human rights, where all employees are valued, engaged and inspired to be the best they can be. Our current Employment Principles are guided by international human rights standards, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the UNGC. These Principles apply to all our operations and entities in which we hold a majority interest. Our Standards for Suppliers set out the human rights expectations we have of all our suppliers. See the Sustainable Procurement Strategy section on page 15 for more details. Molson Coors is committed to providing a workplace where all are treated with respect, differences are valued and employees’ actions are consistent with the company’s standards and values. We are dedicated to maintaining workplaces that are free from discrimination or physical or verbal harassment based on race, sex, color, national or social origin, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation or any other status protected by applicable law. All our employees have access to EthicsPoint, where any human rights concerns can be reported. An employee’s responsibility to report Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2018 5 INTRODUCTION R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U S TA I N A B LY B R E W I N G C O L L E C T I V E LY C R A F T E D Responsibly Refreshing: Enjoying One of Life’s Simple Pleasures We help people who enjoy beer create great occasions and get the comply with company policy, industry standards and applicable laws and regulations. most out of every moment. Our brands are about offering choices – choices that are brewed and sold responsibly; choices around We are committed to responsible advertising and marketing directed to adults who are at least alcohol levels and choices that help everyone get home safely. the legal drinking age or age 18, whichever is higher. We believe every marketing message that we put into the marketplace, regardless Raising the Bar on Beer: Our Approach of its form, must enhance our reputation as a Our 2025 Goals Throughout all our business practices, we are lawful and responsible corporate citizen. We Our committed to alcohol responsibility. We aim to self-regulate our marketing and advertising with priorities 2025 goals 2 inspire responsible drinking by providing our the goal of ensuring they primarily reach legalInspire • Prevention of underage drinking and consumers with alcohol education and safety drinking-age audiences and meet our rigorous responsible drunk driving in all our countries where programs, while exploring opportunities to internal standards. drinking we have brewing and selling operations provide beer drinkers with alternative options • Partner with other global alcohol through lowand no-alcohol products. We also producers to achieve a 10% reduction Learn more about our position on globally in harmful alcohol use work closely with partners to reduce harmful responsible communications, retailing and alcohol use, and are working toward providing business practices on our website and in our Ensure • Responsible marketing and advertising responsible of all products nutritional information, alcohol serving facts and Alcohol Responsibility Policy. marketing • Deliver nutritional information, alcohol ingredients on all our products. Our advertising and serving facts and ingredients for all aims to comply with relevant laws and consumer our products CEO ALCOHOL COMMITMENTS information regulations in the countries where we operate, We are a charter member of the International and we aim to target our advertising at people Drive • Lowor no-alcohol choices in all Alliance for Responsible Drinking (IARD), who are at least the legal drinking age or 18, innovation our countries where we have brewing which represents the 11 largest global brewers, and selling operations whichever is the higher. distillers and vintners. Together, we’re working to strengthen efforts to reduce harmful drinking Find out more about how we implement our Find out more about our strategy and goals around the world in five key areas: approach in Our Beer Print Report 2018. in Our Beer Print Report 2018. • Reducing under-age drinking • Strengthening and expanding marketing RESPONSIBLE MARKETING AND codes of practice EMPLOYEE TRAINING • Providing consumer information and We require all our employees to review responsible product innovation and comply with the Molson Coors Alcohol • Reducing drinking and driving Responsibility Policy at the start of their • Enlisting the support of retailers to reduce employment. To make sure that our people harmful drinking understand the important role they play in modeling responsible behavior within their The partners of this alliance are currently families and communities, we introduce our developing the next set of global commitments policies during new-employee onboarding and toward a 10% reduction in harmful use of alcohol training, with refresher training provided every by 2025. two years thereafter. In early 2018, we rolled out Molson Coors Alcohol Responsibility training For more details and to see the latest across our entire business. Progress Report please go to the Producers’ Commitments website. Our commercial employees must also familiarize themselves with our Commercial Responsibility Policy, which provides detailed guidance on Notes how to develop, package, market and sell 2 Set against a 2016 baseline incorporating 100% our products in a responsible manner. In early Molson Coors and MillerCoors data 2017, we provided training for our commercial employees and advertising agency partners to Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2018 6 INTRODUCTION R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U S TA I N A B LY B R E W I N G C O L L E C T I V E LY C R A F T E D Sustainably Brewing: From Grain to Glass The ingredients of great beer? Barley, yeast, hops and water. control of EHS risks, as well as the expectation that all employees will take responsibility for EHS Without these, there is no beer. So it’s essential we source the through the opportunities for involvement that resources we use responsibly, ensuring access for years to come. are provided. That’s why we work closely with our employees, growers and The Policy is available to all employees on industry partners to generate less waste, less energy and less the company intranet portal, displayed in key water, and increase our resource efficiency. In doing so, we’re communication areas across our sites and promoted to our customers and suppliers. We reducing our footprint – and to that we can all raise a beer. also maintain a global Environment, Health and Safety Management System (EHSMS) that ensures we deliver on our commitments. We are Raising the Bar on Beer: Our Approach currently in the process of integrating our EHSMS Our 2025 Goals We aim to ensure that the resources we use are to reflect our new, larger business. In addition Our sourced sustainably, managed effectively and to to the new EHS Policy, we have introduced a priorities 2025 goals 3 deliver products of exceptional quality. We also series of EHS Operating Principles and Global Make the most • Improve water-use efficiency in our aim to meet the expectations our employees, Minimum Requirements. These cover what we out of every primary breweries to achieve a 2.8 hl/hl customers, investors and regulators have of us as drop water-to-beer ratio. believe are the most significant EHS risks that are a responsible business. • Protect local water resources in applicable to our business. partnership with others. We believe our position as one of the world’s • Each facility will self-assess itself annually Reduce our • Reduced carbon emissions across our largest brewers means we have an opportunity using an internal tool to determine whether carbon operations by 50%, and throughout our to make a real impact on sustainable brewing footprint value chain by 20%. there are gaps against the standard, and will – by protecting precious water resources, then initiate its own continuous improvement Promote a • Achieve zero waste to landfill at all eliminating waste, reducing packaging and actions, which will be tracked to completion. circular our brewing and major manufacturing cutting emissions. philosophy facilities. • Each facility will be audited by internal experts Grow best • Improve water-use efficiency of our Within our operations, World Class Supply Chain at least once every three years using the same practice in agricultural supply chain and malting (WCSC) 2.0 is the strategy that we have adopted internally developed tool. agriculture operations by 10%. to accelerate our long-range plans to improve • Each business unit will be audited at least • 100% of barley and hops sourced brewery efficiency across our network. from sustainable suppliers in key every five years by experts from another growing regions. business unit or from the Global EHS team Our Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) to verify conformance to the Operating Policy, launched in 2017, aims to instill employee Principles, identify gaps and recommend Find out more about our strategy and goals ownership at all levels of our organization. We in Our Beer Print Report 2018. continuous improvement actions for the have sharpened our focus on Molson Coors’ business unit. proactive approach to the identification and Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2018 7 INTRODUCTION R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U S TA I N A B LY B R E W I N G C O L L E C T I V E LY C R A F T E D Water Stewardship Breakdown by Region in 2017 (khl) We’re working to reduce water use and improve Total MCE MCC MCI MillerCoors (US) water efficiencies at our breweries. We take Municipal 128,336 15,760 36,620 – 75,956 a comprehensive approach for each of our watersheds to ensure we mitigate the highest Ground 188,472 65,967 139 2,211 120,153 priority risk areas in each community. This Brackish – – – – – approach helps us invest resources in the most Surface 60,347 9,024 – – 51,323 material elements of water management in each site. Total water usage 377,155 90,751 36,759 2,211 247,432 Rain water harvested – – – – – Managing water availability also means partnering with local stakeholders to protect Water restored to source – 366 – – – valuable water resources in our high-risk brewery watersheds and improve water efficiency in our Primary Brewery 5 Water Intensity (hl/hl) as ways the groups can take local action to agricultural supply chain. By collaborating with hl of water used per hl of beer produced collaborate in addressing priority areas. This others and engaging in public policy we take bottom-up process helps ensure sites have a risk collective action to protect this precious resource. 2016 4, 6 3.55 mitigation action plan that takes into account 2017 3.57 our stakeholders’ feedback and provides a OUR PERFORMANCE IN comprehensive approach to address the unique OUR DIRECT OPERATIONS WATERSHED MANAGEMENT challenges of our local watersheds. We measure our water performance by the IN OUR BREWERIES intensity of water used per unit of beer produced. Following detailed watershed risk assessments Find out more about collaborative Our 2025 target is to improve water-use and completion of our Water Risk Index at our watershed stewardship work in Our Beer Print Report 2018. efficiency at our primary breweries to reach breweries, we set action plans to drive the a 2.8 hl/hl water-to-beer ratio. In 2017, we right behaviors, and we track and manage our achieved a water-use ratio of 3.57 hl/hl against progress to reduce risk at each of our high-risk PUBLIC POLICY an internal annual target of 3.48 hl/hl. Due to the brewery watersheds. Each brewery is in a unique water situation based closing of the Eden brewery in the US and the on location, local government and national We have identified the following breweries as reduction in overall production volume, we saw a government structure. Some of the breweries being at water risk: Fort Worth, Texas; Irwindale, slight increase in our 2017 water-to-beer ratio in are served from municipal sources, while others California; Golden, Colorado; Burton-on-Trent, comparison to 2016. are on well or direct-flow sources. Regulatory UK; Ploiesti, Romania; Apatin, Serbia; Bőcs, Hungary; Ostrava and Smichov, Czech Republic; and pricing changes that affect our sites are We aim to continue to reduce water usage and Bhankarpur and Saha, India. As part of monitored by our global and regional EHS teams through strategic investments in more efficient our 2025 goals, we set out management and and our Government Affairs department. systems in our breweries. Investments such as tertiary water reuse systems have been installed mitigation plans. Our heritage and position on water sustainability in many of our US breweries. has enabled us to have a voice at the table as Our strategy is governed by the global water management team responsible for the it relates to policy and regulatory guidance. To optimize and improve operational efficiency, company’s water supply, management and We are actively engaged in conversations on a Clean in Place (CIP) optimization team has been sustainability. In addition, each brewery has how to manage water risk at global, regional formed in the US to aim to continue to optimize dedicated employees responsible for water and and local levels and we also participate in all existing CIP circuits. environmental sustainability. collaborative efforts, such as the CEO Water We also continue to increase efficiency across Mandate, the Beverage Industry Environmental our breweries through utilization of our WATERSHED PARTNERSHIPS Roundtable (BIER) and with national regulatory Dollar$ense utility management system to drive We recognize that achieving sustainable departments. Engagement with the industry process improvements. water resources is a task that we cannot do on and with government entities at all levels our own. It requires concerted effort and the enables us to identify risk and trends ahead of Water Supply by Source (khl) regulation and compliance. We believe that we adoption of best practice across industries. 2016 4 2017 That’s why we partner with local, national and have the responsibility as a water user to take a international organizations to work collectively leadership position in our communities to reduce Municipal 145,822 128,336 on watershed issues. our operating risks and ensure the security Ground 178,438 188,472 and sustainability of the water source where In addition to regular Water Risk Index we operate. Brackish – – assessments to identify and understand the Surface 60,994 60,347 most significant water challenges, particularly Total water usage 385,254 377,155 at our at-risk breweries, we engage with local stakeholders, including other major water Rain water harvested – – users, non-profits and representatives from Water restored to source 359 366 municipalities and local government. We discuss the latest water risk findings, as well Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2018 8 INTRODUCTION R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U S TA I N A B LY B R E W I N G C O L L E C T I V E LY C R A F T E D Energy and Carbon Energy Use (MJ) 2017 GHG Emissions – Breakdown by Segment Our strategy includes a continued focus to 2016 14,673,505,064 reduce our overall energy consumption within 2017 Total 13,727,705,597 our operations, with strong execution of our sustainability strategy within our breweries ■ MCE 2,164,285,105 and improved process control that delivers ■ MCC 1,249,279,734 ■ MCI 53,701,696 energy savings. In 2017, we executed numerous ■ MillerCoors (US) 10,260,439,062 process improvement projects to optimize our supply network and completed investments Total Electricity Purchased (MJ) in several low-carbon technologies, such as a more efficient pasteurizer at our St. John’s and 2016 4,221,611,490 Tadcaster breweries and a heat recovery unit in 7% Agriculture 2017 Total 3,982,465,312 our Ploiesti brewery. 8% Processing brewing ingredients ■ MCE 628,694,272 14% Manufacturing As we continue toward our 2025 goal of ■ MCC 374,790,695 38% Packaging materials reducing our emissions in our direct operations ■ MCI 20,000,376 13% Logistics ■ MillerCoors (US) 2,958,979,969 and value chain, we aim to expand the use of 18% Product cooling onsite renewable energy, where possible, and 1% End of life Renewable Energy Generated (MJ) 1% Other develop a robust portfolio for offsite purchased renewable electricity. 2016 545,359,693 2017 GHG Emissions – Breakdown by Scope OUR PERFORMANCE 2017 Total 313,894,745 We measure our performance in energy and ■ MCE 40,233,903 carbon based on the intensity of energy ■ MCI 33,350,885 used and carbon emissions per unit of beer ■ MillerCoors (US) 240,309,957 produced. To accurately show our performance, we rebaselined the 2016 data presented in Scope 1 Emissions (tonnes CO2e) this Energy and Carbon section to account 2016 472,295 for our acquisition of 100% of MillerCoors. To see prebaselined data, please see our ESG 2017 Total 448,040 Report 2017. ■ MCE 80,168 ■ MCC 63,107 ENERGY ■ MCI 657 7.0% Scope 1 • We set an annual target of 108.5 (MJ/hl) for ■ MillerCoors (US) 304,108 10.8% Scope 2 82.3% Scope 3 our primary breweries5 and achieved that goal coming in at 105.69 MJ/hl which is a decrease Scope 2 Emissions (tonnes CO2e): of 6.8% from 2016. Location-based The risks related to emissions and energy use have been disclosed to investors in our 2017 • In 2017, we used 13.73 billion MJ total energy 2016 832,949 Annual Report on Form 10-K as part of the across all our operational sites versus a target 2017 Total 679,251 evaluation of climate change risk. Detailed of 13.52 billion MJ. This is a decrease in total ■ MCE 80,418 reporting of our carbon footprint across the energy of 6.45% from 2016. ■ MCC 3,693 value chain (including operations, packaging, • The decrease in the amount of renewable ■ MCI 4,310 transportation, agriculture and refrigeration), our energy generated was a result of the Eden ■ MillerCoors (US) 590,831 scope 1 and 2 emissions and our carbon intensity Brewery closure in the US. is available in our Climate submission on the Scope 2 Emissions (tonnes CO2e): Carbon Disclosure Project website. CARBON Market-based • In 2017, we committed to a 1.8% reduction Packaging Emissions 2016 866,202 of Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions and Packaging materials are the largest source of achieved a 6.97% reduction in Scope 1 and 2017 Total 692,047 emissions in our value chain footprint, accounting Scope 2 emissions. for 38% of the total. That’s why, as part of our ■ MCE 90,408 ■ MCC 3,693 2025 target to cut absolute carbon emissions ■ MCI 4,310 across our supply chain by 20%, we aim to reduce ■ MillerCoors (US) 593,636 emissions from packaging materials by 26% (or -6.88 kgCO2e/hl), based on a 2017 baseline. Scope 3 Emissions 7 (tonnes CO2e) A centralized Global Packaging Council 2016 5,505,217 oversees and shares best practice in packaging, 2017 Total 5,289,180 packaging technology, innovation and sustainability. Increased focus on our customer ■ MCE 876,483 and consumer needs means we deliver solutions ■ MCC 288,495 ■ MCI 24,122 fit for purpose. The Council’s strategic approach ■ MillerCoors (US) 4,100,080 includes collaborating with global and regional Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2018 9 INTRODUCTION R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U S TA I N A B LY B R E W I N G C O L L E C T I V E LY C R A F T E D organizations, such as the Sustainable Packaging at our facilities, enabling us to understand how • We disposed of only 2,252 tonnes (0.2%) of Coalition, the Beverage Industry Environmental each waste stream is generated. Armed with this the solid waste we generated in our major Roundtable (BIER), the Packaging Association data and working in tandem with our suppliers brewing and manufacturing facilities in landfill. of Canada (PAC) and the Brewers Association of and customers, we are now seeking solutions • We reduced the amount of waste disposed Canada (BAC), to ensure we continue to adopt to reduce, reuse or recycle each waste stream, in landfill by 29% compared with 2016 when best practice and leading technologies. or – even better – eliminate them. Our Global 3,164 tonnes were disposed of in this way. EHS teams have developed localized glidepaths The Council is committed to evaluating • 14 major brewing and manufacturing facilities for each facility and oversee each site’s progress alternative materials and design modifications to have achieved or are sustaining zero waste to toward reaching our zero waste to landfill goal. optimize the weight of our packaging, without landfill – nine in the US, three in Europe and negatively impacting its performance. two in Canada. Find out more about circular philosophy in Our Molson Coors Standards for Suppliers Our Beer Print Report 2018. Our waste data comprises solid waste disposed outline our commitment to source from suppliers of as follows: landfill, incineration (without who produce and deliver packaging materials in energy recovery), waste to energy, compost OUR PERFORMANCE line with our sustainability standards. and soil amendment, recycled, reused (which Increasing recycling rates and reducing the total includes co-products like animal feed) for our waste we generate is a key focus. By the end Waste Reduction of 2017: major brewing and manufacturing sites. We recognize that the creation and disposal of waste through our products’ lifecycle is a major factor in our overall environmental footprint. Resource Efficiency (tonnes) by Region 2017 Our 2025 goal is for all of our major8 brewing Total MCE MCC MCI MillerCoors (US) and manufacturing facilities to be zero waste to Landfill 2,252 1,439 756 0 56 landfill. At the end of 2017, 14 major brewing and manufacturing facilities, including every Solid waste to incineration 7 7 0 0 0 MillerCoors brewery, have already achieved Solid waste to energy 5,673 2,474 1,683 0 1,515 or sustained this goal, and others are making progress toward it. Compost and soil 62,269 2,368 83 532 59,285 amendment Our resource efficiency agenda is also important Waste recycled 79,391 19,696 17,651 1,489 40,555 beyond our zero waste to landfill target. Our Reused total 967,350 313,903 66,670 4,579 582,198 Environment, Health and Safety Management System (EHSMS), part of our World Class Supply Total solid waste 1,116,942 339,887 86,843 6,600 683,609 Chain 2.0 program, helps oversee our progress Percentage 0.20% 0.42% 0.87% 0.00% 0.01% and eliminate waste across our operations. Waste (landfill/total solid waste) streams have been characterized and quantified Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2018 10 INTRODUCTION R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U S TA I N A B LY B R E W I N G C O L L E C T I V E LY C R A F T E D Environmental Compliance Agricultural Supply Chain metrics that we track, including yield, land use, water, nitrogen, pesticides and GHG emissions, As part of our EHSMS, we track the number of AGRICULTURAL WATERSHEDS as well as programs such as farm worker environmental releases as a Key Performance Agricultural inputs make up a significant part management and traceability. Indicator (KPI). We set annual targets that strive of our product ingredients. That’s why we are for continuous reduction and performance is committed to protecting and preserving the This enables us to monitor the progress of our reviewed monthly by the Global Chief Supply watersheds located in our agricultural supply suppliers’ impact on the environment and drive Chain Officer. chain. Watershed risk assessments are carried continuous improvement. out in our agricultural supply chain to identify We have robust protocols in place to manage We consulted both internal and external and mitigate against any potential concerns. compliance. If an environmental release incident experts to refresh the policy to include updated occurs, we take immediate steps to restore In the UK, the Molson Coors Growers Group sustainability standards that all of our direct compliance and prevent future occurrences, works with UK-based agricultural charity Linking growers will track, measure and report. We are including investigations with senior leadership Environment and Farming to support the rolling out this process across our barley and and environmental experts, and all corrective development of their water-management tool for hops producers in key growing regions. actions are implemented. farmers. In the US, this is the second year of our Grower Direct Web Portal, which offers barley In 2017, there were 25 environmental releases, farmers valuable data to help them manage Notes compared with 21 in 2016. water use more efficiently. As we build out this 3 Set against a 2016 baseline incorporating 100% Molson Coors and MillerCoors data. Environmental Violations platform, we aim to provide individual growers 4 2016 data has been rebaselined to be comparable Environmental Violations of Legal Obligations/ with a scorecard to measure and benchmark to 2017 data. Regulations 9 (number) performance, and ultimately, use the information 5 Primary breweries are: Albany, Ft. Worth, Golden, 2016 10 1 to influence decisions that will maximize Irwindale, Milwaukee, Shenandoah, Trenton, resource efficiency. Moncton, St. Johns, Montreal, Toronto, Vancouver, 2017 1 Apatin, Bocs, Burton, Haskovo, Ostravar, Ploiesti, Smichov, Tadcaster, Trebjesa, Zagreb. Find out more about water stewardship work 6 The scope has been refined to include Molson Environmental Releases 11 (number) with growers in Our Beer Print Report 2018. Coors’ primary breweries. 2016 10 21 7 Scope 3 emissions include: agriculture, processing brewing ingredients, manufacturing, packaging 2017 25 STANDARDS FOR AGRICULTURAL materials, logistics, product cooling, end of life. BREWING INGREDIENTS This year, emissions from distribution of finished product including transport and warehouses have 2017 Environmental Releases Building sustainable supply chains that reduce been assured. (number) price volatility, risk and negative environmental 8 Those with 75 or more employees. Employees and social impact are critical to the long9 We use the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Total 25 term viability of both Molson Coors and our (DJSI) definition of a violation, i.e., a violation occurs when an authorized body (for example, a agricultural suppliers. Global Headquarters (Denver) 0 governmental body, independent commercial or non-commercial regulator) determines that a law, MCE 12 In 2018, we updated our Agricultural Brewing regulation, code, etc. related to environmental or Ingredients Policy to align our expectations ecological issues has been breached, and the fine MCC 1 with growers who produce and deliver our or penalty is over $10,000. MCI 1 10 2016 data does not include MillerCoors. agricultural brewing ingredients in a manner MillerCoors (US) 11 that recognizes our Molson Coors sustainability 11 We use an internal definition of Environmental Release Incidents, which matches the legal standards. We updated a list of sustainability reporting requirements in our areas of operation. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2018 11 INTRODUCTION R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U S TA I N A B LY B R E W I N G C O L L E C T I V E LY C R A F T E D Collectively Crafted: For Our People and Communities We’re a global company, with dozens of breweries and offices EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT One of the most important challenges facing around the world. However, our roots and character have us as an employer is attracting, developing and remained local. Our employees and our brands have become retaining the best talent. Employee engagement part of the fabric of their local communities, the places in which directly feeds into our business performance, as well as helping improve safety records and we work, live and connect. It’s this connection with communities absenteeism levels. all around the world that is right at the heart of our approach of Global People Survey17 working together for the benefit of all. We measure employee engagement through our Global People Survey. Conducted by Raising the Bar on Beer: Our Approach an independent third party, the survey Our 2025 Goals asks employees a number of ethical, social The core of our success is attracting and retaining and environmental questions that relate to Our the best talent. To help us achieve that, we priorities 2025 goals 12 employee engagement. prioritize the development, engagement and Be known as a • Recognition on the Great Places to well-being of our employees. After all, teams that The biennial survey helps teams focus efforts on great place Work® Index. are highly engaged deliver the best results for action planning against survey indicators. Our to work for our • Greater health and safety in the the business. We listen to our employees’ views, people most recent survey, in 2017, saw a participation workplace with a 40% reduction in using their feedback to continuously inform and Lost Time Accident (LTA) rate. rate of 80% and a global engagement score of drive improvements in our programs and ways 81%, even in the midst of great change as we Be a good • $100 million investment aiming of working. integrated the Molson Coors and MillerCoors global citizen to improve livelihoods, foster empowerment and build resilient businesses. This past year, MillerCoors Our Global Employees communities. employees were fully integrated into the Approx. % Strengthen our • Ethical and sustainable supply chain represented survey audience. supply chain practices. Approx. no. under union 2017 13 of employees agreement14 The global survey is just one part of our larger • Supplier diversity across the business. continuous listening approach that solicits realGlobal Headquarters 270 0% (Denver) time employee feedback throughout the year. Find out more about our strategy and goals We also have two pulse surveys every other year. in Our Beer Print Report 2018. MCC 2,400 55% These short, online employee surveys measure MCE 6,250 40% staff satisfaction and engagement levels. We also MCI 400 0% carry out exit surveys for voluntarily departing MillerCoors (US) 7,900 28% employees. This continuous listening approach TOTAL 17,200 – allows us to be much more agile and connected to employees in addressing opportunities in Demographic Data15 our business. 2015 2016 2017 Global People Survey results Employee turnover rate 16% 12% 10.4% Annual Survey Participation Rate (total) 2013 83% Total – male 6,622 6,408 12,522 Total – female 2,115 2,144 4,695 2015 84% Fatalities (including 0 0 0 2017 80% contractors) Percentage of all 30% 26% 32% Employee Engagement management that is female 2013 57% Percentage of top 16 28% 31% 18% 2015 65% management that is female 2017 81% Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2018 12 INTRODUCTION R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U S TA I N A B LY B R E W I N G C O L L E C T I V E LY C R A F T E D Believe company is an environmentally and socially DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION The Executive Leadership Team and the Global responsible company (champions Our Beer Print) 18 Human Resources team work to ensure there is a Key to our success is attracting, developing and 2015 72% retaining the best talent that reflects the diversity diverse pool of candidates for all executive and of our marketplace. key roles throughout the company. Presently, 2017 89% 31% of top management (including executives Molson Coors also continues to have a dedicated and senior management) is female, including DEVELOPMENT AND REWARDS Diversity and Talent Management team who two chief officers. Engaging and developing our people is a top help live out the language in “Our Brew” – our priority at Molson Coors – in fact, it is one of company’s shared value system, which states In the UK & Ireland, we have produced our first four focus areas for the company in our strategic “We are people who embrace diversity and report covering the gender pay gap. Our results plan. We see career paths and developmental inclusion” as part of “Who We Are.” show that our pure pay gap in the UK & Ireland is opportunities as cornerstones of employee less than 1%, while the proportions of male and In the last employee engagement survey, 83% of female employees receiving bonuses are exactly engagement. our employees said they believe Molson Coors the same. (This does not account for elements People Training and Performance supports diversity and inclusion. Building on such as car cash allowances and shift pay.) This Management the progress we’ve made in the US, in 2017, we reinforces that we are working to have a strong launched a new global Diversity and Inclusion reward philosophy that ensures fair, transparent 12.5 hours of training and development per fullstrategy directly linked to our strategic ambition and consistent processes. time employee (FTE) on average in 2017. and growth imperative to ensure we continue to embed this in our culture. The strategy has Female Employees (Global) 214,151 hours of training and development were four pillars: employees, consumers, customers (%) and communities. Over the next three years, we 201619 2017 logged in 2017: – 67.1% was spent on supply chain and continue to expand our activations across all four Female share of total workforce (%) 25.07 27.27 commercial topics business units in locally relevant ways. Females in management 25.08 32.13 – 16.5% was spent on on-boarding positions (% of total management Gender Breakdown workforce) – 7.8% was spent on leadership development (approximate number of total employees) programs, including Living Leadership Females in junior management 32.63 32.55 2015 positions (% of total junior management workforce) 2,685 live sessions were delivered globally, Male Female 6,600 2,100 Females in top management 22.66 17.86 an increase of more than 150% from 2016. The positions (% of total top number of attendees for these training sessions management workforce) 2016 was 74,908, which represents more than four attendances on average per FTE. Male Female Females in management positions 27.13 33.70 6,400 2,100 in revenue-generating functions (% of all such managers) 2017 We encourage our employees to continue to learn and develop their career at Molson Male Female 12,500 4,700 Coors, through our Performance Management process and our First Choice Learning Center. In-person and online training programs enable our employees to build competencies, share best practices and advance their leadership capabilities. Employee performance is assessed at year-end, with performance evaluated against goals (the “What”) and Molson Coors’ cultural values (the “How”). Employee self-evaluations are calibrated by managers across functions to give a consistent, global method for getting the right people with the right skills in the right roles, at the right time. In addition, our Talent Management Planning process reviews the current performance and future potential of all management employees. We believe we offer an outstanding total compensation package, including a competitive salary, results-based bonus program and flexible benefits, enabling our employees to choose what’s most important for them. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2018 13 INTRODUCTION R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U S TA I N A B LY B R E W I N G C O L L E C T I V E LY C R A F T E D EMPLOYEE WELLNESS Health and Safety Lost Time Accident (LTA) Rate We seek a workplace culture that embraces (lost time rate/200,000 hours worked) Health and safety at work is part of our global employee well-being. Our health and safety commitment to doing business the right way. 2017 Target 2017 Actual standards are applied across the enterprise We believe the safety and wellness of our people 0.41 0.39 and are based on all applicable regulatory is fundamental to their engagement and we requirements, as well as industry best practices. actively work to build a workplace culture that We promote healthy lifestyles across our global In addition, we are also reporting Lost-Time embraces wellness and safety. Injury Frequency Rate, which measures the enterprise by offering our employees numerous health benefits, wellness and work–life balance Our approach to managing health and safety number of lost time injuries occurring in a programs that are tailored to employees’ needs is guided by our Environment, Health and workplace per 1 million hours worked. Although and culture by business unit and work location. Safety (EHS) Policy. EHS the Molson Coors we continue to focus on safety, the LTIFR for Way formalizes our approach and provides the employees increased in 2017. In many locations, employees can select the framework of our EHS Management System. medical plans, dental coverage, vision coverage, Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)15 short-term disability insurance and long-term (number/million hours worked) OUR PERFORMANCE insurance that work for them. Some work sites Safety is a central focus of Our Beer Print 2025 2015 2016 2017 have onsite medical care available, providing strategy with an ambitious target to reduce our Overall 0.99 1.17 1.75 biometric screenings, seasonal flu shots and an internal Lost Time Accident (LTA) rate by 40% by Employees 1.18 1.08 1.71 onsite nurse. 2025. LTA measures the lost time rate per 200 thousand hours for employees and contractors’ Contractors 0.21 1.56 1.97 We stress the importance of workplace and workplace injuries as well as any employee personal safety, and raise awareness that occupational illnesses that result in lost time. the responsible consumption of alcohol is consistent with sociability and an active, healthy lifestyle. Accordingly, we ask every employee 2017 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) by Region to complete alcohol responsibility training to Global better understand the impact of alcohol on the Headquarters MillerCoors Total (Denver) MCE MCC MCI (US) human body, as well as how best to recognize and intervene, as necessary, when excessive Overall 1.75 0.00 2.19 1.35 0.63 1.72 drinking is observed. Employees not only Employees 1.71 0.00 2.32 0.96 0.00 1.73 learn about the company’s stringent Alcohol Contractors 1.97 N/A 1.72 7.07 1.13 1.68 Responsibility Policy and the consequences for non-compliance, they are also encouraged to be champions for alcohol responsibility, on the job, with their families and in their communities. Most of our facilities have quiet rooms or break areas where employees can take a short break, play a quick game of pool/billiards or foosball, or enjoy a cup of coffee or tea with a colleague. There are also defined areas where employees can have a beer after work. Many of our production and office locations have provision for cyclists, including secure storage, lockers and showers. This provides employees with the flexibility of alternative transport options and the health benefits of choosing to cycle. Our global Employee Assistance Programs (EAP) provide free and confidential assistance in areas such as family and personal relationships, personal crises, depression, anxiety, family care, financial and legal concerns, as well as health and well-being issues. All of Molson Coors’ business units comply with minimum required maternity leave laws and go further to take care of new parents. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2018 14 INTRODUCTION R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U S TA I N A B LY B R E W I N G C O L L E C T I V E LY C R A F T E D Community Engagement In 2017, our employees volunteered time suppliers, customers and consumers to always equivalent to $606,602. operate with integrity, honesty and respect. We have a long history of investing in the regions where we do business and of supporting An integral part of doing business the right way initiatives that improve the communities of Find out about our employees’ achievements globally during Our Beer Print is adopting the best-practice standards and which we are a part. We adopt standards, ethics Month in Our Beer Print Report 2018. techniques to achieve sustainable procurement. and sponsorship practices that are aligned to We aim to balance economic development, Our Beer Print, chosen at a regional level, and social development and environmental represent the company as an active and valued 2017 Community Contributions protection with our commercial needs for quality, member of our communities. (Total US$) reliability, innovation and value. Toward 2025, we aim to invest $100 million 2017 Total 10,523,760 We actively monitor regulations regarding in cash and in-kind donations to improve Genetically Modified Organism (GMO) ■ Cash 10,369,406 ■ In Kind 154,354 livelihoods, foster empowerment and build ingredients in all our markets and are committed resilient communities to make the places where to compliance with health, food, safety, we work better places to live. Procurement Practices labeling and ingredients regulations. As well as SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT STRATEGY adopting best-practice sourcing standards and Find out more about our recent work with Since the day we were formed, we’ve always techniques, we aim to work with suppliers who communities in Our Beer Print Report 2018. believed in doing business the right way. It’s have the same ambition. This allows us to jointly: part of our heritage and guides our collective • Meet and exceed our customers’ growing journey toward becoming a top-performing expectations to procure ethically and EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING global brewer. Our key areas of focus in our responsibly We encourage and enable our people to make procurement strategy are environmental a difference in their communities and to the • Implement better risk management by sustainability, social and economic sustainability environment. We support volunteering through protecting our interests throughout the (including employment standards and company-sponsored and other approved Our supply chain human rights), ethical business, community Beer Print events. Volunteering has become a • Drive efficiency and continuous innovation responsibilities, environmental impact and part of our employees’ lives around the world. through our supply chains. data security. We achieve our aspirations by While volunteering efforts are regionally specific, respecting human rights, demanding quality, and we have a Global Volunteer Policy to align our We recently updated Our Standards for embracing diversity and inclusion. We believe regional best practices. Suppliers, which set out our minimum we have a responsibility to our communities, compliance standards. We strive to consistently Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2018 15 INTRODUCTION R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U S TA I N A B LY B R E W I N G C O L L E C T I V E LY C R A F T E D improve standards, together with our suppliers, practices and regulatory compliance, and SUPPLIER DIVERSITY to achieve excellence. Where the use of business continuity preparedness and key At Molson Coors, we are committed to subcontractors or other third-party organizations environmental indicators. promoting diversity and inclusion in our is permitted, we also expect our suppliers to procurement strategy, which foster mutual implement the Molson Coors Standards for Stage 2 – Identification benefits for us and for our suppliers, as well as Suppliers throughout their supply chains. Our • During the tendering process, suppliers will supporting economic growth in our hometown standards are communicated as an ongoing be requested to provide data and comments communities. Diversity and inclusion are formally requirement to 100% of our global supply base to questionnaires on areas of concern within incorporated into our quarterly procurement through our standard terms and conditions. each category. High-risk suppliers, identified scorecards, with oversight from leadership to during the screening process, will be asked ensure our goals are met. We’re excited about SUPPLIER MONITORING to complete a Sedex Self-Assessment working with our suppliers to drive progress As a global company with a wide and diverse Questionnaire (SAQ) to gather further toward our 2025 goals of promoting a diverse range of suppliers, we recognize that achieving information on any potential risks. and ethical supply chain. these standards presents unique challenges. That’s why we have developed a four-stage Stage 3 – Supplier development process to screen, identify and monitor potential • We are working with our suppliers to address Notes issues, such as workers’ rights (including modern any concerns and provide guidance to 12 Set against a 2016 baseline incorporating 100% slavery), the environment, health and safety enable continuous improvement against Molson Coors and MillerCoors data. and business ethics. We use a variety of tools our standards. 13 As of December 2017. and services to perform initial screenings of 14 While we still have unionized employees within Stage 4 – Audit our Central Europe business, our new employee potential suppliers and may perform additional data system does not allow us to identify union due diligence screenings for various purposes. • Suppliers identified as representing the employees within this region. We utilize the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange highest potential risk during the SAQ process 15 2015 and 2016 data does not include MillerCoors. (Sedex) risk assessment tool, an online database are required to undergo an audit. After an 16 Includes Executives and senior management. for managing ethical supply chain data. audit is conducted, and all findings recorded, 17 Not a direct comparison, as 2017 was the first a corrective action plan is established. This year in which both Molson Coors and MillerCoors Stage 1 – Screening helps to ensure that minimum expectations organizations participated in the survey. • This year, we conducted an initial screening, are being applied to their business operations 18 This question changed in 2015 so there is no applicable data for 2013. using the Verisk Maplecroft methodology, of and supply chains, and that risks are being 19 2016 data does not include MillerCoors. our current supplier base. 11,000 suppliers (of addressed. If an agreement cannot be reached, our 25,000+ supplier base) were screened we will consider terminating the contract. initially to identify potential supply chain risks based on category, spend and geographic Find out more about how we’re partnering location. Screening focuses on: employment with suppliers to enhance sustainability standards and human rights, ethical business performance in Our Beer Print Report 2018. Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2018 16 INTRODUCTION R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U S TA I N A B LY B R E W I N G C O L L E C T I V E LY C R A F T E D GRI Content Index This report has been prepared in reference to the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards. For a detailed explanation of the indicators, visit the GRI website https://www.globalreporting.org/standards/. GENERAL DISCLOSURES INDICATOR DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND NOTES ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization. OBP Report (pg. 2, 4); ESG Report (pg. 1) 102-2 Primary brands, products, and/or services OBP Report (pg. 4); 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 102-3 Location of organization's headquarters OBP Report (pg. 2); 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 102-4 Number of countries where the organization operates, and countries with OBP Report (pg. 2); 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K major operations or relevant to sustainability issues 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 102-6 Markets served 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 102-7 Scale of the reporting organization OBP Report (pg. 2); 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 102-8 Employees by employment contract and gender Breakdown by gender in ESG Report (pg. 12) 102-9 Description of supply chain Our supply chain starts from the barley and hops field where our farmers supply our agricultural brewing ingredients. Our packaging, such as bottles and cans, also make up a large portion of our carbon footprint, which is why we work closely with our packaging suppliers to reduce their carbon emissions. We also work with transportation suppliers to drive efficiencies in our transportation and logistics network. 102-10 Significant changes to size, structure, or ownership 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 102-11 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed ESG Report (pg. 7–11) 102-12 External initiatives OBP Report (pg. 2, 9, 18); ESG Report (pg. 2, 6, 8) 102-13 Membership of associations OBP Report (pg. 2, 9, 18); ESG Report (pg. 2, 6, 8) STRATEGY 102-14 CEO statement OBP Report (pg. 3) ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as ESG Report (pg. 4); Molson Coors corporate website codes of conduct and codes of ethics GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure. ESG Report (pg. 4); Molson Coors corporate website 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics ESG Report (pg. 3); Molson Coors corporate website 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics ESG Report (pg. 3); Molson Coors corporate website G4 – 37 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical ESG Report (pg. 4) and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ESG Report (pg. 3); Molson Coors corporate website 102-41 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ESG Report (pg. 12) 102-42 How stakeholders are identified and selected ESG Report (pg. 3); Molson Coors corporate website 102-43 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement ESG Report (pg. 3); Molson Coors corporate website by type and by stakeholder group 102-44 Key concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the ESG Report (pg. 3); Molson Coors corporate website organization responded REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in consolidated financial statements and if any are not OBP Report (pg. 2); ESG Report (pg. 2); 2017 Annual Report in report on Form 10-K 102-47 Material aspects identified Molson Coors corporate website 102-48 Effect of restatements N/A 102-49 Significant changes from previous reporting period OBP Report (pg. 2); ESG Report (pg. 2); REPORT PROFILE 102-50 Reporting period OBP Report (pg. 2); ESG Report (pg. 2) 102-51 Most recent report OBP Report (pg. 2); ESG Report (pg. 2) 102-52 Reporting cycle OBP Report (pg. 2); ESG Report (pg. 2) Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2018 17 INTRODUCTION R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U S TA I N A B LY B R E W I N G C O L L E C T I V E LY C R A F T E D GENERAL DISCLOSURES INDICATOR DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND NOTES 102-53 Contact for sustainability report For questions and comments, please email corporate.responsibility@molsoncoors.com 102-54 Claims for reporting in accordance with the GRI standards OBP Report (pg. 2); ESG Report (pg. 2) 102-55 GRI Content Index ESG Report (pg. 17); Molson Coors corporate website 102-56 External assurance Molson Coors corporate website MATERIAL TOPICS INDICATOR DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND NOTES ECONOMIC ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed OBP Report (pg. 4); 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s 2017 CDP submission activities due to climate change ANTI-CORRUPTION 205-2 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures ESG Report (pg. 4) ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY 302-1 Energy consumption within the organizations ESG Report (pg. 9) 302-3 Energy intensity ESG Report (pg. 9) 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption ESG Report (pg. 9) WATER 303-1 Total water withdrawal by source ESG Report (pg. 8) EMISSIONS 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) ESG Report (pg. 9) 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) ESG Report (pg. 9) 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) ESG Report (pg. 9) 305-4 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity ESG Report (pg. 9) 305-5 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions ESG Report (pg. 10) EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ESG Report (pg. 10–11) ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE 307-1 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary ESG Report (pg. 11) sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria ESG Report (pg. 15, 16) SOCIAL EMPLOYMENT 401-1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age Total turnover in ESG Report (pg. 12) group, gender and region OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 403-2 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and LTA and LTIFR reported in ESG Report (pg. 14) absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender TRAINING AND EDUCATION 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by Average training hours in ESG Report (pg. 13) employee category 404-2 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the ESG Report (pg. 13); OBP Report (pg. 30) continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 405-1 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Breakdown of employees by gender can be found in employee category according to gender, age group, minority group ESG Report (pg. 13) membership, and other indicators of diversity Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2018 18 INTRODUCTION R E S P O N S I B LY R E F R E S H I N G S U S TA I N A B LY B R E W I N G C O L L E C T I V E LY C R A F T E D MATERIAL TOPICS INDICATOR DESCRIPTION LOCATION AND NOTES LOCAL COMMUNITIES 413-1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, 100 percent of our direct operations implement local impact assessments, and development programs community engagement. More information can be found in OBP Report (pg. 31–33) and ESG Report (pg. 15). PUBLIC POLICY 415-1 Total value of political contributions by country ESG Report (pg. 5) CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 416-1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and All of our products address alcohol responsibility and drink safety impacts are assessed for improvement driving issues with audiences above the legal drinking age. More information can be found in OBP Report (pg. 8–16) and ESG Report (pg. 5–6). PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING 417-1 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s OBP Report (pg. 8–9) procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant products and service categories subject to such information requirements Communication on Progress UN GLOBAL COMPACT The UN Global Compact and CEO Water Mandate are consistent with our global commitment to sustainability. We continue to support the ten principles of The Global Compact and six elements of the CEO Water Mandate and are committed to making them part of our corporate strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. The table below indicates where descriptions of the practical actions we have taken to implement the UNGC and CEO Water Mandate can be found in our public reporting. ISSUE AREA UN GLOBAL COMPACT ISSUE AREA PRINCIPLE FURTHER INFORMATION Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights ESG Report (pg. 5); Employment Human rights Principles Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor ESG Report (pg. 5); Employment Labor Principles Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges ESG Report (pg. 5, 7–11); OBP Report (pg. 14–25); Environmental, Health Environment Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and Safety Policy; Agricultural Brewing Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Ingredients Policy; Packaging Policy Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Anti-Corruption ESG Report (pg. 4); Code of Conduct and bribery CEO WATER MANDATE COMMITMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION Direct Operations ESG Report (pg. 8); OBP Report (pg. 16) Supply Chain and Watershed Management ESG Report (pg.11); OBP Report (pg. 18) Collective Action ESG Report (pg.8); OBP Report (pg. 18) Community Engagement OBP Report (pg. 18) Public Policy ESG Report (pg. 8) Transparency Our Beer Print Report discusses our water stewardship targets, practices and current performance. Our water data is verified according to ISAE 3000 by a third party, Data Assurance. We report on water and climate risk in our 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K Environmental, Social and Governance Report 2018 19 This report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the US federal securities laws. Generally, the words “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “project,” “will” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, which generally are not historic in nature. Forward-looking statements include those relating to the company’s investments in socioeconomic programs; water management and other environmental efforts; reuse and recycling measures; and sourcing of raw materials. Although the company believes that the assumptions upon which its forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, it can give no assurance that these assumptions will prove to be correct. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the company’s present projections and expectations are disclosed in the company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). These factors include, among others, health of the beer industry and our brands in our markets; economic conditions in our markets; stock market and commodities performance; crop yields; consumer demand; global economic conditions; changes in laws and regulations; development of new technology; costs of resources and raw materials; force majeure events; changes in our supply chain system; availability or increase in the cost of packaging materials; success of our joint ventures; risks relating to operations in developing and emerging markets; the impact of climate change and the availability and quality of water; the ability to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel; future financial and operating performance within and related to the industry; and other risks discussed in our filings with the SEC. All forward-looking statements in this report are expressly qualified by such cautionary statements and by reference to the underlying assumptions. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
