Korea Development Bank UN Global Compact Communication on Progress For 2016 and 2017 KDB forms an ecosystem for innovative industries as a financial control tower for the 4th Industrial Revolution, and spearheads future growth of the national economy as part of a shift in the economic paradigm. We fulfill our role as Korea’s representative financial institution for the development of the national economy and the financial industry by concentrating our competencies on innovative growth drivers and enhancing stability in policy financing. Communication On Progress 01 SUPPORT FOR THE UNGC 02 HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 04 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE FINANCING 07 ETHICAL MANAGEMENT Support for the UNGC 01 SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Since established in 1954, KDB has financed the development of Korea's pillar industries and served as a market safety net, fulfilling its policy roles and contributing to the growth of the Korean economy and the financial sector. With one of the core missions being supporting development, KDB recognizes the importance of the efforts to carry out its business to enhance the sustainability of the public and the private sectors as well as the markets they work in, and to achieve positive development outcomes. KDB joined the UN Global Compact in 2007 and has supported the Compact’s ten principles in respect to human rights, labor rights, the protection of the environment and anti-corruption. In supporting the principles, KDB is committed to making the UN Global Compact and the principles a part of its strategy, culture and business operations, and to engaging in collaborative projects that advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. KDB has been promoting and disseminating the concept of sustainable development in local and overseas markets to help its partners and borrowers achieve their development goals such as reducing poverty, and engaging in environmental and climate protection. KDB will continue its commitment and make best efforts to implement the principles. Lee, Dong Gull Chairman & CEO Korea Development Bank Human Resource Management 02 SUPPORT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOR KDB supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights as well as Article 10 of the Constitution of the Republic of Korea which states and upholds human dignity and values. KDB has internal regulations to support the principles on protecting human rights and labor, and is actively pursuing them through day-to-day operations and periodic education. Support for Freedom of Association and Guarantee of Collective Bargaining Initiatives Details Labor Union KDB’s Labor Union is affiliated to the Korean Financial Industry Union and operates independently from KDB’s management. Collective bargaining Collective bargaining is held every year to improve the working conditions of the union members according to the Korean Constitution and the Labor Union and Labor Relations Adjustment Act. Labor-Management Council In accordance with the Act on the Promotion of Worker Participation and Cooperation, a labor-management council composed of representatives of the labor and the management is organized and meets on a quarterly basis to support cooperative labormanagement relation. Vacation/Leave Policy for Maternity Protection Leaves Eligibility Condition Period Maternity Leave Expectant or new mothers 90 days (including those who had abortion or (of the 90 days, at least 45 days must stillbirth within 27 weeks of pregnancy) be reserved for after childbirth) Abortion within 11 weeks of pregnancy 5 days Abortion within 15 weeks of pregnancy 10 days Abortion within 21 weeks of pregnancy 30 days Abortion within 27 weeks of pregnancy 60 days Abortion after 27 weeks of pregnancy 90 days Parental Leave Mothers with infants and toddlers who are Less than 2 years younger than the age of 8, including those (the 2 years include special leave periods with adopted children for maternity and infertility treatment) Prohibition of Forced Labor Initiatives Details Overtime All employees are given overtime payment compensation/leave (employees can opt for overtime leaves at their own discretion) policy after 18:00 Human Resource Management 03 Fair and Competency-driven Recruitment Talent KDB recruits new employees each year so that it can undertake effective responses to the changing external economic situation and business environment influenced by the 4th Industrial Revolution, among others, and intensify organizational competencies. By adopting the blind recruitment practice to ensure equal opportunity and fair selection, KDB has substantially enhanced the fairness of its recruitment procedures. KDB’s competencydriven recruitment procedure is reinforced with an emphasis on recruits’ basic capabilities and financial sector specialty combined with an assessment of their organizational fit. In 2017, KDB recruited 64 new employees through a multi-dimensional evaluation procedure incorporated in each recruitment stage reflecting the National Competency Standards. Training Programs for Development of Global Talent KDB offers employees a wide variety of opportunities to further cultivate their expertise or expand their pursuit to areas other than their current fields of work. For this, KDB established a career training roadmap based on job function and by career phase, in addition to a variety of in-house training courses covering key areas including loans, deposits, and F/X transactions. To help ease employee inconvenience from time and location constraints, KDB also offers virtual training programs through KDB e-campus in partnership with professional training institutions. Apart from the regular training, KDB offers postgraduate opportunities at home and abroad to those who wish to advance their academic aptitude. For employees who joined KDB immediately after high school, KDB runs the KDB Financial University, Korea’s first accredited in-company college, also renowned for its outstanding faculty that includes seasoned KDB employees. KDB also provides leadership courses open to all levels of employees. Operating Childcare Facilities for Employees/Providing Financial Aid Initiatives Details Daycare facilities KDB Dream Tree Day Care Center (9 Daycare Teachers/2 Cooks/305 ㎡/located at the annex building) KDB Day Care Center (17 Daycare Teachers/2 Cooks/1 Nutritionist/692 ㎡/located at the headquarters building) Support for tuition fees Tuition aid for employees’ children attending middle and high schools Socially Responsible Financing 04 SUPPORT FOR ENVIRONMENT KDB makes efforts to nurture environment-friendly industries and pursues sustainable growth by supplying special funding to businesses in industries associated with renewable and environment-friendly energy. KDB understands that climate change is a serious global challenge and that climate related impacts may impede economic and social well-beings and development efforts. Given the importance of the private sector ’s role in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, KDB will engage in innovative investment and support adaptation measures that promote sustainable investments through the use and development of relevant products, instruments, markets, and advisory services as well as through the adoption of appropriate technologies, processes, and practices in the activities it supports. KDB also recognizes the importance of ecosystem services and their role in climate change mitigation and adaptation. KDB will build on its experience in energy efficiency, cleaner production, renewable energy, and carbon markets as well as in the development of GHG accounting and approaches to climate change risk assessment, to produce instruments and develop practices that allow its borrowers to consider climate-related risks and opportunities in their investment decisions. Fully-accredited GCF Implementing Entity KDB was accredited as an implementing entity of the Green Climate Fund (GCF) for the first time among Korean institutions in December 2016, followed by the signing of the Accreditation Master Agreement in April 2017, the final confirmation step in the GCF Implementing Entity protocol. The accreditation was evidence that KDB has made strides as a world-class financial institution equipped with management systems, and environmental and social standards complying with global guidelines equivalent to those of other international organizations and advanced financial institutions. In addition, KDB organized the Climate Financing Forum in July 2017 under the theme of Business Development of Korean Companies and the Role of Finance in Response to Climate Change, inviting Korean companies looking to work with the GCF in the area of renewable energy. KDB shared its insights on the roles of climate financing and case studies of new and renewable energy projects in developing countries as a GCF implementing Entity. Adoption of the Equator Principles As the only Korean institution to have adopted the Equator Principles the international norms in the financial industry on environmental and social risk management in project finance KDB has established internal regulations for environmental and social risk reviews for the projects it finances. As part of this review process, when KDB finances projects that are subject to the scope of the Equator Principles (that is, corporate loans over Socially Responsible Financing 05 USD 50 million and PFs exceeding USD 10 million in size), it assigns one of the three categories that are organized in the order of the greatest environmental and social risks to the least. KDB then thoroughly reviews if environmental and social management plans are appropriately established for each of the projects in line with the designated categories. Green Bond Issuer In June 2017, KDB issued a Green Bond (USD 300 million, 5-year maturity) to facilitate projects related to renewable energy, while attracting investors interested in eco-friendly and socially responsible investment. Allocation of net proceeds As of December 31, 2017, 100% of the net proceeds from the Green Bond issued in June 2017 were allocated to KDB’s selected green portfolio as shown in the table below. (Unit: USD million) Sector Regions Total Project KDB's participation in financing Size Total Loan Size Disbursed Amount by 2017 Solar power Japan, Chile, UAE 1,344 136 65 Offshore wind power UK, Germany 4,557 164 116 Onshore wind power UK, Canada, Chile 1,045 166 146 Biomass UK 1,188 54 28 Sum 8,134 520 355 Composition of KDB’s green portfolio In KDB’s green portfolio, wind power projects accounted for 64%, consisting of both offshore and onshore, and solar followed with 26%. Biomass plants for generating combined heat and power took up 10%. Geographically, KDB’s investments were relatively well diversified among the continents across Europe, America (North and South), and the Middle East. Current status of KDB’s green portfolio 34% of KDB’s selected green portfolio is currently in operation while the others are still under construction and expected to be completed between 2018 and 2020. (Unit: USD million) Current status Total Project Size KDB's participation in financing Total Loan Size Disbursed Amount by 2017 Under operations 1,493 175 175 Under construction 6,641 345 180 Sum 8,134 520 355 Socially Responsible Financing 06 Environmental impact The CO2 emission avoided (CO2e Avoided) by using renewable energy generated from KDB’s green portfolio serves as an indicator of environmental impact. If all projects under KDB’s green portfolio are completed and come into operations, the total CO2e Avoided will be 5,645,212 tons per year and the KDB Share out of the total CO2e Avoided will be 425,577 tons per year. Considering investors’ investment in KDB Green Bond, the CO2e Avoided per 1 USD invested in KDB Green Bond would be 1.42 kg/year. (Unit: tCO2/Year) Sector Regions Energy Generation Estimated CO2e Estimated CO2e Avoided Capacity (MWh) Avoided KDB share Solar Power Japan, Chile, UAE 939 1,047,562 92,496 Offshore Wind Power UK, Germany 893 2,297,240 105,206 Onshore Wind Power UK, Canada, Chile 572 1,211,251 173,417 Biomass UK 299 1,089,159 54,458 Sum 2,703 5,645,212 425,577 * Please be noted that the CO2e Avoided is calculated based upon the “Methodology for the assessment of Project GHG Emissions and Emission Variations” released in 2014 by European Investment Bank and the “Projected Costs of Generating Electricity” published in 2015 by International Energy Agency for the capacity factors of the renewable energy plants by country . Special On-Lending for Eco-friendly Companies In May 2017, KDB launched Special On-lending for Eco-friendly Companies to extend funds to SMEs involved in eco-friendly businesses. The product was extended for a total amount of KRW 100 billion through eight intermediary financial institutions which have signed on-lending loan agreements with KDB, and its recipients were SMEs involved in businesses for energy efficiency and renewable energy facilities. Through the product’s facility loans, Energy Service Companies (ESCOs) and energy users could minimize initial investment costs for projects to replace existing energy facilities with high-efficiency ones. Ethical Management 07 SUPPORT FOR ANTI-CORRUPTION Compliance KDB practices ethical management by continuously realigning its anti-corruption infrastructure and running a wide range of programs to promote its code of conduct. Employees are being regularly trained to enhance their ethical awareness, and as a result, KDB has a culture of ethical management that promotes a transparent and fair workplace. 2017 was a year that required a high level of ethical awareness as well as fair conduct of business by employees of the policy finance institutions in Korea. External financial environment underwent rapid changes with the advent of the 4th Industrial Revolution while crimes, illegal acts, and overheated speculation have sprung from extreme fluctuations in the valuation of cryptocurrencies. Aiming to proactively respond to these changes, KDB has made concerted efforts to enable the 1) establishment of an autonomous anti-corruption culture of integrity to eradicate potential inside corruption and irregularities; and 2) creation of a bank-wide compliance infrastructure based on an effective internal control system. As part of these efforts, the newly launched Working-level Council on Internal Control is in operation consisting of team heads from internal control-related departments. The council aims to enhance the management of the Internal Control Committee which was organized in 2016 and to facilitate prior consultation on the agenda of the Committee. The National Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission upgraded both KDB’s Integrity Assessment (IA) and AntiCorruption Initiatives Assessment (AIA) ratings after its evaluation in 2017. In addition, on-site compliance training took place for employees at the headquarters and branches. Under the goal of adopting strengthened standards against money laundering and financing of terrorism, KDB has implemented risk assessment, improved Suspicious Transaction Report (STR) rules, enhanced quality and promptness in reporting, and intensified internal controls related to anti-money laundering at overseas branches. In 2017, in particular, KDB conducted risk assessment for money laundering and financing of terrorism at both domestic and overseas branches, and made improvements based on the outcomes. Lastly, KDB took measures to improve the ethical management system of its financial subsidiaries by establishing the relevant internal control process. Specifically, KDB verified the implementation status of ethical management plans and conducted management evaluations on a monthly basis at each of the subsidiaries. Ethical Management 08 Major compliance management programs Programs Details Evaluation/reward Evaluates and rewards integrity-related tasks which are voluntarily taken on by each programs department Securities report Requires employees engaged in loan business to report on their securities accounts biannually system Financial investment Requires employees engaged in Capital Markets Act-defined functions to report on their buying product trade report and selling of financial investment products on a monthly or quarterly basis system Clean report center / Bans gifts and benefits exceeding specified amounts no gift campaign Solicitation report Requires executives and employees to report on unlawful solicitation from fellow employees system and people outside the Bank Compliance Checks the compliance status of all employees biannually self-check system Whistleblowing Rewards whistleblowers and ensures their anonymity system Executive pledge of Mandates registered directors to maintain integrity in job performance ethics Code of conduct Mandates new hires to abide by the pledge pledge Compliance Trains new hires and employees by job rank and job function training Compliance Monitors compliance including the results of self-inspection by branches and monthly monitoring compliance training As Korea’s representative financial institution, KDB will make concerted efforts to ensure stronger internal controls and transparency in corporate management for 2018. To this end, we plan to designate and promote key tasks in specific areas: 1) internal controls, 2) ethical management, and 3) anti-money laundering. In terms of internal controls, KDB will devise a checklist for compliance monitoring reflecting the nature of the Bank’s operations and enhance the role of internal control specialists to encourage effective compliance monitoring. In order to promote a culture of integrity and enhance ethical management, KDB will hold bank-wide contests for best practices and policies and task each department with a unique integrity mission. In addition, a pilot program called Voice of Integrity will be launched to facilitate internal whistleblowing. In the area of anti-money laundering, KDB will revamp its system dealing with cryptocurrencies and small-sum international money transfers in order to boost the ability to address risks resulting from new technologies. Furthermore, KDB will enhance internal controls related to anti-money laundering operations at its overseas branches. Ethical Management 09 Consumer Protection KDB continuously improves its systems through diverse efforts to promote mutual growth with its customers based on the core value of protecting the rights of the financial consumers. First, we review and regularly examine factors which may infringe on consumer rights throughout a business cycle by setting protection guidelines for each stage of product development, sale, and after-sale, thus preventing financial mis-selling of products. Moreover, departments in charge of product development and sale share with each other recent consumer protection issues and maintain close cooperation as part of the Financial Consumer Protection Council. Driven by such endeavors, KDB acquired ‘Excellent’ ratings in all categories of the Evaluation of Consumer Protection Status organized by the Financial Supervisory Service in 2017. 2017 Milestones and performance on consumer protection Milestones Performance ▪ Planning & Development Stage: Review of consumer rights infringement when Established system for developing and revising new products and services consumer protection in ▪ Sales Stage: Prevention of financial mis-selling by providing appropriate information on each stage of financial key product features and risks products sales ▪ After-sales Stage: Improvement in consumer protection levels through on-site reviews of consumer protection status Raised customer ▪ Collection of diverse customer opinions through the Voice of Customer system satisfaction by collecting ▪ Integration of customer service training with the results of customer service surveys customer opinions ▪ Handling of complaints and follow-up checks ▪ Proactive information disclosure ▪ Information disclosure status Disclosed information to (number of cases) expand the public’s right to 2015 76 know 2016 97 2017 66 ▪ Routine review of the browsing and provision histories of personal information to a third Performed personal party information protection ▪ Campaign to delete critical personal information files stored on PCs activities ▪ Acquisition of an ‘Excellent’ rating (94.16 points) in the Determination of Personal Information Protection Level from the Ministry of the Interior and Safety Conducted monitoring to ▪ Reestablishment of the fraud detection system prevent losses from ▪ Continued improvement of the system to prevent and monitor electronic financial fraud electronic financial fraud KDB also systematized the complaint handling system to foster a customer service mindset throughout the Bank and improve overall customer satisfaction. An SNS-based notification service was set up as part of the complaint handling procedure to promptly address customer inquiries. Training also takes place in conjunction with the analyses of frequent complaints and the distribution of checklist s for the prevention of such issues. Ethical Management 10 By doing so, KDB strives to reduce the volume of customer complaints. Furthermore, KDB seeks to upgrade service satisfaction levels by conducting in-house surveys on consumer satisfaction. Another priority area is the protection of the personal information of customers. KDB has established specific standards at each stage of personal information handling and periodically checks the status of the personal information management. As a result, KDB earned an ‘Excellent’ rating in the Determination of Personal Information Protection Level from the Ministry of the Interior and Safety in 2017. Going forward, KDB will devise stronger and more solid systems for the mutual development of the Bank and its customers based on consumer trust. To this end, KDB will strengthen its systems to protect the underprivileged at risk of being neglected in the financial market, including the elderly and the disabled. Moreover, KDB intends to establish a constant feedback system based on customer opinions in order to share complaint handling cases with employees and pay closer attention to the voices of the customers. KDB will also seek solutions to facilitate autonomous settlement of complaints and disputes for a better customer experience.
