Global Energiser Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Galp is a global player involved in the energy mix that is indispensable to life as we know it. Cities, factories, businesses and houses throughout the world are powered by Galp’s energy. And, every day, millions of people depend on it to live and create their own energy. Galp is thus a global energy company that spreads and drives the energy of all of us, in Portugal, Spain, the African and South American continents, where it generates, produces and distributes energy. Our energy presents itself in many forms. We have selected one in particular to be featured in this report: our people. Tireless, dedicated and brilliant, year after year, they allow us to make Galp a Global Energiser. They are our living energy. Index About thisreport 6 1. To ourstakeholders 9 1.1.  tatement from the Board of Directors .................................................. 10 S 1.2. Our businesses ...........................................................................................14 1.3. Highlights of 2017 ......................................................................................16 1.4. Value creation model .................................................................................18 1.5. Addressing materiality .............................................................................20 1.6. How we contribute to sustainable development .................................... 22 1.7. Galp in the capital markets ...................................................................... 24 2. Strategicframework 29 2.1.  nticipating risks and opportunities..........................................................30 A 2.2. Our strategy................................................................................................... 34 3. Strategicexecution 37 3.1. Exploration & Production............................................................................. 38 3.2.  efining & Marketing.....................................................................................48 R 3.3. Gas & Power................................................................................................... 54 4. Energy for a changingworld 59 4.1.  he transformation has already begun...................................................... 61 T 4.2. Because people are our best energy.......................................................... 64 4.3. Managing value with lower impact............................................................ 68 4.4. We use our Energy to create more energy.................................................74 5. Financial p  erformance 77 5.1.  017 highlights............................................................................................... 78 2 5.2. Operating performance................................................................................ 79 5.3. Consolidated income....................................................................................80 5.4. Capital expenditure...................................................................................... 82 5.5. Cash flow........................................................................................................ 83 5.6. Financial position..........................................................................................84 6. CorporateGovernance 87 Part I. Information on the Company’s shareholding structure, organisation and governance ................................................................... 88 A. Shareholding structure ....................................................................... 88 B. Corporate Bodies and Committees ....................................................91 C. Internal Organisation .......................................................................... 112 D. Remuneration ...................................................................................... 130 E. Transactions with related parties ..................................................... 137 Part II. Corporate Governance Assessment ....................................................138 1. Identification of the Corporate Governance Code adopted .................................................................138 2. Analysis of the Corporate Governance Code adopted .................................................................138 7. Proposal for allocation ofresults 147 8. Appendices 151 8.1.  onsolidated Accounts...............................................................................152 C 8.2. Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas (unaudited)..................... 310 8.3. Galp report payments to governments in 2017 .....................................318 8.4. Reports and opinions of the Audit Board and the Statutory Auditor......................................................................... 324 8.5. Independent Limited Assurance Report.................................................. 336 8.6. Statements of compliance by the members of the Board of Directors ........................................................................ 339 8.7. Compulsory statements........................................................................... 340 8.8. Biographies of the members of the management and supervisory bodies and the members of the Remuneration Committee..............................................................343 8.9. Positions held in other companies by the members of the management and supervisory bodies and the members of the Remuneration Committee................. 353 8.10. Glossary and abbreviations...................................................................... 360 Nuno Garrido, Sines refinery Portugal, 2018 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world About this report Galp’s integrated report aims to transparently and • the guidelines of the CVM for the report on payments accurately publish its processes for the creation of made to public administrations, and its guidelines economic, environmental and social value, as well as within the scope of Galp’s participation in the Extractive its results during the period and corporate governance Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI); practices. In order to evaluate the progress of the Company’s performance, the report includes information • the principles of inclusion, relevance and accountability regarding recent years, where relevant. of the stakeholders provided by the AccountAbility norm AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard It is therefore intended that our performance can be (AA1000APS 2008); assessed in an integrated way, whilst establishing the connections between our strategy, our business and • the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC); governance model, and our operational and financial performance, considering relevant external factors. Galp’s financial statements are prepared in accordance with IFRS, and the cost of goods sold and of raw materials Galp subscribes to the Financial Stability Board’s (FSB) consumed is valued at Weighted Average Cost (WAC). Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) When goods and commodity prices fluctuate, the use initiative, disclosing the financial risks connected to climate of this valuation method may cause volatility in results change. We believe that our report is already in line with the through gains or losses in inventories, which do not reflect TCFD’s main guidelines. the Company’s operating performance. This is called the inventory effect. This report was elaborated considering the applicable standards and internationally acknowledged guidelines, Another factor that may affect the results, without being namely: an indicator that translates the Company’s performance in the period, is the set of non-recurring items, namely • the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS); gains or losses on the disposal of assets, impairments or reinstatements of fixed assets, and environmental or • the guidelines of the Portuguese Securities Code (CVM), restructuring charges. of the Regulation of the Portuguese Securities Market Regulator (CMVM) no. 4/2013 and its recommendations In order to provide a better evaluation of the Company’s regarding the Company’s annual governance report; operating performance excluding the above mentioned effects, Galp also discloses its results on a Replacement • the guidelines of the Commercial Companies Code Cost Adjusted (RCA) basis, excluding non-recurring items (CSC) in Portugal regarding the content of the report, and the inventory effect, the latter because the cost including those relating to the reporting of non-financial of goods sold and raw materials consumed has been information introduced by Decree-Law no. 89/2017 of calculated with the Replacement Cost (RC) valuation July 28. method. RC results are subject to audit, while RCA results are not audited. • the guidelines on the integrated report of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC); In what concerns non-financial information, the data consolidation and reporting methodology comprehends all • the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) activities where Galp has a 50% stake or more and/or when standard version, in the “In accordance – Comprehensive” option, including the Oil & Gas sector supplement; 6 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results it has operational control thereof. Notwithstanding the Galp aims to build the trust required for supporting the foregoing, and where the stakeholders’ interest so justifies, stakeholders’ decision-making regarding the Company this report also includes information on non-operated and, for that, submits the contents of this report and activities where Galp has a stake in, namely within the of the Sustainability section on Galp’s website to an Exploration & Production (E&P) business. external, independent and certified assessment by PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados – Sociedade de To complement this Report, Galp publishes additional and Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. (PwC). detailed information on its corporate website. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Financial Non-financial information governance Other information statements information Verification Verification Verification of the of the inclusion of the elements Scope Limited assurance; consistency of Legal certification of non-financial of the corporate of PwC Reasonable the management of accounts information governance report Statutory assurance of Galp’s report with and audit required under referred to in Auditor carbon footprint the financial the Decree-law article 245-A statements 89/2017 of July 28 of the CVM Your opinion Galp wishes to engage in an ongoing and inclusive dialogue with its stakeholders, enhancing and seeking to respond to their expectations and needs. You can send us your opinion about this report, or ask questions about it to the Investor Relations team, using the following contacts: Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. Strategy and Investor Relations Rua Tomás da Fonseca, Torre C 1600 – 209 Lisbon Tel.: +351 217 240 866 e-mail: investor.relations@galp.com This translation of the Portuguese document was made only for the convenience of non-Portuguese speaking stakeholders. For all intents and purposes, the Portuguese version shall prevail. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 7 Photo by Enric Vives-Rubio, Galp Madrid Spain, 2018 1. To our stakeholders If Southern Europe were a person, its name would be Stylianos Athanasopoulos. In charge of planning and control of Galp Spain, this Greek vibrated with this country long before actually knowing it. Global Energiser To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for 1.1. Statement from the Board a changing world of Directors 1.1. Statement from the Board of Directors Paula Amorim Chairman of the Board of Directors Dear shareholders, The year 2017 has confirmed that by implementing Galp’s In an era of opportunities, only the most agile and prepared strategy, we are creating value and building the foundations players will be able to succeed. Galp is, and will continue to for a sustainable future. be, an integrated energy company, which distinguishes itself by the unique quality of its asset portfolio. The energy sector, which is essential to our society, is in constant transformation. We live in an uncertain world, The Board of Directors views Galp’s future prospects with increasingly technological and global, with great challenges enthusiasm and confidence, certain that the Company is but filled with opportunities. better able to meet the challenges of the energy sector, which will allow for a continued path of sustained growth. 10 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results Galp has been accelerating its process of transformation, The Board of Directors will continue to ensure adequate becoming more robust and resilient, while ensuring supervision of the strategic execution, ensuring financial consistent value generation to all stakeholders. Consistency discipline and strict compliance with environmental, safety is one of the defining characteristics of our Company – and corporate governance best practices. consistency in our strategy and execution. It is with honour, and a great sense of responsibility, that This consistency has been recognised by the stock market. I preside over this Company. Since the stock was placed in the market in October 2006, Galp generated an annualised shareholder return of 12%. I thank the shareholders for the trust bestowed upon us and This, during a period in which the world, and consequently our business partners for their cooperation. I would also like to the energy sector, was marked by numerous political and express my appreciation for the management team and all the economic crises. employees who help make Galp’s success a reality every day. Together we will ensure a balanced transition from the present We remain committed to profitability and value creation, to the future, anchored on sustainable value generation. in particular through the development of an enviable set of assets, distinguished by their competitiveness both in the upstream and downstream. Based on the cash flow generation in 2017 and considering Galp’s solid capital structure, the Board of Directors will propose to the Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting a 10% increase in the dividend payment related to the 2017 financial year, of €0.55 per share. Paula Amorim Chairman of the Board of Directors Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for 1.1. Statement from the Board a changing world of Directors Carlos Gomes da Silva CEO Dear stakeholders, The energy sector faces renewed challenges regarding the Our strategy remains anchored in the “3 E’s” – Execute, evolution of the global energy mix, in particular the balance Extract and Explore –, developing one of the most between growing long-term primary energy demand and competitive upstream portfolios globally, whilst the sustainability of the development model, including transforming, optimising and expanding our downstream climate change mitigation. In this context, Galp positions activities. The strategy will remain supported on financial and affirms itself as an integrated energy player, developing discipline and by our culture based on client-centricity businesses focused on profitability and sustainability. and on sound and lasting partnerships. We have been implementing important measures to make our organisation Aiming to test the resilience of our strategy to different more agile and flexible, and to foster an environment that is scenarios, we implemented a management and control conducive to innovation. process based on scenario planning, considering different levels of technology and regulation disruption, taking into The 2017 results demonstrate the benefits of our account consensual trends. integrated business model, associated to our capability to “make it happen”. During the year, we benefited both Our strategic path is clear: we will remain focused from the increased oil and natural gas production and on Oil & Gas, while seeking to develop lower carbon the performance of the refining and marketing business, differentiated solutions and exploring new business supported on a modern, efficient and competitive models. We intend to be an active player in changing the refining system. energy paradigm, anticipating trends and adapting our portfolio to the evolution of the energy demand mix, while In the upstream, we continued to develop our assets in maximising synergies with the current portfolio. the pre-salt Santos basin, in Brazil, with emphasis on the Lula and Iracema fields. The increased production from these fields contributed for Galp to reach the milestone of 100 thousand barrels of production per day. 12 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results Also in the Santos basin, we increased exposure to the The Company’s organic development allowed us to be free Carcará discovery, where we now plan to move ahead with cash flow positive during 2017, anticipating this moment the appraisal works in order to start production in the first against previously forecasted and already considering an half of the next decade. additional important expansion of our upstream portfolio in Brazil. And despite the new cycle in which we position It is also worth noting that Galp and its partners sanctioned ourselves today, we will continue to proceed with strict in June the project for the allocation of a floating liquefied financial discipline. natural gas unit in the Coral South area, in the Rovuma basin in Mozambique. This is the first development We have the foundations for the new cycle that now begins. commitment in this important large-scale discovery, where Our strategy is supported on a strong financial position and we are working to establish that region as one of the main the ability to generate increasing cash flow, making even and most competitive global hubs for the production more robust Galp’s value oriented growth plan. of LNG. We are now committed to move forward with the project that will serve as the anchor for the onshore I thank our shareholders for their trust, and thank Galp’s development of the Mamba area. employees for their contribution to the 2017 results and for their dedication and commitment to the success of our We believe that our current portfolio is already competitive Company. I also thank our clients, suppliers and partners, in a lower-carbon economy. Not only will we benefit from because without their contribution we would not be who we the greater relevance of natural gas in our production are today. profile, which has a lower carbon intensity than oil, as our portfolio of already sanctioned projects is profitable at an Galp will remain faithful to itself, while adapting oil price of around $25/bbl, unparalleled at a global scale. to a new normal. In the downstream, we operate in a wide range of activities, from refining to the marketing of oil products. We generate energy. We sell natural gas and electricity. We explore new business models focused on services and mobility. We aim to continuously reduce the carbon intensity of our activites, and we are working towards developing a competitive and differentiated renewable energy portfolio. During 2017, we continued to optimise operations, adapting Carlos Gomes da Silva our activity to the consumption pattern in Iberia and CEO exploring opportunities in international markets. We have developed a client-focused approach and launched a set of digital and proximity marketing initiatives, targeting a positive and convenient experience. We continue to develop the marketing of oil products activity in selected countries in Africa, taking advantage of the demand growth in such market. We are investing in logistics parks in this region, which will allow us to expand our presence in markets where we have competitive advantages. Building up on our commitment to grow and create shared value, we identify opportunities and develop our activities fostering the progress of the communities where we are present. We incorporate the principles of sustainability and good governance into our strategy, culture and values, assuming the safety and protection of our people, the environment and our assets, whilst fostering innovation and the development of outstanding human capital. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for 1.2. Our businesses a changing world 1.2. Our businesses Exploration & Production Our E&P portfolio includes over 50 projects across seven countries at various exploration, development and production stages. These projects span across three core areas: the Santos basin pre-salt, in Brazil; offshore Angola and Mozambique. In 2017, we reached the 100 thousand barrels per day production milestone. EXPLORATION APPRAISAL OIL AND NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION Refining & Marketing We are a leading player in Iberia, operating across the refining and marketing of oil products activities. We hold an integrated refining system with a total processing capacity of 330 thousand barrels of oil per day and a wide distribution network for oil products in Iberia and in selected African countries. REFINING LOGISTICS MARKETING OF OIL PRODUCTS Gas & Power We are focused on the supply of natural gas in Iberia and we have been consolidating our trading activity in the international markets. The Company holds a power generation portfolio and has been expanding its presence in the Iberian electricity market, positioning itself as an integrated energy supplier. MARTEKING NG/ LNG POWER OF NATURAL GAS TRADING GENERATION AND ELECTRICITY With operations ranging from exploration to marketing of oil products and natural gas, Galp offers efficient and environmentally sustainable energy solutions to consumers looking for the most flexible solutions for their home and mobility needs, as well as for industries looking to increase their productivity. This is the basis of the business that we have developed around the world. 14 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results PORTUGAL SPAIN EAST TIMOR CAPE VERDE GUINEA-BISSAU SAO TOME AND PRINCIPE MOZAMBIQUE SWAZILAND NAMIBIA BRAZIL ANGOLA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for 1.3. Highlights of 2017 a changing world 1.3. Highlights of 2017 100 thousand barrels of We took the final investment decision for the Coral South project daily production in Mozambique The focus on upstream development Together with our partners in the development of Area 4 has allowed Galp’s oil and gas in Mozambique, we took the final investment decision (FID) production to more than triple in the regarding the Coral South project, the first commitment last three years, with the main driver to start developing the large natural gas discoveries in the being the development of the Lula and Rovuma basin. Coral South will consist of the production of Iracema fields. In 2017, we reached liquefied natural gas (LNG) through a floating unit (FLNG) another milestone, exceeding a with c.3.4 million tonnes per annum (mtpa) capacity. production of 100 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day (kboepd). Increased Operational New G&P exposure to the efficiency technological Brazilian pre-salt in the R&M business platform Through our subsidiary Petrogal Brasil, The high availability of our refining We have launched a new we acquired a 20% stake in the Carcará system allowed us to benefit from technological platform North license in the Santos basin, under the strong refining margins in the comprehending a totally innovative the 2nd Production Sharing Bidding international market. We continued solution developed to the needs Round in Brazil. We also agreed the to optimise our activities, increase of the natural gas and electricity acquisition of an additional 3% stake in energy efficiency in the refining marketing business, block BM-S-8, increasing exposure to process and develop our client-centric which promotes agility the Carcará discovery. marketing approach. and efficiency. Acknowledgements 16 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results Issuance of Acknowledgement €500 m in the debt market of our sustainable activity Once again, we were considered one of the global leaders We issued notes maturing in February 2023 and with in corporate sustainability, with Galp being the only a yearly coupon of 1.0%. The notes were issued under the company in the sector to be included in the Climate and Euro Medium Term Note (EMTN) programme and are listed Water A List by the CDP, acknowledged in both climate on the London Stock Exchange. change and water stewardship. Market indicators Financial indicators 2015 2016 2017 €m (except otherwise noted) 2015 2016 2017 Average exchange rate Turnover RCA 15,504 13,119 15,204 (EUR:USD) 1.11 1.11 1.13 Ebitda RCA 1,538 1,411 1,869 Average exchange rate (EUR:BRL) 3.70 3.85 3.61 Ebitda IFRS 1,174 1,389 1,980 Dated Brent average price Ebit RCA 969 772 1,063 (USD/bbl) 52.4 43.7 54.2 Ebit IFRS 423 544 1,135 Heavy-light crude price spread (USD/bbl) (1.4) (2.1) (1.4) Net income RCA attributable to the shareholders of Galp 639 483 602 UK NBP natural gas price Energia SGPS, S.A. (USD/mmbtu) 6.2 4.7 5.8 Net income IFRS attributable U.S. Henry Hub natural gas to the shareholders of Galp 123 179 614 price (USD/mmbtu) 2.6 2.6 3.0 Energia SGPS, S.A. LNG Japan and Korea price 7.5 5.7 7.1 Capital expenditure 1,283 1,218 1,008 (USD/mmbtu) Cash flow from operations 1,547 1,297 1,632 Benchmark refining margin (USD/bbl) 5.2 3.1 4.2 Post-dividend free cash flow (80) (246) 149 Net debt 2,422 1,870 1,886 Iberian oil market (mton) 60.1 62.2 63.2 Net debt to Ebitda RCA 1.6x 1.3x 1.0x Iberian natural 31,497 32,338 36,048 Dividend per share gas market (mm3) (€/share) 0.4147 0.4977 0.5500 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp 1.4. Value creation model a changing world allocation of results 1.4. Valuecreation model Inputs Outputs Business Galp believes in an integrated approach to sustainable value €11,494 m Cost of goods sold RCA €1,545 m Supply and Services RCA €317 m Salaries and benefits model creation, by anticipating risk, maximizing opportunities and building strong and lasting €15,204 m Turnover RCA €1,869 m Ebitda RCA €1,632 m Cash flow from operations relationship with stakeholders. FINANCIAL Business segments CAPITAL €24 m €602 m 1.0 x €0.55 €1,008 m in the protection of people, the environment and assets 748 mmboe Net income RCA attributable to the shareholders of Net debt/ Ebitda RCA Dividend per share Capital expenditure 2P Reserves Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. 1,352 mmboe Exploration 2C contigent resources & Production 51 projects 7 countries, including three core countries: Brazil, Mozambique and Angola 5.7 103 m3 3 2,782 t 30.1 kt 10.8 103 m3 1,911 TJ €5.7 m 93 kboepd Waste water Containment losses that reached CO2 (Flaring) Waste Purchased investment in WI average production Raw water the environment electricity eco-efficiency in refining NATURAL 49,815 TJ 114 mmboe 0.23 Tier 1 5.4 m3 3.62 mton 228 kton 632 kton 29% CO₂ CO₂ CO₂ CAPITAL Primary energy Raw materials processed 330 kbpd 0.47 Tier 2 Containment (scope 1) (scope 2) (scope 3) Waste Refining capacity losses that recovered Process Safety reached emissions 1,459 Events the environment Service stations Refining 18.5 mton & Marketing Oil products sales 8.9 mton 6,389 42% €474 Sales to direct clients 0.8 LTIF 0 94% 4.7% Employees Women Training Last Time Injury Fatalities Retention of trainees 2.4% Absenteeism Frequency Turnover per employee 2016/2017 program HUMAN 560 98% €7.19 CAPITAL 49 11 thousand hours 160 0.6 million Employees Human capital ROI Hirings clients assessed (return on investment) Nationalities Countries Training in the past three years 173 MW Cogeneration capacity Gas 7.3 bcm & Power Total sales of NG/ LNG 5,172 GWh Sales of electricity €21 m 213 Galp scholarships 7 6 Investment in R&D in 11 years €2.8 m Technology programmes Projects of CO₂ INTELLECTUAL Galp 21 energy in E&P 22 capture and reuse CAPITAL Vision Galp Values savings 10% projects more than 71 Integrated energy player that develops Trust Partnership Agility €100 m Galp 21 projects R&D in E&P profitable and sustainable businesses. Innovation Sustainability energy reduction Masters in Petroleum in Brazil Investment in R&D Engineering Our culture, based on the Galp values, is between 2017-2020 a critical factor to the Organisation's Governance model success. The principles guide the Integrated governance model, based on Company in its relations with all principles of transparency, integrity, stakeholders on a daily basis. effectiveness and value creation, allowing for an effective execution of Galp's strategy. Commitment to generating sustainable value €5.4 m €3.1 m 12 59.18% 3,336 99% Commitment Considering the macro environment, the consultation of all interested parties and In community investment in relevant partnerships with Whistle-blowing reports received Free float Suppliers Local hiring €14,382 m to stakeholders the process of defining materiality, Galp sector entities and associations ensures the identification and economic value SOCIAL AND Galp considers the relationship with its prioritisation of key themes, clearing the distributed RELATIONAL relevant over €3.1 CAPITAL 52 partnerships >75% 42,500 stakeholders as a resource that promotes the creation of sustainable value, allowing path to sustainable value. 3,500 67% SROI of the with sector entities Local procurement Hours of to boost the different capitals and energy classes educational projects volunteering in the past seven years Solved an associations contributing to greater proximity and trust. To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for 1.5. Addressing materiality a changing world 1.5. Corporate governance Governance model guided by a set of principles that aim Addressing at transparency and effectiveness in the execution of the corporate strategy and in the creation of long-term value. materiality Ethics, transparency, and compliance Promoting an operation that is transparent, ethical and in compliance with the applicable laws or regulations, contributing to the adoption of these principles by its partners. Understanding the challenges of the external context and emerging issues that may influence the sustainable value Engagement with stakeholders creation of our business is a continuous exercise. It leads us to a constant review of the identification of aspects with Dialogue and stakeholder engagement potential material impact on the ability to generate value in Establishing dialogue, engagement and partnership the short, medium and long term, for our Company and for relationships with stakeholders, with a view to generating all stakeholders. value for society. Knowing and prioritising these aspects allows us to focus on Local community development what is most relevant and establish a strategy for dialogue Promotion of social, economic and environmental progress and engagement with stakeholders, that seeks to respond in the regions where Galp operates in, aligned with the effectively to interests and expectations, through the Sustainable Development Goals, and considering the nature various existing communication channels. of the Organisation’s activities and respective skills. The identification of relevant aspects is performed through Sustainable supply chain management a comprehensive materiality analysis process, which is Sustainability risk and opportunity management systematically reviewed, taking the Global Reporting throughout the value chain, through an integrated supplier Initiative guidelines as our benchmark, as well as the analysis and assessment. Five-Part Materiality Test proposed by AccountAbility, the United Nations Environment Programme and Stakeholder Valuing human capital Research Associates. The process of materiality analysis thus includes four major steps: Diversity, equal opportunities and non-discrimination Commitment to promoting equal opportunities and non1. Identification of the material issues; discrimination, and creating value through diversity. 2. Internal assessment; 3. External assessment; Talent attraction and retention 4. Materiality matrix. Attracting, monitoring and developing talent in a global context of high competitiveness and volatility. In 2017, we reviewed the materiality matrix, prioritising the most relevant aspects, throughout the entire value chain, Training and development for our business and for our stakeholders. Training and personal development programmes that contribute to the execution of Galp’s strategy. In order for the definition and scope of the 17 material matters to be correctly understood during the internal Energy and climate and external relevance assessment process, the following context information was provided: Adequate portfolio to meet energy needs Through a balanced portfolio, contributing to meeting energy needs and minimising the activity’s carbon intensity, Acting ethically and responsibly responding to energy and climate challenges. Risk management Risk and opportunity management in each geography Energy efficiency of operations, products and services and context, and at all levels of the Organisation, in an Adoption and incorporation of energy efficiency solutions integrated manner, at a strategic, financial, operational and in the design of products, operations and services, compliance level. contributing to the proper management of the carbon 20 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results footprint throughout their life cycle and throughout the Innovation, research and technology entire value chain. Technological innovation and digitalisation Disclosure of financial climate-related information Development of innovative and distinctive businesses, Related to risk, strategy, governance model, performance including low-carbon businesses, and the development and commitments, promoting responsible and informed of intelligent and connected energy solutions. investment and supporting stakeholders’ decision-making. Research and Technology Investment in Research and Technology and partnerships Protection of people, the environment and assets with the technical and scientific community and Sustainable use of resources associations. Preservation, efficient and sustainable management and use of resources at all stages of the life cycle of facilities, Materiality matrix products and services. We acknowledge that our decisions must be guided by Biodiversity and ecosystems a progressively integrated weighting of the various risks Preservation of biodiversity and ecosystems in all and opportunities, whilst considering the rights and geographies Galp operates in and throughout the projects’ expectations of those who are affected by our business. life cycle, maximising the positive impact on natural capital. This way, the aspects that are identified as the most relevant in this exercise are those highlighted in this Health, Safety and Environment report, and are the same where Galp focuses its efforts Acting in accordance with the best health and safety in, in an agile and productive manner, contributing to the practices, aiming at the protection of people, the continuous improvement of its performance, whilst building environment and assets. relationships of trust within society, and generating shared value. Energy efficiency Research of operations, products Corporate governance and Technology and services Technological innovation Ethics, transparency, Health, Safety and digitalisation and Environment and compliance Dialogue and stakeholder engagement Risk management Biodiversity Relevance for stakeholders and ecosystems Local community development Sustainable Adequate portfolio use of resources to meet energy needs Diversity, equal opportunities and non-discrimination Sustainable supply chain management Talent attraction and retention Training and development Disclosure of financial climate-related information Relevance for Galp Annual Report and Accounts 2017 21 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for 1.6. How we contribute to sustainable a changing world development 1.6. How we 17 pillars for a sustainable future contribute to Governments and citizens around the world have contributed to the creation of a global model of sustainable sustainable society that aims to ensure prosperity and general well-being, as well as the environment’s protection. development The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) were endorsed by world leaders at the General Assembly of the United Nations on 25 September 2015 and are ambitious guidelines for a sustainable development in the coming years by 2030 which can only be achieved with the Galp’s performance on key commitment and dedication of each and every one of us: ordinary citizens, civil society, companies and governments. sustainability indexes In 2017, Galp was once again acknowledged for its practices We are committed to the future leading to the generation of sustainable value, and remains present in numerous sustainability indices. We highlight our For Galp, the SDG are beyond commitments. They shape presence in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) and our business model and our actions because they are in the Climate and Water A List of CDP. objectives that we share and integrate into our activity on a daily basis: with a focus on people, respect for human Dow Jones Sustainability Index rights, security, reduction of inequalities and fight against climate change. Galp was included in the DJSI for the sixth consecutive year. At DJSI Europe, in a universe of ten Oil & Gas Upstream We share and add value in all the geographies we operate & Integrated companies, we were one of the two selected in, we work together with all our stakeholders with a clear companies. In the DJSI World index, Galp remained in the objective: ensuring an increasingly more effective respect for restricted group of nine companies, from a universe of 79, human rights, protecting the environment more efficiently, and placed in the 93rd percentile of the ranking of its sector. while always seeking innovative solutions to move towards At the environmental level, Galp leads the world ranking a low-carbon economy with a reduced ecological footprint, for the first time, a result based on its high performance in and simultaneously ensuring an increasingly broader access the «Climate Strategy» and «Eco-Operational Efficiency» to energy, as we believe that this is a critical factor for social categories. and economic development. CDP We see the 17 SDG as an integrated set of fundamentally important objectives for a sustainable future, but when Galp was considered a global leader in corporate framed in our sector of operations and in our specific sustainability, and was ranked on the Climate activity, they take on different preponderances and, and Water A List by the CDP. for that reason, we have grouped them into three major blocks. We were one of only 25 companies, and the only one in the energy sector, to be double-acknowledged for our actions in managing environmental risks, reducing carbon emissions and improving water stewardship. 22 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results Material SDG Direct SDG Indirect SDG We are committed to generating shared value by identifying 12. Responsible consumption and production opportunities and linking Galp’s success to the progress of the communities in which we operate. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. 7. Affordable and clean energy 13. Climate action Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and Take urgent action to cambate climate change and its modern energy for all. impacts. 8. Decent work and economic growth 17. Partnerships for the goals Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic Strenghten the means of implementation and revitalise the growth, full and productive employment and decent work global partnership for sustainable development. for all. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for 1.7. Galp in the capital markets a changing world 1.7. Galp in the capital markets Information to shareholders Galp’s share performance Galp’s share capital is comprised of 829,250,635 shares, At the end of 2017, Galp had a market capitalisation of 93% of which are admitted to trading on Euronext Lisbon. approximately €12.7 billion (bn), an 8% increase over 2016. The remaining shares are indirectly held by the Portuguese Total shareholder return for the year, including share price state through Parpública – Participações Públicas, SGPS, appreciation and dividends paid, was 12%. S.A. (Parpública), and relate to the privatisation process of the Company. During 2017, Galp’s stock overperformed the SXEP (the European index for the Oil & Gas sector), which ended the Shareholding structure at 31 December 2017 year with a 2% devaluation. It is important to note that the price of dated Brent increased around 21% during 2017. 7.48% 59.18% Parpública Free float Galp stock performance against SXEP in 2017 20% Free float of which: 15% BlackRock 2.45% 10% 5% Henderson 2.34% 0% 33.34% Amorim Templeton 2.03% -5% Energia B.V. -10% -15% Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. For further information about our shareholding structure, please refer to section 6. Corporate Governance, Part I, A.II, Galp SXEP or our website. Source: Bloomberg Share capital distribution In 2017, 319 million Galp shares were traded in the regulated market (Euronext Lisbon), corresponding to 38% of Galp’s At the end of 2017, about 83% of the free float, or 49% free float. Considering the operations in regulated and of the total shareholder base, was held by institutional non-regulated markets, and according to the best available investors from around 36 countries spanning five continents. information, the total recorded traded volume was c.1.1 bn Investors outside Europe accounted for 49% of the free shares, or an average of 2.3 million shares traded daily, float and are largely concentrated in North America, where corresponding to 130% of the Company’s free float. institutional investors accounted for 33% of the Company’s free float. Individual investors account for approximately During 2017, Galp’s share hit a high of €16.61 2% of Galp’s share capital. on November 9, and a low of €12.92 on July 7. 24 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results Analyst coverage Dividends and RCA net income1 (€/share) As of December 31, 2017, the average target price out of 0.4977 the 25 analysts covering Galp’s share was €16.26, with 2016 36% expressing a Buy recommendation, 56% a Hold 0.5820 recommendation and 8% making a Sell recommendation. During 2017, Fidentiis Equities resumed coverage of Galp’s 0.5500 share and Mediobanca initiated coverage, while Tudor 2017 Pickering, Holt & Co. ended coverage. The evolution of the 0.7264 recommendations and target prices issued by the various institutions can be followed on our website. Dividend RCA net income1 Dividend distribution 1 Attributable to the shareholders of Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. Galp will continue to ensure it has the capital required to implement the planned investment programme, which is Participation in the General Shareholders critical to the success of the strategic execution. Dividend Meeting distribution will continue to be dependent on cash flow generation, value accretive investment opportunities and Galp’s Annual General Shareholders Meeting was held on financial discipline. May 12, 2017, with its main agenda including the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts for 2016, resolving on Considering cash flow generation in 2017 and the the proposal for the allocation of the 2016 year result, the Company’s solid capital structure, the Board of Directors ratification of the co-optation of the new members of the will propose a cash dividend of €0.55 per share related to Board of Directors, namely Paula Amorim as Chairman and 2017, at the General Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in Marta Amorim as a member, as well as the general appraisal May 2018, corresponding to a 10% YoY dividend increase. of the members of the Company’s Governing Bodies, including the Board of Directors. It is worth noting the payment of an interim dividend approved by the Board of Directors of €0.25 per share in A total of 1,085 shareholders attended the General September 2017. Shareholders Meeting, in person or duly represented, representing approximately 78.34% of the Company’s share Therefore, based on the share price as of December 31, 2017, capital. All proposals submitted to the General Shareholders the implicit dividend yield of Galp’s share was 4%. Meeting were approved by majority. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 25 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for 1.7. Galp in the capital markets a changing world Information to bondholders In November 2017, the Company conducted a debt issuance under the EMTN programme for a total amount of €500 m, maturing in February 2023 and with a coupon of 1.00%. The notes are listed on the London Stock Exchange. Under the EMTN, we have already issued a total of €1.5 bn of debt. This programme is part of the Company’s financing strategy, which aims at diversifying its sources of funding and extending the average debt maturity. Debt issuance under the EMTN programme Date of Yield at Chg. since Title ISIN Maturity Amount Coupon issuance year-end (%) pricing (bp) Galp 4.125% 01.2019 PTGALIOE0009 25-11-2013 25-01-2019 €500 m 4.125% 0.02 -423 Galp 3.000% 01.2021 PTGALJOE0008 14-07-2014 14-01-2021 €500 m 3.000% 0.57 -256 Galp 1.000% 02.2023 PTGALLOM0004 15-11-2017 15-02-2023 €500 m 1.000% 1.12 5 Exchangeable bonds Whilst Galp has not issued exchangeable bonds, debt instruments exchangeable into Company shares are traded in the market. In September 2017, the exchangeable bonds Parpública had placed on the market in the last phase of the Company’s privatisation process, corresponding to a 7% stake in Galp’s share capital, reached maturity, with Parpública not having dispersed its qualified holding in the market as foreseen in the aforementioned privatisation process. The bonds exchangeable into Galp shares issued in 2013 by Amorim Energia B.V., corresponding to approximately 3% of the Company’s share capital, mature in June 2018 and pay a coupon of 3.375% per year. The exercise price is €15.89. 26 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results Leonardo Fragozo, Replicant FPSO – Brazil, 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 27 Photo by Arlindo Camacho, Galp Lisbon Portugal, 2018 2. Strategic framework She usually says she is a hybrid between a Chemical Engineer and a Mechanical Engineer. After having reinvented herself many times, Delmira Duarte now ensures continuous improvement of the relationship with Gas & Power customers. Global Energiser To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for 2.1. Anticipating risks and opportunities a changing world 2.1. Anticipating risksand opportunities We live in a complex world defined by great volatility and We have built four contrasting scenarios, with different uncertainties. levels of technological and regulatory disruption, which we consider to be the critical uncertainties for the energy In order to ensure the sustainability of the Company, we sector. test the resilience of our strategy to different scenarios. Anticipating the risks and opportunities related to every Below, we briefly describe each of the scenarios tested, scenario is critical to maximising long-term value creation. with different outputs regarding Oil & Gas demand and the global energy mix. 30 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 1. Without new technological disruptions and disparate regulatory guidelines, the world departs from the sustainability objectives. Actual greenhouse gas emissions exceed the defined limits, is one of the main issues of large urban centres, but there and world leaders are unable to reach new consensuses on are no structural changes that allow a substantial reduction environmental policies. of emissions. Many cities set restrictions on car traffic, not only because of environmental issues but also because of Emerging economies continue to insist on their right to congestion, encouraging the emergence of a number of carpromote growth through abundant and cheap energy sharing and ride-hailing solutions, which partially replace sources, while developed countries implement protectionist the role of public transport. The electric vehicles cannot be measures and limit migratory flows to fight long-term affirmed as an alternative, because the batteries do not unemployment and social instability. have sufficient autonomy to face the cities’ long traffic lines. Geopolitical tension increases, with regional conflicts Several nations with unconventional oil and gas resources hampering investment in infrastructure and the desired follow the example set by the U.S. at the beginning of integration of transnational energy systems. the century, creating strong local industries that make it more difficult to make a political decision to replace fossil Global energy demand continues to be supported by fuels. Due to lack of technological development, renewable conventional technology and on fossil resources, being energies cannot be affirmed as an alternative, and remain unable to significantly reduce energy intensity. Air pollution as a niche solution in developed countries. 2. In a world with little technological advances, successive regulatory measures are implemented globally to try to meet environmental objectives. The collective commitment made by the major world Urban mobility is mostly carried out by electric vehicles nations to set a limit on greenhouse gas emissions by the because of the prohibition or strong limitation to the use of end of the century was renewed year after year by policyinternal combustion vehicles in the cities, although the low makers and transposed into national regulations. In the autonomy of the vehicles prevents them from being a true absence of technological disruptions that would accelerate alternative for long journeys or for heavy vehicles, in which the energy transition, the replacement of fossil fuels – hydrogen competes with natural gas to replace diesel. With mainly coal and oil – was achieved through additional the strong limitation to the use of fuel oil and a competitive layers of public policies, namely with the implementation position favourable to diesel, LNG also gains a significant of CO2 quotas and prices, and with heavy investment in weight in maritime transport. energy efficiency solutions. Natural gas and nuclear power play a pivotal role in replacing coal as the main source of Aviation fuel price is significantly aggravated by CO2 primary energy for power production because of the few rates and biofuel incorporation obligation. The railway technological advances in battery development for utilities. transportation gains relevance as an alternative, with several high-speed projects replacing air transport for In most countries there is a reinforcement of public regional connections. transport services, which is the result of a strong public investment, and urban planning promotes pedestrian or bicycle circulation, to the detriment of the car. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for 2.1. Anticipating risks and opportunities a changing world 3. Technology is the centre of a complex and closed society turned in on itself. The permanent technological acceleration created shock The global mobility of people was affected by the waves at a political and social level, which led to the alternatives of virtual and augmented reality, which fragmentation of society and to the reinforcement of more replaced a relevant part of the meetings and face-to-face informal mechanisms of power and hierarchy. With the trainings, trips to congresses and seminars, and even gave majority of the world population living in urban centres, rise to a market niche for virtual tourism. Remote working large metropolises have become new city-states, while rural has also increased, allowing many workers to only move areas are virtually deserted. This new framework prevents occasionally to their employer’s facilities, making corporate the building of an overall global political consensus, so spaces significantly smaller. environmental concerns are primarily local in combating pollution of large urban centres. Most non-perishable goods – in homes, cars, and even in clothing – have some sort of data generation, causing an Public decision-makers are unable to keep up with society’s explosion of information flows, and its associated energy dynamism, often renouncing their historic regulatory consumption. The sharp reduction in the cost of renewable role and, thus, there is no longer a more integrated view energy, together with large-scale storage solutions, allows of market equilibria. Urban mobility is mainly provided for greater penetration of these alternatives and the by private individuals, who offer clients the most varied multiplication of off-grid systems, with many buildings, collective and individual transportation options, ranging neighbourhoods and factories becoming energetically from hoverboards to drones. Almost all of these solutions independent. This movement leads to an under-investment are electrical, with wireless hyperchargers and super in public electricity grids and gives rise to a more disordered batteries making the charging process almost unnoticeable. and decentralised electrical system. The world is experiencing a process of continuous New material and intelligent resource management digitalisation and resulting dematerialisation, with concepts solutions also enable continued energy efficiency gains such as «virtual and augmented reality», «internet of across all sectors, mitigating the effect of a society where things» and «3D printing» becoming common, and resulting energy is always present. in an increased weight of electricity at the final energy consumption level. 4. Adequate public policies help to promote a society that is capable of reconciling economic growth with a reduction of energy intensity. Politicians, entrepreneurs, and academics from all walks The advent of tailor-made production solutions in the soof life have worked together over the past few decades called «factories of anything», the result of technological to develop the global programme to eliminate fossil fuels advances in robotics, materials and artificial intelligence, by the end of the century. The articulation of adequate allowed the production of goods to be brought closer to public policies with strong technological entrepreneurship the consumption centres, reducing the energy footprint of has significantly increased the share of renewable energy the global flow of goods. The food industry also underwent in the energy mix, hence mitigating the environmental structural changes, redirecting itself to less energy-intensive impact of fossil fuels. The term «Sustech», which combines products, as a result of behavioural changes and progress in sustainability and technology, was considered the word of the area of genetic manipulation. The best example of this the year, symbolically representing the new global paradigm change was the strong growth of the hydroponic industry, of a more balanced world. which allows the production of food within urban areas. 32 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results The strong public investment in the modernisation of Widespread autonomous vehicles, along with the multiple road infrastructure has made it possible to accelerate mobility management solutions available also altered the the transition to autonomous vehicles, reconciling its transportation ownership paradigm. The majority of people presence with the gradually lower number of manned in urban areas request means of transport that are tailored vehicles. This revolutionary change made it possible to to their needs and do not worry about their operational reduce road accidents and contributed positively to the management, which is taken care of by specialised economy through the additional productivity of increased companies. life expectancy and savings in health expenses and vehicle repair costs. Susete Patrício, photovoltaic installation Portugal, 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for 2.2. Our strategy a changing world 2.2. Our strategy To ensure that Galp is resilient under the various projected competitors are less evident. Galp will focus on improving scenarios, we reflect in our strategy the main guidelines that the efficiency and conversion capabilities of its refining aim to secure a resilient and agile organisation, prepared for system, whilst continuing to strengthen its competences a complex and uncertain world. in trading commodities, leveraging existing opportunities in the global energy markets. It will seek to develop African Galp’s strategy remains focused on developing a resilient clusters, expanding within its respective hinterlands. upstream portfolio, embedded with an efficient and competitive downstream business, supported by innovative Energy transition and differentiating solutions that promote the transition into a lower carbon economy. Oil & Gas will remain core to Galp’s strategy, but the Company will develop new solutions and explore business This strategy is supported by a strong financial capacity opportunities supported by low-carbon energy sources, and on a culture which is client-centred and grounded addressing the challenges posed to its industry. on partnerships, and which will continue to foster a more agile, innovative and technologically advanced corporate Galp aims to play an active role in changing the energy environment. With this approach, Galp is preparing to face paradigm, in particular by anticipating new trends; the energy sector’s challenges and dynamics, within an by adapting its portfolio to future needs, creating uncertain and complex context. synergies with the present activity whenever possible; consolidating the Company’s knowledge and enhancing asset diversification, with the corresponding risk reduction, Upstream namely through lower carbon intensity energy, as is the case In the upstream, Galp continues to ensure the sustainability of renewables differentiated solutions. of its E&P portfolio, which should be competitive and profitable in any expected oil and carbon pricing scenario. We acknowledge that the structural changes in energy Our strategy focuses on identifying new opportunities consumption will boost new solutions that are innovative in geographies where we have a competitive advantage and increasingly sustainable at an economic, environmental or a strategic angle, namely through exploration and and social level. discovered resources opportunities, in order to sustain the competitiveness of future production growth while Innovation and new business models maintaining a balanced exposure to gas. The main priorities will continue to be the disciplined execution of the existing In connection to the ongoing digital transformation, a set projects and to extract more value from them. of new capacities has arisen, with old solutions giving place to innovative products and services. Diverse areas such as mobility, decentralised energy production or domotics Downstream impact the energy sector, leading to significant gains in In the downstream, Galp is focused on adapting to energy efficiency and to a wider range of options for clients. new product specifications and consumption patterns, embedded in an open, digital and sharing economy; a world Galp endeavours to help find the best solutions for its where consumer’s behaviour is permanently changing, clients. Therefore, the Company will continue to promote and with a growing cross-industry competition, where the transition into a client-focused organisation, with the skills for anticipating and fulfilling their needs. 34 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results To achieve that purpose, it will also develop partnerships In order to face the industry’s transformational challenges, that help complement Galp’s value proposition and to Galp shall invest in the organisational transition into a diversify its product and service portfolio, making it model that is strongly supported by digital solutions and adequate to the natural dynamics of a market that is based information management. To that end, the Company will on information and knowledge. encourage its employees to work and make decisions in highly complex and uncertain contexts. We continue to invest in innovation, research and technological development, crucial for the continuous extraction of value from our assets and for the creation of new business models, as well as for the sustainability of the Company and the communities we operate in. Future service station concept Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 Photo by Jardiel Carvalho, Replicant FPSO Brazil, 2018 3. Strategic execution Leonardo Fragozo certainly doesn’t lack energy. This “Carioca”, as Rio de Janeiro locals are known, has studied Engineering and Philosophy. He is now our responsible for the technical support of the platforms in which the Company has a participation in Brazil. Global Energiser 3.1. Exploration PROJECTS & Production 51 2P RESERVES AND 2C RESOURCES 2,100 mmboe 2017 highlights • We achieved a production of 100 kboepd, with the • FID for the Coral South project in the Rovuma basin 2017 average standing at 93.4 kboepd, an increase of in Mozambique, and farm-in of ExxonMobil in the 38% compared to 2016, on the back of the Lula project consortium for the development of Area 4, who assumed execution, in Brazil. operatorship of the midstream project. • Start of production of the first replicant unit, FPSO #7, • Progress in the conversion of the two FPSOs to be and FPSO #6 reaching plateau production in the Lula allocated to block 32 in Angola, as well as in the drilling field. and completion of wells related to the Kaombo project. • Increased exposure to the Brazilian pre-salt with the • Execution of the 3D seismic data acquisition programme acquisition of a 20% stake in the Carcará North license in four blocks in the Sao Tome and Principe offshore. and the acquisition of an additional 3% stake in block BM-S-8. • 2P reserves increased 11% to 748 mmboe at year end; 2C contingent resources increased 2% to 1,352 mmboe. WI AVERAGE PRODUCTION 93.4 kboepd Key figures 2015 2016 2017 N.º of employees 229 228 240 2P reserves (mmboe) 701 673 748 2C resources (mmboe) 1,342 1,320 1,352 Average working interest production (kboepd) 1 45.8 67.6 93.4 Average net entitlement production1 (kboepd) 43.2 65.1 91.5 CO2 emissions (tCO2 e/kboe) 2 23.2 13.7 9.4 Average sale price of oil and natural gas ($/boe) 43.5 37.7 47.6 Production cost ($/boe) 9.8 7.7 8.2 Amortisation ($/boe) 3 14.8 11.9 12.0 Ebitda RCA (€m) 352 494 913 Ebit RCA (€m) 142 239 507 Capital expenditure (€m) 1,103 1,039 852 Note: unit values on a net entitlement basis. 1 Includes production of natural gas which was exported; excludes gas which was consumed or injected. 2 Considers 100% of emissions and oil and natural gas production from operated blocks and the working interest from non-operated blocks. 3 In RCA, it includes provisions for abandonment. To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for 3.1. Exploration & Production a changing world E&P projects portfolio Country Block(s) Basin Type # Projects Key projects Stage Consortium 1 Galp 10% Lula Appraisal, Development BM-S-11 Santos Ultra-deep water 2 Petrobras 65%* Iracema & Production Shell 25% Galp 10% Petrobras 42.5%* BM-S-11 A Santos Ultra-deep water 3 Iara Appraisal & Development Shell 25% Total 22.5% Galp 17%2 Statoil 36.5%*2 BM-S-8 Santos Ultra-deep water 1 Greater Carcará Exploration & Appraisal ExxonMobil 36.5%2 Barra Energia 10% Galp 20% Carcará North Santos Ultra-deep water 1 Greater Carcará Exploration & Appraisal Statoil 40%* ExxonMobil 40% Brazil (via Petrogal Sépia East Exploration, Appraisal Galp 20% BM-S-24 Santos Ultra-deep water 2 Júpiter & Development Petrobras 80%* Brasil) Galp 50% POT-T-480/479/436 Potiguar Onshore 1 Sanhaçu Production Petrobras 50%* Galp 50%* SEAL-T-412/429 SergipeAlagoas Onshore 1 Rabo Branco Production Petrobras 50% Galp 20% Petrobras 30%* BM-POT 16 Potiguar Shallow to ultra-deep water 2 Exploration BP 30% IBV 20% Galp 20% BM-POT 17 Potiguar Shallow to ultra-deep water 3 Exploration & Appraisal Petrobras 40%* BP 40% PernambucoGalp 20% BM-PEPB-783/839 Deep to ultra-deep water 2 Exploration Paraíba Petrobras 80%* Galp 20% POT-M-764 Potiguar Ultra-deep water 1 Exploration Petrobras 40%* BP 40% Galp 10% BAR-M-300/ Barreirinhas Shallow to deep water 4 Exploration Shell 50%* Brazil 342/344/388 Petrobras 40% Galp 50%* PN-T-182/136 Parnaíba Onshore 2 Exploration Petrobras 50% Galp 50% PN-T-166/150 Parnaíba Onshore 2 Exploration Petrobras 50%* Galp 9% BBLT Chevron 31%* Block 14 Lower Congo Shallow to ultra-deep water 8 TL Development & Production Sonangol 20% Kuito Eni 20% Total 20% Galp 4.5% Chevron 36.75%* Total 31.25% Angola Block 14k Lower Congo Shallow to ultra-deep water 1 Lianzi Development & Production Sonangol 10% Eni 10% SNPC 7.5% Galp 5% Total 30%* Block 32 Lower Congo Ultra-deep water 2 Kaombo Appraisal & Development Sonangol 30% China Sonangol 20% ExxonMobil 15% Galp 10% Eni 25%* (ind. via MRV) Coral South ExxonMobil 25%* (ind. via. MRV) Mozambique Area 4 Rovuma Ultra-deep water 2 Mamba Development CNPC 20% (ind. via. MRV) Kogas 10% ENH 10% Galp 40%*2 ExxonMobil 40%2 PEL 82 Walvis Deep to ultra-deep water 1 Exploration NAMCOR 10% Namibia Custos 10% Galp 80%* PEL 83 Orange Deep to ultra-deep water 1 Exploration NAMCOR 10% Custos 10% Galp 20% Kosmos 45%* Block 5 Rio Muni Ultra-deep water 1 Exploration Equator 20% ANP 15% Galp 45%* Block 6 Rio Muni Ultra-deep water 1 Exploration Kosmos 45% Sao Tome ANP 10% and Principe Galp 20% Block 11 Rio Muni Ultra-deep water 1 Exploration Kosmos 65%* ANP 15% Galp 20% Kosmos 45%* Block 12 Rio Muni Ultra-deep water 1 Exploration Equator 22.5% ANP 12.5% Galp 30% Gamba Alentejo Shallow to ultra-deep water 1 Exploration Eni 70%* Galp 30% Lavagante Alentejo Shallow to ultra-deep water 1 Exploration Portugal Eni 70%* Galp 30% Santola Alentejo Shallow to ultra-deep water 1 Exploration Eni 70%* Camarão Peniche Shallow to ultra-deep water 1 Exploration Galp 100%*2 Galp 10% East Timor Block E Shallow to ultra-deep water 1 Exploration Eni 80%* Kogas 10% * Operator. 1 For the full name of the companies, refer to Note 5.6.1 of the appendix to Galp's consolidated statements. 2 Subject to deal completion / request authorisation. 40 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results Evolution of reserves and resources Galp’s reserves and resources have been subject to an independent audit by DeGolyer and MacNaughton (DeMac). In 2017, proved and probable (2P) reserves increased 11% YoY to 748 mmboe. This increase mainly resulted from the FID regarding the Coral South project, in the Rovuma basin in Mozambique, despite having been partially offset by production during the year. Natural gas reserves increased YoY and account for around 20% of total 2P reserves. 2C contingent resources increased by 2% YoY to 1,352 mmboe, on the back of the acquisition of a stake in Carcará North, in Brazil. Natural gas resources accounted for c.40% of the total and were mainly located in the Rovuma basin. Risked prospective resources at year end stood at 566 mmboe. Reserves (mmboe) Prospective resources (mmboe) 2017 2017 3P 965 mean unrisked 3,835 2P 748 mean risked 566 1P 383 2016 mean unrisked 2,658 2016 3P 927 mean risked 383 2P 673 Oil Gas 1P 274 Note: reserves on a net entitlement basis. Contingent resources and prospective resources on a working interest basis. Oil Gas Contingent resources (mmboe) Responsible activity 3,297 Galp is governed by a responsible activity, focusing on 2017 3C a safe operation, and applying the reference standards 2C 1,352 in energy management and emissions. 1C 296 In this sense, we are committed to scaling new E&P projects to zero flaring under normal operating 2,993 2016 3C conditions, by joining the Zero Routine Flaring by 2030 2C 1,320 initiative as an E&P operator. Current projects are being adapted to reduce emissions, with a registered gas 1C 300 flaring volume of 1,109.5 103m3 in 2017. This volume is expected to be reduced upon the implementation Oil Gas of the energy production project, through the reutilisation of the gas produced. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for 3.1. Exploration & Production a changing world Development and production activity The Lula and Iracema projects currently have seven units in operation, six of them producing at plateau levels and one in The most relevant development projects include two of the ramp-up stage. the largest oil and natural gas discoveries in recent decades, located in block BM-S-11, in the pre-salt Santos basin, FPSO #6, allocated to the Lula Central area, reached in Brazil; and in Area 4, in the Rovuma basin, in plateau production during the year, only 11 months after Mozambique, respectively. first oil and ahead of plan. FPSO #7, the first replicant unit allocated to the project, started operating in the Lula South In 2017, the Company reached the 100 kboepd production area in May, and had five connected producer wells at the milestone, with the average working interest production for end of the year. the period standing at 93.4 kboepd, up 38% YoY, reflecting the increased production from Brazil. The remaining FPSO units produced steadily at plateau levels throughout the year, although being impacted by In Brazil, working interest production was 85.5 kboepd, maintenance activities. These activities are planned to a 48% increase YoY, benefiting from the development of ensure the integrity of the infrastructures and its operation the Lula and Iracema projects, namely FPSO #6 reaching under optimal conditions. plateau production and the first replicant FPSO (FPSO #7) starting production in May. Lula and Iracema projects In Angola, working interest production was 7.9 thousand barrels of oil per day (kbpd), down 19% YoY, impacted by the natural decline of the producing fields in block 14. Iracema North Brazil Net entitlement production rose around 41% when Iracema South compared to 2016, to 91.5 kboepd, following the production growth from Brazil. Lula North Lula NE Brazil Lula West Lula Alto We have several projects in the development and production Lula Central Lula Pilot Galp: 10% stages in the Santos basin. Lula South Operator: Petrobras Lula Ext. South Unit Installed Lula and Iracema Unit being built Lula and Iracema fields, in block BM-S-11, are South of Tupi (ToR) Unit under analysis currently the major contributors to Galp’s production. 20 km The Brazilian pre-salt is a benchmark in the industry, not only for the size and quality of its reservoirs, but also for the operational efficiency achieved in the development of Two FPSOs in Lula are expected to start production during projects like Lula and Iracema, with Galp and its partners 2018. fostering sustainable value creation and a strong innovation culture. Galp is committed to maximising the value of its assets, namely in optimising its operations and increasing the During the year, the focus continued to be on the recovery of discovered resources. The oil recovery factor implementation of the development plan, through the start in the Lula and Iracema fields increased to 31%, with the of a new production unit, the installation and connection of focus being in potentiating a further increase in the recovery wells and other equipment, and the connection to the gas factor. infrastructure. 42 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results Greater Iara Greater Carcará The Iara project is composed of three The Greater Carcará project, which is estimated accumulations, designated as Atapu, Berbigão and to have recoverable volumes of at least 2 bn bbl, Sururu, in BM-S-11 and extending to the Entorno includes the Carcará area, in block BM-S-8, as well de Iara area (Transfer of Rights). as its extension to Carcará North area. The initial development plan for the project was submitted BM-S-8 and Carcará North in 2015 to the Brazilian National Agency of Petroleum, Natural Gas and Biofuels (ANP) and provides for the installation of three units. Brazil The project partners, Petrobras for the Transfer of Rights area and Pré-Sal Petróleos S.A. (PPSA), are currently Carcará North negotiating the Production Individualisation Agreement (PIA) that will define the terms of the unitisation between the three fields and the Transfer of Rights area to be BM-S-8 Carcará developed under the Greater Iara project. Fields in the Iara and Entorno de Iara areas Brazil Guanxuma Galp interests Atapu BM-S-8: 17%1 Sururu Carcará North: 20% Berbigão Operator: Statoil Galp: 10% 10 km Operator: Petrobras FPSO 1 Contigent to transaction conclusion (3% additional stake). Entorno de Iara, ToR Iara Galp is currently present in the consortium of block 10 km BM-S-8 with a 14% stake, having agreed with Statoil, through Petrogal Brasil, to acquire an additional 3% stake, for c.$114 m, with part of the payment contingent on During 2017, the partners proceeded with the seismic and meeting certain conditions. processing works, in order to reduce volumetric uncertainty and improve reservoir representation, thus optimising the The Carcará discovery extends beyond block BM-S-8, development concept. to Carcará North area, which was subject to bidding under the 2nd Production Sharing Bidding Round held by ANP in The Iara drilling campaign proceeds, with partners having 2017. Through Petrogal Brasil, we acquired a 20% stake in completed by the end of 2017 the drilling of nine producer this area, while Statoil (operator) and ExxonMobil acquired wells and two injector wells out of the total of 51 planned a 40% stake each. The consortium offered a profit oil share development wells. For 2018, an Extended Well Test (EWT) of 67.12%, and the signing bonus was around $930 m. is planned in the Sururu area. The work plan for the area includes a commitment to drill an exploration well. During 2017, the activities in the Carcará discovery, in block BM-S-8, were focused on assessing the exploration and appraisal campaign conducted, in order to deepen the knowledge on the reservoir characteristics and to better Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for 3.1. Exploration & Production a changing world define the area’s drilling and completion plan. The studies The studies are mostly focused on the reservoir, for defining the gas export system solution also proceeded, on the guarantee of fluid outflow, field development together with the remaining pre-development activities. infrastructure, on CO2 transport, subsea separation of produced fluids and on different types of metallurgy In 2018, it is worth noting that the consortium is to apply in well completions. undertaking a DST in the Carcará Northwest well to test the well’s productivity and to improve the knowledge of reservoir characteristics in this area. The consortium is also Emergency response in Brazil planning an appraisal well in the Carcará North area during the year. Galp privileges a preventive stance in all the geographies where it operates, making this a daily routine throughout the life of the projects and the Sépia East and Júpiter assets. Despite this, we are prepared to deal with Block BM-S-24, in which Galp holds a 20% stake, any unwanted event at any time, which is why in comprises the Júpiter and Sépia East areas in the all geographies there are structured emergency Brazilian pre-salt. response mechanisms. Typically, these plans include the resources defined in the Individual Emergency Plan of each facility, as well as an Emergency Plan Block BM-S-24 for Oil Leakage for each geographic area. In this, complementary actions and response procedures are Sépia presented for events that involve oil spills that exceed Sépia the limits of the installation, offshore or onshore. These East Brazil procedures are prepared, planned and trained, and drills are carried out periodically at various levels. Galp: 20% Operator: Petrobras Onshore projects Júpiter Transfer of Rights We are operators in the Rabo Branco producing BM-S-24 field and have a stake in the Sanhaçu field, located in the basins of Sergipe-Alagoas and Potiguar. 25 km The Sanhaçu field is located in block POT-T-479 in the Potiguar basin, and started production in 2012. The Rabo Branco field, located in the Sergipe-Alagoas basin, Sépia East was declared commercial in 2012 and is also in production. The Sépia East area will be subject to unitisation with the Sépia field (Transfer of Rights, 100% Petrobras), and negotiations are currently underway between the block A responsible operator BM-S-24 consortium and Petrobras. In 2017 we concluded the first stage of research and The start of production of the unitised Sépia field is planned monitoring of fugitive emissions, namely methane, for 2021, through a unit with a daily capacity of 180 kbbl throughout the Rabo Branco concession. and 6 mm3 of gas. The results obtained demonstrate a low rate of fugitive The appraisal works indicated excellent results regarding oil emissions, occasionally identified, demonstrating the quality as well as the reservoir’s porosity and permeability. unit’s good mechanical integrity conditions, and the equipment’s adequate management. Júpiter • 633 points monitored. The partners for block BM-S-24 were conceded a five-year • The majority of the mapped points did not show extension of the exploration period in 2016, which will allow the perceptible leaks to the meter. continuation of the field’s technological development studies. 44 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results Mozambique Coral South The Coral and Mamba discoveries in Area 4, in the Rovuma basin, are expected to contain about 85 trillion cubic feet (tcf) of gas initially in place (GIIP). The size of the discovered resources position the Rovuma basin as one of the world’s most relevant regions for the natural gas industry, and will be decisive for the increased weight of gas in Galp’s production portfolio, thus contributing to the transition to a lower-carbon economy. During 2017, ExxonMobil acquired an indirect 25% stake in Area 4, through Eni East Africa S.p.A. Eni will continue to lead the Coral South project and the remaining upstream operations in Area 4, while ExxonMobil will lead the construction and operation of onshore LNG infrastructure. In 2017, the consortium for the development of Area 4 took Rovuma Basin the FID for the Coral South project. Area 1 This project involves the construction of an FLNG unit Mozambique with a capacity of around 3.4 mtpa of LNG that will be Area 4 connected to six wells. The FLNG unit will be allocated to the southern part of the Coral discovery, which is exclusively located in Area 4 and contains around 16 tcf of GIIP. Mamba The EPCIC contract for the FLNG unit was awarded to the Mozambique Technip, JGC and Samsung consortium. Contracts relating Coral to the upstream, namely for the drilling rig, for subsea and umbilical production systems, were also awarded. Agulha The investment for upstream and midstream development is estimated at about $7 bn and production is expected to start in 2022. 40 km In addition, the consortium secured a financing package of $4.7 bn with a group of ECAs (Export Credit Agencies) and international financial institutions. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for 3.1. Exploration & Production a changing world Mamba Assets in the exploration phase The Mamba discovery stands out for the size and quality of Galp has a diverse portfolio of exploration projects, centred its resources, its location and potential economies of scale, on the Atlantic basin. and its competitiveness compared to other LNG projects. During 2017, we proceeded with the analysis of Engineering, Guanxuma, Brazil Procurement and Construction (EPC) technical and The drilling of the Guanxuma prospect, located in the commercial proposals for upstream and midstream Brazilian pre-salt block BM-S-8, is planned for 2018, solutions. and the rig is already contracted. Considering that the discovery’s reservoirs extend between Area 4 and the adjacent Area 1, the unitisation agreement, Blocks 5, 6, 11 and 12, Sao Tome and Principe which has already been concluded and submitted by the The exploration portfolio in Sao Tome and Principe includes partners to the Mozambican Government, is pending on four offshore blocks, block 6 – where Galp is the operator approval. – and blocks 5, 11 and 12, where the Company holds a 20% stake. Angola In 2017, we concluded a large 3D seismic data acquisition Galp has producing assets in blocks 14 and 14K, programme in the country, throughout 16 thousand km². through two operating platforms, and also holds Seismic data is currently being processed and interpreted. a stake in the Kaombo project in block 32, which is This operation was subject to an environmental impact under development. study, with mitigation measures for potential impacts currently operational. Block 14/14k and block 32, Angola PEL 82 and PEL 83, Namibia Block 14k Galp’s position in Namibia consists of two exploration licenses in the country’s offshore, PEL 82 in the Walvis basin Angola Block 14 and PEL 83 in the Orange basin. In 2017, the studies on the area’s geological assessment Galp: 9% Operator: Chevron continued, as well as the processing of the 2D seismic data in the PEL 83 blocks. Block 14 Angola Galp: 4.5% Block 32 In 2018, we highlight the sale of a 40% stake in PEL 82 Operator: Chevron to ExxonMobil, with Galp keeping 40%, as well as the 3D Block 14k seismic acquisition campaign works in the license. Galp: 5% Operator: Total Block 32 20 km During 2017, conversion works proceeded on the two FPSOs to be installed in the Kaombo project, with a processing capacity of 125 kbpd each. Production from this project is expected to start in 2018. At the end of 2017, the area already had 22 drilled wells out of a total of 59 planned for the Kaombo field development. With regards to block 14/14k, the Benguela-Belize-LobitoTomboco (BBLT), Tômbua-Lândana and Kuito fields are in the natural decline phase. 46 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results Alentejo and Peniche Basins, Portugal The exploration portfolio in Portugal currently includes four offshore blocks, of which three in the Alentejo basin and one in the Peniche basin. In the Alentejo basin, works during the year focused mainly on preparing to drill the first well, Santola-1. In the Peniche basin, all blocks were abandoned during 2017, with the exception of Camarão where a request was made for the transmission of the contractual position of 100% to Galp. Gil Machado and Natalia Hoska, Galp Lisbon Portugal, 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 3.2. Refining & Marketing OIl PRODUCTS SALES 18.5 mton RAW MATERIALS PROCESSED 114.2 mmboe 2017 highlights • Increase of Galp’s refining margin to $5.8/boe, benefiting • Growth of the Iberian oil products market, mainly from the favourable margins in the international market benefiting from the increased tourism activity and the high availability of the refining system. in the region. • Execution of projects aiming to increase the energy and • Development of projects and new digital platforms to operational efficiency of refining activities. improve the value proposition with our clients. SERVICE STATIONS 1,459 SALES TO DIRECT CLIENTS 8.9 mton Key figures 2015 2016 2017 N.º of employees 5,512 5,482 5,406 Raw materials processed (kboe) 114,572 109,727 114,191 Galp refining margin ($/boe) 6.0 4.3 5.8 Refining cash costs ($/boe) 1 1.6 1.7 1.7 CO2 emissions (tCO2e) 4,134,479 4,195,632 4,436,330 Total water consumption per treated feedstock (m3/ton) 0.54 0.55 0.44 Percentage of water reutilised 19% 23% 15% Oil products sales (mton) 18.2 17.8 18.5 Sales to direct clients (mton) 9.1 8.8 8.9 Number of service stations 1,463 1,462 1,459 Number of convenience stores 828 834 823 Ebitda RCA2 (€m) 779 576 785 Ebit RCA (€m) 504 257 418 Capital Expenditure (€m) 110 153 145 1 Excluding refining margin hedging impact. 2 In 2015, includes the contribution from the trading activity related to oil produced, which was reallocated from the R&M to the E&P business from 2016 onwards. To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for 3.2. Refining & Marketing a changing world Galp operates an integrated refining system comprising two Sourcing and trading refineries in Portugal. Galp manages the sourcing of crude oil and other The integration of refining and marketing of oil products raw materials, taking into account several factors, activities brings a competitive advantage. such as the maximisation of the refining margin, the Galp markets most of its products in Iberia, where it holds sourcing diversification strategy, as well as the specific a comprehensive oil products distribution network, making characteristics of the refining system. it one of the reference operators in the region. We also operate distribution and marketing activities in selected During the year, Galp imported crude oils from 15 countries, African markets. with medium and heavy crude accounting for 84% of total imports. We benefit from logistics advantages through the access to several maritime terminals and storage facilities in Iberia, Crude sources in 2017 and we are also developing logistics terminals projects in 17% Mozambique. West Africa 47% Former USSR Galp aims to ensure the integrated optimisation of the R&M business, aiming to maximise value creation 5% North Africa through sustained margin growth with permanent focus on cost reduction, and optimisation of capital employed. 11% Additionally, in order to implement and disseminate Latin America a client-centric culture, supported on operational efficiency 1% and continuous improvement, we are implementing North Sea a programme based on the Kaizen methodology. 18% Middle East Ataíde Sacramento, Atish Jaientilal and Mário Basilio, Galp Maputo Mozambique, 2018 50 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results Refining Galp's refining margin vs. benchmark and Brent Galp has a modern and complex integrated refining system, 8 80 comprising the Sines and Matosinhos refineries, with a 6 60 crude oil processing capacity of 330 kbpd. The system has a hydrocracking and fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) unit at 4 40 the Sines refinery for the production of medium and light distillates, respectively, as well as a visbreaker unit and 2 20 aromatics and base oils plants at the Matosinhos refinery. 0 0 Its combined Nelson complexity index is 8.6. 1Q16 2Q16 3Q16 4Q16 1Q17 2Q17 3Q17 4Q17 Benchmark Galp refining Brent Energy efficiency in refining margin ($/bbl) margin ($/boe) ($/bbl)-RHS • We work towards reducing refining carbon intensity: Galp has been developing and implementing projects aimed at gradually increasing its refining margin by $1/boe by CO2/CWT 2020 through initiatives to increase conversion and energy 32.7 efficiency, requiring marginal investments in the expansion of current equipment. 32.9 Research and technological development 31.7 32.1 31.8 31.3 Under the PhD Programme in Refining, Petrochemical 28.9 and Chemical Engineering (EngIQ), in partnership with 28.2 28.4 Portuguese universities, we are developing projects that 27.1 27.0 27.1 aim to extract more value from our sourcing, refining and logistics activity. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 ... 2022 • Training hour load in 2017: 3,816. Sines refinery Matosinhos refinery • Number of Galp employees trained to date: 188. Note: In 2016, a technical planned outage occurred in Matosinhos refinery. • The Matosinhos refinery has been in the first quartile Galp’s focus on a Reliability Centered Maintenance (RCM) of the Solomon reference regarding energy efficiency programme consists of managing the equipment life cycle, since 2015 and we have assumed that both refineries in order to increase the units’ predictability and availability. will reach this quartile in 2021. During 2017, our refineries achieved a high conversion rate, which allowed us to benefit from the favourable market • By 2020, we will invest c.€45 m in eco-efficiency environment. projects, avoiding the emission of more than 120 kton CO2e. Approximately 15.9 million tonnes (mton) of raw materials were processed, with crude accounting for 91% of the total. • By 2022, we will cut the carbon intensity 25% in Middle distillates and gasoline were the most relevant Sines refinery and 15% in Matosinhos refinery, based products within the Company’s production mix. on 2013. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for 3.2. Refining & Marketing a changing world Refineries’ production in 2017 Marketing of oil products 7% 2% We are a relevant player in Iberia, where we operate a 2% C&L Gases distribution network for oil products. We have also been Others 23% consolidating our position in African countries where Gasoline attractive market growth is expected, and in an activity that allows for synergies with the Company’s remaining 16% businesses. Fuel Oil 3% Our focus is the marketing of oil products under Galp’s own Aromatics brand, both through the Company’s service station network 9% and through the direct sale to wholesale clients. Galp also Jet supplies other operators in Iberia and operates in the export 38% market. Diesel In 2017, 18.5 mton of oil products were sold, a 4% increase An introduction in 2020 of a 0.5% cap on the sulphur YoY, benefiting from the growth of the Iberian oil products content of marine fuels by the International Maritime market and the high availability of the refining system. Organization (IMO) will represent a disruption of the market as we know it today. Given the uncertainties deriving from this regulatory change, Galp is analysing both the Sales of oil products in 2017 alternatives for the supply of fuel according to the new specifications, and also the possible alternatives to adapt 18% 34% Other operators its refining system to the new requirements. Exports Biofuels Galp operates an industrial unit in Sines, Enerfuel, focused on the transformation of waste oils and waste animal fats into second generation FAME (fatty acid methyl ester) 48% biodiesel. In addition, we became producers of second Sales to direct clients generation biofuels by co-processing vegetable oil together with gasoil, obtaining a final diesel fuel undistinguishable from diesel of fossil origin. Sales to direct clients Regarding the introduction of biofuels in Iberia, in accordance with the goals established by the European Oil products sales to direct clients, both through the Commission and the respective countries, Galp will continue Galp brand service station network and through sales to to pursue the goal of incorporating 10% by 2020 in gasoline wholesale clients, is mostly focused in Iberia, but also in and diesel, using the various complementary renewable some specific African markets, where Galp considers being sources at its disposal. In 2017, Galp introduced able to create more value, and where the presence of the around 248 106 m³ of biofuels in Portugal. In Spain, around brand is perceived as differentiated. 133 106 m³ of biofuels were introduced, also in compliance with local legislation. Through the introduction of biofuels In 2017, sales to direct clients increased 1% YoY to 8.9 mton, in the road market, we have contributed to prevent on the back of the economic upturn in Iberia. Sales volumes 458 kt CO2. in Africa accounted for around 10% of all sales to direct clients, up 1 p.p. YoY. 52 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results Galp’s retail network at year-end comprised a total of 1,459 Sales to other operators and exports service stations, of which 1,300 in Iberia and 159 in Africa. Galp retains its leadership position in the retail market in In response to a greater demand for oil products in Iberia, Portugal and is a relevant player in Spain. Galp supplies other operators, positioning itself as one of the most important suppliers of the Portuguese market. In We remain focused on differentiating our value proposition 2017, Galp sold 3.3 mton to other operators, corresponding by providing a service of excellence and focusing on to 18% of total marketed volumes. innovative products. In that regard, in 2016, Galp launched a new fuel range, Evologic diesel and gasoline, with additives In 2017, exports outside the Iberian Peninsula totalled which allow for higher savings, extended engine life and 6.2 mton, up 6% YoY, due to the increase in the volume greater efficiency. In 2017, this fuel range accounted for of products available for sale considering the high more than 50% of sales of automotive fuel. availability of the refining system. In the retail segment, sales increased 2% to 2,754 kton. Fuel oil, gasoline and diesel accounted for 26%, 29% and Non-fuel products sold at service stations accounted 29% of total exports, respectively, destined mostly to Spain, for over 10% of total sales in the retail segment. During USA and France. 2017, we developed and tested new digital point-of-sale communication formats that will enable us to modernise Benefiting from the advantage of the refining system’s the purchase experience and improve engagement with location, Galp has been placing heavier gasoline customers, allowing for the generation of additional components in the North American market, particularly in revenues. We highlight the launch of new digital interaction the East Coast, used for blending purposes. tools which will allow for a two-way communication and customer feedback model. Exports per product in 2017 In order to enhance our client proximity, we proceeded 6% 2% with our partnership with the largest food retail group in Chemical Products Others Portugal, Sonae, reaching in 2017 a c.1.7 million client base. 6% Naphtha 2% 26% In the wholesale segment, volumes sold increased 2% LPG Fuel Oil YoY, with a number of sub-segments, such as aviation, benefiting from the increase in tourism in Iberia. 29% Diesel 29% Gasolines Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53 3.3. Gas & Power NG/ LNG TRADING 2,974 mm 2017 highlights • We sold more than 7.3 bcm of natural gas and LNG, • We have launched a new technology platform with sales of natural gas to direct clients up 16% YoY tailor-made to the needs of the natural gas and to 4.4 bcm. electricity retail customers. • We remain focused on integrating natural gas and • Developing new client-centred solutions through electricity marketing activities, reinforcing our position the use of digital platforms. as an integrated energy operator. SALES OF ELETRICITY 5,172 GWh NG SALES TO DIRECT CLIENTS 4,374 mm Key figures 2015 2016 2017 N.º of employees1 514 178 157 Sales of NG/LNG in trading (mm³) 3,822 3,285 2,974 Natural gas sales to direct clients (mm³) 3,843 3,780 4,374 Sales of electricity to the grid (GWh) 1,299 1,614 1,548 Electricity sold to clients (GWh) 3,336 3,396 3,625 CO2 emissions1 (tCO2e) 280,949 320,042 18,118 Ebitda RCA (€m) 1 382 313 141 Ebit RCA1 (€m) 303 253 112 Capital Expenditure (€m) 1 65 23 7 1 As of the end of October 2016, GGND ceased to be fully consolidated. To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for 3.2. Gas & Power a changing world Galp’s G&P business combines natural gas sourcing and Equity stakes in international gas pipelines supply activities, which have been gradually integrated with electricity generation and supply. International Capacity Country Galp % pipelines (bcm/year) Supply and trading Algeria, EMPL Morocco 12.0 23 Galp’s supply activity consists of the sale of natural gas and electricity, mainly in Iberia, where the Company has Al-Andalus Spain 7.8 33 reinforced its integrated energy supply. Extremadura Spain 6.1 49 Galp also operates in the international natural gas market, through its natural gas network and LNG trading activity. In addition, the Company sources natural gas from other markets, namely the Spanish and French wholesale players. Sourcing The remaining natural gas requirements are met through Galp holds natural gas and LNG long-term sourcing operations in the spot market. contracts with Sonatrach in Algeria, and Nigeria LNG in Nigeria, respectively. These provide for the sourcing Sales to direct clients of 5.7 bcm per year and expire gradually from 2020. Galp supplies natural gas to over 530 thousand customers in the industrial, electrical and retail segments in the Natural gas sourcing in 2017 Iberian market, from a total of 644 thousand Gas & Power customers. 28% 42% In 2017, the Company achieved record sales to direct clients, Other Algeria with the supply of 4,374 mm3 of natural gas during the year, up 16% YoY, following the acquisition of customers in the industrial segment. Natural gas sales to direct clients (mm³) 2016 3,780 30% Nigeria 2017 4,374 Natural gas supply from Algeria is done via the Europe Electrical Industrial Retail Maghreb (EMPL), Al-Andalus and Extremadura pipelines, where Galp holds stakes. In the electrical segment, natural gas volumes sold increased 218 mm³ to 1,397 mm³, as a consequence of higher energy production from natural gas as opposed to hydroelectric energy sources in Iberia. In the electricity business, in which Galp has been focusing in order to reinforce its portfolio of products and services, volumes sold totalled 3,625 GWh in 2017, a 7% increase compared to the previous year. 56 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results In 2017, we have launched a new technology platform Power comprehending an innovative solution developed to the needs of the natural gas and electricity supply business, Galp holds two cogeneration units in Portugal, installed which promotes agility and efficiency with the aim in the Sines and Matosinhos refineries, with an installed of improving our client services. capacity of 173 MW. Those are important natural gas consumption points, as well as important energy sources for Additionally, Galp acquired during 2017 a 25% stake in the refineries’ operation. a start-up that, through a digital platform, enables gas, electricity and services to be delivered to customers in a The Company also has 12 MW installed capacity at a wind simplified and useful manner. farm in Portugal. In 2017, we produced 161 GWh which corresponds to 62.3 kton CO2 avoided and €4.3 m in avoided Galp has also been exploring new business opportunities energy imports. in order to boost its integrated energy offer. Electricity sales to the grid were 1,548 GWh, following These include developing projects related to the higher volumes sold in Portugal. implementation of sustainable natural gas and LNG operations, providing our customers and partners with Galp aims to be present in power generation from innovative energy solutions that allow them to substantially differentiated renewable activities that are competitive, reduce their emissions. In 2017, we carried out the first LNG particularly within a context of lower carbon intensity. sourcing operation to a ship in a Portuguese port, and we currently have two service stations to supply LNG to road Regulated distribution infrastructure transportation. The regulated infrastructure business involves the Through Galp Energy Solutions, we also implement distribution of natural gas in Portugal. technological solutions and offer integrated energy efficiency services that benefit our customers, reducing Galp participates in nine natural gas distributors in Portugal, costs and emissions. During 2017, Galp developed, alongside operating a 12,890 km network, through the associated its clients, energy efficiency solutions which originated in a company GGND. reduction of 292 tCO2/year. The remuneration rules on this activity are defined by the Trading Portuguese Energy Market Regulator (ERSE). The rate of return expected for the 2017-2018 period was revised from Galp develops its NG/LNG trading activity in the 6.20% to 6.65%, reflecting the yields of benchmark bonds international market, and has also consolidated its position in the period. in European gas markets, such as Spain, France and the Netherlands, through the natural gas network trading activity. In 2017, traded volumes stood at 2,974 mm3, compared to 3,285 mm3 in the previous year. It should be noted that the lower opportunities found in the LNG market were partially offset by the increase in the contribution of network trading. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 Photo by Arlindo Camacho, Photovoltaic installation Portugal, 2018 4. Energy for a c  hanging world Susete Patrício likes to escape from her comfort zone because “opportunities are born out of adversity”. She recharges her batteries with the renewable energy generated in long walks through nature. Global Energiser To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 4.1. The transformation has already begun How we create and distribute value We face the challenges that the world presents to us every to the expected contribution from our projects to improve day, mindful of the impact that our actions have on society. people’s lives and to promote the economic and social Therefore, we act ethically and responsibly, sharing with development of the communities in which we are involved, society the value we create. We do this through the creation in the 11 countries where we are present. of direct and indirect employment, by valuing our human capital, promoting the development of local economies, We are committed to the safety of our people and assets, streamlining our supply chain and distributing and the protection of the environment, and the respect for reinvesting the wealth generated. human rights. We are an active player in the world’s transition to a low-carbon economy, ensuring in an It all starts with our 6,389 employees, who mirror the increasingly diversified, innovative and sustainable manner principles we believe in: creating sustainable value, working the access to energy as an essential factor for progress, in partnership and promoting equal opportunities. It extends whilst minimising our environmental footprint. 6,389 employees 3,336 suppliers 99% local hiring €423 m 570 thousand jobs generated dividend paid €490 m We energise throughout the value chain in payments to the people (in 2016) the countries 185,730 hours in employee training €317 m paid to our employee We energise Educational projects 18.5 mton the economy each €1 we invest transforms refined products sales into €3.14 of investment towards society 100 thousand 42,500 hours oil and natural gas We energise of corporate volunteering barrels per day the communities €5.4 m + de 600 thousand invested electricity and natural gas in the comunity clients in the Iberian market €24 m + de 4 million in the protection of people, refined products clients the environment and assets in the Iberian market and Africa 60 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 4.1. The transformation has already begun The energy sector has been undergoing profound changes, which are expected to intensify in the coming decades. It is today characterised by its volatility and complexity. The world has also changed, and in a context of decarbonisation of the economy and change of the mobility paradigm, creating long-term value requires innovative solutions and the development of new businesses. That is why we promote innovation and technological development, cooperation and shared knowledge, vital factors to maximise the value we extract from our portfolio, and also to the sustainability of the Company and the communities where we operate. To address the transformational challenges of the industry, we will continue to invest in the transition to a business model supported by digital solutions and information systems. Thus, we are committed with our employees’ development and we encourage agility in decision-making in a context of high complexity and uncertainty. We promote technological training and foster knowledge networks through partnerships. Innovation projects are developed in-house or in partnership with reference players or scientific and technological entities. The strategic agenda for innovation that we redefined in 2017 was based on a scenario planning exercise from which we identified four major axes: Galp 4.0 Galp in a smart world We intend to adapt our assets to the new We seek to explore the opportunities arising industry paradigms. from profound technological changes. To this end, we promote programmes We adapt to the new trends of mobility which allow us to extract more from our |and study the provision of services businesses, particularly from upstream and solutions for future homes and cities: and refining, oriented to the future and to smart, comfortable, secure, digital the transition to a low carbon economy. and interconnected. Digital transformation We execute our strategy, taking advantage of the opportunities that arise from digitisation at all levels of the Organisation. We have made Galp a more agile, flexible and competitive company. Businesses of the future We explore opportunities that arise from new technologies and business models, adapting, strengthening and developing Galp beyond its borders. We think in the long term, and in a disruptive way. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 4.1. The transformation has already begun These projects aim to assess the increase of the oil recovery • Investment in innovation and technology development: factor through the reinjection of CO2, the use of CO2 as a €21 m in 2017, of which 57% in E&P projects. raw material in industrial processes, the development of a sustainable and competitive solution for the separation • Strategic commitment: increase investment in of CO2 and the optimisation of the equipment to be used, innovation and technology development in order to mitigating potential effects of corrosion, among others. reach more than €100 m from 2017 to 2020. Application of big data to upstream Using technology to break down Galp is developing a cognitive computing system applied to seismic interpretation in partnership with an barriers international reference entity. Given the increasing complexity of exploration and production activities, it has been Galp’s priority to develop The main purpose of the project is to develop a its technological dimension, capitalising on innovative cognitive system prototype that increases the solutions that allow it to create value in the projects in seismic data interpretation capacity of geoscientists which it participates, but also on the possibility of licensing through combining physical models, visual analysis and extending the use of these technologies to other and computer vision techniques, integrated with the projects, with the aim of creating an additional source acquired knowledge. of value. The application of big data may contribute to increased During 2017, we initiated and gave continuity to a set of productivity and accelerate the learning curve. It may projects around seven technological programmes: also reduce the exploration risk by improving the quality of interpretations. 1. Methodologies for the appraisal and research of hydrocarbons; New energy models for a new mobility 2. Modelling and characterisation of reservoirs; paradigm 3. Technologies and methodologies for drilling and As reference operators in Portugal we have been analysing completion; and fostering new energy models for mobility. Although the long-term penetration rate of electric vehicles (EVs) is 4. Management and simulation of reservoirs for maximising uncertain, it may accelerate in a regulatory scenario that is hydrocarbons recovery; more favourable to the decarbonisation of the economy. 5. Infrastructure technologies for offshore production and In this context, we continued to expand the electric vehicles distribution; fast-charging network, which we expect to reach a total of 36 fast-charging points installed by 2018, 18 of which were 6. Flow assurance; already in operation at the end of 2017, in partnership with Mobi.e and with the main car brands. 7. Production and primary processing systems dedicated to CO2 management. This dynamic reinforces the strategy to support sustainable mobility, which includes expanding the supply of energy In Brazil, 22 research projects were presented to ANP, through the LPG network and the introduction of NGV. of which six are focused on the extraction and reuse of CO2 in our hydrocarbon production projects in the pre-salt of the Santos basin. 62 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results From the real to the virtual Knowledge sharing Anticipating opportunities, we analysed new business In this ‘smart world’ in which we live in, the efficient models backed by digital solutions. We have developed management of consumption linked to technology emerges a customer-centric approach by redesigning our digital as an opportunity. Created 10 years ago, the university offering with a set of websites that are segmented cooperation programme Galp 21 supports two dozen according to the needs of the final customer. students annually to carry out an energy diagnosis in companies and to propose more rational solutions In the oil products marketing business, we have opened up and behaviours. The programme – previously called direct channels for customer relationship, including a new Galp 20-20-20 – is the largest of its kind in Portugal and mobile application dedicated to the retail customer. has already benefited 213 grantees since 2007. In the G&P business, we acquired a 25% stake in a start-up In 2017, 116 measures were proposed, of which 21% were in Spain that, through a digital platform, will enable the adopted by the participating entities. These measures combined offer of gas, electricity and services in a more will lead to a reduction of 10% in annual primary energy agile way. In Iberia, we highlight the launch of a new consumption and 9% in annual CO2 emissions. Since its technology platform that will increase operational efficiency beginning, this program allowed energy savings of €2.8 m and improve customer experience. to our customers. From 2018 onwards, the programme is expected to start addressing the challenge of the circular economy, with projects that promote the rational use of all resources, and not just energy. For more detail on the innovation projects developed by Galp, see our website. Margarida Sousa, Galp Lisbon Portugal, 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 4.2. Because people are our best energy 4.2. Because people are o  ur best energy We promote the development and recognition of the people who work with us, respecting and valuing their individuality, regardless of their gender, ethnicity, religion or sexual orientation. Our team is formed by people of 49 different nationalities. We promote local hiring, fostering the development of communities in which we are present, and thus 99% of our employees work in their country of origin. 30-50 > 50 Other Professional category Total < 30 years Men Women Portuguese years years nationalities Top managers 53 0 22 31 47 6 42 11 First line managers 190 0 93 97 145 45 160 30 Middle managers 426 1 275 150 265 161 347 79 Specialists 1,674 175 1,115 384 1,028 646 1,104 570 Other 4,046 435 2,768 843 2,247 1,799 1,842 2,204 Total 6,389 611 4,273 1,505 3,732 2,657 3,495 2,894 Our values are guided by the principles of diversity and equal opportunities, total opposition to any practice of discrimination, and the promotion of a culture of social integration. We have been part of the Business Forum for Gender Equality (IGEN) since 2014, an initiative of the Portuguese Commission for Equality in Labour and Employment (CITE). We have been making commitments in this context, having in 2017 approved the Plan for Equality for 2018, with the commitment to: • create an internal and permanent group for reflection and action on gender equality; • periodically carry out awareness-raising sessions related to the theme; • promote development programmes for women, including career management guidance and support. In 2017, we also held a series of conferences on diversity and gender equality, addressing how organisations are managing these issues. In Spain, for example, we are among the 30 most commited companies to diversity and gender equality according to Intrama, a human resources consultant who prepares an annual study on Spanish businesses. In addition to the gender equality, we are committed to a young talent attraction policy that largely results from our proximity to the academic world. The focus is on the Generation Galp trainee programme, which identifies and develops young people with high potential. In addition to several activities aimed at promoting the culture and values of the Company, this programme simultaneously manages the expectations for the future through career development plans and training. Around 90% of the trainees from the last two programmes remained in the Company after the first year. 64 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results Our people Age Distribution distribution by region 23 11 % >50 YEARS COUNTRIES 3,528 PORTUGAL 67 % 30-50 YEARS 10 % <30 YEARS 49 NATIONALITIES 6,389 EMPLOYEES AROUND THE WORLD 2,220 SPAIN MEN 58 % 558 AFRICA WOMEN 75 42 % BRAZIL 8 OTHERS Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 4.2. Because people are our best energy The assessment includes individual and team performance Galp has earned the distinct honor of being one of the goals, aligned with the strategic business objectives. world’s top energy companies, a Thomson Reuters 2017 It also includes behavioural skills, ensuring that employees Top 100 Global Energy Leader. This recognition honors can identify themselves with, and embrace the Company’s companies that have demonstrated a commitment to culture and values. energy leadership across eight pillars of performance: Financial, Management and Investor Confidence, Risk In order for each employee to be able to respond to the and Resilience, Legal Compliance, Innovation, People demand levels presented by the new challenges, we define and Social Sustainability, Environmental Impact, and personalised and individual development programmes Reputation. focused on their personal and professional growth path. To this end, we ensure adequate succession plans and frame development opportunities in our strategic challenges. We invest in our people We provide the conditions for each employee to achieve In an increasingly competitive context, in which retention their maximum potential and enable a career progression of talent is a decisive factor, we ensure the training and according to their ambitions. Mapping High Potential, aimed development of our human capital. at high-potential employees, and Galp Leap, aimed at management, are just two examples of the plans we have Our performance assessment process is based on been implementing. continuous feedback, favouring a 360° evaluation, particularly for managers with leadership functions, In addition, we develop the skills of our people, either including middle management. This means that each through on-the-job training, through practice in the work employee is evaluated by their managers, their team and context, or through formal courses, thus ensuring the their peers. adaptation to a constantly changing world. Manuela Simões, Serra do Açor Portugal, 2017 66 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results To further complement this, we promote recognition, Transparency in attitudes namely through peer credits, in which colleagues can compliment each other, in an organic and spontaneous Galp’s relationship with its employees is grounded in its manner through the Got It programme. ability to hear and act on their opinions and concerns, in particular through an annual climate survey. This tool, We believe in expanding knowledge which has been revised to address diversity issues, evaluates the employees’ commitment, satisfaction and motivation. We have developed several training programmes in order to In 2017, about 60% of employees responded to the survey. develop the skills of our teams. The majority of our employees feel that Galp provides a work-life balance, and that their work is recognised and FormAG rewarded. Advanced management training programme that Learning complements the training of senior management and 70% young people with high potential in the fields of advanced management, energy and behaviour. The main objective of this project is to prepare the employees for functions of increasing responsibility within the Company, also promoting internal networking. Since its launch in 2010, DO Experencial 854 employees (management level) have been involved in On-the-job Self learning the programme. Projects 20% Mobility Kaizen 10% Know Share Programme focused on the retail activity of the R&M Formal Transformational leadership Relational Classroom learning business with the objective of improving operational E-learnings Informal Coaching performance. It started in 2017, covering 2,500 employees Workshops Mentoring in 400 service stations. Masters in Petroleum Engineering A higher education programme developed by the Institute of Oil and Gas (ISPG) in partnership with the Scottish University Heriot-Watt (HWU) that offers a learning experience strongly based on the specific needs of the oil and gas industry and, in particular, on Galp’s ambitious portfolio of exploration and production projects. This programme, launched in 2014 and now in its 4th edition, has already 71 graduates. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 4.3. Managing value with lower impact 4.3. Managing value with lower impact We produce and deliver energy responsibly, protecting the environment, people and assets. This commitment, included in our Health, Safety and Environmental Policy, promotes continuous performance improvement, maximisation of the positive impact from our activities, and the consequent minimisation of the negative impact. We promote the preservation of resources and we are committed with the transition to a low carbon economy. We are focused on the energy efficiency of our operations and the reduction of its carbon intensity. These objectives are reflected in the decision-making process of each project that we design and execute and which fit in our action policy: contribute to meeting the energy needs of the future, delivering energy in a responsible, efficient and profitable way. Environmental protection We set objectives and targets based on the relevance of operations and their effects on the environment. We work to: • reduce resource consumption by activity level; • reduce atmospheric emissions by activity level; • increase waste recovery. Targets and goals Sines refinery Indicator Units Performance 2018 Target Standardised total water consumption per treated or processed feedstock m /ton 3 0.54 0.53 Standardised NOx emissions per treated or processed feedstock g/ton 93 84 Standardised SO2 emissions per treated or processed feedstock g/ton 458 418 Emissions of standardised particulate matter per treated or processed feedstock g/ton 13 12 Matosinhos refinery Indicator Units Performance 2018 Target1 Standardised total water consumption per treated or processed feedstock m3/ton 0.57 0.60 Standardised NOx emissions per treated or processed feedstock g/ton 82 85 Standardised SO2 emissions per treated or processed feedstock g/ton 15 20 Emissions of standardised particulate matter per treated or processed feedstock g/ton 11 10 1 The targets set for the Matosinhos refinery reflect the technical outage for maintenance in 2018. 68 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results To achieve these goals, we believe that adopting models This approach represents an opportunity to increase inspired by the circular economy, and through partnerships, the Company’s competitiveness, anticipate and manage may be one of the keys to success in reducing the global risks through the redesign of processes and products, the environmental footprint. development and implementation of new business models and the optimisation of resources. ECO-ZEMENT Project We incorporate and assess environmental, safety • Evaluation of the marketing potential of the catalyst and health requirements from the design phase of used in the FCC unit of the Sines Refinery, as raw an operation to its completion. material for the cement industry. We are committed to environmental protection through • 1.2 kton per year reuse potential. the efficient use of resources, and monitor our performance to this end. We periodically monitor and assess the environmental impacts and risks of our operations in all the geographies where we are present, having established mitigation and protection plans to this end. Evolution of environmental performance 2014 2015 2016 2017 Refining1 Direct energy consumption per primary source (TJ) 44,992 49,286 45,712 49,815 99% Purchase of electric energy (TJ) 1,862 2,008 1,728 1,911 85% Total consumption of raw water (103 m ) 3 10,058 10,535 10,176 10,812 88% Waste water (103 m3) 5,562 6,543 6,336 5,697 89% Waste produced (ton) 22,680 25,434 27,215 30,115 69% Number of primary containment losses discharged into the 11 8 4 3 environment2 Volume of primary containment losses discharged into the 10 99 5 5 environment (m3)2 GHG emissions under EU-ETS (ton CO2eq) 3,211,746 3,496,077 3,424,131 3,578,168 NOX emissions (ton) (scope 1) 1,295 1,691 1,571 1,617 SO2 emissions (ton) (scope 1) 5,134 6,008 5,233 5,664 Particulate matter emissions (ton) (scope 1) 243 250 183 227 Carbon Footprint direct emissions (ton CO2e) (scope 1) 3,481,132 3,766,626 3,759,931 3,624,706 Carbon Footprintindirect emissions (ton CO2e) (scope 2) 161,626 273,458 171,950 228,035 Gas Flaring E&P (m ) 3 1,360,737 967,854 783,168 1,109,485 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) emissions Refineries (ton) 3,235 3,240 3,274 n.a. 1 The refining activity is the segment with greater materiality in the environmental performance of the Company. 2 Includes containment losses> 150 l, excluding gaseous products. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 4.3. Managing value with lower impact Galp’s carbon footprint % without Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 the use of Unit: t CO2e Total 2015 Total 2016 Total 2017 2017 2017 2017 products E&P (Operated) 2,562 2,132 15,963 15,935 29 0 0.36% R&M 4,134,479 4,195,632 4,436,330 3,580,591 225,179 630,561 98.92% G&P 1 280,949 320,042 18,118 18,041 77 0 0.40% Others 17,559 14,895 14,286 10,139 2,750 1,396 0.32% Total WITHOUT using products 4,435,548 4,532,691 4,484,697 3,624,706 228,035 631,957 100% Use of products 35,805,980 35,852,675 36,419,882 0 0 36,419,882 Total WITH using products 40,241,528 40,385,366 40,904,579 3,624,706 228,035 37,051,838 E&P (Non-operated) 366,800 324,292 353,510 353,510 0 0 1 As of the end of October 2016, GGND ceased to be consolidated. 70 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results We study and thoroughly measure our impact We are concerned with the preservation of biodiversity and ecosystems, participating in programmes for the protection and recovery of species and habitats in several areas where we develop our projects, particularly in Brazil, in cooperation with our partners. In Sao Tome and Principe, where we are operators in one of the several blocks in which we are present, we share data on species observation with international environmental organisations. We evaluate our impact on natural resources, particularly in protected and sensitive areas, or those that are prone to water scarcity. Only 4% of Galp facilities are located in water scarcity areas. 100% 100% Percentage of Galp's operations whose Percentage of Galp's operations whose biodiversity risk is monitored. water use risk is monitored. -6% -2% The direct energy consumption from The consumption of raw water primary sources per treated feedstock in per treated feedstock in refining refining compared to 2016. compared to 2016. Note: Evaluation carried out according to the Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT) and Global Water Tool. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 4.3. Managing value with lower impact 2017 Our goals Our achievements ZERO personal, material and environmental ZERO fatalities. accidents with significant impact. Reduction of the Total Recordable Injury Rate 0.5 of LTIF (Lost Time Injury Frequency) for 2018. compared to the last years. 2020 Galp as industry benchmark for LTIF. People are our most valuable asset Safety is a priority in all our projects. We respect the value of human life, the communities where we operate and the preservation of our assets’ value. Lost-time injury in the Galp universe 2015 2016 2017 Number of Frequency Number of Frequency Number of Frequency accidents Index accidents Index accidents Index Employees 24 1.9 10 0.8 13 1.1 Contractors 3 0.4 8 0.8 4 0.4 Employees and contractors 27 1.3 18 0.8 17 0.8 LTIF by region 2015 2016 2017 South South South Africa Europe Africa Europe Africa Europe America America America Employees 0.0 0.8 0.8 0.0 0.8 0.8 0.0 0.0 1.3 Contractors 0.0 0.0 0.9 0.0 0.0 0.9 0.0 1.6 0.3 Employees and contractors 0.0 0.5 0.8 0.0 0.5 0.8 0.0 0.6 0.8 72 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 2015 2016 2017 Target EQSE management system for 2018 We monitor how we meet our commitments through Total Recordable internal and external audits. In 2017, 40 Environment, Injury Rate 3.4 2.3 1.7 1.6 Quality, Safety and Energy (EQSE) audits were carried out, corresponding to an implementation rate of 97%, involving The process safety is at the heart of accident prevention, 50 internal auditors and 33 external auditors. thus we monitor and analyse the process safety events occurring in our facilities. The safety of our operations 274 findings is embedded on our culture and assumed by the top 86 non-conformities management, being reflected in the incorporation of the industry’s best practices and in the setting of transversal 188 improvement opportunities objectives and goals. 380 actions Process safety in the Galp Universe 152 actions arising from non-conformities actions arising from improvement 228 Target opportunities 2015 2016 2017 for 2018 Tier 1 0.32 0.17 0.23 0.17 34 qualifications of their management systems in 2017: Tier 2 0.50 0.39 0.47 0.38 • Environment (ISO 14001); We act in accordance with the best practices in the area • Quality (ISO 9001); of health in order to protect our human capital, from employees to service providers, to the benefit of the • Safety (OHSAS 18001); communities where we operate. • Energy (ISO 50001); In 2017, we launched several initiatives within the scope of occupational health, ensuring medical surveillance of all • Laboratory accreditation (ISO/IEC 17025). employees and the prevention of new occupational risks arising from new production processes and also from the Good practices that propagate working conditions in new geographies. We extend our practices along our supply chain by We promote health and well-being, trying to minimise the establishing policies and principles with which our suppliers impacts of population aging, of more sedentary lifestyles commit, because it is through partnerships that we are and high levels of stress, or of any other factor specific able to strengthen the results that we aspire to achieve to the geographical areas where we are present, such as regarding the protection our people, environment and epidemics, contagious diseases and risk behaviours. assets. Indicators relating to the supply chain’s characterisation and performance. • 3,336 suppliers; • 529 tier 1 critical suppliers; • 61% of tier 1 critical suppliers certified; • 16 audits to tier 1 suppliers. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 4.4. We use our Energy to create more energy 4.4. We promote access to energy and We use our education Among the several projects that have an impact on the communities’ development, we highlight two due to their Energy tocreate impact: more energy Promoting sustainable practices among young people As the major driver from human development, education deserves a special attention and is the target of projects such as Mission UP, Power UP and Switch UP. These The communities and the environment that surround our programmes target Portuguese parents, teachers and operations in the 11 countries where we are present are of students, focusing on changing behaviours related to waste, the utmost importance. We play an influential role in local and promoting more efficient energy consumption habits. sustainable development, promoting the well-being of the population through social projects namely aimed at Last seven years providing access to energy and education. We are committed to the socioeconomic development of the + de 3,500 1.3 million surrounding communities, creating a relationship of trust energy classes of students and ongoing dialogue. This is how we build the success of our operations, minimising risk and sharing value. These principles are enshrined in our Corporate Social Responsability Policy, available on our website. +1 million 3,514 We ensure respect for human rights students Schools of the 1st Cycle 113 thousand members of Basic Education Our involvement in the communities is guided by a policy of the educational community of respect and promotion of human rights, to which we encourage our partners and suppliers to adhere to. This commitment is reflected in the Code of Ethics and Conduct and in the Human Rights Policy, available in our website, and ensures the defence and promotion of human rights in all geographies where we operate, promoting the continuous 254 +5 thousand improvement of the tools that support its application. schools of the 2nd students envolved and 3rd cycles of Basic Education In 2017, Galp promoted a human rights assessment in the locations where it operates, defining a risk matrix for each country that will be taken into account for purposes of engaging with local partners during the life cycle of projects. In the same year, Galp became a member of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights organisation, which disseminates the best practices on this topic to companies in the industry. 74 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results Promoting access to energy in communities As part of this initiative, we supported the largest environmental volunteer action ever undertaken in Portugal, in Mozambique involving around 600 people, among employees, partners In 2017, Galp signed a tripartite protocol between the and family members in the plantation of 7,500 trees over Mozambican institution Fundo Nacional de Energia (Funae, 8 hectares of burnt forest. We have also developed a digital National Energy Fund), the Galp Foundation and Galp, platform that will allow this action to be extended to the for the installation of solar photovoltaic systems in rural whole Portuguese community who wish to join this initiative. communities in the country, providing them with affordable energy. The project was chosen based on the evaluation of We measure the impact of our 105 competing projects promoted by 25 different entities within the scope of the Community Investment Plan in initiatives Mozambique. With full transparency, Galp assesses the social impact of its projects, monitoring its return in benefit of the We involve the community community. We have been members of the London Benchmarking Group since 2012. Galp is committed to continuously improve performance in community investment, considering the long-term shared 2017 (€k) value creation and alignment with the defined strategy, Motivation having developed a Community Investment Policy which can be found on our website, where we assume the challenge Charitable gift 2,182 of being a reference partner to the communities where we Community investment 2,978 have activity, with the aim of promoting their social and Commercial initiatives in the 266 economic development. community Galp’s involvement with the communities where it operates Global breakdown goes beyond the direct investment in projects that benefit Rest of Europe 3,573 the populations in the areas of education, well-being and Middle East and Africa 1,853 the environment. Subject Focus We also promote citizenship actions through the Galp Education 958 Voluntária project, which provides annually a time bank for employee volunteering. Health 690 Economic Development 1,6 1,590 42,632 Environment 773 volunteers volunteer hours Arts/Culture 215 30 Social welfare 1,932 volunteer actions Emergency relief 0 In the last two years we have supported many volunteer Other 857 actions. We highlight the Terra de Esperança movement, Total (without management costs) 5,427 a partnership between the Galp Foundation and the National Association of Forestry, Agriculture and Total with management costs 5,724 Environment Companies (ANEFA) to reforest areas that were affected by the forest fires in Portugal, through Galp’s donation of 500 thousand trees of native species to the association. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 Photo by Arlindo Camacho, Sines refinery Portugal, 2018 5. Financial performance Bringing the Sines and Matosinhos refineries to the digital world is Nuno Garrido’s top challenge. A PhD in Molecular Simulation, he wants the refineries to run in full harmony, just like the music he plays on the piano and on his trumpet. Global Energiser To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 5.1. 2017 highlights • Ebitda RCA for 2017 reached €1.87 bn, on the back of the c.40% production growth in the upstream business and the solid operational performance from the downstream activities, whilst benefiting from the supportive macro environment evolution. • E&P RCA Ebitda amounted to €913 m, up €419 m YoY, benefiting from increased production and higher average sale price. • R&M RCA Ebitda increased €209 m YoY to €785 m, supported by the market environment and by the refineries’ operational availability. • G&P RCA Ebitda was €141 m, down €172 m YoY, reflecting the deconsolidation of GGND made in late 2016 and a weaker contribution from LNG trading. • RCA net income attributable to shareholders reached €602 m, while IFRS net income attributable to shareholders was €614 m. The inventory effect was €96 m and non-recurring items accounted for €85 m. • Post-dividend free cash flow (FCF) during 2017 was positive by €149 m, supported by the increased contribution from the development projects being executed, as well as by the competitiveness and resilience of the Company’s portfolio. • Capital expenditure reached €1.0 bn, already considering the payment of c.€150 m from the acquisition bonus for Carcará North in the Brazilian pre-salt. • The Group’s net debt at the end of 2017 stood at €1,886 m, in line YoY. The net debt to Ebitda RCA ratio fell to 1.0x. Ebitda and Ebit by business segment in 2017 (€m) Non-recurring Ebitda IFRS Inventory effect Ebitda RC Ebitda RCA items Total 1,980 (116) 1,865 4 1,869 E&P 912 912 0 913 R&M 892 (110) 782 4 785 G&P 146 (5) 141 (0) 141 Others 30 30 (0) 30 Non-recurring Ebit IFRS Inventory effect Ebit RC Ebit RCA items Total 1,135 (116) 1,019 43 1,063 E&P 483 483 23 507 R&M 507 (111) 397 22 418 G&P 119 (5) 114 (2) 112 Others 25 25 (0) 25 Note: RCA values unaudited. 78 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp 5.1. 2017 highlights allocation of results 5.2. Operating performance 5.2. Operating performance Exploration & Production RCA Ebitda amounted to €913 m, up €419 m YoY, benefiting Refining margin hedging operations had a negative impact from increased production and higher average sale price, in Ebitda of €24 m during the year. which reached $47.6/boe, compared to $37.7/boe in 2016. The marketing of oil products business benefited from Production costs increased €76 m YoY to €242 m, due the economic recovery in Iberia. The activity’s contribution to the higher number of operating units in Brazil. In unit in Africa increased driven by higher volumes sold. terms and on a net entitlement basis, production costs were $8.2/boe. Depreciation charges and provisions RCA totalled €367 m, up €48 m YoY, following the revision of the useful life Amortisations, depreciation charges and abandonment of certain refining assets at the end of 2016. provisions RCA amounted to €356 m, up €101 m YoY, reflecting the production growth. On a net entitlement RCA Ebit was €418 m, while IFRS Ebit increased basis, unit depreciation charges were $12.0/boe, in line to €507 m. The inventory effect was €111 m. with the previous year. Gas & Power In 2017, RCA results were impacted, among others, by a €22 m write-off relating to the abandonment of RCA Ebitda was €141 m, down €172 m YoY, reflecting exploration assets in Portugal and €23 m related to the deconsolidation of GGND. exploration assets in block 14/14k in Angola. Ebitda RCA for the natural gas segment decreased RCA Ebit stood at €507 m and IFRS Ebit increased €90 m YoY to €104 m, due to the lower contribution to €483 m. Non-recurring items of €23 m resulted mainly from the trading activity and to the negative impact from from an impairment from production assets in block 14 in sourcing restrictions during the first quarter of 2017. Angola. Ebitda RCA for the power business rose €18 m YoY Refining & Marketing to €37 m, as the previous year had been affected by lower cogeneration performance and by the lag in the natural gas Ebitda RCA for the R&M business increased €209 m purchase price indexes and the energy sold. to €785 m, supported by the market environment and by the refineries’ operational availability. RCA Ebit decreased €141 m YoY to €112 m. IFRS Ebit was €119 m, compared to €251 m in the previous year. Galp’s refining margin was $5.8/boe, compared to $4.3/boe the previous year. The spread to benchmark RCA results from associated companies related to the margin was $1.6/boe, as the Company captured a premium G&P business reached €98 m, up €27 m YoY, on the back from gasoline exports to the USA, mainly during the of the incorporation of GGND in this caption since third quarter. the fourth quarter of 2016. Refining cash costs stood at €173 m, in line YoY. In unit terms, cash costs were $1.7/boe. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 5.3. Consolidated income Profit & Loss (€m, RCA except otherwise noted) 2016 2017 Var. % Var. Turnover 13,119 15,204 2,085 16% Costs of goods sold (10,156) (11,494) 1,339 13% Supply & Services (1,259) (1,545) 286 23% Personnel costs (319) (317) (2) (1%) Other operating revenues (expenses) 26 22 (4) (17%) Ebitda RCA 1,411 1,869 458 32% Ebitda IFRS 1,389 1,980 591 43% Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairments (636) (783) 147 23% Provisions (3) (22) 20 n.m. Ebit RCA 772 1,063 291 38% Ebit IRFS 544 1,135 592 n.m. Net income from associated companies 85 150 65 76% Financial results (25) (28) (3) (12% ) Net interests (101) (75) 25 25% Capitalised interest 82 89 8 9% Exchange gain (loss) (9) (18) (9) n.m. Mark-to-market of hedging derivatives 17 (0) (18) n.m. Other financial costs/income (14) (23) (9) (64%) Net income before taxes and non-controlling interests 833 1,185 352 42% Taxes 1 (289) (490) 201 70% Non-controlling interests (61) (92) 31 51% Net income RCA attributable to the shareholders of Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. 483 602 120 25% Non-recurring items (324) (85) (239) (74%) Net income RC attributable to the shareholders of Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. 159 517 358 n.m. Inventory effect 20 96 76 n.m. Net income IFRS attributable to the shareholders of Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. 179 614 435 n.m. 1 Includes corporate income taxes and taxes payable on oil and gas production. 80 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp 5.3. Consolidated Income allocation of results In 2017, RCA turnover increased 16% YoY to €15,204 m, Non-recurring items (€m) mainly driven by the increase in the price of commodities and higher upstream production. 2016 2017 Operating costs RCA increased 14% during the period, Non-recurring items impacting Ebitda 42.1 4.0 and stood at €13,335 m, mainly due to the 13% increase in Accidents caused by natural events the cost of goods sold RCA. The 23% increase in the RCA and insurance compensation (1.2) (2.9) cost of supply and services is mainly attributable to the Gains/losses on disposal of assets (1.5) (1.1) increased production in Brazil. Asset write-offs 1.7 0.6 RCA Ebitda was €1,869 m in 2017, up 32% YoY, supported Employee restructuring charges 14.7 3.1 by the performance of the E&P and R&M businesses. Advisory fees and others 0.2 IFRS Ebitda was €1,980 m. Compensation early termination agreement for service and equipment 12.0 RCA Ebit went up €291 m to €1,063 m, while IFRS Ebit totalled €1,135 m. Litigation costs 9.7 4.3 Taxes from previous years 6.3 RCA results from associated companies increased €65 m to €150 m, due to an increased contribution from the Non-recurring items impacting non-cash costs 206.6 39.4 companies related to the E&P and G&P activities. Provisions for environmental charges and others 8.1 14.4 Financial results RCA were negative €28 m, in line with the previous year. Asset impairments 198.5 24.9 Non-recurring items impacting RCA taxes increased €201 m to €490 m, with taxes on oil 68.0 (16.2) financial results and gas production reaching €239 m. Gains/losses on financial investments (23.5) (13.4) Non-controlling interests RCA, mainly attributable Impairment of financial investments 91.5 (2.8) to Sinopec’s stake in Petrogal Brasil, reached €92 m. Non-recurring items impacting taxes 39.5 57.3 RCA net income attributable to the shareholders reached Income taxes on non-recurring items (24.2) (6.7) €602 m, while IFRS net income attributable to the Tax deferrals on E&P (10.3) shareholders was €614 m. The inventory effect was €96 m and non-recurring items accounted for €92 m. Income tax from previous years 5.9 Energy sector contribution taxes 68.0 64.1 CESE in Portugal had a negative impact on IFRS Non-controlling interests (32.6) 0.4 results of around €64 m. This provision related to CESE results from the strict applicability of accounting standards. Total non-recurring items 323.6 84.9 However, in Galp’s opinion, based on the opinion of renowned legal experts, the laws regarding CESE have no legal grounds and, accordingly, such amounts are not due. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 5.4. Capital expenditure During 2017, capital expenditure reached €1.0 bn, considering the Carcará North signing bonus. Capital expenditure by segment (%) 14% E&P accounted for 84% of the total, of which development R&M activities in Brazil accounted for c.76%. 1% G&P As part of the exploration and appraisal activities, in addition to the reinforcement of the Brazilian pre-salt portfolio through the acquisition of a 20% stake in Carcará 64% E&P North, it is also worth highlighting the 3D seismic data (development 20% acquisition programme in Sao Tome and Principe, which and production) E&A (exploration and appraisal) was completed during the third quarter of 2017. The capital expenditure in downstream activities reached €153 m, and was mainly aimed at refinery maintenance activities, downstream network development and programs to improve the customer experience. Delmira Duarte, Contact Center G&P Portugal, 2018 82 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp 5.4. Capital expenditure allocation of results 5.5. Cash flow 5.5. Cash flow Cash flow – Indirect method (€m, IFRS) Cash flow – Direct method (€m, IFRS) 2016 2017 2016 2017 Ebit 544 1,135 Cash and equivalents at the beginning 1,045 923 of the period1 Dividends from associates 70 134 Received from customers 15,156 17,646 Depreciation, Amortisation and Impairments 835 808 Paid to suppliers (9,094) (10,986) Change in working capital 21 (72) Staff related costs (373) (344) Corporate income taxes and oil and gas (172) (373) Dividends from associated companies 70 134 production taxes Taxes on oil products (ISP) (2,752) (2,825) Cash flow from operations 1,297 1,632 VAT, Royalties, PIS, Cofins, Others (1,571) (1,718) Net capex1 (1,054) (985) Corporate income taxes and oil and gas production taxes (172) (373) Net financial expenses (101) (75) Free cash flow 142 572 Total operating flows 1,264 1,534 Dividends paid (387) (423) Net capex 1 (1,074) (975) Post-dividend free cash flow (246) 149 Net Financial Expenses (120) (102) Others 2 797 (164) Dividends paid (387) (423) Change in net debt (552) 15 Net new loans (32) 183 1 The full year of 2017 includes, among others, the payment of Carcará North signature Sinopec loan reimbursement 134 90 bonus of c.€150 m and the proceeds of €22 m from the sale of the 25% indirect stake in Âncora project. FX changes on cash and equivalents 93 (135) 2 Includes CTAs (Cumulative Translation Adjustment) and partial reimbursement of the loan granted to Sinopec. In 2016, also includes the impact from the deconsolidation of Cash and equivalents at the end GGND. of the period1 923 1,096 1 Cash and equivalents differ from the Balance Sheet amounts due to IAS 7 classification The full year FCF reached €149 m, considering the Carcará rules. The difference refers to overdrafts which are considered as debt in the Balance Sheet and as a deduction to cash in the Cash Flow Statement. North signing bonus of c.€150 m and after the payment of 2 The full year of 2017 includes, among others, the payment of Carcará North signature dividends in the amount of €423 m. bonus of c.€150 m and the proceeds of €22 m from the sale of the 25% indirect stake in Âncora project. The FCF generated post-dividends and expansion capex reflects the competitiveness and resilience of the Company’s portfolio. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 5.6. Financial position Consolidate financial position (€m, except otherwise noted) Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Var. Net fixed assets 7,721 7,565 (156) Working capital 512 584 72 Loan to Sinopec 610 459 (151) Other assets (liabilities) (428) (645) (217) Non-current assets/liabilities held for sale (1) 1 Capital employed 8,414 7,963 (450) Short-term debt 325 551 226 Medium-long term debt 2,578 2,532 (45) Total debt 2,903 3,083 180 Cash and equivalents 1,032 1,198 165 Total net debt 1,870 1,886 15 Total equity 6,543 6,078 (466) Total equity and net debt 8,414 7,963 (450) Net debt to Ebitda RCA 1.3x 1.0x On December 31, 2017, net fixed assets stood at €7,565 m, down €156 m compared to the end of the previous year, as depreciation charges and exchange rate effects more than offset capital expenditure during the year. Work-in-progress, mainly related to the E&P business, was €2,616 m at the end of the year. The Group’s net debt at the end of 2017 stood at €1,886 m, in line YoY. The net debt to Ebitda RCA ratio stood at 1.0x. 84 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp 5.6. Financial position allocation of results Debt reimbursement profile (€m) The average interest rate was 3.46% during the year. 1,000 During the fourth quarter, the issuance of €500 m debt securities with a 5-year maturity under the EMTN 800 programme, with a coupon of 1%, should be highlighted. 600 At the end of the year, around 60% of total debt was on a fixed-rate basis. Debt had an average maturity 400 of 2.5 years, and medium and long-term debt accounted for 82% of total debt. 200 At the end of 2017, Galp had unused credit lines 0 of approximately €1.3 bn. Of this amount, around 70% was 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023+ contractually guaranteed. Profile @ December 31 2017 Profile @ December 31 2016 Stylianos Athanasopoulos, Galp Madrid Spain, 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 85 Photo by Mauro Vombe, Maputo CFM station Mozambique, 2018 6. Corporate governance Atish Jaientilal promises he will not run out of energy when it comes to help develop Mozambique. At 31, he is the project engineer for Galp’s E&P business in sub-Saharan Africa. Global Energiser To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The Chapter of this Report complies with governance code The remaining 58,079,514 shares are indirectly held by the model set up by CMVM on CMVM Regulation No. 4/2013 Portuguese state through Parpública and are not listed. on Corporate Governance, available at the CMVM website: They represent 7% of the Galp’s share capital and are http://www.cmvm.pt/en/Legislacao/National_legislation/ a special category of shares undergoing a privatisation Regulamentos/Documents/Reg4_2013.Governo.das. process and may be converted into ordinary shares by Sociedades.en.pdf and complies with article 245-A of simple request sent to Galp, without the need for approval Securities Code. from any of the Company’s corporate bodies. Codes and tickers for the Galp share PART I Listed on Euronext Information on ISIN PTGAL0AM0009 Lisbon State-owned shares subject to privatisation PTGALXAM0006 the Company’s Sedol process B1FW751 shareholding WKN AOLB24 Bloomberg GALP PL structure, Reuters GALP.LS 2. Restrictions on the transfer of shares, such as clauses on consent for disposal or limits on the ownership of organisation and shares (Article 245(A)(1)(b) of the Securities Code). Galp shares are freely transferable under the terms of the governance general scheme, with no restrictions under the By-laws that may impede their transferability or ownership. 3. Number of own shares, the percentage of share capital that it represents and corresponding percentage of voting rights that corresponded to own shares (Article A Shareholding structure 245(A)(1)(a) of the Securities Code). I Capital structure On 31 December 2017, Galp held no treasury shares. 1. Capital structure (share capital, number of shares, 4. Important agreements to which the company is a distribution of capital by shareholder, etc.), including an party and that come into effect, amend or terminated indication of shares that are not admitted to trading, in cases such as a change in control of the company different classes of shares, rights and duties of same after a takeover bid, and the respective effects, except and the capital percentage that each class represents where due to their nature the disclosure thereof would (Article 245(A)(1)(a) of the Securities Code). be seriously detrimental to the company; this exception does not apply where the company is specifically Galp’s share capital is €829,250,635, fully paid and required to disclose such information pursuant to other represented by 829,250,635 shares with a par value of legal requirements (Article 245(A)(1)(j) of the Securities €1.00 each. Code). 771,171,121 shares, representing 93% of the share capital and Galp is not a party to any significant agreements that take voting rights, are listed on Euronext Lisbon. effect, is amended or terminated, in the event of a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid. In accordance with normal market practice, certain financing 88 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance agreements include change of control provisions with the corresponding to the Galp share capital. These reporting possibility of debt holders to request early loan repayment duties are applicable in most of the European countries, amounting to €371.4 million. being applicable the Article 20 of the Securities Code in the Portuguese case, which can be viewed at CMVM website Galp does not adopt any measures to demand payments or www.cmvm.pt. the assumption of costs in the event of change of control or change in the composition of the Board of Directors, which On 31 December 2017, qualifying holdings in Galp’s share might damage the free transferability of the shares and the capital, calculated in accordance with Article 20 of the free appraisal of the performance of the members of the Securities Code and reported to Galp, are presented in the Board of Directors by the shareholders. following table. 5. A system that is subject to the renewal or withdrawal Qualifying holdings in Galp’s share capital of countermeasures, particularly those that provide for on 31 December 2017 a restriction on the number of votes capable of being held or exercised by only one shareholder individually or together with other shareholders. Number Percentage of Shareholders of shares voting rights The By-laws enshrine the “one share, one vote” principle, Amorim Energia, B.V. with no provisions or other legal instruments imposing Holding 276,472,161 33.34% any limitation on the number of votes that can be held or Other attributable situations 0 0.00% exercised by a single shareholder or by agreement with other shareholders. Total attributed 276,472,161 33.34% Parpública Participações Públicas (SGPS), S.A. In the same way, the By-laws do not contain any provisions Holding 62,021,3401 7.48% preventing the takeover bids or establish any voting caps. Other attributable situations 0 0.00% 6. Shareholders’ agreements that the company is aware Total attributed 62,021,340 7.48% of and that may result in restrictions on the transfer BlackRock, Inc. of securities or voting rights (Article 245(A)(1)(g) of the Holding 20,307,726 2.45% Securities Code). Other attributable situations 0 0.00% The Board of Directors is not aware of any shareholder Total attributed 20,307,726 2.45% agreements relating to Galp, which could lead to restrictions Janus Henderson Group plc2 on the transfer of securities or the exercise of voting rights. Holding 19,465,726 2.34% Other attributable situations 0 0.00% II Shareholdings and bonds held Total attributed 19,465,726 2.34% Templeton Global Advisors Limited 7. Details of the natural or legal person who, directly Holding 16,870,865 2.03% or indirectly, are holders of qualifying holdings (Article 245(A)(1)(c) and (d) of the Securities Code) with details Other attributable situations 0 0.00% of the percentage of capital and votes allocated and the Total attributed 16,870,865 2.03% source and causes of attribution. 1 58,079,514 of which are subject to a privatisation process. 2 Henderson Group plc changed its name to Janus Henderson Group plc, after having The shareholders and other entities must report to CMVM acquired Janus Capital Group Inc at 30 May 2017. and to Galp qualifying holdings, in particular whenever the holding attributable to such shareholder or entity, reaches, exceeds or falls below the limits of 2%, 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 1/3, 50%, 2/3 and 90% of the voting rights Annual Report and Accounts 2017 89 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world In 2017 the following transactions related to qualifying On 31 December 2017, none of the members of the Board of holdings occurred in Galp’s share capital: Directors held any bonds issued by the Company. In early 2017, BlackRock, Inc, Janus Henderson Group plc On 31 December 2017, the Chairman of the Audit Board held and Templeton Global Advisors Limited, held 2.45%, 2.34% one Galp Energia, SGPS S.A. EMTN Notes, with a rate of and 2.03% shares, respectively, in Galp’s share capital, 4.125%, maturing on 25 January 2019 and had performed based on the information provided to the Company in April no transaction of those debt instruments during 2017. 2014, September 2016 and April 2013, respectively. 9. Special powers of the Board of Directors, especially On 21 March 2017, Standard Life Investments (Holdings) as regards resolutions on the capital increase (Article Limited notified Galp that its subsidiary company, Standard 245(A)(1)(i) of the Securities Code) with an indication Life Investments Limited, increased its holding in Galp’s as to the allocation date, time period within which such share capital to 2.703% (above the 2% limit). Following this powers may be carried out, the upper ceiling for the change, the indirect holding of Standard Life Investments capital increase, the amount already issued pursuant to (Holdings) Limited in Galp increased to 24,142,849 shares, the allocation of powers and mode of implementing the representing 2.911% of the voting rights. powers assigned. In July, Black Creek Investment Management Inc. notified The Board of Directors has the typical powers of Company’s Galp that on 24 July increased its holding in Galp’s share management set forth in corporate legislation for the capital, and the respective voting rights from 1.97% to respective corporate governance model. The By-laws do not 2.00%, having communicated the following month that it provide for any special powers for the Board of Directors, decreased its holding in Galp’s share capital and respective including with respect to the increase of Company’s share voting rights from 2.00% to 1.99%, and thus no longer capital. holding a qualifying holding. The annual General Shareholders Meeting held in 2017 Still in August, and following the merger of Aberdeen Asset granted the Board of Directors the power to acquire and Management PLC and Standard Life plc, with effects from dispose of Company treasury shares and bonds. The timing 14 August 2017, Standard Life Aberdeen Plc communicated and size of transactions are determined depending on that its group’s holding in Galp’s share capital and the market conditions and a set of criteria defined and approved respective voting rights became 2.43%, 2.39% of which are by the General Shareholders Meeting, which are available held indirectly through shares and 0.04% are held through on the Galp’s website http://www.galp.com/Portals/0/ financial instruments. Recursos/Investidores/SharedResources/Assembleias/ EN/2017AG/Item_9.pdf In November, Standard Life Aberdeen Plc communicated to the Company that on 6 November decreased its indirect On 31 December 2017, Galp held no treasury shares or holding in Galp’s share capital and respective voting rights bonds. from 2.12% to 1.96%, thus no longer holding a qualifying holding. 10. Information on any significant business relationships between the holders of qualifying holdings and the 8. A list of the number of shares and bonds held by the company. members of the management and supervisory board. In 2017, there were no significant relationships of a The number of shares held by, or allocated to, members commercial nature between owners of qualifying holdings of the Board of Directors and the Audit Board, as well as and Galp. changes occurred during the 2017 financial year, under Article 447 paragraph 5 of the Commercial Companies Code (CSC), is presented in Appendix 8.7 to this Report. 90 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance B Corporate Bodies and a) o  n the date of registration, i.e., 00:00 (WEST) of the 5th trading day prior to the date of the General Committees Shareholders Meeting, s/he is a holder of at least one share; I General Shareholders Meeting b) p  roves ownership of shares, by sending to the Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting, until a) Composition of the Board of the General the date of registration, a declaration issued and sent Shareholders Meeting by the financial broker with information on the number of shares registered and the registration date; 11. Details and position of the members of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting and respective term c) s  tate the intention of participation in the General of office (beginning and end). Shareholders Meeting, in writing, by sending, by the end of the 6th trading day prior to the date of the General Under Article 11(2) of the By-laws, the Board of the Shareholders Meeting, to the Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting and to the financial General Shareholders Meeting consists of a Chairman, broker with whom the individual registration account is Vice-Chairman and Secretary, elected by the General open. Shareholders Meeting The exercise of these rights is not affected by the transfer The members of the Board of the General Shareholders of the shares at any time after 00:00 (WEST) on the date Meeting elected for 2015-2018, starting on 16 April 2015 of registration and is not affected by any blocking between and ending on 31 December 2018, are the following: that date and the date of the General Shareholders Meeting. In any case, shareholders who, having declared Chairman: Daniel Proença de Carvalho their intention to participate in the General Shareholders Vice-Chairman: Victor Manuel Pereira Dias Meeting, transfer ownership of shares between 00:00 Secretary: Maria Helena Claro Goldschmidt on the date of registration and closure of the General Shareholders Meeting shall immediately inform the b) Exercising the right to vote Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting and the CMVM. 12. Any restrictions on the right to vote, such as restrictions on voting rights subject to holding a number Article 10(6) to (9) of the By-laws permits voting by mail, of percentage of shares, deadlines for exercising voting without any restrictions. rights, or systems whereby the financial rights attaching to securities are separated from the holding of securities The right of postal vote may be exercised electronically, in (Article 245(A)(1)(f) of the Securities Code) accordance with the requirements defined by the Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting, when The By-laws enshrine the “one share, one vote” principle, notification is sent of each General Shareholders Meeting, with no provisions or other legal instruments restricting to guarantee authenticity and confidentiality. exercising of voting rights. 13. Details of the maximum percentage of voting Galp has not established any mechanism to create a rights that may be exercised by a single shareholder or discrepancy between the right to receive dividends or shareholders that are in any relationship as set out in subscribe new securities and the voting rights of each share. Article 20(1) of the Securities Code. The right to vote is exercised pursuant to Article 10(1) of the The By-laws do not provide any limitation on the voting By-laws, accordingly with the shareholders rights directive. rights that may be exercised by a single shareholder Therefore any shareholder may participate, discuss and vote or shareholders in any of the relationships with such at the General Shareholders Meeting in person or by proxy, shareholder established in Article 20 of the Securities Code. according to the following requirements: Annual Report and Accounts 2017 91 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 14. Details of shareholders’ resolutions that, imposed by II Management and supervision the By-laws, may only be taken with a qualified majority, in addition to those legally provided, and details of such (Board of Directors, Executive Committee and majority. General and Supervisory Board) The resolutions of the General Shareholders Meeting are a) Composition passed by simple majority of the votes cast, except where the law or By-laws require a qualified majority. Abstentions 15. Details of corporate governance model adopted. do not count in voting on resolutions of the General Shareholders Meeting. Galp’s corporate governance model uses a management structure comprising of a Board of Directors, an Executive Pursuant to the By-laws, a qualified majority of two-thirds Committee, a strengthened supervisory framework of the votes cast is only required for the following matters: including the Audit Board and the Statutory Auditor, and a Company Secretary providing specialist support to the a) resolutions on matters relating to the Company’s Company’s corporate bodies. management submitted to the General Shareholders Meeting by the Board of Directors; Galp’s corporate bodies are the ones that are mandatory b) amendments to the By-laws, including capital increases for companies with shares listed in a regulated market and and limitation or withdrawal of pre-emption rights of the which adopt the one-tier model under Article 278(1)(a), shareholders; Article 413(1)(b) and (2)(a) and Article 446(A)(1) of the CSC. c) merger, demerger, transformation or dissolution of the Galp’s governance model is designed to ensure the Company. transparency and effectiveness of the Group through a clear separation of powers between the different corporate In relation to the resolutions of the General Shareholders bodies. Whilst the Board of Directors exercises oversight, Meeting on the matters referred to in b) and c) or other definition and supervision of strategic guidelines, as well matters for which the law requires a qualified majority, the as the management supervision and of relations between deliberating quorum of two-thirds of the votes is necessary shareholders and other corporate bodies, the duties of the in both the first and the second call, even if shareholders Executive Committee, delegated by the Board of Directors, holding at least half of the capital are present or are operational in nature and entail the day-to-day represented, in order to ensure an adequate representation management of business and corporate services. of shareholders when passing resolutions about matters that are strategic for the Company. The existence of matters that are the exclusive remit of the Board of Directors ensures that this body defines and monitors Galp’s strategic guidelines. The allocation of responsibility for coordinating specific management areas of the Executive Committee to each of its members, which can be seen at section 29 of this chapter, without prejudice to the collective nature of the exercise of management functions by this body, promotes the effective monitoring of the Company’s management and the use of synergies within each business unit and in the Company as a whole. The Chairman of the Board of Directors has authority and responsibilities, in addition to those provided by law, Bylaws and regulations, to coordinate and supervise relations between the Company and its shareholders, in accordance with the Company’s objectives, the long-term shareholders’ interests and ensuring the sustainable development of Galp’s business. 92 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance Under the legal provisions applicable to the relationship nomination, co-option or appointment of a substitute, between the non-executive members of the Board of except that a member who has resigned or has been Directors and the Executive Committee, namely in respect removed, remains in office for the period established of monitoring by non-executive members of the Executive in the CSC. Committee’s activity, in accordance with Article 407(8) of the CSC, the Chairman of the Board of Directors has the In view of the national legal framework, which attributes right to attend the meetings of the Executive Committee. to the shareholders the power to elect the members of the Board of Directors and limits the participation The Audit Board is responsible for exercising the oversight of the Board of Directors on matters of shareholders’ functions of Company’s business in five key areas: competence, Galp doesn’t have a nomination committee. In fact, such committee couldn’t replace competency of the (i) supervision of the Company’s activity; shareholders, according to Article 391 of CSC. (ii) control of the Company’s financial information; (iii) oversight of the internal risk management, internal Usually, the Company has been involved in identification control and internal auditing systems; and and selection processes of specific profiles to different (iv) receipt (and processing) of whistle blowing; management positions using international companies that and are reputed and specialised in executive selection. (v) auditor independence protection. Members of the Board of Directors are elected from a list, The Statutory Auditor is responsible for control of the with an indication of the proposing shareholders, with the Company’s financial information. vote only applying to the full list and not to every single one of its members, as provided by law. 16. By-laws rules on the procedural requirements governing the appointment and replacement of members Minority shareholders that, either individually or as an of the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee and established group, have a voting interest in the Company the General and Supervisory Board, where applicable of at least 10% and not greater than 20%, have the right (Article 245(A)(1)(h) of the Securities Code). to individually nominate one director, as per the following terms of Article 14(2) of the By-laws: The members of the Board of Directors, including the a) e  ach list must propose at least two candidates for each Chairman, are appointed and replaced by the General office to be filed; Shareholders Meeting. b) t he same shareholder cannot subscribe to more than The shareholders also annually decide on the continuity one list; of each director in the event of a positive appraisal of their performance, by vote of praise and/or confidence. c) if lists are presented by more than one group of The absence of a positive annual appraisal, through the shareholders for an individual election, voting will be attribution of a vote of no confidence, leads to the dismissal based on all the lists; of the director in question, in accordance with the law. d) G  eneral Shareholders Meeting cannot proceed to elect other directors until the election of the director In the event of permanent absence or impediment of any proposed by the minority shareholders that, individually member of the Board of Directors, this body shall proceed or grouped with other shareholders for this purpose, are to co-opt a replacement member and must submit this holders of share capital with voting rights of between proposal for endorsement by the next general shareholders 10% and 20%, unless such lists are not submitted; meeting. e) t he above rules apply to the election of the substitute The members of the Board of Directors are appointed for a member director. term of four calendar years, with the year of appointment counting as a full year and may be re-elected one or more times. Members of the Board of Directors take office at the time of appointment and remain in office until the Annual Report and Accounts 2017 93 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world If no list is submitted under the above provisions, or when If the total number of elected directors is not divisible by the above procedure is concluded, the other directors are three, the number of directors to be elected will be rounded elected, including the Chairman of the Board of Directors. up to the next whole number. Directors elected under this The shareholders who voted successfully in favour of the procedure automatically replace those who are in the final director, proposed under the procedure outlined in the places of the initially approved list. preceding paragraphs, may not participate in this election. 17. Composition of the Board of Directors, the Executive The other directors, including the Chairman of the Board Committee and the General and Supervisory Board, of Directors, are elected by a vote from any lists submitted where applicable, with details of the By-law’s minimum for this purpose, with the proposal obtaining the highest and maximum number of members, duration of term number of votes in favour being deemed approved. of office, number of effective members, date when first appointed and end date of the term of office of each If the approved proposal includes the maximum number of member. directors allowed by the By-laws, and a director has been elected under the procedure referred to in Article 14(2) of In accordance with the By-laws, the Board of Directors has the By-laws, the director thus elected shall replace the a minimum of 19 and maximum of 23 directors who are person appearing in 13th place in the proposal that has been appointed for four year terms. successful. If the approved proposal does not include the maximum number of directors allowed by the By-laws, the The current 19 members of the Board of Directors, elected director elected under the procedure referred to in a) to d) at the General Shareholders Meeting of 16 April 2015 for the above is added to the number of directors elected under the four-year term 2015-2018 are listed in the following table. terms above mentioned. For the purposes of the replacement of the directors’ scheme due to permanent absence, in accordance with Article 393(1) of the CSC, the By-laws state that a director is deemed permanently absent when, without justification accepted by the Board of Directors, s/he misses three consecutive meetings or five non-consecutive meetings. In accordance with the By-laws, if the proposal for the election of directors (except the director to be elected by the minority shareholders) is not approved by a majority of 55% of votes cast and with at least 40% of the share capital with voting rights, the shareholders that: (i) are qualified to participate in this election (not having voted in the election of the director appointed by the minority shareholders); (ii) have voted against that proposal or in favour of a proposal that has not been successful; and (iii) hold, themselves or in a group formed for this purpose, shares representing at least 25% of the share capital with voting rights, may submit and vote on proposals, electing among themselves a number corresponding to one third of the elected directors (not including the director elected by the minority shareholders who, by themselves or grouped with others for this purpose, are holders of share capital with voting rights of at least 10% and not greater than 20% under the above terms). 94 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance Members of the Board of Directors Name Position Date of first appointment Term end date Paula Amorim Chairman 2012.04.24 2018.12.31 Miguel Athayde Marques Vice-Chairman 2012.11.23 2018.12.31 Carlos Gomes da Silva Vice-Chairman 2007.04.26 2018.12.31 Filipe Crisóstomo Silva Member 2012.07.26 2018.12.31 Thore E. Kristiansen Member 2014.10.03 2018.12.31 Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo Member 2012.07.26 2018.12.31 Abdul Magid Osman Member 2012.07.26 2018.12.31 Marta Amorim Member 2016.10.14 2018.12.31 Raquel Vunge Member 2014.10.03 2018.12.31 Carlos Costa Pina Member 2012.04.24 2018.12.31 Francisco Rêgo Member 2015.04.16 2018.12.31 Jorge Seabra de Freitas Member 2012.11.23 2018.12.31 José Carlos Silva Member 2012.11.23 2018.12.31 Pedro Ricardo Member 2015.04.16 2018.12.31 Tiago Câmara Pestana Member 2015.04.16 2018.12.31 Rui Paulo Gonçalves Member 2008.05.06 2018.12.31 Luís Todo Bom Member 2012.11.23 2018.12.31 Diogo Tavares Member 2006.02.22 2018.12.31 Joaquim Borges Gouveia Member 2008.05.06 2018.12.31 18. Distinction to be drawn between executive and non-executive directors and, as regards non-executive members, details of members that may be considered independent or, where applicable, details of independent members of the General and Supervisory Board 18.1 The independence of the members of the General and Supervisory Board and members of Audit Board shall be determined in accordance with the applicable law and, as regards the other members of the Board of Directors, those who are not associated with any specific interest group within the company, nor under any circumstances capable of affecting their impartiality of analysing or decision-making is considered to be independent, particularly with regard to the following: a) s /he has been an employee of the Company, or a company which is in a controlling or group relationship, in the past three years; b) in the past three years, s/he has provided services or established a significant business relationship with the Company, or a company with which it is in a control or group relationship, either directly or as a partner, board member, manager or director of a legal person; c) s /he is receiving remuneration paid by the Company, or a company that is in a controlling or group relationship, in addition to remuneration derived from carrying out the tasks as a member of the Board of Directors; d) is living with a partner or a spouse, next of kin up to and including third degree, of member of the Board of Directors, or individually directly or indirectly holding qualifying holdings; e) is a qualifying shareholder or representative of a qualifying shareholder. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 95 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world On 31 December 2017, the Board of Directors had 12 nonConsidering the criteria to determine the independence of executive members (who remain in office on this date), non-executive members of the Board of Directors above among 19, corresponding to 63% of the total number of mentioned and, based on their self-assessment for financial directors, which is an adequate number, given in particular year 2017, the Board of Directors had the following five Galp’s shareholder structure and capital dispersion. The independent directors: non-executive members engage in monitoring activities and continuous evaluation of the Company´s management Non-executive independente directors to ensure effective capacity for monitoring, supervision, Miguel Athayde Marques oversight and evaluation of the activity of the executive Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo members. Abdul Magid Osman The composition of the Board of Directors distributed Luís Todo Bom between executive and non-executive members is in the Joaquim Borges Gouveia next table: Executive directors Given the Company’s governance model, shareholder Carlos Gomes da Silva structure and respective free float, Galp believes that the proportion of independent directors (42% of the Filipe Crisóstomo Silva non-executive members of the Board of Directors) is Thore E. Kristiansen suitable given the number of executive directors and the Carlos Costa Pina total number of directors. José Carlos Silva The Board of Directors decided to assign two non-executive Pedro Ricardo independent members, Sérgio Gabrielli and Abdul Magid Tiago Câmara Pestana Osman, the special charge of monitoring the evolution of the Brazil and Mozambique markets, respectively, to ensure a detailed strategic analysis of these two central Non-executive directors geographical markets for the Company´s activity. Paula Amorim On 14 October 2016, Galp reinforced the participation of Miguel Athayde Marques independent directors in the Board of Directors with the Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo appointment of the independent non-executive director Abdul Magib Osman since 2012 and with a respected professional career in the financial sector, Miguel Athayde Marques, to the role of Marta Amorim Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors. Raquel Vunge Francisco Rêgo 19. Professional qualifications and other relevant curricular information of each member of the Board of Jorge Seabra de Freitas Directors, the General and Supervisory Board and the Rui Paulo Gonçalves Executive Committee, where applicable. Luis Todo Bom The members of the Board of Directors have acknowledged Diogo Tavares skills, variety of academic backgrounds and professional Joaquim Borges Gouveia experience, as shown in the table below, which evinces diversity within the Board of Directors, in line with the diversity policy of the Board of Directors and Audit Board. The biography of each member is shown in Appendix 8.8 of this report. 96 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance Education Main area of expertise Operacional experience Others Business Administration and Management Experience as Chairman of Board of Experience as Chairman of Executive Experience as Chief Financial Officer Social Responsibility Associations Asset Procurement/Purchase and Securities and Derivatives Market United Nations Development Real estate /Hotels & Resorts Oil and Gas organisations Environmental Associations (including Risk Management) Paper & Forest Products Telecommunications International experience Economics/Finance Energy/Oil & Gas Financial Services Beverage Industry Textile Industry Directors Committee (CEO) (CFO) Investor Relations Management Climate Change Engineering Public offices Marketing Programmes Law Scholar Retail Finance Legal NonPaula Amorim (Chairman) executive Miguel Athayde Marques Non(Vice-Chairman) executive Carlos Gomes da Silva Executive (CEO, Vice-Chairman) Filipe Crisóstomo Silva Executive Thore E. Kristiansen Executive Sérgio Gabrielli de NonAzevedo executive NonAbdul Magid Osman executive NonMarta Amorim executive NonRaquel Vunge executive Carlos Costa Pina Executive NonFrancisco Rêgo executive NonJorge Seabra de Freitas executive José Carlos Silva Executive Pedro Ricardo Executive Tiago Câmara Pestana Executive NonRui Paulo Gonçalves executive NonLuís Todo Bom executive NonDiogo Tavares executive NonJoaquim Borges Gouveia executive The Diversity Policy of the Board of Directors and Audit Board, approved by the Board of Directors can be seen on Galp’s web site https://www.galp.com/Portals/0/Recursos/Governo-Societario/SharedResources/Documentos/EN/Diversity_policy_for_ the_board_of_directors_and_audit_board_-_Versao_publicada_-_EN.pdf Galp commits, according with the competences of each body, to develop tending efforts to promote diversity in its Board of Directors and Audit Board, particularly in the following criteria: age, gender, geographical origin, academic background and professional experience, Galp recognises the benefits of diversity in the core of its Board of Directors and Audit Board, as a way to ensure better balance in its composition, enhance the performance of its members, reinforce the quality of the decision making and control processes, avoid the Group thinking effect and contribute to our sustainable development. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 97 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The current Board of Directors has appropriate and necessary diversity in light of the activities pursued by the Company and the strategy defined for the coming years, including in terms of origin and backgrounds. In fact, the Board includes members with origin from the countries where Galp is present – Portugal, Brazil, Angola and Mozambique. In order to strengthen the competencies of the members of the Board of Directors, and ensure the adequate knowledge and monitoring by the non-executive members of the activities pursued by the business units, in 2017 it was implemented a knowledge development annual plan, having the members of the Board of Directors participated in training initiatives on Galp’s businesses and on governance issues. The implementation of diversity policy began with its approval by the Board of Directors on December 15, 2017, and its results will be reported in the governance report for 2019, the year in which the next General Elective Meeting of Galp will be held. 20. Customary and meaningful family, professional and business relationships of the members of the Board of Directors, the General and Supervisory Board and Executive Committee, where applicable, with shareholders that are assigned qualifying holdings that are greater than 2% of the voting rights. Director Shareholder with qualifying interest Relationship Paula Amorim Amorim Energia Director Marta Amorim Amorim Energia Director Francisco Rêgo Amorim Energia Director Jorge Seabra de Freitas Amorim Energia Director Rui Paulo Gonçalves Amorim Energia Director 98 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance 21. Organisational charts or flowcharts concerning the allocation of powers between the Company’s various corporate bodies, committees and/or departments, including information on the delegating powers, particularly as regards to the delegation of the Company’s daily management. Governance Model General Shareholders Audit Meeting Board Remuneration Committee Ethics and External Internal Statutory Auditor Auditor Conduct Committee Auditor Sustainability Board Committee of Directors Corporate Galp • Strategy and Investor Relations Company • Marketing and Communication Secretary • Legal and Governance • People • Corporate Planning and Control Executive Other Committees Corporate Centre • Corporate Finance Committee • Risk Management • Advisory and M&A • Risk Management Committee • EQS Board Galp Solutions Business • Procurement and Contracts Segments • Accounting andTaxation • Information Systems • Asset Management Galp Tec • Research & Technology Exploration Refining Gas & • EQS & Sustainability & Prodution & Marketing Power • Engineering and Project Management Galp’s current organisational structure is based on three business segments and a corporate center under the coordination of each of the executive directors, as described in section 29 of the present chapter of this report. The guiding principles of this structure are horizontality, flexibility, simplicity, efficiency and delegation of responsibility, to create value for shareholders, in particular by the capture of synergies within and between the business units. The corporate centre provides various services for the business units and Group companies, including planning and control, accounting, legal advice and human resources, and consists of the following three clusters of functions: Annual Report and Accounts 2017 99 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Galp Corporate brings together the main functions of governance, strategy, guidelines and corporate control, monitoring the implementation of the Company’s policies and goals. It integrates the following departments: Strategy and Investor Define Galp’s strategic guidelines, promoting clear strategic, operational and financial perception of the Relations Company for its stakeholders. Marketing and Define the Galp Group’s communication strategy, coordinate and manage the corporate responsibility Communication policy of the Company Legal and Governance Exercise and manage legal, governance and compliance functions and the corporate secretariat, for the Galp Group, particularly in aspects of legal support for business decisions, monitoring legal compliance and policies for compliance, definition and implementation of the process of organisation, operation and decision-making of the governing bodies, litigation management and prevention of legal risks. People Act as agent and facilitator for change, by attracting, integrating and developing the best talents, as well as ensuring their alignment with the Company’s culture, values and strategy Corporate Planning Set, monitor and consolidate Galp’s budgeting, planning and control processes of the Company, challenge and Control the performance of the business and the corporate centre and ensure their alignment with Galp’s strategic objectives. Corporate Finance Propose and implement the Galp Group’s financing strategy, ensuring the optimisation and diversification of its financial resources and integrated Treasury management. Risk Management Promote the implementation of the risk management policies in conjunction with business. Propose insurance policies, negotiate and manage the related contracts at whole Group level and manage health plans. Advisory and M&A Develop mechanisms for evaluating organizational units, evaluate opportunities for strategic growth and its impact on the Company’s value, and coordinate M&A operations. Galp Solutions brings together service functions of a more transactional nature, with the clear objective of efficiency/ effectiveness and a focus on metrics and quality of service provided at a competitive conditions. It integrates the following departments: Maximise Galp’s negotiation power, within the procurement function, by obtaining better value for Procurement and money, while safeguarding health, safety and sustainable criteria and practices in the purchase of goods Contracts and services Ensure the preparation of accounts for the Galp Group. Draft the respective management information Accounting and reports from a general and cost accounting perspective. Ensure compliance with tax obligations under Taxation international taxation and the tax laws of the countries where Galp operates. Promote the development and sustainability of Galp’s business through efficient, effective, reliable, Information Systems consistent, innovative information system management, oriented towards controlled processes and costs. Asset Management Ensure the management of Galp’s non-related to business assets. Galp Tec brings together critical cross-cutting expertise to increase and protect the value of Galp. It integrates the following departments: Define and implement integrated policies and projects in innovation, technological and energy efficiency Research & Technology research, within the structure of the Galp Group’s strategy and given the principles of value creation. Promote the efficiency of processes, aiming at protecting people’s environment and assets, with the EQS & Sustainability creation of value for all stakeholders. Engineering and Project Manage Galp’s projects to support its business, from the design phase until commercial commissioning, Management ensuring quality of execution and compliance with projects budgets and deadlines. 100 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance The Company’s business segments are Exploration & on partners, geopolitical issues, as well as the results from Production’s, Refining & Marketing and Gas & Power. risk assessments that are deepened whenever deemed For more detail see chapter 1.2 (Value Chain) of this report. appropriate. The Company’s organisational model also foresees the Within the Risk Management Committee, a working group existence of specialised committees as presented below. operates focused on issues related to environment, quality and safety, compliance and regulatory changes. During Ethics and Conduct Committee 2017, the working group focused on the most critical risks in these matters and reported the findings of its evaluation to The Ethics and Conduct Committee (CEC) is the the committee. independent and impartial internal structure responsible for monitoring the implementation and interpretation of the At the level of the various business units works Risk and Code of Ethics and Conduct, as defined in the respective Credit Committees represented by the Risk Management Regulation. The CEC is also responsible for receiving and Department, which participates also in working groups processing information sent to it under the Reporting of dedicated to the Galp Group’s main projects, ensuring the Irregularities Procedure (”Open Talk” Ethics Line) in force in alignment of risk management practices and effective Galp and affiliated companies, relating to alleged violations communication with the Risk Management Committee. of the provisions of the Code of Ethics and Conduct or its implementing regulations or rules that deal with the topics Environment, Quality and Safety Board listed therein, in the fields of accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing and the fight against bribery, banking and The Environment, Quality and Safety (EQS) Board’s mission financial crime. is to assist the Executive Committee in promoting the principles that underpin the EQS culture of Galp by ensuring The Audit Board is the governing body overseeing the the implementation of the EQS strategic policies and proper operation and implementation of the Code of Ethics objectives. and Conduct through the frequent and regular reporting of the CEC. The Board is chaired by the executive director responsible for the EQS and Sustainability Department and secretariat During the year 2017, the CEC held four meetings by the head of such department and includes heads of the for analysing and deciding on forwarding reports of business units and relevant corporate departments. irregularities that were received, and participated in three meetings of the Audit Board, during which the due reports In 2017, the EQS Board met twice and addressed the EQS were provided to this body. performance (objectives and targets) and monitored the strategic EQS initiatives in the business. Risk Management Committee b) Functioning The Risk Management Committee’s mission is to support and monitor the development and implementation of Galp’s 22. Availability and place where rules of the functioning risk management strategy and policy, jointly with the Risk of the Board of Directors, the General and Supervisory Management Department and the heads of the Company’s Board and the Executive Committee, where applicable, management units, which comprise of the executive may be viewed. director, who is responsible for the risk management Department (Chief Risk Officer), the Head of the Internal The Board of Directors operates in accordance with Audit Department, the Head of the Risk Management the regulations governing organisation and operation Department and the Chief Financial Officer. approved by this body at its meeting of 16 April 2015, to take effect during the term of 2015-18, in accordance with This body met four times during 2017 and addressed the Article 16 of the By-laws, available on the official Galp issues identified as most relevant from a risk perspective website at https://www.galp.com/Portals/0/Recursos/ for the Galp Group, including risk associated with Governo-Societario/SharedResources/Documentos/EN/ cybersecurity, compliance/reputation, disruptive events, Regulamento_CA_EN_Web.pdf project execution, business continuity, markets, dependence Annual Report and Accounts 2017 101 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 23. Number of meetings held and the attendance report 24. Details of competent corporate boards undertaking for each member of the Board of Directors, the General the performance appraisal of executive directors. and Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee, where applicable. The Remuneration Committee, elected by the General Meeting, conducts the annual performance review of the In accordance with the provisions of Article 16(2) of the Byexecutive and non-executive directors according to article laws, the Board of Directors meets ordinarily once a month, 8 of the articles of association. unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors and whenever convened by the Chairman or by any two The Committee consults non-executive members to assess directors. the qualitative performance of the executive members of the Board of Directors and considers compliance with The By-laws allow for the meetings of the Board of economic, financial and operational objectives, as defined Directors to be held by electronic means and allow postal annually in the remuneration policy. voting. Furthermore, the non-executive members, as part of their In 2017, the Board of Directors held 13 meetings, six of which oversight role, monitor the performance of the executive were held by electronic communications. directors. The degree of attendance of the Members of the Board of Also, pursuant to Article 376 of the CSC, at each General Directors to this body’s seven in-person meetings in 2017 is Shareholders Meeting, the shareholders make a general as follows: appreciation of the Company’s management in general. That appreciation is expressed through a vote of confidence Directors % Attendance or distrust that may lead to the removal of the concerned Paula Amorim 100% director. Miguel Athayde Marques 85.7% 25. Pre-defined criteria for assessing executive Carlos Gomes da Silva 100% directors performance. Filipe Crisóstomo Silva 100% The performance of the executive directors is evaluated Thore E. Kristiansen 71.4% based on fulfilment of certain economic, financial and Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo 71.4% operational objectives, as defined annually by the Abdul Magid Osman 57.1% remuneration policy submitted by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the General Shareholders Marta Amorim 85.7% Meeting. Raquel Vunge 85.7% Carlos Costa Pina 100% The predetermined criteria for the performance evaluation of the executive directors for financial year 2017 are set out Francisco Rêgo 100% in section 69 of this Report’s chapter. Jorge Seabra de Freitas 100% José Carlos Silva 100% 26. Availability of each member of the Board of Directors, the General and Supervisory Board and the Pedro Ricardo 100% Executive Committee, where applicable, and details of Tiago Câmara Pestana 85.7% the positions held at the same time in other companies Rui Paulo Gonçalves 100% within and outside the Galp Group, and other relevant activities undertaken by members of these boards Luis Todo Bom 100% throughout the financial year. Diogo Tavares 100% Joaquim Borges Gouveia 100% The positions held by the members of the Board of Directors in other companies inside and outside the Galp Group, and 102 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance other relevant activities carried out by members of these information applicable to members of the Board of Directors bodies in the 2017 financial year, are presented in Appendix in a conflict of interest due to the exercise of an activity 8.9 of this report. in competition with Galp, as authorised by the General Shareholders Meeting. In general, the members of the Board of Directors have a high degree of availability to exercise their functions, Also, to protect the Galp Group’s interest in possible confirmed by their attendance at the meetings of the Board situations of conflict of interest between the Company of Directors and the Executive Committee and by their and its directors arising from business between them work at Galp as annually certified by the Remuneration and the Company, or companies in a controlling or Group Committee under the qualitative performance assessment relationship with Galp, Galp’s regulatory standard, of the directors. governing its Group’s transactions with related parties, makes the implementation by Galp of significant As is apparent from the table in Appendix 8.9 of this report, transactions with related parties, subject to prior opinion of the duties exercised by Galp’s executive directors in other the Audit Board. companies are in the management bodies of Galp’s direct or indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, they are fully available Moreover, the By-laws subordinate special corporate for the positions of executive members of the Board of governance procedure to approve any business with Directors, shareholders in an amount exceeding €20 million to a deliberation in favour thereof by a qualified majority of two With respect to the non-executive directors with the thirds of the directors. highest number of positions held in other companies, it is noted that they perform these functions within the c) Committees within the Board of Directors or same group (Amorim or Américo Amorim Group), which Supervisory Board and Board Delegates do not prejudice the exercise of positions and functions of monitoring, evaluation and supervision of executive 27. Details of the committees created within the Board management of Galp. of Directors, the General and Supervisory Board and Executive Committee, where applicable, and the place The legal and bylaw’s regime of absences from the meetings where the rules of the functioning thereof is available. of the Board of Directors provides for the removal from office or replacement of the member of the Executive Executive Committee Committee in question by another director, with the other director becoming non-executive. On 16 April 2015, the Board of Directors appointed the Executive Committee consisting of 7 directors, and In addition, Galp has the legal, statutory and regulatory approved the delegation of powers and regulations that mechanisms to prevent and deal with any conflicts of defines the principles and rules of its organisation and interest between directors and the Company in the exercise operation, which can be viewed on Galp’s website at https:// of other positions outside the Galp Group. www.galp.com/Portals/0/Recursos/Governo-Societario/ SharedResources/Documentos/EN/Regulamento_CE_EN_ Pursuant to Article 398 of the CSC, directors shall not: Web.pdf • engage in any activity in competition with the Company, The Board of Directors considers that for performance or a company in a controlling or group relationship with it, alone or on behalf of a third party or perform duties evaluation of management or corporate governance in a competing company or be appointed for it, except if specific committees exclusively composed by non-executive authorised by the General Shareholders Meeting; directors are not required. • hold any position under an employment contract, which will be deemed terminated if entered into less than one year earlier or suspended if entered into more than one year earlier. In addition, Article 14 of the Board of Directors Regulation establishes special arrangements for access to sensitive Annual Report and Accounts 2017 103 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world This understanding is due to the corporate governance In 2017, the Sustainability Committee met four times with model implemented, which, as described in section 15 of this the agendas covering the following matters: Chapter, includes a Board of Directors that assesses the • analysing Galp’s sustainability context, in particular operation of the governance system and largely consists on climate and energy challenges level, human rights, of non-executive members (including the chairman), who safety and environment, as a support to the strategy and monitor the overall performance of the Board of Directors development of operations in the different geographies; and whether directors’ profiles are appropriate for the exercise of their duties. In this context, it should also be • analysing Galp’s performance and setting of noted that there is: A Remuneration Committee, which commitments, objectives and goals, aligned with the best evaluates the performance of executive directors with the practices and benchmarking with peers and benchmark support of non-executive directors; and an Audit Board, performers; which analyses the structure and governance practices adopted in order to verify their effectiveness. In addition, • defining the sustainability requirements at the business certain corporate governance matters are widely discussed development, the plans for mitigation of deviations and analysing risks and opportunities; in the Sustainability Committee. Sustainability Committee 28. Composition of the Executive Committee and/or details of the Board Delegates, where applicable. At Galp, management for sustainability is deemed strategic and involves the incorporation of principles, approaches Galp’s Executive Committee currently consists of the and practices that favour the long-term value creation following seven directors: component. It, therefore, involves managing the creation of sustainable and lasting value that generates confidence in Chairman: Carlos Gomes da Silva (CEO) the future for the various stakeholders. Members: Filipe Crisóstomo Silva (CFO) With the aim of creating sustainable value, in 2012 the Thore E. Kristiansen Sustainability Committee was set up with a mission to Carlos Costa Pina ensure the integration of sustainability principles in the José Carlos Silva management of the Group, by promoting best industry Pedro Ricardo practices in all business and corporate areas. Tiago Câmara Pestana The Committee is chaired by the independent vicechairman of the Board of Directors, while its permanent members are the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the executive director who coordinates the area of sustainability, the chief financial officer, the head of EQS and Sustainability Department the heads of the business areas and relevant corporate departments. This body reports directly to the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee. 104 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance 29. Description of the powers of each of the committees d) e stablishment of strategic partnerships in the context of the main operating activities pursued by the Company’s established and a summary of activities undertaken in controlled companies; exercising such powers. e) a pproval and modification of the strategic plans of the The Executive Committee is the body responsible for Galp’s Company and its controlled companies engaged in the ongoing management, in accordance with the strategic Galp Group’s main activities; guidelines defined by the Board of Directors and under the powers delegated to it by the Board, pursuant to Articles 17 f) a pproval of Galp Group’s annual budget and business and 18 of the By-laws and Article 407(3) and (4) of the CSC, plans and amendments thereto in excess of 20% of the and with the following limits: value of the budget item in question or 10% of the total annual budget amount; 1. The following are not delegated to the Executive g) transactions of the Company or its controlled Committee: companies, with related parties or with any shareholders a) choosing the Chief Executive Officer; of the Company, in a unit or total amount exceeding €20,000,000.00 (twenty million Euros); b) co-opting of directors; h) definition and organisation of the Galp Group’s c) convening the General Shareholder Meetings; corporate structure; d) approving annual management report and accounts; i) proposal and exercise of voting rights in the election of the Boards of Directors of the companies controlled by e) p roviding deposits and personal or real guarantees by the Company; the Company; j) issuance of bonds or other debt instruments by the f) c hanging registered office and capital increases, as Company or its controlled companies; provided in the By-laws; k) demerger, merger or dissolution projects of any the g) deciding on merger, demerger and transformation Company’s controlled companies; projects of the Company. l) signing, by the companies controlled by the Company, of 2. The following are not considered ongoing Company subordination agreements or parity group agreements. management powers and are therefore not delegated to the Executive Committee: a) a pproval of the strategic investments of the Company and its controlled companies and approval of the financing thereof; b) approval of the strategic divestments of the Company and its controlled companies; c) investment, particularly through the direct or indirect acquisition of interests, in companies that do not engage in the main operational activities pursued by the companies controlled by the Company (i.e., exploration, production, refining, transportation, marketing and distribution of oil and gas); Annual Report and Accounts 2017 105 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Notwithstanding the limits on the delegation of powers referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 above, the Executive Committee has a special duty of initiative and proposal, to the Board of Directors, in respect of the acts and matters referred to in section 2 above. At the meeting of the Board of Directors held on 16 April 2015, the chairman of the Executive Committee defined a functional allocation, among the members of the Executive Committee, in respect of the business and activities of the Company and Group companies, under the terms set forth in its Regulations, notwithstanding the collective exercise of the powers of this body, as mentioned in the following page. Specific operation areas of executive directors Filipe Carlos Gomes Crisóstomo Thore E. José Carlos Tiago Câmara da Silva Silva Kristiansen Carlos Costa Pina Silva Pedro Ricardo Pestana CEO CFO COO COO COO COO COO Business Exploration Sourcing, Refining Iberian and New Energies Gas & Power International Oil Units & Production and Planning Marketing Marketing and Communication Corporate Planning and Procurement Investor Control Risk Corporate Centre and Contracts Relations Management and Strategy Corporate Asset Finance Information Management People Systems Advisory and Engineering Legal and M&A EQS and and Project Governance Sustainability Management Accounting Research and and Taxation Technology For matters of the ongoing management in the context of the requests of the operators of the various oil exploration blocks in which Galp is involved, including the development plans of the blocks and the approved budget and action plans, the Executive Committee delegated approval of the respective decisions, namely Authorization for expenditures, Cash Calls and Ballots to the executive directors Thore Kristiansen, Filipe Crisóstomo Silva and José Carlos Silva. A range of mechanisms were adopted to ensure effective and efficient monitoring and control by the non-executive members of the activity of the Executive Committee and to facilitate the related duty to inform. In fact, in accordance with the Regulations of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Executive Committee regularly informs the Chairman of the Board of Directors about the agenda of the meetings of the Executive Committee, the decisions taken in its meetings and other matters deemed relevant for the proper use of the powers and responsibilities of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors and any other two non-executive directors may ask directly the Chairman of the Executive Committee for information on the business of the Executive Committee. The calls and minutes of the meetings of the Executive Committee are sent to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and to the Chairman of the Audit Board. 106 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance In accordance with its regulations, the Executive Committee III Supervision must meet once a week. In 2017, it met 43 times. (Audit Board, Audit Committee or General and The main activities performed by the Executive Committee Supervisory Board) during 2017 in the exercise and within the limits of its responsibilities involve, among other things: a) Composition a) a pproval of operations to be carried out by the Galp Group’s business units and companies; 30. Details of the Supervisory Body (Audit Board, Audit Committee or General and Supervisory Board) b) assessment of monthly results; representing the model adopted. c) a pproval of proposals for submission to the Board of According to the adopted government model, the Audit Directors on matters pertaining to its exclusive powers, Board is the body in charge of supervising the Company. as set out in the By-laws and Regulations of the Board of Directors; Pursuant to Article 413(1)(b) of the CSC, since Galp is a public company, its financial statements have to be d) approval of significant transactions; examined by Statutory Auditors, who is not a member of e) a ssessment of information from specialist committees, the Audit Board., with their responsibilities stated in Article particularly in the area of risk management and 446 of the CSC. sustainability; 31. Composition of the Audit Board, the Audit f) a pproval of capital increase and reduction operations Committee, the General and Supervisory Board or the of the Galp Group companies, performance and Commission for Financial Affairs, where applicable, with reimbursements of ancillary services and supplies; details of the By-laws’ minimum and maximum number of members, term of office duration, number of effective g) change to the by-laws of the Galp Group companies; members, date of first appointment, date of end of the h) real estate purchases and sales; term of office for each member and reference to the section of the report where such information is already i) a  pproval of the comfort letters from the Galp Group included pursuant to paragraph 18. companies; Under the By-laws, the Audit Board consists of three j) d  efinition of the voting behaviour and appointment of permanent members and one substitute member, elected representatives in the General Shareholder Meetings of by the General Shareholders Meeting, which will also elect subsidiaries and other companies. its chairman. The description of the powers of the Sustainability The members of the Audit Board are elected for a fourCommittee and a summary of activities undertaken in year term, together with the members of the remaining exercising such powers is provided in the previous section. corporate bodies. The following table lists the members of the Audit Board, elected at the General Shareholders Meeting on 16 April 2015 for the term of 2015-2018, their appointment dates and the end date of their term. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 107 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Name Position Date of first appointment Term end date Daniel Bessa Chairman 2006.10.05 2018.12.31 Gracinda Raposo Member 2011.05.30 2018.12.31 Pedro Antunes de Almeida Member 2012.11.23 2018.12.31 Amável Calhau Alternate member 2006.10.05 2018.12.31 32. Details of the members of the Audit Board, the Audit 33. Professional qualifications of each of the members Committee, the General and Supervisory Board or the of the Audit Board, the Audit Committee, Commission for Financial Affairs, where applicable, the General and Supervisory Board or the Commission which are considered to be independent pursuant to for Financial Affairs, where applicable, and other Article 414(5) of the CSC and reference to the section important curricular information, and reference to the of the report where such information already appears section of the report where such information already pursuant to paragraph 19. appears, pursuant to paragraph 21. Under Article 414 (5) of the CSC, any member of the Audit The members of the Audit Board have professional skills Board is considered independent if s/he is not associated and qualifications suitable for their roles. Each member’s with any specific interest group in the Company and is not professional profile is presented in Appendix 8.8 of this in a situation that might affect his/her exemption from report. analysis or decision making, namely because: a) s  /he is a holder or is acting on behalf of a holder of b) Functioning qualified shareholdings greater than or equal to 2% of the Company’s share capital; 34. Availability and place where the rules on the functioning of the Audit Board, the Audit Committee, b) s  /he has been re-elected for more than two terms, the General and Supervisory Board or the Commission whether or not they are consecutive. for Financial Affairs, where applicable, may be viewed, and reference to the section of the report where such The Audit Board currently has two independent members: information already appears pursuant to paragraph 24. Gracinda Raposo and Pedro Antunes de Almeida. As for the Chairman of the Audit Board, his appointment to complete The powers of the Audit Board and its operating rules are the 2005-2007 term occurred following changes in the defined in its Regulations, approved on 16 April, 2015 and shareholder structure of Galp and rules agreed upon by the available on the Galp website at https://www.galp.com/ shareholders regarding the election of the members of the Portals/0/Recursos/Governo-Societario/SharedResources/ corporate bodies (Shareholders’ Agreement, entered into in Documentos/EN/Supervisory-board-regulations-2015.pdf 2006 and terminated in 2015). In this sense, the 2008-2010 term should be considered as the first appointment. Taking the above into account and considering the recognised and prestigious reputation and business and scientific quality of the Chairman of the Audit Board, his independence must also be recognised. 108 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance 35. Number of meetings held and the attendance The Audit Board analyses the compliance with the report for each member of the Audit Board, the Audit independence requirements of the auditor, the possibility Committee, the General and Supervisory Board or the of being provided by him and their accommodation on the Commission for Financial Affairs, where applicable, remuneration legal limit. and reference to the section of the report where such information appears pursuant to paragraph 25. Additional services provided by the external auditor in 2017 are described in sections 46 and 47 of this report. Pursuant to Article 10(2) of its Regulations, the Audit Board must meet at least once per quarter and whenever 38. Other duties of the supervisory body and, where the Chairman convenes it, at his own initiative or at the applicable, of the Commission for Financial Affairs. request of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Statutory Auditor. The role of the Audit Board is to monitor the effectiveness of risk management, internal control and internal audit In 2017, the Audit Board held 15 meetings. The attendance systems, as well as annually assess the operation of the of the Audit Board members to the meetings held in 2017 systems and their internal procedures, strengthening the was 100%. internal control environment through recommendations and suggestions for adjustment to the operation of the internal 36. Availability of each member of the Audit Board, the control and risk management systems. Audit Committee, the General and Supervisory Board or the Commission for Financial Affairs, where applicable, The Audit Board monitors the operation of the corporate indicating the positions held simultaneously in other governance system adopted by Galp and compliance with companies inside and outside the Galp Group, and other legal and statutory requirements, as well as legislative and relevant activities undertaken by members of these regulatory changes in the area of corporate governance, in boards throughout the financial year, and reference to particular the recommendations and regulations issued by the section of the report where such information already the CMVM, and presents proposals for improvement of the appears pursuant to paragraph 26. Company’s governance. In general, the members of the Audit Board have a high level In accordance with the legal regime of audit supervision of availability for the performance of their roles. mentioned above, the Audit Board also has the following duties: (i) inform the Board of Directors of the results of the Appendix 8.9 of this report presents the positions held by statutory audit, outlining the role and contribution the audit the members of the Audit Board in other companies during board made to the integrity of the process of preparation 2017. and disclosure of financial information: (ii) monitor the preparation and disclosure of financial information and c) Powers and roles make necessary recommendations to ensure its integrity; (iii) monitor the effectiveness of internal control and risk 37. Description of the procedures and criteria applicable management and internal audit systems in relation to the to the supervisory body for the purpose of hiring preparation and disclosure of financial information, without additional services from the external auditor. interfering with independence; (iv) monitor the statutory audit of the individual and consolidated annual accounts, In accordance with the legal framework for audit supervision including execution, taking into account any findings and approved by Law No 148/2015 of 9 September, which conclusions of the CMVM, in its capacity of the competent transposed into national law Directive 2014/56/EU of the authority for audit supervision; (v) verify and monitor the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014, independence of the Statutory Auditor or Statutory Audit procurement by Galp or any of its subsidiaries or Group Firm in accordance with the law, and in particular verify the companies of additional services from the external auditor adequacy and approval of the provision of other services, in or from any entity with which there is an investment addition to audit services;(vi) select and propose statutory relationship or which is part of the same network, depends auditors or audit to the General Shareholders Meeting for on the previous authorisation from the Audit Board, election, justifiably recommending the preference for one of in accordance with procedures set in the internal standard. them Annual Report and Accounts 2017 109 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The Audit Board’s functions also include; V External auditor • issue an opinion on business between the Company and related parties, in accordance with the internal standard; 42. Details of the external auditor appointed in and accordance with Article 8 of the Securities Code and the • receive, through CEC, reports of irregularities submitted partner that represents such external auditor in carrying by the Company’s shareholders, employees, customers out these duties, and the respective registration number and/or suppliers. at the CMVM. The Galp Group’s current external auditor is IV Statutory auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados – Sociedade de 39. Details of the statutory auditor and the partner that Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda., registered with CMVM represents the statutory auditor. under No. 20161485, represented by its partner António Joaquim Brochado Correia, Statutory Auditor No. 1076. Under Article 420(2)(b) of the CSC, the Audit Board is responsible for proposing the appointment of the Statutory 43. State the number of years that the external auditor Auditor or Company of Statutory Auditors to the General and respective partner that represents such external Shareholders Meeting. auditor in carrying out these duties consecutively with the Company and/or Group. The following Statutory Auditors were suggested by the Audit Board and approved by the General Shareholders The external auditor and the respective partner have been Meeting on 16 April 2015, for the four-year term, 2015-2018: operating consecutively with Galp and its Group since 2011, when they were appointed by the Audit Board upon tender PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados – Sociedade de procedure, for the term 2011-2013. Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda., registered in the Institute of Statutory Auditors under No. 183 and registered with At the proposal of the Audit Board and in the Company’s CMVM under No. 20161485, represented by António interest in ensuring continuity in the provision of audit Joaquim Brochado Correia, Statutory Auditor No. 1076, services, Galp extended the external audit contract with or by Ana Maria Ávila de Oliveira Lopes Bertão, Statutory PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados – Sociedade de Auditor No. 902, for role of Statutory Auditor; and José Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. for 2014 and 2015-2018 Manuel Henriques Bernardo, Statutory Auditor No. 903, as terms. substitute Statutory Auditor. 44. Rotation policy and schedule of the external auditor 40. State the number of years that the statutory and the partner that represents such external auditor in auditor consecutively carries out duties with the carrying out such duties. Company and/or Galp Group. Galp’s external auditor’s rotation policy which has been Galp’s Statutory Auditor has been consecutively in the role applied ensures the Audit Board’s selection of the external since 16 April 2015. auditor and related statutory auditor partner at the end of three terms through a process of prior consultation with the 41. Description of other services that the Statutory main internationally renowned auditors for a period of four Auditor provides to the Company. years corresponding to the corporate bodies term. Description of other services that the Statutory Auditor Taking into account the aforementioned rotation policy provides to the Company is in sections 46 and 47 of this and the recently published legislation on this matter, at the chapter. end of the current term (31 December 2018), the new rules of mandatory rotation of the statutory auditor/external auditor will be complied with through a selection by the Audit Board of a new auditor by a tender process already ongoing. 110 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance 45. Details of the board responsible for assessing the • Verification of financial ratio; external auditor and the frequency of such assessment. • Certification of the annual declaration of assets for the insurance company’s policy Oil Insurance; The Audit Board, the contact point in the Company and the first recipient of information prepared by the external • Reports of Galp Energia España, S.A.U. for regulatory auditor, annually evaluates the activity of the external purposes; auditor, with a critical appraisal of its reports and other relevant documentation. • Issue of Letter of Comfort about Galp’s debt issuance; • Verification of sustainability report information; The Audit Board represents the Company, for all purposes, before the external auditor and, in accordance with Article • Consultancy on sustainability information provided; 19(4) of the By-laws, is responsible for proposing to the General Shareholders Meeting the appointment of the • Certification of man power rate applicable in provision of Statutory Auditor/Company of Statutory Auditors and their services; remuneration, as well as dismissing them. • Other small consultancy services. The external auditor’s specific role in the legal audit and examination of accounts includes checking the application In addition to the non-audit services mentioned above, in of the policies and systems governing the pay of corporate 2017, the statutory auditor provided the following services, bodies and effectiveness and operation of the internal required by law to the statutory auditor, which are excluded control mechanisms, reporting any detected deficiencies to from the calculation of the fees limit applicable to the nonthe Audit Board. audit services: • Validation of natural gas acquisition costs by Galp Gás The Audit Board ensures that the management organisation Natural S.A. and other costs, required by Energy Services of the Company, particularly the relationship with the Regulatory Authority; Board of Directors and the Executive Committee, involves providing the external auditor with the information and • Validation of “package annual statement” of Galp Energia other conditions required for the respective service to be España S.A. required by Ecoembalafes España S.A.; performed. • Validation of the “annual statement of acquisitions, sells Each year the Audit Board, in its annual business report, and production of biofuels and others renewable fuels shall present an assessment of the external auditor. with the purpose of transportation” of Galp Energia España S.A. required by the Corporación de Reservas 46. Details of services, other than auditing, carried Estratéticas de Productos Petrolíferos (CORES). out by the external auditor for the Company and/or companies in a control relationship and an indication of When procuring services from the external auditor, the internal procedures for approving the recruitment of sufficient internal procedures are in place to safeguard the such services and a statement on the reasons for such independence of the auditors, through careful definition recruitment. of the work to be procured. In order to safeguard the independence of the external auditor, it is expressly In 2017, the external auditor provided the Company and its forbidden to purchase any type of service that might subsidiaries with the following non-audit services: compromise such independence. • Limited review on the accounts of a Group company Service provision proposals submitted by the auditor are required by concession contract; analysed and evaluated and, where possible, undergo • Galp’s financial statements translations into English; market consultation and, subsequently, are sent to the Audit Board for approval, as described in section 37. • Verification of Group natural gas companies accounts for regulatory purposes; Energy Services Regulatory Authority; Annual Report and Accounts 2017 111 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 47. Details of the annual remuneration paid by the C Internal Organisation Company and/or legal entities in a control or group relationship to the auditor or other natural or legal I By-laws persons pertaining to the same network and the percentage breakdown of the following services: 48. Rules governing amendment of the By-laws (Article (For the purposes of this information, the network 245-A(1)(h) of the Securities Code). concept results from the European Commission Recommendation No. C (2002) 1873, dated 16 May The resolutions of the General Shareholders Meeting 2002) on amendments to the By-laws must be approved by a qualified majority of two-thirds of the votes cast (Article In 2017, the remuneration paid to the auditor and to other 12(4) of the By-laws). natural or legal persons belonging to the same network was as presented in the following table. II Reporting of irregularities By the Company 49. Reporting means and policy on the reporting of Value of audit services €18,400 1.8% irregularities in the Company. Value of assurance services €42,500 4.2% The submission of complaints in Galp is regulated in Value of tax advice servicesl €0 0.0% the Reporting of Irregularities Procedure Ethics Line, Value of other non-audit services €17,250 1.7% adopted by the Audit Board on 3 December 2015 and distributed internally to all employees via normal means of communication and externally through the official Galp By other Group companies website at http://www.galp.com/en/corporate-governance/ Value of audit services €575,856 56.7% ethics-and-conduct/reporting-of-irregularities Value of assurance services €213,680 21% The Reports of Irregularities Procedure enables any party Value of tax advice servicesl €0 0.0% related to Galp, including employees, members of corporate Value of other non-audit services €148,348 14.6% bodies, shareholders, investors, customers, suppliers or business partners, to report to (CEC) any knowledge or suspicion of irregularities or instances of non-compliance The non-audit services represented 49.7% of the average of with the Code of Ethics and Conduct, of standards that fees paid to the auditor in the last three years (2014, 2015 refer to them or that deal with the topics referred to, in and 2016), for audit services to Galp and entities under areas of accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing, Galp’s control, therefore below the limit of 70% established anticorruption measures, banking and financial crimes. in article 4 paragraph 2 of EC Regulation number 537/2014 (European Audit Regulation). Such procedure applies to Galp and all companies in which Galp directly or indirectly exercises management control, in The non-audit services (excluding assurance services) all countries where the Galp Group operates. represented 16.3% of the total value of the services provided by the external auditor, therefore below the limit of Galp’s CEC receives, process and reports all complaints 30% established in CMVM Recommendation IV.2. submitted via the ethical line to the Audit Board, that is responsible for oversight of the Company. The security of Reporting of Irregularities information and related records is ensured by Galp’s internal rules, in accordance with the relevant legislation on data protection and information security. Personal data processed under the Reporting of Irregularities Procedure and used only in accordance with 112 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance conditions set forth in Authorisation No. 7924/2015, This update enabled a review of Galp’s mission and values, granted by the National Data Protection Commission introduction of guidelines to support an ethical (CNPD), and CNPD Resolution No. 765/2009. decision-making process and evaluation of some rules about employee conduct and relations with stakeholders. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Code of Ethics and Conduct, the Reporting of Irregularities Procedure is of a Employees who reported irregularities are required to voluntary nature, so failure to apply does not entail any provide the CEC with all information in their possession and penalties. cooperate in the investigation process. The person identified by the complaint is entitled to receive In 2017, 12 cases were reported to the CEC and investigated information about the entity responsible, content of the under the Reporting of Irregularities Procedure, which were complaint and purpose of the processing, as well as access analysed and reported to the Audit Board for its decision. the data about him/her and right to demand its correction or deletion, if it is inaccurate, incomplete or ambiguous. III Internal control and risk Galp and its subsidiaries guarantee that entities reporting management an irregularity or suspected irregularity or providing information as part of a Reporting of Irregularities 50. Individuals, boards or committees responsible for investigation shall not be subject to any retaliation, the internal audit and/or implementation of internal intimidation or discrimination, including disciplinary action control systems. or withholding or suspension of payments. Galp’s internal audit is assigned to the Internal Audit Each Reporting of Irregularities case will be treated Department, which assesses in an independent and confidential and all people with access to such information systematic way the proper functioning of Galp’s internal are required to maintain confidentiality. For this reason, the control and risk management systems, as well as the access to Reporting of Irregularities cases is only granted implementation of effectiveness and effectiveness of to Audit Board and CEC members and, on a strictly need to implementation of controls and mitigation actions, know basis, Executive Committee members and employees informing and regularly alerting the Chairman of the or external consultants specifically appointed to support Board of Directors and the Audit Board of relevant data, the work of the CEC. identifying improvement opportunities and promoting its execution. All instances of Reporting of Irregularities must be submitted in writing, by email or by letter, to the CEC, at the The Internal Audit Department annually defines an audit following addresses: plan, based on the results of risk assessments of different processes and several business units and in line with the Email: Galp’s strategic priorities. opentalk@galp.com Although the Internal Audit Department is under direct Postal address: supervision of the chairman of the Board of Directors, the Comissão de Ética e Conduta da Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. Internal Audit Department reports to the Audit Board, Edifício Galp, Torre A which approves the annual plan for internal audit activities and monitors its execution in board meetings in a monthly Rua Tomás da Fonseca, Torre A basis. 1600-209 Lisboa, Portugal The Internal Auditing Department exercised the external It is also possible to access Galp’s website and fill in the quality assessment, performed by the institute of Internal available form. Auditors (IIA), which ensures the conformity of auditing practice in accordance with international rules. After two years of its duration and application, Galp’s Code of Conduct and Ethics was updated in 2017 and is The subjects related to the definition of the Company’s consequently approved by the participated companies’ internal control system is assigned to the Risk Management board of directors. Department and the Department of Legal and Governance, integrated in the corporate centre. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 113 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The implementation of the internal control activities is as a set of processes executive by the corporate bodies, responsibility of the operational areas of the business units, specialised committees, internal auditor and by Galp’s corporate functions and Group companies. employees, in order to ensure a reasonable compliance with Galp’s objectives related to operations, report and The Internal Audit Department, the external auditor and conformity. the Audit Board are all responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control system and assessing At Galp, the organisation and governance structure of the operation of the system and its internal procedures. internal control and risk management is based on the “three lines of defence” model in accordance with generally 51. Details, including organisational structure, of accepted best practices, as outlined in the chart below. hierarchical and/or functional dependency in relation to other boards or committees of the Company. The three lines of defense approach enables a consistent relation between internal control and risk management daily In the Board of Directors meeting conducted on 28 July activities – assigned to the first line of defense, the risk and 2017, it was approved the Internal Control Manual, which controls standardisation and monitoring at group processes follows the COSO – Internal Control Integrated Framework level – assigned to the second line of defense, strategic reference mode and establishes the general principles and and corporate risk supervision and internal control system requirements of the internal control components, as well supervision assigned to the third line of defense. as the organisational model associated with integrated management of Galp Group internal control, understood Board of Directors Executive Committee 3rd line of defence Supervision, monitoring and assessment of the internal control Internal audit Audit Board efficacy. Strategic risks supervision 2nd line of defence Standardisation and monitoring Other Legal and Risk Risk Management Committee of internal control corporate Governance Management system and main risks departments Department Department A B C (Specialised committees) 1st line of defence LRO Local Risk Officers Daily risk management and control activities Business Units 114 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance • The first line of defence has to identify and understand for defining, monitoring and evaluating risks and mitigation the risk environment, evaluate and communicate the measures in alignment with approved policies and strategies potential value of exposure to risk, determine and by ensuring the consistency of the principles, concepts, implement the best way of capturing or mitigating this methodologies and tools for the risk assessment and risk exposure to the risk; management of all the business units and companies of • The second line of defence has to monitor risk at the Galp Group and ensure the effective implementation corporate level, define standards and regularly report risk of the risk management system, through the relation with and action plans to the Risk Management Committee, the the executive committee, risk management committee and Executive Committee, the Audit Board and the Board of business units focal points and Group companies. Directors, depending on the issue; The working group within the Risk Management Committee • The third line of defence has to supervise and evaluate, which is engaged with issues related to EQS, including by recourse to independent internal and external entities, climate change, compliance and regulatory changes, the effectiveness of the risk management and the internal ensuring due integration of these matters into the control process. Company’s risk management system. The Executive Committee is responsable, with the support The Local Risk Officers support the business units risk of the Risk Management Committee, to monitor and “owners” in identifying, evaluating and managing the risks supervise the most material risks that the Galp Group faces, in the respective business units, in light of the defined risk identified and described in section 53 of this Chapter, management standards. They are also responsible for as well as monitor the execution of critical projects from incorporating risk information in their decision-making a risk perspective. process, ensuring compliance with the risk management policies and procedures. Furthermore, they are responsible The Chief Risk Officer (CRO) is member of the Board of for compiling, reporting and publishing information on Directors and of the Executive Committee, thus ensuring exposure to risk in their business unit. that discussions of the risk topics are consistent and effective at all levels. The Chief Risk Officer is also Chair The Department of Legal and Governance monitors of the Risk Management Committee and is responsible for the internal control system through the performance of overseeing and coordinating risk assessment processes and internal inquiries, audits or risk assessments in ethics and respective mitigation actions throughout the organisation, compliance matters such as bribery and corruption, money as well as for their adequate management, ensuring that laundering and terrorism financed, fraud, conflict of interest, the guidelines of the Board of Directors and the Executive political, economic and financial sanctions, and other Committee are complied with and are reflected in policies restricted measures, compliance with markets and financial and procedures. regulation, as well performing ethics and compliance due diligence to partners and relevant transactions; defines The role of the Audit Board is to monitor the effectiveness controls on ethics and compliance matters and assess its of the internal control and internal audit systems, as well performance in the diverse Galp’s business units, as well as as to assess annually the functioning of the systems and develops special projects in order for Galp to comply with the respective internal procedures, thus strengthening the ethical and regulatory matters. internal control environment. Within the framework of its supervisory function, the Audit Board accompanies the 52. Existence of other functional areas responsible for work plans and resources entrusted to the Internal Audit risk control. Department and the Legal and Governance Department, which is the recipient of periodic reports made by these As noted and described above, all Galp’s management departments, as well as information on matters related to structures are responsible for the implementation of the risk accountability, identification or resolution of conflicts of control process in the course of their activities. interest and the detection of potential illegalities. In addition to those described in the previous sections, The relationship model between the bodies, departments note that, for example, the Department of EQS and and committees responsible for the implementation Sustainability, the Department of Information Systems and of internal control systems favours the centralised the planning and control areas are also involved in the risk management of the risks at the level of the Risk control process. Management Department. This department is responsible Annual Report and Accounts 2017 115 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Indeed, the Department of EQS and Sustainability have Accordingly, in its investment decision-making process, the been assigned powers of corporate management of Company considers a long-term price for carbon ($40/ton). environmental, including risks arising from climate change, Thus, on the one hand, it intends to give more emphasis to safety and security risk, as well powers to define and the alternatives with lower C02 emissions and, on the other propose evaluation and monitoring methodologies of the hand, strives to build a portfolio suitable to the transition to environmental and security risk of Galp Group activities a lower carbon economy. and product quality, in conjunction with the business units, ensuring the definition and scheduling of actions to remove During 2017, the common risks terminology was updated in or minimise those risks. accordance with the new COSO framework Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). The cybersecurity area of the Department of Information Systems is responsible for defining and managing the With this revision a holist approach to risk management cybersecurity policy of the Galp Group’s information was reinforced incorporating uncertainties, being risks or systems opportunities, regardless of their nature. 53. Details and description of the major economic, Galp’s main risks and uncertainties are managed, monitored financial and legal risks to which the company is and communicated to the counterparties, project, exposed in pursuing its business activity. geographical and industrial sectors, as a case may be. Please see section 54 of this Report for the description of Galp’s commercial operations are long-term in nature, the identification, assessment, monitoring, control and risks which implies that many of the risks to which it is exposed management processes. are permanent. However, the triggering factors of the internal or external risks and opportunities, can be changed, Please note, the identified risks could change over the year, developed and evolve over time, and may vary in probability, in response to changes caused by exogenous or endogenous impact and detectability. factors. Galp assumes that the principal challenges faced by the Oil The main risks that Galp faces are the following: & Gas sector result in the assurance of access to energy in a • Cybersecurity; decarbonisation economy context. • Compliance/ Reputation; We identify on the next page (in alphabetical order) the • Competition; risks which may have an impact on Galp’s operational and • Partner dependency; financial performance, as well in reputational image, and • Disruptive events; the way they are managed and mitigated, including those • Project execution; associated with environmental questions and the fight against corruption and bribery. • Portfolio management; • Markets; The impact of climate change, especially as an aggravating • Political and Legal/Regulatory. factor of risks “Markets”, “Legal and Regulatory”, “Competition”, “Disrupt events”, is incorporated into this analysis. Galp considers that there are impacts in Galp’s business model associated to a transition to a lower carbon economy resulting from regulatory changes, but also changes in consumer and technological patterns. Galp also considers the risks arising from physical impacts of climate change and the opportunities arising out of a transition to a lower carbon economy, including production of energies with lower C02 emissions, development of new products and services, gains in energy efficiency, access to new markets and supply chain with bigger resiliency. 116 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance Risk Risk factors Mitigation measures Cybersecurity The information systems are a crucial component for Galp mitigates these risks through a series of measures, Galp’s activities development and any system failure, including control procedures, backup systems, and whether accidental including those that are caused by protection systems, such as firewalls, antivirus and network, hardware or software failures or resulting from building security. intentional actions, such as cyberattacks or others, In addition, Galp has implemented information security including those that are caused by, may have adverse policies and regularly conducts audits, complementing impacts. them with computer risk assessments with respect These failures may in particular seriously compromise to the Galp’s most important assets, which are risk Galp’s operations affect the quality of Galp’s activities assessments performed by Galp or an independent or cause an interruption of these activities, lead to loss, specialist in Galp representation which enables to know misuse or abuse of sensitive information, loss of lives, better potential (critical) suppliers’ fragilities. damage to the environment or assets and breaches in the legal or regulatory sphere, with the possibility of fines or any other type of measures imposed by the regulatory authorities; and also prejudice the Company’s reputation. These events can negatively affect assets value and the Group’s results. Compliance/ Galp is exposed to negative impacts over its reputation Galp implemented a Code of Ethics and Conduct and Reputation as a result of non-compliance (either real or perceived) a Corruption Prevention Policy, which can be viewed with laws and regulation, in particular on topics of at Galp’s website, with the objective to be committed corruption eventually practiced by management and ensure the compliance with the best practices bodies, employees, suppliers, service providers and and international law and prevent behaviors that counterparties. may constitute corruption in the geographies where it On the other hand, any irregularities (real or alleged) operates. relating to the international patterns applicable in the Under the Corruption Prevention Policy, Galp does not countries where we develop activity may have a very allow its employees and third parties, acting on behalf important adverse effect in our capacity to continue to of the Company, to offer, promise or authorise undue carry out activity there. advantages to person, public entity or its related party, Furthermore, in a context of growing stakeholder including facilitation payments, with a view to obtaining influence, the change of consumer preferences in a way patrimonial or non-equity advantages for themselves, of giving relevance to new sources of energy, with lower Galp or third parties (active corruption). The Company carbon intensity, may lead to the stigmatisation of Oil & does not allow accepting advantages for itself, its Gas sector and impose on Galp a reputational risk more employee or third party, when the acceptance could and more remarkable. harm the independence and exemption of these or Galp, current or future, with respect to the offeror or its related These kinds of events may negatively affect the party (passive corruption). Galp also does not allow the Company’s reputation and Groups results. use of donations or sponsorships as means to practice an unlawful influence or pressure on any decision with advantage to the Company or its related party, always maintaining the social adequacy with respect to the sector and countries in which it act. In the scope of a continuous practice of internal rule updating, in 2017 Galp has updated its Code of Ethics and Conduct, promoting its adoption by all Group companies, in line with the principles of loyalty, rectitude, honesty, transparency and integrity, on which Galp’s activities are based, in order to promote a responsible and ethical culture and to prevent or prohibit improper or unlawful practices. Galp’s Code of Ethics and Conduct was consequently approved by the boards of directors of the Group companies in which Galp holds management control. This update allowed to reflect the Company’s current mission and values, introduce guidelines that support ethical decision-making, and review some rules regarding employee action and relationships with specific stakeholders. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 117 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Risk Risk factors Mitigation measures Compliance/ In 2017 Galp implemented promotion measures to use Reputation effectiveness in the procedure for communication of (cont.) irregularities in force. At the end of 2017 was started an e-learning action of the Code of Ethics and Conduct applicable to all employees and Group´s corporate bodies. The audit activity performed by a specific organisational structure (Internal Audit Department) enables a continuous control over the compliance with Galp’s procedures. Galp applies appropriate processes and procedures in order to assess and mitigate the risk of corruption, including the risk that partners, transactions or commercial / institutional relationships may pose to Galp. In fact, in compliance with best practice, Galp implemented a set of mechanisms and procedures in which transactions with new counterparties are subject to due diligence performed by the Legal and Governance Department (KYC – Know Your Counterparty and KYC – Know Your Transaction), associated to a decision risk model, in order to ensure that relations with counterparties do not involve Galp Inadvertently Galp in corruption, money laundering or terrorism finance, among other risks. For this purpose, Galp has support software to analyse third-party’s compliance and risks. Additionally, following the International Chamber of Commerce guidelines, a due diligence questionnaire for third-parties applicable to supplies and business partners was developed. In addition, Galp promotes with their stakeholders measures to prevent corruption and recognise the principles and values set forth in Galp’s Code of Ethics and Conduct. At the supplier level, Galp establishes contractual conditions that bind them to compliance with the provisions of the Code of Ethics and Conduct and does not establish or maintain relationships with suppliers that are not in line with the principles of the Code. Galp also promotes training actions to its suppliers in matters of ethics and conduct. In the scope of the mitigation of climate change affects, and aware of the risks and opportunities that come from a transition to a lower carbon economy, Galp has assumed the commitment of gradually diversifying its portfolio to energies with lower carbon emissions to new business models. On this topic, please see Chapter 2 of this report “Strategic framework”. 118 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance Risk Risk factors Mitigation measures Competition The energy sector is extremely competitive and exposed In the E&P business, Galp has a diversified and to players from other sectors. competitive portfolio, which includes two of the most The competition puts pressure on the prices of raw important development projects in the world – the prematerials and products, affecting the marketing salt region in Santos basin, Brazil, and the GNL project activities relating to oil products, and demanding in Rovuma basin in Mozambique. Additionally, Galp has constant focus on cost control and increased efficiency a series of competitive advantages and keeps a solid while, at the same time, guaranteeing the safety of the capital structure which support its E&P activities. operations. In the downstream business, Galp develops a wide range The Company’s performance may be affected if its of activities over the value chain, being a reference competitors develop or acquire intellectual property operator in Iberia, its core market, and having been rights or technology that the Company needs, or if the developing relevant competencies which contribute to Company is not able to keep up with the sector in terms strengthen its activity in the international market. of innovation. Additionally, as a result of technological In view of the competition that exists in the energy development, the Company may face competition from sector, and to reduce the exposure to risks associated entities intervening in other industries or sectors of with the high level of operational complexity in the activity. sector, Galp systematically applies the sector’s best Some of Galp’s competitors are well-established practices. operators in the reference markets, with a relevant size and access to a relevant number of resources. The weight of these companies in the market is due to a combination of factors, including diversified and reduced risk; financial capacity necessary for the developments requiring high levels of investment; capacity to benefit from economies of scale in terms of technology and organisation; and a size that allows them to benefit from advantages related to the acquired competencies, established infrastructures and reserves. In this way, these companies have the capacity to make competitive proposals with direct impacts on the effectiveness of Galp’s operations. The intense competition to which Galp is subject to can adversely affect its operational and financial performance. Partner Many of Galp’s main projects in the E&P business are Despite the fact that Galp does not operate the most dependency carried out through partnerships and may be operated relevant E&P projects in its portfolio, it is actively involved by third parties and managed through joint operations in the respective execution. Actually, Galp monitors agreements. the activities of each project on a daily basis, using In the execution of these partner agreements, Galp internal, multidisciplinary teams, and maintaining direct may be vulnerable to events that affect its partners, contact with operators, which essentially consist of welleven though they are not related to the Company. In respected international companies with vast experience particular, partners may have failures in their financial, in the sector. Effectively, Galp uses a decision process of technical, or operational capabilities to comply with their previous screening in relation to the strategic partners’ obligations on the project or in relation to third parties, selection, and also using due diligence processes. and as such, could affect the viability of the project that Galp has also developed a long process of negotiations they have jointly with Galp. that includes drafting, analysis, negotiating and Additionally, in the scope of the partner agreements, signing of joint operating agreements in order to ensure the partners could also have the capability to approve Galp’s rights and powers in the governance structures certain matters without the Galp’s consent. under joint venture regime, including the possibility to exercise possible veto rights on the scope of determined All these risks could place the execution of projects at consortium decision making processes. risk and, ultimately, constrain and interfere with the implementation of Galp’s strategy. In this way, these kinds of events may negatively affect the asset’s value and the Group’s results. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 119 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Risk Risk factors Mitigation measures Partner Galp establishes diverse partnerships in the scope of Within the scope of joint venture, the acquisitions of dependency others business areas, becoming dependent on the goods and services are governed by joint operation (cont.) evolution of the established agreements and selected agreements, to ensure the alignment among all partners partners. The risks referred above related to E&P partners on quality, social responsibility and HSE criteria for are also applicable here: financial, technical, operational the pre-qualification of suppliers in the purchasing partners’ insufficiencies that may compromise reliability processes. Local contracting is usually a requirement, or the project execution itself. varying according to the geographical area of the project and taking into account the specifics of the concession contracts. Galp has proven and diverse experience, combined with the knowledge acquired in the various projects in which it is involved, it is a key factor that allows Galp to have influence in the partnerships in which it participates. Also, for other business areas apart from E&P, partner selection involves a strict selection process which assures that selected partners are reference companies and with high financial, technical and operational capability. Disruptive events The nature, variety and technical complexity of Galp’s We understand that the environment, health and safety operations, namely in exploration and production in of our employees, customers and the community, ultra-deep waters or in the refining process, exposes the as well protection of our assets, is key to ensure the company to a wide spectrum of EQS risks of a disruptive sustainability of Galp. nature. Consequently, the Company has established a There are included in this nature chronic physical risks, commitment to integrating the most important which may relate to long-term changes in climate aspects of EQS (including security) in its strategy and patterns (for example, sustained high temperatures, activities, as well as ensure a continued improvement occurrence of successive droughts, changes in the of performance. In this context is important to highlight precipitation pattern) which may cause sea level increase the approval on 2017 of the internal standard procedure or chronic heat waves; acute physical risks regarding which defines the environmental, health and safety those conducted by events, including civil unrest, war (including security) requirements which should be and terrorism and natural catastrophes (including assured in the decision-making process associated to the severity increase of extreme climatic events, such as different project development stages (over the life cycle). cyclones, hurricanes or floods) or operational constraints When implementing the guidelines of this system in related to Galp’s upstream and downstream assets the Company’s daily operations, the business units can characteristics. identify and manage their own operating risks, through E&P activities are usually developed in extremely the full cycle of the different projects, equipment defiant environments, with potential risks of technical and assets. failures and natural catastrophes. A specific number of Galp regularly promotes specific HSE audits, internal factors, such as unexpected drill conditions, pressure and external, and carries out assessments to all assets or irregularities in geological formations, equipment in which it operates with the objective of, through malfunction or accidents and extreme climatic operations and processes of risks control, prevent phenomena that may lead to life loss, environmental accidents, preserve operational performance, people, the damage, compromise reliability or cause facilities reputation and the assets. destruction. The Company also practices a continuous monitoring of This kind of events may negatively impact Galp’s assets operated by third-parties, in accordance with the reputation as well its assets value and results. competences assigned in the terms of the agreements entered into with partners. Galp has also an insurance programme which includes, among others, civil liability to minimise the impact of any potential risks. 120 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance Risk Risk factors Mitigation measures Project execution The organic growth of the Company depends on the At Galp, the final investment decision in a project is creation of a high-quality asset portfolio resulting from taken after the adequacy to the Company’s strategy is an efficient selection and capability of implementing, considered, a detailed review of feasibility studies, the developing and operating diverse investment projects in evaluation of key variables in the implementation stage, the best conditions. the definition of the concept of development, as well as However, the projects implementation is exposed the mitigation measures protecting the future execution to a variety of risks in terms of technical, economic, of the project. legal, regulatory, commercial and EQS, that may In the execution phase, the Company constantly compromise the execution within the budget and monitors the critical factors in order to identify potential deadline established, in compliance with pre-defined risks as quickly as possible, thus ensuring the timely specifications andrespective operation reliability. implementation of corrective measures. In addition, the execution of the projects depends also on Also, with respect to the projects where there is not an the performance of Galp’s partners, on various service operator, Galp monitors activities and participates in providers and other contracted parties, over whom Galp the various phases of the project, with multidisciplinary has no control, therefore the Company is additionally internal teams. exposed to the risk of execution through these entities. Galp participates in numerous projects worldwide, The occurrence of any event that negatively affects the enabling it to take advantage of the diversified execution of investment projects, may result in a loss in knowledge and experience that it has, applying various value and/or higher investment costs, thus jeopardising techniques and experience curves from one region to the implementation of Galp’s strategic plan. another. The non-execution of the best investment option in With respect to the risk that results from the the best technical and financial conditions may have performance of its partners, it should be noted that Galp influence on assets value and Group’s results. develops partnerships with leading companies in the sector, recognised for their knowledge and experience. For more information, please consult the risk section “Partner dependency”. With respect to the risk that arises from contracting suppliers, service providers and other third parties, Galp analyses and implements a selection and contracting process, combining multiple operational, compliance and HSE criteria. Portfolio Galp operates its activities with the focus on Oil & Gas. Galp conducts a process of strategic planning by scenario, management The Company is, however, committed to building with the ultimate objective of ensuring the Company’s a resilient portfolio for different scenarios, including sustainability and creation of sustainable long-term value a scenario of rapid decarbonisation. to its stakeholders. Regarding the E&P business, Galp’s future production All projects undertaken by the Company are rigorously of oil and natural gas depends on its success in the analysed and submitted to the management team for consistent and profitable acquisition, discovery and approval, which is only given when the expected value development of new reserves to replace the reserves that exceeds the estimated cost of the capital and allows an have already been used. However, the Company’s ability appropriate estimated return. to acquire, find and develop new resources and reserves Due to mitigation of climate change effects and is subject to a number of risks. awareness of the risks and opportunities from a more Estimates with respect to oil and natural gas reserves or less rapid transition to a lower carbon economy, Galp and resources are based on available geological, has assumed the commitment to gradually diversify technological and economic data and is, therefore, the portfolio to lower carbon energies. For additional subject to a large number of uncertainties. information, please consult Chapter 2 of this report related to Strategic Framework. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 121 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Risk Risk factors Mitigation measures Portfolio The accuracy of these estimates depends on numerous management factors, assumptions and variables, some of which are (cont.) outside the Company’s control. These factors include changes in the prices of oil and natural gas, which may have an impact on the amount of proven reserves (given that reserves are calculated on the basis of the prevailing economic conditions on the date of the respective calculation); changes in the applicable tax regime or other regulations and contractual conditions, which occur after the date of calculation of the reserves (which can have an impact on the economic viability of the development of these reserves); and certain actions and performance of third parties, including operators, in which the Company has no control. In addition, the projects may be sanctioned based on incorrect assumptions or inadequate information, resulting in drill results which may oblige to substantial revisions to the initial estimates. Besides that, Galp is subject to strong competition in the bidding for production of oil and natural gas blocks usually made available by governmental authorities, particularly with respect to those which are considered to be potentially more attractive in terms of resources. Due to this competition, Galp may not be able to obtain the desired production blocks, or may have to pay a higher price to obtain them, which may affect the economic viability of subsequent production. Furthermore, political changes related to climate change may reduce geographical areas made available by governments for exploration and production activities. If the Company is not successful in de-risking the resources and in the development of reserves, its total proven reserves may decrease, negatively affecting the Group’s value. Additionally, the change in the energy paradigm, with the resulting technological modifications, is an important challenge to Galp. A non-implementation of a new technological strategy would put the Company in a competitive disadvantage in relation to its competitors. 122 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance Risk Risk factors Mitigation measures Markets The prices of oil, natural gas, LNG and oil-derived New projects and investments are evaluated internally, products are affected by the dynamics of market taking into consideration the analysis of their sensitivity supply and demand. In turn, these are influenced by to key variables, particularly commodity prices and different factors, such as economic and operational capex. circumstances, natural disasters, weather conditions, The projects are equally analysed taking into political instability, armed conflicts or supply constraints consideration scenarios of demand and impacts in terms of oil exporting countries. of carbon emissions. Even though in long-term the operational costs tend The risk associated with the volatility of raw material to be in line with the rise and fall of the prices of raw and products prices, particularly the refining margin, materials and products, there is no guarantee that this is managed at the business units level, balancing the will happen in the short term. Consequently, a reduction obligations of sourcing and supply. in the price could compromise investment plans, including exploration and development activities. The aforementioned risk is managed by means of the instrument made available by over-the-counter (OTC) or On the other hand, increase in prices of oil or natural gas Intercontinental Exchange (ICE) markets. could affect the value and profitability of Galp’s assets. Even though the prices that the Company charges its The interest rate risk, exchange rate risk and other clients reflect market prices, they may not be adjusted financial risks, including financial investments and debt, immediately, and may not entirely reflect the changes in are managed centrally. Risk management of the interest market prices. rate seeks to reduce the volatility of interest charges through the use of simple derivative instruments, such Preferences of potential consumer are changing, in as swaps. With the aim of mitigating the exchange rate particular derivation of procurement increase for risk, Galp can, whenever it deems necessary, hedge solutions with lower carbon intensity, may negatively its position by means of derivatives, for which a liquid affect the oil & gas procurement. market exists. Galp is also exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates due to the fact that the results and the cash flow generated by the sale of oil, natural gas and refined products are usually set in US dollars and are affected by the exchange rates associated with such currency. In the countries where Galp is developing commercial activities, be it directly or indirectly, the operational results are also exposed to the fluctuations of the relevant exchange rates. Galp is also exposed to the risk of exchange rates in relation to the value of its financial assets and investments, mainly those that are defined in US dollars and in Brazilian Reais, which could have an impact on the Company’s financial position, given that the financial statements are expressed in Euros. Despite the ability to access the market instruments designed to hedge the exchange rate risk and interest rate risk, market adverse changes may negatively affect Group’s assets value and results. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 123 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Risk Risk factors Mitigation measures Political and A significant part of Galp’s results comes and will Galp monitors permanently the main events that occur Legal/ Regulatory increasingly come or will be dependent on countries with in the countries where it develops its activity namely in economic and political risk. Brazil, Angola and in Mozambique. Our main E&P projects are located in countries that In countries where the exposure is larger, Galp invests in are not part of OECD and may affect our capability to the development of a sustainable relation with the local develop projects in a safe, reliable and profitable way. interested parties. Those questions include civil disturbance, nationalization On the other hand, Galp has been establishing a or expropriation of assets, regulatory changes on balanced project portfolio through the entry to new environmental matters, increase in the greenhouse gas geographical areas, which contributes to a risk exposure price emissions, exposure to disputes, specific regulatory reduction regarding a specific country. changes of oil & gas sector, allocation of licenses for Regarding regulatory risks, the exposure level is analysed exploration and production, specific obligations on at the beginning of the entry process, and potential drilling and exploration activities, or significant increases changes introduced by lawmakers or regulatory in taxes and royalties on oil and natural gas production, authorities are permanently monitored. among others. Additionally, governments have been approving international treaties and agreements and regulatory authorities have been approving regulations that encourage the choice for energies with low level of greenhouse gases emissions, such as renewable energies or other disruptive technologies, wich oblige companies to apply measures to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. This could raise additionally compliance obligations in respect of emission, capture, sequester and use of carbon dioxide, as well as reporting those values, that result in larger investments and higher project execution costs. Furthermore, in the supply and trading of natural gas business and oil products trading activity, Galp operates in geographies with high political risk. Downstream activities in Iberia are also subject to risks of a legal and regulatory nature. In fact, any changes in these levels can have an impact on the business context in which the Company operates. Any significant change in the rules in force at the time investment projects are selected, can put at risk operation continuity, and may cause a negative impact in assets value and Group’s results. 124 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance 54. Description of the procedure for identification, The incorporation of the insurance activity within the assessment, monitoring, control and risk management. corporate Risk Management Department enables to optimise and manage the risk transfer, whenever that A strong regulatory framework and a disciplined approach reveals to be the best option. to risk are important elements in an organisation with a large number of different geographies. These are necessary In 2017, Galp reviewed internal standard of the risk to ensure that the Company performs in line with the management processes, which define methods of strategic objectives, the risks taken produce appropriate identification, assessment, treatment and monitoring returns and value is created for shareholders on a long-term of risks and opportunities, applied to organisational basis. processes (represented in the alongside figure). In this procedure, the environmental financial, reputational and According to the guidelines defined in the Risk Management compliance dimensions among others are considered, where Policy, approved by the Board of Directors in August 2016, uncertainties of emergent regulations related to climate we identify, assess and manage risks and opportunities changes are present, ensuring a monitoring and assessment related to the defined strategy in our business plan, but also of the relevant uncertainties. emergent risks and opportunities. It is intended to ensure an effective applicability of the Galp identified a set of critical uncertainties to its risk management system through a systematic control of business models which formed a set of future alternative its adequacy and efficiency to monitoring the risks and scenarios. These critical uncertainties are dependent on adequate corrective measures. political, economic, social, technological, environmental and regulatory factors. In considering diverse scenarios It should be noted that the identified and implemented in the strategic formulation process, Galp assures the mitigation measures might not be totally effective to formation of a resilient portfolio in several aspects. For provide complete cover of risks Galp is exposed to. more information, please see section 2.1 of chapter 2 of this report. Main activities/risk management stages The risks identified through Galp’s risk management process is sorted according to priority level, and, dependent on the respective probability, severity and detectability, are then communicated to the Chief Risk Officer and Risk Management Committee. Identification >> Com The referred risks are debated in the respective responsible of objectives business unit (“risk owner”) and its alignment to Galp’s mu acceptable levels is verified together with the corporate Risk nic Management team. at io Identificat Risk d Analys ion According to the three lines defense model (described sk n Ri RISK Treatment in section 5.1), the risk management responsibility and MANAGEMENT is an respective periodic analysis is assigned to the Group << company or to the responsible business unit with the local rin g risk officers’ support. Galp has risk management strategies it o which classify risks by response categories, in accordance on to what is decided to avoid, transfer, reduce or accept the M Asses risk. The referred response strategies are defined in a way to sm ent Ris k ensure the risks are according to the guidelines provided by Galp’s Board of Directors or Executive Committee. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 125 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 55. Core details of the internal control and risk Within the scope of its powers, the Statutory Auditor and management systems implemented in the Company the external auditor assess the internal control mechanisms regarding the procedure for reporting financial of the principal functional cycles of the Group companies information (Article 245(A)(1)(m) of the Securities Code) with effects in the financial report. Galp drafted and implemented rules and procedures In 2017, Galp developed and implemented an information applicable to the control activities for the preparation and system for monitoring the insider registration and people report of financial information. with access to this information (permanent and occasional insiders), including financial information, meeting the Galp prepares its accounts in compliance with the IFRS requirements arising from the recent European legislative accounting international rules, approved by the European reform in this area. Union. To fulfill situations of inexistence or insufficiency in the IAS/IFRS rules or SIC/IFRIC interpretations, Galp has an IV Investor assistance accounting manual, which follows the market best practices and is applied internally as a complement to the IFRS rules. 56. Department responsible for investor assistance, composition, functions, the information made available With the objective of assessing the operational by such department and contact details. performance, Galp also discloses the results on a replacement cost adjusted base (RCA), excluding the The service responsible for supporting investors is Investor non-recurrent events and the inventory effect, the latter Relations division (IR) integrated in the DERI. because the cost of the sold merchandise and rawmaterials consumed has been determined by the method Composition of replacement cost valorisation. The “About the Report” section, describes the directives and globally recognised Head: Pedro Dias regulations used in the preparation of this report. Investor Relations Officer: Otelo Ruivo Team: Cátia Lopes, João G. Pereira, João P. Pereira, Recognising the technological dependency in the process Teresa Rodrigues areas, Galp characterises the control activities for financial information report with respect to the use of support technologies (implementation/system of information) and Main duties identifies control activities over those technologies. The DERI performs all duties of the investor support office. Galp also recognises the role of productivity software This department reports directly to the Chief Executive use, including spreadsheets application and database, in Officer and its duties include defining Galp’s strategic support of relevant controls and activities for the financial guidelines, promoting a clear perception of the Company information report, assessing the underlying risks and at strategic, operational and financial level towards its identifying control validity activities, monitoring and stakeholders. In particular, in respect to the investor support supervision over the use of such applications. duty, the IR area devise, manage and coordinate all the activities required to achieve Galp’s objectives in respect of The process for disclosing financial information by Galp is relations with the capital markets, including shareholders, accompanied not only by the management and supervisory institutional investors and financial analysts. bodies, but also by the business units and corporate centre. The documents for presenting financial information to The IR team is responsible for ensuring that communications the capital markets are prepared by the Strategy and with capital markets result in an integrated and consistent Investor Relations Department (DERI), based on information perception of Galp’s strategy and operations, so that provided by the planning and control of the business units, investors are capable of making informed decisions. For this the Accounting and Taxation and the Corporate Planning purpose, the IR team provides the market with relevant, and Control departments. In particular, in relation to halfclear and accurate information about Galp, regularly, yearly and annual provision of accounts, the documents transparently and promptly, aiming at providing information are sent to the Board of Directors and Audit Board who symmetry in the market. approves them before disclosure. 126 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance The IR team is also responsible for meeting the legal Results obligations to report to the regulatory authorities and the market, comprehending drawing up reports disclosing The information disclosed to the market includes a Galp’s results and Group’s activities, drafting and disclosure summary of the operating information for each quarter, communication on important information, providing called the trading update, usually published two weeks information requested by investors, financial analysts and before the announcement of the quarterly results. other capital market participants, as well the support to the Reports and quarterly earnings presentations and their Executive Committee in aspects relating to Galp’s status as supporting files are usually released before the market a publicly traded company. opens, on the date that is previously announced, and the audio and transcription of the conference calls on the The IR team monitors changes in Galp’s share price presentation of results are published afterwards. and those of comparable companies and supports the management team in direct and regular contact with Consensus national and foreign financial analysts and institutional investors, either in conferences and collective presentations Galp publishes the quarterly, medium and long-term, results addressed to investors, or in bilateral meetings. estimated by analysts who cover the Company’s action and disclosures a summary of the analysts’ recommendations Information disclosed on the share price. Galp’s capital market communication policy aims to provide Galp share all relevant information to enable reasoned judgments to be made about the evolution of the Company’s activity, With more focus on the capital market, the website includes expected and achieved results and the various risks and a section with Galp’s share price history, comprehending opportunities that can affect its activity. comparisons with the evolution of PSI-20 and comparable company share prices. Additional information about the To that extent, Galp promotes transparent and consistent Company’s shareholder structure, including a description communication, based on explanations of the criteria used of qualifying holdings, as well as detailed and historical in the provision of information and clarification of the information about the payment of dividends, is also reasons for any amendments to it, in order to facilitate the available thereon. comparison of information provided in different reporting periods. Financial calendar Strategy execution In accordance with the best international practices, in December Galp announces the event dates of interest to The website provides information on our strategy and shareholders that will take place in the following year. its implementation. Our website www.galp.com includes a description of our activities and strategy, including presentations directed to the capital markets. Corporate governance The website provides information on the Company’s corporate governance, in compliance with the regulations in force in the Portuguese market and in accordance with the best international practices. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 127 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world In 2017, the financial calendar was the following: The database currently has over 2,300 contacts. The relevant information is disclosed simultaneously in the “Investors” Event Date section of Galp’s website: http://www.galpenergia.com/EN/ investidor/Noticias/Paginas/Home.aspx 4 Quarter 2016 Trading Update th 31 January Capital Markets Day 2017 and 4th 21 February Contacts Quarter 2016 Results Annual Report & Accounts 2016 We promote a close relationship with the financial 11 April (Audited) community and are actively involved in meetings with 1st Quarter 2017 Trading Update 18 April institutional investors and analysts, in order to inform, on a regular and consistent basis, on the Company’s strategy 1 Quarter 2017 Results st 2 May and its implementation. Annual General Shareholders 12 May Meeting In February 2017, we organised an event for the capital 2 Quarter 2017 Trading Update nd 17 July market, for information on the strategic update and financial perspectives until 2021. The Company also held 2nd Quarter 2017 Results 31 July three conference calls, open to the capital markets, to 3 Quarter 2017 Trading Update rd 16 October discuss quarterly results and update its strategic execution. 3 Quarter 2017 Results rd 30 October In addition, throughout the year, Galp participated in 16 The calendar for 2018 is the following*: conferences and 85 roadshows. In all, including ad-hoc meetings and conference calls, the IR team held more Event Date than 220 meetings with institutional investors, covering a total of 200 investment funds in Europe, North America, 4 Quarter 2017 Trading Update th 5 February Latin America and Asia. Approximately 40% of these Capital Markets Day 2018 and 4 th meetings were attended by at least one member of the 20 February Quarter 2017 Results Executive Committee, underlining the management team’s high commitment level to communicating the Company’s 1st Quarter 2018 Trading Update 13 April strategy and its implementation in the capital markets. Annual Report & Accounts 2017 16 April (Audited) During the working hours of Euronext Lisbon, the contact 1st Quarter 2018 Results 27 April with the IR team can be done through the e-mail address Annual General Shareholders investor.relations@galp.com and by calling +351 217 240 866. 15 May Meeting 57. Market liaison officer 2nd Quarter 2018 Trading Update 16 July 2nd Quarter 2018 Results 30 July Galp’s representative for market relations is Pedro Dias, 3 Quarter 2018 Trading Update rd 15 October Head of DERI. 3rd Quarter 2018 Results 29 October 58. Data on the extent and deadline for replying to the * These dates are subject to change. requests for information received throughout the year or pending from preceding years Communication to the market To promote a close relationship with the capital markets All relevant information is disclosed, preferably, before community, the Head of DERI ensures the response to opening or after closing the daily session of Euronext Lisbon information requests received by telephone and email. and is made available in Portuguese and in English through the CMVM’s information disclosure system. Responses and clarifications are provided as quickly as possible, adjusting the response time to the nature The information is also provided to facilitate access, and complexity of issues at hand, and always ensuring quickly and without specific costs, to a non-discriminatory transparency, symmetry and consistency of available database, sent by email to all investors and other market information. stakeholders who have requested so previously. 128 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance During the year 2017, the IR team responded to over 350 62. Place where information is available on the name information requests and the average response time was of the corporate boards’ members, the market liaison one business day, in line with the target defined. officer, the investor assistance officer or comparable structure, respective functions and contact details. V Website The information about the members of the corporate bodies 59. Address(es) is available at Galp’s website at: https://www.galp.com/en/ corporate-governance/governing-model-bodies Galp publishes information on its website: http://www.galp.com The information about the market liaison officer and the Investor Relations area is available at Galp’s website at: 60. Place where information about the firm, public https://www.galp.com/en/investors/investor-support/ company status, headquarters and other details investor-relations-team referred to in Article 171 of the Commercial Companies is available. 63. Place where the documents are available and related to financial accounts reporting, which should The information set out in Article 171 of the CSC can be be accessible for at least five years and the half-yearly found on the Galp website at: http://www.galp.com/en/ calendar on company events that is published at the footer/contacts beginning of every six months, including, inter alia, general meetings, disclosure of annual, half-yearly and, 61. Places where the By-laws and regulations on the where applicable, quarterly financial statements. functioning of the boards and/or committees are available. The accounting documents are available on the Galp’s website at: https://www.galp.com/en/investors/reportsThe By-laws are available on Galp’s website at: https:// and-presentations/reports-and-results www.galp.com/Portals/0/Recursos/Governo-Societario/ SharedResources/Documentos/EN/Articles_of_ The calendar is available on Galp’s website at: association_2012.pdf https://www.galp.com/en/investors/investor-support/ investor-calendar The Regulations of the Audit Board can be found on Galp’s website at: https://www.galp.com/Portals/0/Recursos/ 64. Place where the notice convening the General Governo-Societario/SharedResources/Documentos/EN/ Shareholders Meeting and all the preparatory and Supervisory-board-regulations-2015.pdf subsequent information related thereto is disclosed. The Regulations of the Board of Directors can be found The notice convening the General Shareholders Meeting on Galp’s website at: https://www.galp.com/Portals/0/ and all preparatory and subsequent information related Recursos/Governo-Societario/SharedResources/ to it are posted on Galp’s website at: https://www.galp. Documentos/EN/Regulamento_CA_EN_Web.pdf com/en/investors/information-to-shareholders/generalshareholders-meetings The Regulations of Galp’s Executive Committee can be found on Galp’s website at: https://www.galp.com/ 65. Place where the historical archive of the resolutions Portals/0/Recursos/Governo-Societario/SharedResources/ passed at the General Shareholders Meetings, share Documentos/EN/Regulamento_CE_EN_Web.pdf capital and voting results relating to the preceding three years are available. The historical record of recent years with resolutions made at the General Shareholders Meetings, share capital represented and the results of votes, can be found on Galp’s website at: https://www.galp.com/en/investors/ information-to-shareholders/general-shareholdersmeetings Annual Report and Accounts 2017 129 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world D Remuneration In 2017, the Remuneration Committee held three meetings. In 2017, no natural or legal person was recruited to support I Power to establish the Remuneration Committee in the performance of its 66. Details of the powers to set the remuneration of the duties. corporate boards, members of the Executive Committee or Chief Executive and directors of the Company 68. Knowledge and experience in Remuneration Policy issues by members of the Remuneration Committee. The Remuneration Committee is the corporate body responsible for setting the remuneration amounts payable The members of the Remuneration Committee have to members of Galp’s corporate bodies and Executive control over the remuneration policy based on their Committee and consists of three shareholders elected by academic background and extensive corporate experience the General Shareholders Meeting who are not members and are considered suitable for reflection and decisionof the Board of Directors or the Audit Board, pursuant to making on all matters under the remit of the Remuneration Article 8 of the By-laws. Committee, as evidenced by their biographical information in Appendix 8.9. In accordance with Article 248(B)(3) of the Securities Code, Galp’s senior executives are the members of the Specifically, the Remuneration Committee member Jorge Board of Directors and the Audit Board. Beyond the Armindo Carvalho Teixeira has vast professional experience members of these bodies, no one has regular access to including work in listed companies, management positions, inside information nor participates in decisions about the including as Chairman, giving him appropriate knowledge Company’s management and business strategy. in matters of remuneration in governing bodies of this company type. II Remuneration Committee 67. Composition of the Remuneration Committee, III Remuneration structure including details of individual or legal persons recruited 69. Description of the remuneration policy of the Board to provide services to such committee and a statement of Directors and Supervisory Boards, as set out in Article on the independence of each member and advisor 2 of Law No. 28/2009 of 19 June. The Company’s current Remuneration Committee was The Remuneration Committee submitted to the approval elected at the General Shareholders Meeting of 16 April of the General Shareholders Meeting, held on 12 May 2017, 2015 for the term 2015-2018 and has the following a statement on the remuneration policy for the Galp’s members: corporate bodies for 2017, which describes the process for setting and implementing Galp’s remuneration policy • Amorim Energia for 2017, as well as its general objectives and principles, • Jorge Armindo Carvalho Teixeira in accordance with Law 28/2009 of 19 June and in line with the CMVM Regulation No 4/2013 and the CMVM’s • Joaquim Alberto Hierro Lopes Corporate Governance Code (2013 Recommendations), in order to ensure greater clarity and effectiveness in The members of the Remuneration Committee are communicating the remuneration policy, both to the independent of the members of the Board of Directors and market and to shareholders. This policy is available on Audit Board, in compliance with Article 8 of the By-laws Galp’s website at https://galp.com/Portals/0/Recursos/ which stipulates that those positions are incompatible. GovernoCorporativo/Shared%20folder/Documentos/ Item_8.pdf and a brief description thereof is given below. The fact that the non-executive directors Paula Amorim, Marta Amorim, Francisco Teixeira Rêgo, Rui Paulo Gonçalves and Jorge Seabra de Freitas are members of Amorim Energia’s Board of Directors does not affect its independence as a member of the Remuneration Committee, given that these members do not take, alone or together, the decisions of the Board of Directors of Amorim Energia. 130 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance Board of Directors Non-executive members fixed monthly sum, paid 12 times per year, in an amount set by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account the standard market practice, which may be differentiated, in the case of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, in recognition of the special functions of Company’s representation assigned to her/him, and, in the case of non-executive members of the Board of Directors who perform special functions of supervision and monitoring of the Company. The remuneration of non-executive members of the Board of Directors does not include any amount based on the Company’s performance. Executive members Galp Added Value (33.3%) Fixed Quantitative Total Shareholder Return performance (TSR) (33.3%) (65%) Remuneration Annual (50%) Qualitative EBITDA RC (33.3%) performance Variable (35%) (potential maximum of 60% based on the total Total Shareholder Return annual fixed (TSR) (50%) remuneration) Quantitative performance (65%) EBITDA RC Three-yearly (50%) (50%) Qualitative performance (35%) Board executive members’ remuneration of 2017 involves three main components: Fixed remuneration the fixed part of the remuneration is a monthly payment, paid 14 times a year, whose amount is set by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the nature of the assigned roles and responsibilities and market practice in equivalent positions in large national and international companies operating in the same sector. Annual variable remuneration represents 50% of total variable remuneration, with the amount set based on the following indicators: • Galp Added Value (GVA), i.e. Galp’s Economic Value Added applicable to Galp, with a weight of 33.3%; • Total Shareholder Return (TSR), with a weight of 33.3%, to enable comparison with the change in Galp’s stock market performance (including dividend payments) compared to the following group of comparable companies: Total, Repsol, OMV, MOL and ENI, and the PSI 20 index; • Galp’s EBITDA, at replacement cost, with a weight of 33.3%. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 131 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Galp’s EBITDA, at replacement cost, to be considered for the Statutory Auditor purpose of determining the annual variable remuneration, may reflect reasonable adjustments regarding extraneous The Statutory Auditor is remunerated for the work of review factors previously defined by the Remuneration Committee, and legal certification of the accounts of the Company in that are adequate to encourage management objectives. an amount that is contractually set under normal market conditions. Three-yearly variable remuneration represents 50% of total variable remuneration, with the amount based on the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting following indicators: The remuneration of the members of the Board of the • TSR Galp vs comparable companies, with a weight of 50%; General Shareholders Meeting is set following market • Galp’s EBITDA, at replacement cost, with a weight of 50%. practice in similar duties and is paid in a single instalment each year. The executive members of the Board of Directors are also entitled to an amount equal to 25% of their fixed 70. Information on how remuneration is structured so as remuneration, which is paid 12 times a year, for the purpose to enable the aligning of the interests of the members of of establishing a retirement savings plan or similar financial the Board of Directors with the Company’s long-term product. objectives and how it is based on the performance assessment and how it discourages excessive risk-taking. Each executive member of the Board of Directors also receives the fringe benefits in force at Galp for the exercise To achieve better alignment of the activities of the directors of his/her role, in accordance with the Company’s terms and with the Company’s long-term objectives, a policy setting conditions in place. multi-year goals was introduced in 2012. Executive directors who have to travel from their place As provided by the remuneration policy described in section of residence are entitled to receive a supplement for 69 of this Report, the variable remuneration of directors accommodation expenses, set by the Remuneration holding executive office includes annual and three-yearly Committee. variable components, of the same weighting (50% each). That weighting is based on performance assessment The remuneration of the Galp’s directors includes all carried out by the Remuneration Committee using specific, remunerations due for posts held in management corporate measurable and pre-defined criteria which, together, look bodies in other Galp Group companies. at the Company’s growth indicators and the wealth created for shareholders in a sustained manner in the short, medium Audit Board and long-term, with a three-year time lag for the year in question in the case of the multi-annual component, under The remuneration of the members of the Audit Board the terms of the above mentioned remuneration policy for consists of a fixed monthly payment, paid 12 times a year, 2017. with the chairman of the Audit Board receiving a different remuneration from the other members of the Audit Board, Accordingly, the use of qualitative criteria oriented towards given the special functions assigned to the chairman. a strategic medium-term perspective in the development of the Company, the three-year period considered for setting The remuneration of the Audit Board members does not the multi-annual variable remuneration amount and the include a variable component. existence of a ceiling on variable remuneration, are key elements in promoting management alignment with the medium and long-term interests of the Company and its shareholders. The executive members of the Board of Directors shall not enter into contracts, either with the Company or with third parties, whose effect is to mitigate the inherent risk of their variable remuneration set by the Company. 132 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance 71. Reference, where applicable, to any variable The three-yearly variable remuneration is annually set by remuneration component and information on any the Remuneration Committee, establishing a provisional impact of performance appraisal on this component. amount based on evaluation in each year of the three year period. However, the actual deferred amount of the The total variable remuneration amount for each year is three-year variable remuneration depends on (i) fulfillment set by the Remuneration Committee in accordance with the of the overall objectives for the three-year period, and (ii) fulfilment of the previously defined specific targets, with a qualitative assessment by the Remuneration Committee, maximum potential of 60%, by reference to fixed annual following consultation with the non-executive directors, total remuneration. such that the provisional amounts may be reduced or increased at the end of the three-year period in question, The remuneration of executive directors include a variable as a result of the assessment. component set based on the degree of compliance with certain economic, financial and operational objectives in The first three-year period to be considered was 2013-15. respect of the previous financial year, as set out in the The deferral current period is 2015-2017. remuneration policy for 2017, representing 50% of total variable remuneration, in line with generally recognised 73. Criteria whereon the allocation of variable practice in the national market and representing a remuneration on shares is based, and also on reasonable balance between the variable and fixed maintaining the Company’s shares that the executive remuneration components. directors have had access to, on the possible share contracts, including hedging or risk transfer contracts, The above-mentioned performance indicators contribute the corresponding limit and its relation to the total 65% to the definitions of the applicable annual and annual remuneration value. three-yearly variable remuneration. The remaining 35% of each of these components is based on the result of the Galp currently has no system for the allocation of variable Remuneration Committee’s qualitative assessment of the remuneration in shares. work of the executive directors during the financial year or during the relevant three-year period, as appropriate. 74. Criteria whereon the allocation of variable remuneration on options is based and details of the With the purpose of keeping consistency between deferral period and the exercise price. the results obtained and the total amount of variable remuneration paid, Galp’s a net profit is also considered. Galp currently has no system for the allocation of variable Accordingly, if Galp achieves net profit under 80% of remuneration in options. budget, there will be no entitlement to payment of variable remuneration. 75. Key factors and grounds for any annual bonus scheme and any other non-financial benefits. The three-year variable remuneration represents 50% of total variable remuneration, in line with generally recognised Galp does not have an established annual bonus scheme. practice in the national market and the regime applicable to banking institutions defined in Appendix II (1) (n) of Directive The executive directors are entitled to a car allowance and 2011/61/EU of 8 June 2011, which sets a minimum amount to health insurance. of 40% for deferred variable remuneration. 72. Deferred payment of the remuneration’s variable component and specify the relevant deferral period. The remuneration policy for 2017 provides for the threeyear deferral of 50% of the variable remuneration component, in successive and overlapping three-year periods. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 133 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 76. Key characteristics of the supplementary pensions IV Remuneration disclosure or early retirement schemes for directors and date when such schemes were approved at the General 77. Details on the amount relating to the annual Shareholders Meeting, on an individual basis. remuneration paid as a whole and individually to members of the Board of Directors, including fixed The Remuneration Committee, pursuant to Article 8 of the and variable remuneration and as regards the latter, By-laws, is the competent entity to approve the pension reference to the different components that gave rise or pension compensation, at the expense of the Company, to the same. which is attributed to the executive directors. The gross annual amount of remuneration received The remuneration policy for 2017, approved by the General in aggregate form by the members of the Company’s Shareholders Meeting and described in section 69 of this Board of Directors during the 2017 financial year, as set report, provides the attribution of an amount of 25% of the by the Remuneration Committee, was €6,735,078.23, of annual fixed remuneration to the members of the Executive which €4,145,283.34 was fixed, €1,306,967 in variable Committee for application on a retirement savings plan or remuneration, €982,100.00 for the retirement savings plan financial product at their discretion. and €300,727.89 in other benefits. This savings plan entails no cost for Galp in the future, The table below presents the itemised individual gross insofar as it represents the allocation of an amount for remuneration received by the members of the Board of financial investment, while the members of the Executive Directors in 2017. Committee perform their duties and does not fall under the terms of Article 402(1) of the CSC. Individual remuneration of members of the Board of Directors for the year 2017 (€) Executive Directors Fixed Variable Retirement Total Name Position Remuneration Remuneration 1 savings plan Others Remuneration Vice-Chairman and Executive Carlos Gomes da Silva 980,000 368,433 245,000 110,769 1,704,202 Chairman Thore E. Kristiansen Executive 490,000 200,550 122,500 97,650 910,700 Filipe Crisóstomo Silva Executive 420,000 171,900 105,000 0 696,900 Carlos Costa Pina Executive 420,000 171,900 105,000 0 696,900 José Carlos Silva Executive 420,000 171,900 194,600 92,307 878,807 Pedro Ricardo Executive 420,000 123,884 105,000 0 648,884 Tiago Câmara Pestana Executive 420,000 98,400 105,000 0 623,400 Total 3,570,000 1,306,967 982,100 300,727 6,159,794 134 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance Non-executive Directors Fixed Variable Retirement Total Name Position Remuneration Remuneration 1 Savings Plan Others Remuneration Paula Amorim Non-Executive Chairman 02 0 0 0 0 Miguel Athayde Non-Executive Vice-Chairman 71,283 0 0 0 71,283 Marques Sérgio Gabrielli Non-Executive Director 84,000 0 0 0 84,000 de Azevedo Abdul Magid Osman Non-Executive Director 84,000 0 0 0 84,000 Marta Amorim Non-Executive Director 42,000 0 0 0 42,000 Raquel Vunge Non-Executive Director 42,000 0 0 0 42,000 Francisco Rêgo Non-Executive Director 42,000 0 0 0 42,000 Jorge Seabra de Freitas Non-Executive Director 42,000 0 0 0 42,000 Rui Paulo Gonçalves Non-Executive Director 42,000 0 0 0 42,000 Luis Todo-Bom Non-Executive Director 42,000 0 0 0 42,000 Diogo Tavares Non-Executive Director 42,000 0 0 0 42,000 Joaquim Borges Non-Executive Director 42,000 0 0 0 42,000 Gouveia Total 575,283 0 0 0 575,283 1 Corresponds to the variable annual remuneration for 2016 and variable multiannual remuneration for the three-year period 2014-2016. 2 The chairman of the Board of Directors donated her remuneration to the Galp Foundation. The variable remuneration is set under the provisions of section 72 of this chapter. 78. Any amounts paid, for any reason whatsoever, by other companies in a control or group relationship, or are subject to a common control. The remuneration of Galp’s directors includes all remunerations due for posts held on management bodies in Galp Group companies, therefore, no other payments were made by companies in a controlling or group relationship or under common control. 79. Remuneration paid in the form of profit sharing and/or bonus payments and the reasons such bonuses and/or profit sharing being awarded. Galp does not have any other remuneration system for its directors in the form of profit sharing and/or payment of bonuses. 80. Compensation paid or owed to former executive directors concerting contract termination during the financial year. No compensation was paid or owed to former executive directors because of termination of their duties during the 2017 financial year. 81. Details of the annual remuneration paid, as a whole and individually, to the members of the Company’s supervisory body, for the purposes of Law 28/2009 of 19 June. The aggregate remuneration paid to the members of the Audit Board in 2017, as per terms set by the Remuneration Committee, was €92,400. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 135 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The individual remuneration amounts paid to the permanent to, respectively, three times and two times the yearly total members of the Audit Board in 2017 are as follows: remuneration of each of these officers. Fixed Remuneration The remuneration policy of the members of the corporate Name Position (€) bodies for 2018 no longer provides for this type of Daniel Bessa Chairman 42,000 mechanism and other remuneration incentive models are Gracinda Raposo Member 25,200 being considered. Pedro Antunes de Almeida Member 25,200 84. Reference to the existence and description, with Total 92,400 details of the sums involved, of agreements between the Company and members of the Board of Directors 82. Details of the remuneration in such year of the and managers, pursuant to Article 248(B)(3) of the Chairman of the General Shareholders Meeting. Securities Code, that envisages compensation in the event of resignation or unfair dismissal or termination of In 2017, the Chairman of the Board of the General employment following a takeover bid. (Article 245(A)(1) Shareholders Meeting received remuneration in the amount (l) of the Securities Code). of €3,000. Galp is not a party to any agreements with the members of the Board of Directors and other senior executives, within V Agreements with remuneration the meaning of Article 248 (B) (3) of the Securities Code, implications providing for compensation in the event of resignation, dismissal without valid reason, or termination of the 83. Envisaged contractual restraints for compensation employment relationship following a change in Company’s payable for the unfair dismissal of directors and the control. relevance to the remunerations’ variable component. Taking into account the evolution of the international In accordance with the remuneration policy for 2017, Galp recruitment market of senior executives with experience does not have agreements in place that provide payments and commitment of medium/long term availability, and in the event of unfair dismissal of a director. The amounts given the Company’s need to ensure the competitiveness due are determined by legal provisions but there is no of the conditions for recruitment and retention, Galp’s payment of remuneration sums in respect of the variable remuneration policy for 2017 in exceptional and duly component if the net profit of the Galp Group is above 80% justified cases, namely by the special business criticality of the budget. of the duties to be performed allows the application of adopted specific incentive/compensation mechanisms for a The remuneration policy for 2017 is the legal instrument maximum period of two successive terms. under which is not demandable to the director removed due to inadequate performance any indemnity, nor compensation beyond the legal regime is required. VI Share and/or stock options plans The remuneration policy of the members of the corporate 85. Details of the plan and the number of persons bodies for 2016 provided that, in exceptional and duly included therein. motivated circumstances, in particular in the case of critical managerial functions, there could be specific compensation Galp has no share plans or share purchase options. or retention mechanisms, for a period of office not higher than two consecutive terms, considering the evolution in 86. Characterisation of the plan (allocation conditions, the international market for recruiting senior executives non-transfer of share clauses, criteria on share-pricing with experience and committed for medium/long term and the exercising option price, the period during which availability, as well as the need of the Company to ensure the options may be exercised, the characteristics of competitive conditions both for recruiting and retention of the shares or options to be allocated, the existence of such officers. Within the scope of this policy an additional incentives to purchase and/or exercise options) compensation was set for the retention of the CEO and the COO for the E&P business up to 2019, corresponding Galp has no share plans or share purchase options. 136 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART I Information on the Company’s allocation of results shareholding structure, organisation and governance 87. Stock option plans for the Company’s employees and provisions in force, available at https://www.galp.com/ staff. Portals/0/Recursos/Governo-Societario/SharedResources/ Documentos/EN/NT-R-Transacoes-Grupo-Galp-PartesGalp has no share plans or share purchase options. Relacionadas-EN.pdf 88. Control mechanisms for a possible employeeThis regulation applies to relevant transactions between shareholder system insofar as voting rights are not Galp (or any entity in which it has management control) and directly exercised by such employees (Article 245(A)(1)(e) related parties. of the Securities Code). The Company Secretary is required to subject a proposed Galp has no share plans or share purchase options. relevant transaction with a related party to the prior opinion of the Audit Board along with the supporting information proposing the transaction, including, in particular, its E Transactions with related parties economic value, specification of the contractual formation procedures adopted and demonstration of compliance of I Control mechanisms and the transaction conditions with normal market conditions. procedures The Audit Board must issue an opinion within five business 89. Mechanisms implemented by the Company for the days, otherwise the opinion will be deemed favourable. purposes of controlling transactions with related parties (For such purpose, reference is made to the concept In urgent and exceptional situations, approved beforehand resulting from IAS 24). and duly justified, in accordance with the approval rules in place, in which a favorable opinion from the Audit Board In order to safeguard the Galp Group’s interest in situations may significantly harm the value of the transaction for Galp, of potential conflict of interest, Galp adopted internal the aforementioned opinion must be requested afterwards, procedures for compliance with the relevant accounting as soon as possible. standards, in particular IAS 24, as well as implemented the regulatory standard on the control of transactions between If the Audit Board issues a negative prior opinion, the Galp and related parties, establishing the internal rules and board of directors of the Group company may decide to go procedures to identify, internal report and control by the forward with the transaction, on the grounds that it will aim Audit Board. at pursuing the relevant social interest of Galp or the entity of the Galp Group. 90. Details of transactions that were subject to control during the year. II Data on business deals In 2017, transactions with related parties subject to the control of the Audit Board did not occur. 92. Details of the place where the financial statements including information on business dealings with related 91. Description of the procedures and criteria applicable parties are available, in accordance with IAS 24, or to the Audit Board when it provides preliminary alternatively a copy of such data. assessment of the business deals to be carried out between the Company and the holders of qualifying Information on transactions with related parties, in holdings or entities in any relationship with them, in accordance with IAS 24, is available in Note 23 of Appendix accordance with Article 20 of the Securities Code. to Galp’s consolidated accounts. Galp’s engagement in business with related entities, as defined in IAS 24, is subject to the prior opinion of the Audit Board in accordance with internal standard “Galp Group Transactions with Related Parties”, to safeguard the Galp Group’s interest in situations of potential conflict of interest notwithstanding compliance with the legal Annual Report and Accounts 2017 137 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world PART II Corporate governance assessment 1. Identification of the Corporate Governance Code adopted Under and for the purposes of Article 2 of CMVM Regulation No. 4/2013, Galp decided voluntarily to be governed by the CMVM Corporate Governance Code, approved in 2013 (the “CMVM Recommendations”), available on the CMVM website at www.cmvm.pt. 2. Compliance analysis of the Corporate Governance Code adopted The Company’s corporate governance has evolved towards best corporate governance practices recognised at international level and the CMVM Corporate Governance Code and it has adopted the vast majority of the applicable recommendations. Out of a total of 40 recommendations, Galp has fully adopted 31, six are not applicable while three have not been adopted for the reasons listed in the table below. The justification of adoption each recommendation or reference to the section of this chapter of this report where the respective matter is addressed at length (chapter, title, section, page) is also indicated in the following table, together with the justification of any non-adoption or partial adoption of certain recommendation and also indication of any alternative mechanism selected by the Company for pursuing the same objective of the recommendation. Company governance Reference to CMVM Recommendation practice Justification this report I Company vote and control I.1 Companies must encourage their shareholders to Adopted Chapter 6, participate and vote in General Shareholders Meetings, Part I, B, namely by not setting an excessively high number of title I b), shares necessary for voting rights and by implementing section 12, the essential resources for exercising the right to vote page 91 by post and electronically. I.2 Companies must not adopt mechanisms that impede Not The quorum for passing resolutions shareholder decision-making, namely by setting a adopted of two thirds of the votes cast for quorum for passing resolutions that is higher than that some resolutions of the General provided in law Shareholders Meeting in accordance with the By-laws, in addition to the matters provided in law, seeks to ensure that the shareholders are adequately represented in the adopting resolutions on strategic matters for the Company. 138 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART II C  orporate Governance allocation of results Assessment Company governance Reference to CMVM Recommendation practice Justification this report I.3 Companies must not establish mechanisms whose Adopted Chapter 6, effect is to create a time lag between the right to Part I, B, receive dividends or to subscribe new securities and title I b), the voting right of each ordinary share, unless properly section 12, justified based on the long term interests of the page 91 shareholders. I.4. Company by-laws that provide for limitation on the Not The By-laws provide for one share, Chapter 6, number of votes that may be held or exercised by a applicable one vote, and do not provide for any Part I, B, single shareholder, individually or by agreement with limitation on the number of votes title I b), other shareholders, must also provide that, at least that may be held or exercised by a section 12, every five years, the General Shareholders Meeting single shareholder, individually or by page 91 shall decide whether to change or maintain this agreement with other shareholders. statutory provision without quorum requirements beyond legal provisions and this resolution shall count all votes cast without the limitation applying. I.5. Galp must not adopt measures whose effect is to Adopted Chapter 6, demand payments or the assumption of costs by the Part I, A, company in the event of a transfer of control or change title I, in the composition of the Board of Directors and which section 4, might damage the free transferability of the shares and page 88 the free appraisal of the performance of the members of the Board of Directors by the shareholders. II Supervision, management and oversight II.1. Supervision and Management II.1.1. Within the limits established by Law and unless the Adopted Chapter 6, company is of a reduced size, the Board of Directors Part I, B, shall delegate the day-to-day running of the company title II a), and the delegated duties should be identified in the sections 21 Annual Report on Corporate Governance. and 29, pages 99 and 104 II.1.2. OThe Board of Directors shall ensure that the company Adopted Chapter 6, acts in accordance with its goals and should not Part I, B, delegate its duties, namely in what concerns: i) the title II a), definition of the company’s general strategy and section 29, policies; ii) the definition of the corporate structure of page 104 the group; iii) decisions to be considered strategic due to their amount, risk or special features. II.1.3. The General and Supervisory Board, in addition to Not Galp’s governance model does not the exercise of the supervisory powers entrusted to it, applicable include a General and Supervisory shall assume full responsibilities in terms of corporate Board, wherefore the recommendation is governance, so that, by statutory provision or by not applicable. equivalent means, the requirement shall be enshrined for this body to deliberate on the strategy and main policies of the company, by defining the corporate structure of the group and decisions to be considered strategic due to their amount or risk. This body must also evaluate compliance with the strategic plan and the implementation of the main policies of the company. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 139 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Company governance Reference to CMVM Recommendation practice Justification this report II.1.4. Unless the company is of a reduced size, the Board of Adopted a) Chapter 6, Directors and the General and Supervisory Board, in Part I, B, accordance with the model adopted, shall set up the title III b), necessary Committees to: sections a) ensure competent and independent assessment of 24 and 27, the performance of the executive directors as well as pages 102 their own overall performance, and the performance and 103 of all existing committees; b) C hapter 5, b) r eflect on the adopted governance structure, Part I, subsystem and practices, assess their efficiency and -chapter B, propose measures to be implemented with a view to title III c), improvement of the competent bodies. sections 27 and 38, pages 103 and 109 II.1.5. The Board of Directors or the General and Supervisory Adopted Chapter 6, Board, in accordance with the applicable model, must Part I, C, set targets for risk-taking and create systems for risk title III c), control to ensure that the risks actually incurred are sections 50 to consistent with those goals. 52, pages 113 to 115 II.1.6. The Board of Directors shall include a number of Adopted Chapter 6, non-executive members to ensure it has efficient Part I, B, capability for supervision, oversight and assessment title II a), of the activity of the other members of the Board of section 18, Directors. page 95 II.1.7. The non-executive directors must include an adequate Adopted Chapter 6, proportion of independent directors, given the Part I, B, adopted governance model, the company’s size and title II a), its shareholder structure and respective free float. section 18, The independence of the members of the General and page 95 Supervisory Board and of the members of the Audit Committee is ascertained in accordance with current legislation and the other members of the Board of Directors are considered independent if they are not associated with any specific interest group in the Company and are not in any situation that might affect their impartiality of analysis or decision-making, in particular because: a) they have been employees of the company or of a company with which it has been in a controlling or group relationship in the past three years; b) in the past three years they have provided services or established a significant business relationship with the company or a company with which it is in a controlling or group relationship, either directly or as a partner, director, officer or manager of a legal entity; c) t hey are in receipt of remuneration paid by the company or by a company with which it is in a controlling or group relationship, in addition to remuneration earned as a director; d) is the partner, spouse or relative in the first degree and up to and including the third degree of a director or an individual with a direct or indirect qualifying holding; e) is a qualifying shareholder or representative of a qualifying shareholder. 140 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART II C  orporate Governance allocation of results Assessment Company governance Reference to CMVM Recommendation practice Justification this report II.1.8. Directors with executive duties, when so requested Adopted Chapter 6, by other members of governing bodies, to supply Part I, B, information shall do so promptly and in a form that is title I c), appropriate to the nature of the information requested. section 29, page 104 II.1.9. The Chief Executive Officer or the Chairman of the Adopted Chapter 6, Executive Committee shall send the calls and minutes Part I, B, of the respective meetings, as applicable, to the title I c), Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of section 29, the Audit Board, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, page 104 the Chairman of the General and Supervisory Board and the Chairman of the Financial Matters Committee. II.1.10. If the Chairman of the Board of Directors has executive Not The Chairman of the Board of Directors powers, this body shall appoint one of its members applicable of Galp does not perform executive as an independent director to ensure coordination functions. of the work of the other non-executive members and the conditions for ensuring that they can make independent and informed decisions, or find another equivalent mechanism for ensuring such coordination II.2. Supervision II.2.1. Depending on the applicable model, the Chairman Not The Chairman of the Audit Board was reof the Audit Board, the Audit Committee or the adopted elected for the third time. However, the Financial Matters Committee shall be independent, in respective appointment for completion accordance with the applicable legal standard and shall of the 2005-07 term followed changes have the necessary skills to carry out his/her functions in Galp’s shareholder structure and rules, agreed by the shareholders regarding the election of members of the governing bodies (Shareholders’ Agreement of 2006). Therefore, the 2008-10 term is considered to be the first appointment. Given the above and the recognised and prestigious reputation for entrepreneurial and scientific excellence of Galp’s Chairman of the Audit Board, the Company has no doubt about his independence II.2.2. The supervisory body shall be the main point of contact Adopted Chapter 6, for the external auditor and the first recipient of the Part I, B, respective reports, responsible, among other things, for title V, proposing the respective remuneration and ensuring section 45, that the company has suitable conditions in place for page 111 the provision of the services. II.2.3. Every year, the supervisory body must assess the Adopted Chapter 6, external auditor and propose its removal or the Part I, B, termination of the contract for the provision of its title V, services to the competent body, whenever there is a section 45, just cause for that. page 111 II.2.4. The Audit Board shall evaluate the operation of the Adopted Chapter 6, internal control and risk management systems and Part I, C, propose any necessary adjustments. title III, sections 50 and 51, page 113 and 114 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 141 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Company governance Reference to CMVM Recommendation practice Justification this report II.2.5. The Audit Committee, the General and Supervisory Adopted Chapter 6, Board and the Audit Board shall decide on work plans Part I, C, and the resources allocated to the internal auditing title III, services and the services that ensure compliance with sections 50 the standards applicable to the company (compliance and 51, services); reports produced by these services must page 113 and be sent to these bodies at least when they relate to 114 matters of accounting, identification and resolution of conflicts of interest and detection of potential illegalities. II.3. Remuneration setting II.3.1. All members of the Remuneration Committee or Adopted Chapter 6, equivalent body must be independent of the executive Part I, D, members of the Board of Directors and there must be title II, at least one member with knowledge and experience in section 67, remuneration policy matters. page 130 II.3.2. No natural or legal person currently providing or having Adopted Chapter 6, in the last three years provided services to anybody Part I, D, dependent on the Board of Directors, to the Company’s title II, Board itself, or who has a current relationship with the section 67, Company or with an advisor of the Company, shall be page 130 recruited to support the Remuneration Committee in the exercise of its duties. This recommendation also applies to any natural or legal person connected with such an employment or service provision contract. II.3.3. The statement on the remuneration policy of the Adopted Chapter 6, management and supervisory bodies, as provided in Part I, D, Article 2 of Law No. 28/2009 of 19 June, must also title III, contain the following: section 69, a) identification and explicit statement of the criteria page 130 for determining remuneration paid to the members of the governing bodies; b) information on any maximum amount, in individual and aggregate terms, to be paid to the members of the corporate bodies and identification of the situations in which these maximum amounts may be due; c) information as to the enforceability or unenforceability of payments for dismissal or termination of directorial functions. II.3.4. Proposals for approval of plans for allocation of shares Not Galp has no share allocation plans or and/or share purchase options or based on share price applicable share purchase options. variations to the members of the corporate bodies must be submitted to the General Shareholders Meeting.The proposal shall mention all the necessary information for a correct assessment of the plan. 142 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART II C  orporate Governance allocation of results Assessment Company governance Reference to CMVM Recommendation practice Justification this report II.3.5. Proposals for approval of the establishment of any Not In accordance with Article 8 of the Bysystem of retirement benefits for the members of the adopted laws, the Remuneration Committee, corporate bodies must be submitted to the General elected by the General Shareholders Shareholders Meeting. The proposal shall mention all Meeting, is the body with powers the necessary information for a correct assessment of to approve the pension or pension the system. compensation, paid by the Company, to which the executive directors are entitled. III Remuneration III.1. The remuneration of the executive members of the Adopted Chapter 6, Board of Directors must be based on actual Company Part I, D, performance and must discourage excessive risktitle III, taking. section 70, page 132 III.2. Remuneration of non-executive members of the Board Adopted Chapter 6, of Directors and remuneration of the members of the Part I, D, Audit Board shall not include any component whose title III, value depends on company performance or value. section 69, page 130 III.3. The variable component of the remuneration must be Adopted Chapter 6, in reasonable proportion to the fixed remuneration Part I, D, component and maximum limits must be set for all title III, components section 71, page 133 III.4. A significant part of the variable remuneration shall Adopted Chapter 5, be deferred for a period not less than three years and Part I, D, the right to receive it shall depend on the company’s title III, ongoing positive performance during that period. section 72, page 133 III.5. The members of the Board of Directors shall not enter Adopted Chapter 6, into contracts, either with the Company, or with third Part I, D, parties, whose effect is to mitigate the inherent risk of title III, their variable remuneration set by the company. section 70, page 132 III.6. Until the end of their terms, the executive directors Not The executive directors were not shall retain the company’s shares allocated to them applicable allocated any Company’s shares by way under variable remuneration schemes, up to twice the of variable remuneration. value of total annual remuneration, except those that need to be sold for the payment of taxes on the income from the shares.. III.7. Quando a remuneração variável compreender a Not Variable remuneration does not include atribuição de opções, o início do período de exercício applicable allocation of share options. deve ser diferido por um prazo não inferior a três anos. III.8. When the director’s dismissal is not due to serious Adopted Chapter 6, breach of duties or unsuitability for the normal exercise Part I, D, of the functions in question, but is still attributable title III, to inadequate performance, the company must have section 83, recourse to suitable and necessary legal instruments page 136 to ensure that any damages or compensation, beyond what is legally due, are not enforceable. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 143 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Company governance Reference to CMVM Recommendation practice Justification this report IV Audit IV.1. The external auditor shall, as part of his/her powers, Adopted Chapter 6, verify the application of corporate body remuneration Part I, B, policies and systems, the effectiveness and operation title V, of internal control mechanisms and shall report any section 45, short comings to the company’s supervisory body. page 111 IV.2. The company or any entities in a controlling Adopted Chapter 6, relationship with it shall not recruit the external Part I, B, auditor, or any entities in a group relationship with the title V, external auditor or in the same network, to provide sections 46 services other than audit services. If there are reasons and 47, for procuring such services which must be approved pages 111 and by the supervisory body and explained in its Annual 112 Corporate Governance Report they shall not account for more than 30% of the total amount of the services rendered to the company IV.3. Companies shall promote the rotation of auditors after Adopted Chapter 6, two or three terms, respectively, depending on whether Part I, B, terms last three or four years. Retaining them beyond title V, this period must be based on a specific opinion of the section 44, Audit Board that expressly weighs up the conditions of page 110 independence of the auditor and the cost/benefits of replacement. V Conflicts of interest and related party transactions V.1. The company’s business with holders of qualifying Adopted Chapter 6, interests or entities with which they are in any Part I, D, relationship, pursuant to Art. 20 of the Portuguese title III, Securities Code, shall be transacted under normal section 10, market conditions. page 90 V.2. The supervisory or oversight body must establish the Adopted Chapter 6, required procedures and criteria for setting the relevant Part I, E, level of business with shareholders with qualifying title I, interests or with entities in a relationship with them as sections 89 provided in Article 20(1) of the Portuguese Securities and 91, Code supervision of business of significant relevance page 137 dependent on the prior opinion of that body. VI Information VI.1 Companies must provide, through their websites, Adopted Chapter 6, in Portuguese and English, access to information Part I, C, providing knowledge of their development and current title V, situation in economic, financial and governance terms. sections 59 and 65, page 129 VI.2 Companies shall ensure the existence of an investor Adopted Chapter 6, support and market liaison service, to respond to Part I, C, requests from investors promptly. A record must be title IV, kept of requests submitted and their processing. section 56, page 126 144 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp PART II C  orporate Governance allocation of results Assessment Patrícia Brandão, Sines’ Port – Portugal, 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 145 Photo by Arlindo Camacho, Galp Lisbon Portugal, 2018 7. Proposal for allocation ofresults Sérgio Cersosimo, a geophysicist at Galp, has his feet firmly set on the ground. He wanted to be an astronomer but ended up interpreting signals from well beneath the surface of the earth. Global Energiser To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A., on an individual basis, closed the year of 2017 with a net profit of 421,887,599.92 EUR, calculated in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The Board of Directors proposes, under legal terms, that the net income for 2017 of EUR 421,887,599.92 should be distributed to shareholders. The Board of Directors also proposes, under article 31 of Commercial Companies Code, the distribution of the amount of EUR 34,200,249.33 derived from retained earnings. The amount to be paid to shareholders related to the financial year of 2017, will be EUR 248,775,190.50, corresponding to EUR 0.30/share, that added to the EUR 207,312,658.75, corresponding to EUR 0.25/share, paid as an advance dividend on the profits on September 2017, it totals an amount to distribute to shareholders of EUR 456,087,849.25, corresponding to EUR 0.55/share. It is further proposed that a maximum amount of EUR 22,211,890 be distributed to Galp Group’s employees and executive directors of Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. as profit sharing, an amount already recognized and expressed in the consolidated financial statements of Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. and in the individual of each of its subsidiaries, and the respective net results for 2017 have been calculated already considering that amount. The breakdown of this amount among the Galp Group’s employees shall be determined by the Executive Committee of Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A., in accordance with the applicable internal rules, and among the executive directors of Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. shall be determined by the Remuneration Committee, in accordance with applicable legal terms. Lisbon, 13 April 2018 The Board of Directors Chairman Paula Amorim Vice-Chairman Miguel Athayde Marques Vice-Chairman Carlos Gomes da Silva Members Filipe Crisóstomo Silva Thore E. Kristiansen Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo Abdul Magid Osman Marta Amorim Raquel Vunge Carlos Costa Pina Francisco Rêgo Jorge Seabra de Freitas José Carlos da Silva Pedro Ricardo Tiago Câmara Pestana Rui Paulo Gonçalves Luís Todo Bom Diogo Tavares Joaquim Borges Gouveia 148 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results This page is intentionally left blank. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 149 Photo by Arlindo Camacho, Aveiras service area Portugal, 2018 8. Appendices Cecília Sêco applies her military education with proximity and affection in the management of her mostly female team. At age 43, she is the Aveiras service area manager. Global Energiser To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Index 2.2.1. Crude oil reserves.. ............................................................. 163 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position....... 155 2.2.2. Useful life and residual value of tangible and intangible assets................................................................... 164 Consolidated Income Statement........................................ 156 2.2.3. Goodwill impairment....................................................... 164 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income..................................................................................................... 157 2.2.4. Impairment of tangible and intangible assets and financial investments.. ........................................................ 164 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity....... 158 2.2.5. Accounts receivable impairment.................................. 164 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow.......................... 160 2.2.6. Provisions for contingencies. . ........................................ 164 Notes to the consolidated financial statements as at 31 december 2017............................................................... 161 2.2.7. Abandonment provisions. . .............................................. 164 1. Introduction.............................................................................. 161 2.2.8. Environmental liabilities................................................ 164 1.1. Parent Company............................................................ 161 2.2.9. Demographic and financial assumptions used in the retirement benefits liabilities.. ...................................... 164 1.2. The Group......................................................................... 161 2.2.10. Deferred tax assets.......................................................... 165 1.2.1. Upstream activities............................................................ 161 2.2.11. Estimates over uncertain tax positions...................... 165 1.2.2. Midstream and downstream activities........................ 161 2.3. General accounting policies.................................. 165 1.2.3. Natural gas activity and energy production and supply...................................................................................... 161 2.3.1. Translation of financial statements denominated in foreign currency...................................................................... 165 1.2.3.1. Distribution network operators.............................. 161 2.3.2. Foreign currency balances and transactions............. 165 1.2.3.2. Commercialisation of last resort retailers........... 162 2.3.3. Classification in the consolidated statement 2. Significant accounting policies................................ 163 of financial position..................................................................... 166 2.1. Basis of presentation. ................................................. 163 2.3.4. Financial instruments. . .................................................... 166 2.2. Estimates and judgements..................................... 163 3. Segment reporting............................................................... 168 152 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 4. Consolidated companies................................................. 174 11. Goodwill..................................................................................... 224 4.1. Consolidation perimeter.......................................... 175 12. Tangible and intangible assets............................... 229 4.2. Changes in the consolidation perimeter....... 180 12.1. Movements in tangible assets.............................. 232 4.3. Reconciliation of receipts and payments 12.2. Main events occurring during the year from financial investments presented ended 31 December 2017....................................................... 237 in the consolidated statement of cash flows – Investing Activities................................................................... 181 12.3. Split of tangible and intangible assets in progress...................................................................................... 238 5. Financial investments...................................................... 182 12.4. Amortisation, depreciation and impairment 5.1. Investments in joint ventures. .............................. 184 losses in the year. . ....................................................................... 238 5.2. Investments in associates....................................... 196 12.5. Impairment on tangible and intangible assets 241 5.3. Financial assets held for sale................................ 204 12.6. Exploration segment assets.................................. 244 5.4. Results from financial investments................. 205 13. Trade and other receivables....................................... 245 5.5. Dividends from financial investments. . ......... 206 13.1. Trade receivables......................................................... 246 5.6. Joint operations............................................................ 206 13.2. Other receivables. . ........................................................ 247 5.6.1. Joint operations Oil Consortium................................ 206 14. Inventories.............................................................................. 253 5.6.2. Joint operations – Jointly controlled entities............. 210 15. Other financial investments..................................... 255 6. Operating income.................................................................211 16. Cash and cash equivalents......................................... 256 7. Operating costs....................................................................... 214 17. Equity........................................................................................... 257 8. Remuneration of the board.......................................... 215 17.1. Share capital.. .................................................................. 257 9. Financial income and costs.......................................... 216 17.2. Reserves............................................................................. 258 10. Income taxes and energy sector extraordinary contribution................................................ 217 17.2.1. Legal reserves....................................................................259 10.1. Energy Sector Extraordinary Contribution.. 219 17.2.2. Translation reserves........................................................259 10.2. Current income tax.................................................... 220 17.2.3. Hedging reserves............................................................. 260 10.3. Deferred taxes................................................................ 221 17.2.4. Other reserves.................................................................. 260 17.3. Earnings per share. . ..................................................... 261 17.4. Non-controlling interests...................................... 262 17.5. Dividends......................................................................... 266 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 153 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 18. Loans........................................................................................... 268 19. Post employment benefits.......................................... 271 20. Trade payables and other payables...................... 278 20.1. Trade payables. ............................................................... 278 20.2. Other payables...............................................................279 21. Provisions.................................................................................282 22. Other financial instruments financial derivatives........................................................................................ 285 23. Related parties.................................................................... 289 24. Oil and gas reserves (unaudited).......................... 293 25. Financial and risk management........................... 294 26. Contingent assets and liabilities.......................... 298 26.1. Contingent assets........................................................ 298 26.2. Contingent liabilities................................................ 298 26.3. Other financial commitments. ............................ 299 26.4. Guarantees granted.................................................... 299 27. Financial assets and liabilities at book value and fair value................................................................................300 28. Information on environmental matters........300 29. Subsequent events...........................................................300 30. Ifrs standards adopted and to be adopted..... 302 30.1. IFRS standards published by IASB................... 302 30.2. Changes in accounting policies by the introduction of new IFRS standards............... 306 31. Approval of the financial statements............... 309 32. Explanation added for translation..................... 309 154 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. Consolidated statement of financial position as of 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 (Amounts stated in milion Euros€m) Assets Notes December 2017 December 2016 Non-current assets: Tangible assets 12 5,554 5,910 Goodwill 11 84 87 Intangible assets 12 410 268 Investments in associates and joint ventures 5 1,483 1,432 Financial assets available for sale 5 3 3 Trade receivables 13 1 Other receivables 13 254 245 Deferred tax assets 10 293 335 Other financial investments 15 and 22 32 26 Total non-current assets: 8,113 8,307 Current assets: Inventories 14 970 869 Trade receivables 13 1,018 1,041 Loans to Sinopec 13 459 610 Other receivables 13 531 556 Other financial investments 15 and 22 66 19 Income tax receivables 10 4 Cash and cash equivalents 16 1,197 1,033 4,245 4,128 Non-current assets held for sale 4 Total current assets: 4,245 4,132 Total assets: 12,358 12,439 Equity and liabilities Notes December 2017 December 2016 Equity: Share capital 17 829 829 Share premium 82 82 Reserves 17 2,506 3,095 Retained earnings 588 795 Consolidated net income for the period 17 614 179 Total equity attributable to shareholders: 4,619 4,980 Non-controlling interests 17 1,461 1,563 Total equity: 6,080 6,543 Liabilities: Non-current liabilities: Bank loans 18 937 912 Bonds 18 1,595 1,666 Other payables 20 286 305 Post-employment and other employee benefits liabilities 19 326 359 Deferred tax liabilities 10 82 66 Other financial instruments 22 3 1 Provisions 21 619 429 Total non-current liabilities: 3,848 3,738 Current liabilities: Bank loans and overdrafts 18 159 308 Bonds 18 392 17 Trade payables 20 889 850 Other payables 20 854 886 Other financial instruments 22 21 17 Current income tax payables 10 115 75 2,430 2,153 Liabilities associated with Non-current assets held for sale 5 Total current liabilities: 2,430 2,158 Total liabilities: 6,278 5,896 Total equity and liabilities: 12,358 12,439 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated statement of financial position as of 31 December 2017. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 155 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Consolidated Income Statement Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. Consolidated income statement of financial position for the year ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 (Amounts stated in million Euros€m) Notes December 2017 December 2016 Operating income: Sales 6 14,576 12,488 Services rendered 6 628 631 Other operating income 6 106 122 Total operating income: 15,310 13,241 Operating costs: Cost of sales 7 11,379 10,136 External supplies and services 7 1,550 1,285 Employee costs 7 320 334 Amortisation, depreciation and impairment losses on fixed assets 7 808 835 Provisions and impairment losses on receivables 7 37 11 Other operating costs 7 80 96 Total operating costs: 14,174 12,697 Operating profit: 1,136 544 Financial profit 9 39 39 Financial costs 9 (46) (72) Exchange (losses) gains (18) (9) Income from financial investments and impairment losses on Goodwill 5 and 11 163 17 Income from financial instruments 22 17 Profit before taxes: 1,274 536 Income tax 10 (503) (260) Energy sector extraordinary contribution 10 (64) (68) Consolidated net profit for the period 707 208 Income attributable to: Non-controlling interests 17 93 29 Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. Shareholders 17 614 179 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 17 0.74 0.22 Diluted earnings per share (in Euros) 17 0.74 0.22 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated statement income as of 31 December 2017. 156 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 (Amounts stated in million Euros€m) December 2017 December 2016 Non-controlling Atributtable Non-controlling Atributtable to interests to the interests Notes the Shareholders (Note 17.4) Shareholders (Note 17.4) Consolidated net income for the period [A] 17 614 93 179 29 Other comprehensive income for the period which will not be 28 (2) recycled in the future through net income of the period [B]: Actuarial Gains and losses pension fund: 28 (2) Actuarial Gains and losses pension fund (Group Companies) 19 31 (2) Tax related to actuarial gains and losses pension fund (Group 10.3 and (3) Companies) 19 Other comprehensive income for the period which will be (590) (206) 410 150 recycled in the future through net income of the period [C]: Currency exchange differences: (590) (206) 405 150 Currency exchange differences (Group companies) 17.2.2 (410) (195) 242 98 5 and Currency exchange differences (Associates/ joint ventures) (152) 40 17.2.2 11 and Currency exchange differences Goodwill (3) 1 17.2.2 Currency exchange differences Financial allocation ( quasi 17.2.2 (39) (17) 184 79 capital ) Deferred tax related to components of Currency exchange 10.3 and 14 6 (62) (27) differences Financial allocations ( quasi capital ) 17.2.2 Hedging reserves: 5 22 and Increases / (decreases) in hedging reserves (Group companies) 1 7 17.2.3 Deferred tax related to hedging reserves components (Group 10.3 and (2) companies) 17.2.3 Increases / (decreases) in hedging reserves (Associates/joint 22 and (1) ventures) 17.2.3 Other Comprehensive income for the period net of taxes (562) (206) 408 150 [D]=[B]+[C] Comprehensive income for the period atributtable to shareholders 52 587 Comprehensive income for the period atributtable to non-controlling 17.4 (113) 179 interests Total Comprehensive income for the period [A]+[D] 52 (113) 587 179 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as of 31 December 2017. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 157 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 (Amounts stated in milion Euros€m) Free distribution Changes in the period Notes Share Capital Share Premium Legal Reserves Reserves (Note 17.1) (Note 17.2.1) Balance as of 1 January 2016 829 82 166 28 Consolidated net income for the period Other gains and losses recognised in Equity Comprehensive income for the period Dividends distributed / Interim dividends Changes in the consolidation perimeter Increase of reserves by appropriation of profit Balance as of 31 December 2016 829 82 166 28 Balance as of 1 January 2017 829 82 166 28 Consolidated net income for the period 17 Other gains and losses recognised in Equity Comprehensive income for the period Dividends distributed / Interim dividends 17.5 Increase (decreases) in share capital of Joint ventures 5 and 22 Increase of reserves by appropriation of profit Balance as of 31 December 2017 829 82 166 28 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated statement of changes in equity as of 31 December 2017. 158 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Consolidated Currency Retained earnings net income NonTranslation Hedging Other actuarial Gains and Retained for the controlling Total Reserves Reserves Reserves losses pension fund earnings period Sub-Total interests (Note 17.2.2) (Note 17.2.3) (Note 17.2.4) (Note 19) (Note 17.3) (Note 17.4) (1) (2) 2,491 (120) 1,176 123 4,772 1,416 6,188 179 179 29 208 405 5 (2) 408 150 558 405 5 (2) 179 587 179 766 (378) (378) (13) (391) 3 4 (8) (1) (19) (20) 123 (123) 404 3 2,494 (118) 913 179 4,980 1,563 6,543 404 3 2,494 (118) 913 179 4,980 1,563 6,543 614 614 93 707 (590) 28 (562) (206) (768) (590) 28 614 52 (113) (61) (413) (413) (86) (499) 1 (1) 97 97 179 (179) (186) 4 2,494 (90) 678 614 4,619 1,461 6,080 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 159 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow for the year ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 (Amounts stated in million Euros€m) Notes December 2017 December 2016 Operating activities: Cash received from customers 17,646 15,156 Cash (payments) to suppliers (10,986) (9,094) (Payments) relating to Tax on oil products ( ISP ) (2,825) (2,752) (Payments) relating to VAT (1,499) (1,412) (Payments) relating to Royalties, levies, PIS and COFINS and Others (110) (79) Operating gross margin 2,226 1,819 Salaries, contributions to the pension fund and other benefits (payments) (198) (214) Withholding income taxes (payments) (77) (83) Social Security contributions (69) (75) Payments relating to employees (344) (372) Other receipts/(payments) relating to the operational activity (109) (81) Cash flows from operations 1,773 1,366 (Payments)/receipts of income taxes (income tax IRC , oil income tax IRP , special participation) (373) (172) Cash flows from operating activities (1) 1,400 1,194 Investing activities: Cash receipts from disposal of tangible and intangible assets 1 1 Cash (payments) for the acquisition of tangible and intangible assets (791) (1,043) Cash receipts relating to financial investments 4.3 69 164 Cash (payments) relating to financial investments 4.3 (255) (190) Net investment (976) (1,068) Cash receipts from loans granted 116 134 Cash (payments) relating to loans granted (36) (7) Cash receipts from interests and similar income 15 18 Cash receipts relating to dividends 5.5 134 70 Cash flows from investing activities (2) (747) (853) Financing activities: Cash receipts from loans obtained 1,728 2,537 Cash (payments) relating to loans obtained (1,535) (2,569) Cash receipts/(payments) from interests and similar costs (117) (137) Increase/decrease of capital and other equity instruments 68 Dividends paid 17.5 (491) (387) Other financing activities 2 Cash flows from financing activities (3) (345) (556) Net change in cash and cash equivalents (4) = (1) + (2) + (3) 308 (215) Effect of foreign exchange rate changes in cash and cash equivalents (135) 130 Cash changes by changes in the consolidation perimeter (38) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 923 1,045 Cash and cash equivalents related to Non-current assets held for sale 1 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 16 1,096 923 ‘The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated statement of cash flow as of 31 December 2017. 160 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements the Galp brand, also includes Angola, Cape Verde, Spain, Guineaas at 31 december 2017 Bissau, Mozambique and Swaziland through subsidiaries. 1. Introduction 1.2.3. Natural gas activity and energy production and supply 1.1. Parent Company The Gas & Power (G&P) business segment encompasses the areas Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. (hereinafter referred to as Galp or the of sourcing, supply, distribution and storage of natural gas and Company) has its Head Office in Rua Tomás da Fonseca in Lisbon, electric and thermal power generation. Portugal and its corporate business is the management of equity participations in other companies. Galp natural gas business encompasses a set of activities, including the supply and marketing to final customers in the The Company shareholder structure as of 31 December 2017 is Iberian Peninsula. stated in Note 17.1. The natural gas activity, including sourcing and supply of natural The Company is listed on the Euronext Lisbon stock exchange. gas, supplies natural gas to large industrial customers, with annual consumption of more than 2 million m3, power generation companies, natural gas distribution companies and Autonomous 1.2. The Group Gas Units (AGU). So as to meet the demand of its customers, Galp has long-term sourcing contracts with Algerian and Nigerian As of 31 December 2017, the Galp Group (the Group) consists of suppliers. Galp and its subsidiaries, which includes, among others: (i) Galp Energia E&P, B.V. and its subsidiaries integrating the oil and gas The natural gas subsidiaries of the Galp Group which supply exploration and production activities and biofuels, (ii) Petróleos natural gas in Portugal operate based on concession contracts de Portugal – Petrogal, S.A. (Petrogal) and its subsidiaries, entered into with the Portuguese State. At the end of the which carry out their activities in the refining of crude oil and concession period, the assets relating to the concessions will distribution of its derivatives; (iii) Galp Gás & Power, SGPS, S.A. be transferred to the Portuguese State and the companies will and its subsidiaries, which operate in the natural gas sector, receive an amount corresponding to the book value of these assets electricity sector and renewable energy sector; and (iv) Galp at that date, net of depreciation, financial co-participation and Energia, S.A. which integrates the corporate support services. Government grants. Under the terms covered by the sectorial regulations applicable in 1.2.1. Upstream activities Portugal, approved by the respective regulator (“ERSE” www.erse. pt), described in the respective regulations in more detail, there are: The Exploration & Production (E&P) business segment is responsible for the presence of Galp in the oil industry upstream 1.2.3.1. Distribution network operators sector, which consists in the management of all activities relating to exploration, development and production of hydrocarbons, Natural Gas purchase and sale activity in connection to the essentially in Brazil, Mozambique and Angola. management of the long-term sourcing contracts in the Takeor-Pay (ToP) scheme signed prior to the publication of Directive 2003/55/ EC of 26 June, exercised by the Natural Gas National 1.2.2. Midstream and downstream activities System (NGNS) supplier. The Refining & Marketing (R&M) business segment owns two To cover the planned natural gas requirements in Portugal, a refineries in Portugal and also includes all activities relating to natural gas purchase contract of 2.3 bcm per year was signed, for the retail and wholesale marketing of oil products (including a period of 23 years, with Sonatrach, a company owned by the LPG). The Refining & Marketing segment also comprises the oil Algerian State. The commencement of this contract and the first products storage and transportation infrastructure in Portugal deliveries of natural gas started in January 1997, simultaneously and Spain, for both export/import and marketing of its products with the connection of the Europe Maghreb gas pipeline to the to the main consumer centres. This retail marketing activity, using transport network in Portugal. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 161 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Additionally, three contracts were signed for a period of 20 years, The natural gas purchase and sale activity for sourcing to the last with NLNG, a Nigerian Company, to acquire a total of 3.5 bcm of resort activity, developed by the last resort wholesaler, includes LNG per year. The sourcing under these contracts started in 2000, the following functions: 2003 and 2006, respectively. • Natural gas purchase and sale function, resulting from the Natural Gas and LNG acquisition contracts: acquisition of natural gas, directly or through auctions, under long-term sourcing contracts, from SNGN (Portuguese National Quantities Duration Beginning Contracts Country (mm3/year) (years) on Gas System); NLNG I Nigeria 420 20 2000 • Natural gas purchase and sale function in organized markets or NLNG II Nigeria 1000 20 2003 through bilateral contracts (not applicable to Galp for the year NLNG + Nigeria 2000 20 2006 under review). Sonatrach Algeria 2300 23 1997 1.2.3.2. Commercialisation of last resort retailers The purchase price of natural gas under long-term purchase agreements is generally calculated according to a set price The natural gas commercialisation activity, exercised by the last formula based on the price of alternative fuels, such as the resort retailers, includes the following functions: benchmark price of crude oil and other elements, including inflation and exchange rates. Typically, the price formula of these • Natural gas purchase and sale: Portugal; contracts foresees a periodic adjustment based on variations of the chosen benchmark. • Access to the Natural Gas National Transportation Network (NGNTN) and Natural Gas National Distribution Network (NGNDN); Usually the long-term natural gas purchase contracts define a minimum annual quantity to acquire and a flexible margin for • Natural gas marketing. each year. These contracts usually establish an obligation to Take-or-Pay, which obliges the purchase of the agreed quantities The Group Power business includes the generation of energy of natural gas, regardless of the respective need that may or not through the portfolio of cogeneration plants in Portugal and wind occur. These contracts allow the transfer of quantities from one assets, and the sale of electricity to end customers. Geographic year to another within certain limits, if demand is lower than the markets for developed activities are as follows: established minimum annual levels. • Natural gas sourcing; When Galp was listed on the stock exchange, an analysis of these contracts was performed in order to detect any embedded • Natural gas distribution: Portugal; derivatives, namely contractual clauses that could be considered as financial derivatives. The analysis carried out did not detect • Natural gas and electricity sale: Portugal and Spain; financial derivatives that should be recognised at fair value, since the characteristics of these contracts are intrinsic to the gas • Electricity production: Portugal. activity. When embedded derivatives are booked under in other financial instruments or other contracts, they are treated as separately recognised derivatives in situations where the risks and characteristics are not closely related to contracts and in situations where the contract is not stated at fair value with unrealised gains or losses recorded in the income statement. Although the maturity of the contracts is of less than 20 years, long-term supply contracts provide for the possibility of renegotiation over the term of the contract in accordance with contractually defined rules. 162 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 2. Significant accounting policies in the situation and; (ii) the impact of the estimates on the financial situation or operating performance is significant. 2.1. Basis of presentation The accounting principles and areas that require the greatest number of judgments and estimates in the preparation of The accompanying financial statements are presented in millions financial statements are: (i) proved crude oil reserves relating to of Euros (€m), unless otherwise stated. the petroleum exploration activity; (ii) tangible and intangible assets, financial investments and Goodwill impairment; (iii) Galp decided to change the monetary unit from €k to €m in the provision for contingencies and environmental liabilities; Financial Statements for the financial year 2017. Thus, it presents (iv) demographic and financial assumptions used to calculate in its financial statements the monetary unit Euros in millions retirement benefits; (v) accounts receivable impairment; (vi) instead of thousands. This change results from the fact that Galp’s tangible and intangible assets useful lives and residual values; accounts are large enough for the use of this measure, as well (vii) deferred tax assets, (viii) abandonment provisions and (ix) as being the unit used by Management for Galp’s consolidated estimates over uncertain tax positions. accounts. Galp consolidated financial statements were prepared on a 2.2.1. Crude oil reserves going concern basis, at historical cost except for financial derivative instruments which are stated at fair value, based The estimate of crude oil reserves is an integral part of the on the accounting records of the companies included in the decision-making process relating to exploration and development consolidation maintained in accordance with International of crude oil activities assets, in addition to supporting the Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European development or implementation of secondary recovery Union, effective for the period beginning in 1 January 2017. These techniques. The volume of proved crude oil reserves is used standards include International Financial Reporting Standards to calculate depreciation of the petroleum exploration and (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board production assets in accordance with the “Unit of Production” (IASB) and International Accounting Standards (IAS) issued by method, and the volume of proved reserves and contingent and the International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC) and prospective resources are used, depending on the prospection respective interpretations – SIC and IFRIC, issued by the Standing stage they are at, to value impairment of investment in assets Interpretation Committee (SIC) and International Financial relating to that activity. Estimated proved crude oil reserves are Reporting Interpretation Committee (IFRIC). These standards and also used to recognise annual abandonment costs. interpretations are hereinafter referred to as IFRS. Estimated proved reserves are subject to future revision, based The accounting policies adopted are in accordance with on new information available, such as information relating to the their content in the respective note. The common or generic development activities, drilling or production, exchange rates, accounting policies for several notes are stated in this prices, contract termination dates and development plans. The respective note. volume of crude oil produced and cost of the assets are known, while the proved reserves are very likely to be recovered and are based on estimates subject to adjustment. The impact on 2.2. Estimates and judgements depreciation and provision for abandonment costs, of changes in the estimated proved reserves is treated on a prospective basis, The preparation of financial statements in accordance with the remaining net book value of the assets being depreciated and generally accepted accounting principles requires estimates to the provision for abandonment costs being adjusted, respectively, be made that affect the recorded amount of assets and liabilities, based on the expected future production. the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the end of each year and income and costs recognised each year. The actual The quantity and type of petroleum reserves used for accounting results could be different depending on the estimates made. purposes are described in Note 24. Certain estimates are considered critical if: (i) the nature of the estimates is considered to be significant due to the level of subjectivity and judgment required to record situations in which there is significant uncertainty or are very susceptible to changes Annual Report and Accounts 2017 163 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 2.2.2. Useful life and residual value of tangible and 2.2.6. Provisions for contingencies intangible assets The final cost of lawsuits, settlements and other litigation can vary The determination of the assets residual values and useful due to estimates based on different interpretations of the rules, lives, as well as the depreciation / amortisation method to be opinions and final assessment of the losses. Consequently, any applied is essential to determine the amount of depreciation change in circumstances relating to these types of contingency and amortisation to be recognised in the consolidated income can have a significant effect on the recorded amount for statement for each period. These two parameters are set according contingencies. to the best judgment of the Board of Directors for the assets and respective businesses, considering also the practices adopted by other sector companies at the international level. 2.2.7. Abandonment provisions See Note 21. 2.2.3. Goodwill impairment The Group performs annual impairment tests on Goodwill, 2.2.8. Environmental liabilities as explained in Note 11. The recoverable amounts of the cash generating units were determined based on their value in use. Galp makes judgments and estimates to calculate provisions for In calculating value in use, the Group estimated the expected environmental matters such as CO2. Every year Galp is entitled future cash flows from the cash generating units, as well as an to free licences (EUA – Emission Unit Allowances) from the appropriate discount rate to calculate the present value of the cash Portuguese Environment Agency in order to address greenhouse flows. The amount of Goodwill is referred to in Note 11. gas emissions. In case the free licences are insufficient to address greenhouse gas emissions, Galp can acquire the EUAs or other equivalent/complementary allowances green certificates (ERU 2.2.4. Impairment of tangible and intangible assets – Emission Reduction Units) in the market, giving rise to a cost and financial investments which is recorded in caption “Other operational costs”. However, if greenhouse gas emissions are above licences and green Identifying impairment indicators, estimating future cash flows certificates in the portfolio at the end of the year, costs are accrued and determining asset fair value imply a high level of judgment based on the best estimate of the expense to be incurred at the from the Board of Directors in respect to the identification and market spot rate of the licences and/or certificates. The current evaluation of the different impairment indicators, expected cash portfolio of allowances is referred to in Note 22. flows, applicable discount rates, useful lives and residual amounts. Galp also makes judgments and estimates to calculate its known obligations relating essentially to the known requirements of 2.2.5. Accounts receivable impairment soil decontamination, based on current information relating to expected intervention costs and plans. Such costs can vary due to The credit risk of the accounts receivable balances is evaluated changes in the legislation and regulations, change in conditions at each reporting date, taking into consideration historical of a specific location, as well as in decontamination technologies. client information and its risk profile. Accounts receivable are Consequently, any change in the circumstances relating to such adjusted by the evaluation made by management of the estimated provisions, as well as in the legislation and regulations can collection risks existing at the date of the statement of financial significantly affect the provisions for such matters. The provision position, which may differ from the actual risk for impairment to for environmental matters is reviewed annually. be incurred. The provision for environmental liabilities is referred to in Note 21 and Note 28. 2.2.9. Demographic and financial assumptions used in the retirement benefits liabilities See Note 19. 164 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 2.2.10. Deferred tax assets Loans granted by shareholders in currencies other than the parent’s functional reporting currency and that have no stipulated Deferred tax assets are recognised only when there is reasonable repayment term are treated as net investments in these foreign assurance that future taxable profits will be available for use of the entities. The exchange differences generated, but not eliminated temporary differences or when there are deferred tax liabilities in the consolidation process, in the translation of the shareholder for which a reversal is expected within the same period that the loans balances into the functional currency of the company deferred tax assets are reversed. Evaluation of deferred tax assets are recycled from net income to the item “Currency translation is made by management at the end of each period, taking into reserves” in shareholders’ equity attributable to shareholders. account expectations for the Group’s future performance. The financial statements of foreign entities included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been 2.2.11. Estimates over uncertain tax positions translated into Euros using the following exchange rates: The measurement of uncertain tax positions with respect to tax Year end Average of the year estimates is carried out at its most probable value and not at a December December December December value weighted by associated probabilities. Currency 2017 2016 2017 2016 Gambian Dalasi 55.78 44.10 45.92 45.77 Regarding uncertain tax positions that are provisioned see Note 21. Moroccan 11.16 10.61 10.90 11.52 Dirhams United States 1.20 1.05 1.13 1.11 Dollars 2.3. General accounting policies Cape Verde 110.27 110.27 110.27 110.27 Escudos CFA Francs 655.96 655.96 655.96 655.96 2.3.1. Translation of financial statements denominated in foreign currency Swazi Lilangeni 14.88 14.42 15.13 16.07 Mozambican 70.09 74.94 71.00 69.10 Meticais Foreign entities are those that operate abroad and that are a subsidiary, associate, joint venture or branch of the reporting Angolan 184.50 184.48 184.49 182.04 Kwanzas entity, and that present a functional currency different from the Brazilian Reais 3.97 3.43 3.61 3.86 reporting entity’s reporting currency. The assets and liabilities of the financial statements of foreign entities are translated into Euros using the exchange rates 2.3.2. Foreign currency balances and transactions prevailing on the date of the financial statements and the costs and income and cash flows of these financial statements are Transactions are recorded in the separate financial statements of translated into Euros using the average exchange rate recorded subsidiaries in their functional currencies, at the exchange rates in the period. The resulting exchange difference, generated after in force on the dates of the transactions. 1 January 2004 (date of transition to IFRS), is recorded under equity in the caption “Currency translation reserves”. Exchange All foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities in the differences generated up to 1 January 2004 (date of transition to separate financial statements of subsidiaries are translated to the IFRS) were written off to retained earnings. functional currency of each subsidiary using the exchange rates in force at the end of each reporting period. Foreign currency nonGoodwill and fair value adjustments resulting from foreign monetary assets and liabilities recorded at fair value are translated entities acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of that to the functional currency of each subsidiary at the exchange rate entity and translated to Euros at the exchange rate prevailing on in force on the date the fair value is determined. the date of the financial statements. Gains and losses resulting from differences in exchange rates Whenever a foreign entity is sold, the accumulated exchange in force on the dates of the transactions and those prevailing difference is transferred from the “Currency translation reserves” at the date of collection, payment or at the end of the reporting in equity to the caption “Other gains or losses” in the income period are recorded as income and expenses, respectively, in the statement. consolidated income statement captions in which the respective Annual Report and Accounts 2017 165 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world transactions are recognised, except for those relating to nonAll purchases and sales of these financial assets are recorded monetary items, that are recorded directly in equity. on the date of the signature of the respective purchase and sale contracts, independently of the financial settlement date. Translation differences arising from intra-group loans and that are part of the net investment in foreign operations are recorded in Financial assets are initially recorded at cost, which is the fair the consolidated financial statements directly in equity. value of the price paid, including transaction costs, except for financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss. 2.3.3. Classification in the consolidated statement of After initial recognition, financial assets at fair value through financial position profit or loss and available-for-sale financial assets are revalued to fair value by reference to their market value at the financial Assets realisable and liabilities payable in more than one year statements date, with no deduction for transaction costs which from the consolidated financial statements date are classified as could be incurred upon sale. For equity instruments not listed on a non-current assets and non-current liabilities, respectively. regulated market, where it is not possible to reliably estimate their fair value, these are maintained at cost less any non-reversible impairment losses. 2.3.4. Financial instruments Gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value of Financial assets and liabilities are recorded in the statement of available-for-sale financial assets are recognised in the equity financial position when the Group becomes a contractual party to caption “Fair value reserve” until the asset is sold, redeemed or in the financial instrument. some way disposed of, or until the fair value of the asset falls below cost over a long period, at which time the accumulated gain or loss The financial assets and liabilities are not offset, unless there is is recorded in the income statement. legal or contractual conditions that allow it. Interest income, calculated using the effective interest rate a) Financial assets method, as well as exchange gains and losses related to debt instruments classified as available-for-sale financial assets, are Financial assets are classified as follows: recognised in the income statement for the period. • Loans and trade receivables (Note 13); Dividends obtained from equity instruments, classified as available-for-sale financial assets, and impairment losses for • Held-to-maturity; all these financial assets are also accounted for in the income statement for the period. • At fair value through profit and loss; Gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value of • Available-for-sale. financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are recorded in the income statement. Held-to-maturity financial assets are classified as non-current assets, unless they mature in less than 12 months from the Galp derecognises a financial asset when, and only when the consolidated statement of financial position date. These assets contractual rights to the cash flows resulting from the financial have a defined maturity date, and the Group intends, and has the assets expire or the financial asset is transferred and the transfer ability, to retain them up to their maturity. As at 31 December 2017 qualifies for the derecognition, as required by IAS 39. the Group does not own held-to-maturity financial assets. Regarding to the derecognition of a financial liability, it occurs Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are classified as when and only when it is extinguished, that is, when the specified current assets. obligation in the agreement is satisfied or canceled or expires. Available-for-sale financial assets are classified as non-current assets, for the investments in affiliates. 166 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 b) Equity or liability classification Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified in accordance with substance of the contractual arrangement, independent of their legal form. Thus, financial instruments with no interest rate and no defined repayment term are considered by Galp as equity instruments (i.e. quasi-capital). c) Receivables See Note 13. d) Loans See Note 18. e) Trade and other payables See Note 20. f) Derivative instruments See Note 22. g) Cash and cash equivalents See Note 16. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 167 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 3. Segment reporting Operational segments The Group is organized into three operational segments which have been defined based on the type of products sold and services Accounting policy rendered, by the following business units: Operational segment is an entity component that: • Exploration and Production; a) develops business activities that can earn revenues and • Refining & Marketing; incur in expenses (including revenues and expenses related to transactions with other components held by the same • Gas & Power; entity); • Others. b) which operational results are regularly reviewed by the entity’s primary decision-maker for the purpose of making For the operational segment “Others”, the Group considered the decisions about resources allocation to the segment and holding company Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A., and companies with evaluating its performance; and different activities including Tagus Re, S.A. and Galp Energia, S.A., a reinsurance company and a provider of shared services at the c) for which separate financial information is available. corporate level, respectively. The accounting policies in the segment reporting are used Note 1 presents a description of the activities of each operational consistently in the Group. All inter-segment revenues are at segment. market prices and are eliminated in consolidation process. In order to a closer approximation to the management criteria, below is the segment reporting on a replacement cost perspective (RC) basis, in which the cost of the sale determined in accordance with IAS / IFRS (weighted average cost) is replaced by the replacement cost method. Galp understands that this approach in presenting its operational performance is more relevant to the users of the financial statements, since it reflects the business performance without the volatility of incertainty; it is also the indicator used by the Group’s management. We also present a reconciliation between the net result IAS / IFRS and the net result calculated according to the replacement cost (in a management perspective) for a better understanding. 168 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 This page is intentionally left blank. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 169 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The financial information for the previously identified segments, as of 31 December 2017 and 2016 is presented as follows: Exploration & Production Refining & Marketing 2017 2016 2017 2016 Income Sales and Services Redered 1,044 851 11,725 10,518 Inter-segmental 555 1 1 External 1,044 296 11,724 10,517 Cost of sales 429 (29) (10,149) (9,170) Cost of goods sold and materials consumed 2 2 (10,132) (9,448) Variation in production 427 (31) (17) 278 EBITDA RC (1) 912 481 781 549 Non payable expenses Amortisation and adjustments (429) (466) (357) (313) Depreciation and Amortization (356) (274) (348) (305) Impairments (73) (192) (9) (8) Provisions (net) 13 (29) (16) Provisions (5) (24) (4) Impairments (7) (36) Provisions Reversals 18 2 1 Impairments Reversals 23 EBIT RC 483 28 395 220 Income from financial investments 34 (78) 21 (94) Others (289) (95) (251) (131) Consolidated Net profit RC 228 (145) 165 (5) Net profit attributable to non-controlling interests (87) (23) (6) (5) Net profit attributable to equity holders of Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. 141 (168) 159 (10) Other informations Segment assets (2) Financial investments(3) 1,081 1,027 98 72 Non-current assets held for sale 4 Other assets 6,629 5,756 3,530 4,770 Total Consolidated Assets 7,710 6,783 3,628 4,846 Liabilities associated with Non-current assets held for sale 5 Other liabilities 1,128 939 4,018 4,349 Total Consolidated Liabilities 1,128 939 4,018 4,354 Investment in Tangible and Intangible Assets 760 962 113 124 (1) EBITDA = Segment Income/EBIT + Amortisations + Provisions (2) Net Amount (3) at the Equity Method 170 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Unit: €m Gas & Power Other Eliminations Consolidated 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2,592 2,437 134 123 (291) (810) 15,204 13,119 190 157 100 97 (291) (810) 2,402 2,280 34 26 15,204 13,119 (1,876) (1,607) 101 650 (11,495) (10,156) (1,910) (1,629) 101 650 (11,939) (10,425) 34 22 444 269 141 313 31 27 1,865 1,370 (18) (51) (4) (5) (808) (835) (19) (52) (4) (5) (727) (636) 1 1 (81) (199) (8) (8) (37) (11) (24) (9) (13) (11) (20) (47) 2 19 5 3 5 26 115 254 27 22 1,020 524 108 189 163 17 (43) (107) 11 (17) (3) (572) (353) 180 336 38 5 (3) 611 188 (1) (93) (29) 180 335 38 5 (3) 518 159 304 333 1,483 1,432 4 1,119 1,332 2,382 2,607 (2,785) (3,462) 10,875 11,003 1,423 1,665 2,382 2,607 (2,785) (3,462) 12,358 12,439 5 831 863 3,086 3,202 (2,785) (3,462) 6,278 5,891 831 863 3,086 3,202 (2,785) (3,462) 6,278 5,896 9 22 3 4 885 1,112 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 171 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Inter-segmental sales and services rendered: Unit: €m Segment Refining & Marketing Gas & Power Other TOTAL 1 190 99 290 Gas & Power 1 20 21 Refining & Marketing 190 64 254 Exploration & Production 15 15 The main inter-segmental transactions of sales and services In a related party’s context, the remuneration thus corresponds rendered are primarily related to: to what is considered appropriate, as a rule, to the functions performed by each participant company, taking into account the • Refining & Marketing: supply of fuel to all Group company assets used and risks assumed. Thus, in order to determine the vehicles; level of remuneration, the activities and risks taken by companies within the value chain of goods/services transacted are identified • Gas & Power: natural gas sales for the production process of according to their functional profile, particularly with regard Matosinhos and Sines refineries (Refining & Marketing);and to the functions that they perform import, manufacturing, distribution and retail. • Exploration & Production: sales of crude oil to the Refining & Marketing segment. In conclusion, market prices are determined not only by analysing the functions performed, the assets used and the risks incurred The commercial and financial transactions between related by one entity, but by also considering the contribution of these parties are performed according to the usual market conditions elements to the Company’s profitability. This analysis assesses similar to transactions performed between independent whether the profitability indicators of the companies involved companies (Note 23). fall within the calculated ranges based on an evaluation of a panel of functionally comparable but independent companies, thus The assumptions underlying the determination of prices in allowing the prices to be fixed in order to comply with the arm’s transactions between Group companies rely on the consideration length principle. of the economic realities and characteristics of the situations in question. In this context an analysis is made, amongst others, of the goods and services traded, the functions performed by the parties (including the assets used and risks assumed), the contractual terms, the economic situation of the parties as well as their negotiation strategies. 172 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 The detailed information on intersegmental sales and services rendered, tangible and intangible assets and financial investments by each geographic region where Galp operates is as follows: Unit: €m Sales and Services Rendered Tangible and Intangible Assets Financial investments 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 15,204 13,119 6,048 6,265 1,486 1,435 AFRICA 425 372 964 1,221 25 17 LATIN AMERICA 323 284 2,483 2,400 EUROPE 14,456 12,463 2,601 2,644 1,461 1,418 PORTUGAL 10,640 8,360 2,028 2,269 317 343 OTHER EUROPEAN 3,816 4,103 573 375 1,144 1,075 COUNTRIES From the total of €1,144 m considered in Financial Investments in other European countries, €1,062 m were invested in companies related to projects in Brazil. The reconciliation between the items of the Segment Report and the Income Statement for the periods ended 31 December, 2017, 2016 (restated) is as follows: Unit: €m Captions from Segment Reporting Captions from Income Statement December December December December 2017 2016 2017 2016 Income Sales and services rendered 15,204 13,119 Sales 14,576 12,488 Services rendered 628 631 Cost of sales (11,379) (10,136) Cost of sales (11,379) (10,136) Replacement cost adjustment (116) (20) Cost of sales at RC (11,495) (10,156) Other operating income 106 122 External supplies and services (1,550) (1,285) Employee costs (320) (334) Other operating costs (80) (96) EBITDA REPLACEMENT COST 1,865 1,370 Replacement Cost Adjustment 116 20 Operating income before amortization/depreciation EBITDA IAS/IFRS (1) 1,981 1,390 1,981 1,390 and provisions Non cash expenses Amortisation, depreciation and impairment losses on Amortization and Adjustments (808) (835) (808) (835) fixed assets Provisions (net) (37) (11) Provisions and impairment losses on receivables (37) (11) EBIT REPLACEMENT COST 1,020 524 EBIT IAS/IFRS 1,136 544 Operating Income 1,136 544 Income from financial investments and impairment Income from financial investments 163 17 163 17 losses on Goodwill Other financial income (25) (25) Financial income 39 38 Financial costs (46) (71) Exchange (losses) gains (18) (9) Income from financial instruments 17 Income tax (503) (260) Income tax (503) (260) Income tax (RC Adjustment) 20 Energy sector extraordinary contribution (64) (68) Contribuição extraordinária sector energético (64) (68) Net income for the period (Replacement Cost) 611 188 Net income for the period 707 208 Net income for the period 707 208 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 173 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 4. Consolidated companies Accounting policy Transaction costs directly attributable to business combinations are immediately recognised in profit and loss. Investments in companies in which the Group holds control, namely if it has cumulatively: Non-controlling interests include the third parties’ portion of the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities as of the power over the investee; date of acquisition of the subsidiaries. exposure or rights in relation to variable results through its When control is acquired for a percentage below 100%, under relationship with the investee; and the purchase method, non-controlling interests may be measured at fair value or at the ratio between acquired assets ability to use its power over the investee to impact the fair value and acquired liabilities fair value, being the option amount of the results to the investors, defined for each transaction. were included in these consolidated financial statements The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are in accordance with the full consolidation method. The included in the consolidated income statement from the date Companies consolidated in accordance with the full of acquisition or the date of the exercise of control up to the consolidation method are disclosed in Note 4.1. date of disposal. Equity and net result for the year corresponding to third Subsequent disposal or acquisition transactions of financial party participation in subsidiaries are reflected separately in investments on non-controlling interests, which do not the consolidated statement of financial position and in the involve changes in control, do not result in recognition of consolidated income statement, respectively, in the caption gains, losses or Goodwill, being any resulting difference “Non-controlling interests”. The gains and losses attributable between the transaction amount and the carrying amount of to non-controlling interests are allocated to them, even if they the transacted investment recognised in Equity. exceed, in case of losses, the amount invested by the noncontrolling interests. Whenever necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to be in accordance with the Group’s The assets and liabilities of each Group company are recorded accounting policies. Transactions (including unrealised gains at fair value as of the date of acquisition, as established in IFRS and losses on sales between Group companies), balances 3, and can be reviewed over a period of 12 months after that and dividends distributed between Group companies are date. Any excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets and eliminated in the consolidation process, except the losses liabilities acquired is recognised as Goodwill (Note 11)). If the which are indicators of impairment losses in the assets difference between the cost and the fair value of the net assets transferred. and liabilities acquired is negative, it is recorded as income of the year. Where the Group has, in substance, control over other structured entities, even if it does not have a direct When, at the date of the control acquisition, the Group already participation in their capital, these are consolidated in holds a previously acquired interest, its fair value is used to accordance with the full consolidation method. When such determine Goodwill or negative Goodwill. entities exist, they are detailed in this Note. 174 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 4.1. Consolidation perimeter The companies included in the consolidation, their head offices, percentage of interest held and their main activities are as follows: Percentage of Head office interest held Companies Note City Country 2017 2016 Main activity Management of equity participations in other companies in the Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. Lisbon Portugal energy sector, as an indirect form of realising business activities. Subsidiaries: Galp Energia, S.A. Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% Business management and consultancy services. Galp Energia E&P Subgroup: Exploration and production of petroleum and natural gas, as well Galp Energia E&P, B.V. and The as trading in petroleum, natural gas and petroleum products; Rotterdam 100% 100% Subsidiaries: Netherlands management of investments in other companies and financing of businesses and other companies. Exploration and production of petroleum and natural gas, as well Galp Sinopec Brazil Services The as trading in petroleum, natural gas and petroleum products; Rotterdam 70% 70% B.V. and subsidiary(ies): Netherlands management of investments in other companies and financing of businesses and other companies. Exploration and production of petroleum and natural gas, as well Galp Sinopec Brazil Services as trading in petroleum, natural gas and petroleum products; Nicosia Cyprus 100% 100% (Cyprus), Limited management of investments in other companies and financing of businesses and other companies. Exploration and production of petroleum and natural gas, as well Galp E&P Brazil B.V. and The as trading in petroleum, natural gas and petroleum products; Rotterdam 100% 100% subsidiary(ies): Netherlands management of investments in other companies and financing of businesses and other companies. Research, exploration, development and production of crude oil, natural gas and biofuels, import, export, refining, marketing, distribution, transportation and storage of oil and oil products; Rio de Galp Energia Brasil, S.A. Brazil 100% 100% marketing of natural gas and biofuels, as well as any other activities Janeiro related to the main activities, and may also participate in consortium of companies that may be necessary for the development of its objectives. Management of investments in other companies and financing Petrogal Brasil, B.V. and The of businesses and other companies dedicated to exploratIon and Rotterdam 100% 100% subsidiary(ies): Netherlands production of petroleum and natural gas, as well as trading of petroleum, natural gas and petroleum products. Refining of crude oil and its derivatives, their transport, distribution Petrogal Brasil, S.A. and Rio de Brazil 70% 70% and commercialisation and research and exploration of petroleum subsidiary(ies): Janeiro and natural gas. Rio de Fundo Vera Cruz 4.2 c) Brazil 100% Exclusive open investment fund. Janeiro Galp Exploração Serviços do Rio de Brazil 100% 100% Business management and consultancy services. Brasil, Lda. Janeiro Management of investments in other companies and financing Galp East Africa B.V. and The of businesses and other companies dedicated to exploration and Rotterdam 100% 100% subsidiary(ies): Netherlands production of petroleum and natural gas, as well as trading of petroleum, natural gas and petroleum products. Exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas, as well as The trading of petroleum, natural gas and oil products; management of Galp Energia Rovuma B.V. Amsterdam 100% 100% Netherlands investments in other companies and financing of businesses and companies. Galp Energia Rovuma BV Maputo Mozambique Exploration and production of oil and natural gas. (Mozambique branch) Annual Report and Accounts 2017 175 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Percentage of Head office interest held Companies Note City Country 2017 2016 Main activity Galp Exploração e Produção Management of equity participations in other companies as an Petrolífera, SGPS, S.A. and Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% indirect exercise of economic activity. subsidiary(ies): Galp Energia São Tomé e Sao Tome Development of all activities related to the research and exploration of Sao Tome 100% 100% Príncipe Unipessoal, Limitada and Principe natural resources Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, trading of oil, Galp Energia Overseas B.V. The Amsterdam 100% 100% natural gas and petroleum products, management of shares of other and subsidiary (ies): Netherlands societies and financing businesses and companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, trading of oil, Galp Energia Overseas Block The Rotterdam 100% 100% natural gas and petroleum products, management of shares of other 14 B.V. Netherlands societies and financing businesses and companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, trading of oil, Galp Energia Overseas Block Luanda Angola natural gas and petroleum products, management of shares of other 14 B.V. Branch in Angola societies and financing businesses and companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, trading of oil, Galp Energia Overseas Block The Rotterdam 100% 100% natural gas and petroleum products, management of shares of other 32 B.V. Netherlands societies and financing businesses and companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, trading of oil, Galp Energia Overseas Block Luanda Angola natural gas and petroleum products, management of shares of other 32 B.V. Branch in Angola societies and financing businesses and companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, trading of oil, Galp Energia Overseas Block The Rotterdam 100% 100% natural gas and petroleum products, management of shares of other 33 B.V. Netherlands societies and financing businesses and companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, trading of oil, Galp Energia Overseas Block Luanda Angola natural gas and petroleum products, management of shares of other 33 B.V. Branch in Angola societies and financing businesses and companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, trading of oil, Galp Energia Overseas LNG The Rotterdam 100% 100% natural gas and petroleum products, management of shares of other B.V. Netherlands societies and financing businesses and companies. Exploration and production of oil and natural gas, trading of oil, Galp Energia Overseas LNG Luanda Angola natural gas and petroleum products, management of shares of other B.V. Branch in Angola societies and financing businesses and companies. Pursuit of activities related with biofuels projects, including but not limited to research, production, processing, logistics, marketing The Galp Bioenergy B.V. Amsterdam 100% 100% of grain, vegetable oil, biofuel products and their derivatives; Netherlands management of shareholdings in other companies and business and company financing. Exploration and production of petroleum and natural gas, as well The as trading of petroleum, natural gas and petroleum products; Windhoek PEL 23 B.V. Rotterdam 100% 100% Netherlands management of investments in other companies and financing of businesses and other companies. Exploration and production of petroleum and natural gas, as well Windhoek PEL 23 B.V. (Branch in as trading of petroleum, natural gas and petroleum products; Windhoek Namibia Namibia) management of investments in other companies and financing of businesses and other companies. Exploration and production of petroleum and natural gas, as well The as trading of petroleum, natural gas and petroleum products; Windhoek PEL 24 B.V. 4.2 b) Rotterdam 100% Netherlands management of investments in other companies and financing of businesses and other companies. Exploration and production of petroleum and natural gas, as well Windhoek PEL 24 B.V. (Branch in as trading of petroleum, natural gas and petroleum products; 4.2 b) Windhoek Namibia Namibia) management of investments in other companies and financing of businesses and other companies. 176 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Percentage of Head office interest held Companies Note City Country 2017 2016 Main activity Development of trading activity of crude oil, petroleum products, Galp Trading, S.A. Geneve Switzerland 100% 100% petrochemicals and natural gas; ship chartering activities for maritime transport of the products that the company trades. Tagus Re, S.A. Luxembourg Luxembourg Reinsurance of all products, excluding direct insurance. Research and oil exploration, distribution , transport, storage and Galp Alentejo E&P, S.A. Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% commercialization of liquid and gaseous fuels, base oils and lubricants and other petroleum products . Rio de ISPG Centro Tecnológico, S.A. Brazil 100% 100% Management of equity participations. Janeiro Petrogal Subgroup: Refining of crude oil and derivatives trading; Transport, distribution and commercialisation of crude oil and derivatives and natural gas; Petróleos de Portugal Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% Research and exploration of crude oil and natural gas; and any other Petrogal, S.A. e Subsidiaries: industrial, commercial and investigation activities and rendering of services relating to these areas. Refining of crude oil and derivatives trading; Transport, distribution and commercialisation of crude oil and derivatives and natural gas; Petróleos de Portugal – Petrogal, Chacao Venezuela Research and exploration of crude oil and natural gas; and any other S.A. (Branch in Venezuela) Municipality industrial, commercial and investigation activities and rendering of services relating to these areas. Petróleos de Portugal – Petrogal, Management of participations in other refined products distributor S.A. (Branch in Spain) and Madrid Spain companies in the Iberian peninsula. subsidiaries: Galp Energia España, S.A. and Storage, transport, import, export and sale of all petroleum products, Madrid Spain 100% 100% subdidiaries: chemical products, gas and its derivatives. Galpgest Petrogal Estaciones Madrid Spain 100% 100% Management and operation of service stations. de Servicio, S.L.U. Galp Açores Distribuição e Comercialização de Ponta Distribution, storage, transport and commercialisation of liquid and Portugal 100% 100% Combustíveis e Lubrificantes, Delgada gas fuel, lubricants and other petroleum derivatives. S.A. and subdidiary: Construction and operation of filling stations and related storage Saaga Sociedade Açoreana de Ponta Portugal 67,65% 67,65% facilities of LPG and other fuel in the Autonomous Region of the Armazenagem de Gás, S.A. Delgada Azores. Galp Madeira Distribuição e Comercialização de Distribution, storage, transport and commercialisation of liquid and Funchal Portugal 100% 100% Combustíveis e Lubrificantes, gas fuel, lubricants and other petroleum derivatives. S.A. and subsidiaries: Installation and operation of liquid and gas fuel storage facilities, as well as the respective transport, reception, movement, filling CLCM Companhia Logistica de Funchal Portugal 75% 75% and shipping structures and other industrial, commercial and Combustíveis da Madeira, S.A. investigation activities and the rendering of services relating to these activities. Distribution, storage, transport and commercialisation of liquid and gas fuel, base oils, lubricants and other petroleum derivatives and the direct and indirect operation in fuel stations and service stations Gasinsular Combustíveis do and complementary activities, namely service stations, vehicle repair Funchal Portugal 100% 100% Atlântico, S.A. and maintenance workshops, the sale of motor vehicle parts and accessories, restaurants and hotels, as well as any other industrial commercial and investigating activities and the rendering of services relating to the activities mentioned in its objects. Sacor Marítima, S.A. Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% Maritime transport in own and chartered vessels. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 177 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Percentage of Head office interest held Companies Note City Country 2017 2016 Main activity C.L.T. Companhia Logística de Matosinhos Portugal 100% 100% Technical management of ships, crews and supply. Terminais Marítimos, S.A. Galp Energia Portugal Holdings The Management of participations in other companies of the energy sector Amsterdam 100% 100% B.V. Netherlands as an indirect form of economic activity. Retail sale of food products, domestic utensils, presents and other Sempre a Postos Produtos articles, including newspapers, magazines, records, videos, toys, Lisbon Portugal 75% 75% Alimentares e Utilidades, Lda. drinks, tobacco, cosmetics and hygiene, travel and vehicle accessory items. Tanquisado Terminais Setúbal Portugal 100% 100% Development and operation of Maritime Terminals. Marítimos, S.A. Galp Exploração e Produção Commerce and industry of petroleum, including prospecting, Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% (Timor Leste), S.A. research and exploration of hydrocarbons in East Timor. Direct and indirect operation of service stations, fuel stations Galpgeste Gestão de Areas de and related or complementary activities, such as service stations, Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% Serviço, S.A. workshops, the sale of lubricants motor vehicle parts and accessories, restaurants and hotels. Studies, projects, installation, production and marketing of biofuels, Enerfuel, S.A. Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% treatment, valuation and and waste recovery, purchase and sale of equipment. Production, transport and distribution of electric and thermal energy Portcogeração, S.A. Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% from co-generating systems and renewal energy. Research and oil exploration, distribution, transport, storage and commercialization of liquid and gaseous fuels, lubricants and base oils Galp Marketing Internacional, and other petroleum products and the operation of service stations Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% S.A. and subsidiaries: and vehicle assistance service stations, as well as any industrial activities, business, marketing, research or provision of services related to this subject. Distribution, transport, storage and commercialisation of liquid and Petrogal Guiné-Bissau, Lda. and GuineaBissau 100% 100% gas fuel, base oils, lubricants and other petroleum derivatives and the subsidiaries: Bissau operation of fuel stations and vehicle assistance stations. Petromar Sociedade Guineade Abastecimentos de Bissau 80% 80% Commerce of maritime banks. Bissau Combustíveis, Lda. Petrogás Importação, GuineaArmazenagem e Distribuição Bissau 65% 65% Import, storage and distribution of LPG. Bissau de Gás, Lda. Import, processing, distribution, transportation, storage, trading and re-export of hydrocarbons and their derivatives, including bitumen, base oils and lubricants, the operation of storage facilities, as well as their primary transport infrastructure within and between islands, Empresa Nacional de reception, handling, loading and shipment of liquid and gaseous fuels, Combustíveis Enacol, S.A.R.L (*) Mindelo Cape Verde 48% 48% the operation of filling stations and service areas, vehicle assistance, and subsídiaries: production, distribution and other forms of non-fossil energy, including solar, wind, water and the other renewable sources, the use of their facilities as well as other industrial, commercial, research or provide services associated with this principal object. Enamar Sociedade Transportes Marítimos, Sociedade (*) Mindelo Cape Verde 100% 100% Maritime transport and related activities. Unipessoal, S.A. 178 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Percentage of Head office interest held Companies Note City Country 2017 2016 Main activity Import and trading, supply management, exploring areas of EnacolGest, Lda. (*) Mindelo Cape Verde 100% 100% service stations and fuel supply, design and project management of maintenance and construction of facilities and service stations. Distribution, transport, storage, commercialisation of liquid and gas Galp Gambia, Limited 4.2 a) Banjul Gambia 100% fuel, oil and operation of service stations. Distribution, transport, storage, commercialisation of liquid and gas Petrogal Mozambique, Lda. Maputo Mozambique 100% 100% fuel, oil and operation of service stations. Storage, commercialisation and distribution, import, export and Galp Mozambique, Lda. Maputo Mozambique 100% 100% transport of petroleum and its derivatives, as well as all types of oil, whether vegetable, animal or mineral. Storage, commercialisation and distribution, import, export and Galp Mozambique, Lda. (Branch Blantyre Malawi transport of petroleum and its derivatives, as well as all types of oil, in Malawi) whether vegetable, animal or mineral. Distribution, transport, storage, commercialisation of liquid and gas Galp Swaziland (PTY) Limited Matsapha Swaziland 100% 100% fuel, oil and operation of service stations. Production, distribution and commercialisation of liquid and gas fuel, Petrogal Angola, Lda. Luanda Angola 100% 100% base oil and lubricants and operation of service stations. GDP Subgroup: Galp Gás & Power, SGPS, S.A. Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% Management of equity investments. and Subsidiaries: GDP Gás de Portugal, S.A. Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% Business management services. Lisboagás Comercialização, S.A. Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% Commercialisation of retail last resort natural gas. Lusitaniagás Comercialização, S.A. Aveiro Portugal 100% 100% Commercialisation of retail last resort natural gas. Setgás Comercialização, S.A. Setúbal Portugal 100% 100% Commercialisation of retail last resort natural gas. Carriço Cogeração Sociedade Production, in the form of co-generation, and sale of electric and de Geração de Electricidade e Lisbon Portugal 65% 65% thermic energy. Calor, S.A. Purchase and sale of energy, as well as the rendering services and Galp Power, S.A. Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% realisation of activities directly or indirectly related with energy. Production, in the form of co-generation, and sale of electric and Agroger Sociedade de thermic energy, including the conception, construction, financing and Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% Cogeração do Oeste, S.A. operation of co-generating installations and all the related activities and services. Galp Gás Natural, S.A. and Import of natural gas, storage, distribution through high pressure Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% subsidiaries: networks, construction and maintenance of networks. Transgás Armazenagem Soc. Storage of natural gas on a public service sub-concession basis, Portuguesa de Armazenagem Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% including the construction, maintenance, repair and operation of all de Gás Natural, S.A. the related infrastructure and equipment. Transgás, S.A. Lisbon Portugal 100% 100% Wholesale commercialization or last resort of natural gas. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 179 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Joint arrangements In the year ended 31 December, 2016, as a result of this agreement, the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary Galp Gambia, Limited As of 1 January 2014, due to mandatory application of IFRS 11 were classified in the consolidated accounts of Galp Energia, SGPS Joint Arrangements, the group identified Sigás – Armazenagem as non-current assets held for sale and liabilities associated with de Gás, A.C.E., Pergás – Armanzenamento de Gás, A.C.E., and non-current assets held for sale. Multiservicios Galp Barcelona, UTE as entities in which the shareholders have operational and financial control over the In the year ended 31 December, 2016, the group received the assets and liabilities of the company. Therefore, the assets, amount of €5 m, which was recognised in other accounts payable liabilities, gains and losses were incorporated in the consolidated Advances related to disposal of financial investments (Note 20.2). financial statements for the percentage held in those entities, 60%, 51% and 50%, respectively (Note 5.6.2). On 17 January 2017, the sale was completed. The final price was €4 m, based on the agreed initial price plus adjustments as set out in Control in companies with less than 50% of share the Sale Purchase Agreement (“SPA”). capital Thus changes in the consolidation perimeter that occurred in the (*)Although Galp Group holds through its subsidiary Petróleos period ended 31 December 2017 had the following impact on the de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. only 48.29% of the equity of Empresa consolidated statement of financial position of Galp Group: Nacional de Combustíveis Enacol S.A.R.L, the Group controls its financial and operational policies, and is expected to continue to Unit: €m do so by means of a representative majority of votes at the Board of Disposal % 100% Directors meetings. Thus, Galp has, in accordance with IFRS 10 (a) Sale Price 5 power over the investee, (b) exposure or rights to variable results Adjustment to sale value in January 2017 4,3 (1) via its relationship with the investee and (c) ability to use its power Adjusted Sale PriceP[A] 4 over the investee to affect the value of the results for investors, Non-current assets held for sale 4 and due to these facts, the subsidiary is consolidated using the full Advances related to disposal of financial investments (5) consolidation method. Investment Book Value[B] (1) Empresa Nacional de Combustíveis Enacol S.A.R.L. holds Translation Reserves [C] 1 interests in the following subsidiaries: i) Enamar Sociedade Income from financial Investments 5,4 4 Transportes Marítimos, Sociedade Unipessoal, S.A. (100%); ii) [A] [B] [C] EnacolGest, Ld.ª (100%); and iii) Sodigás-Sociedade Industrial de Gases, S.A.R.L. (44%) (Note 5.2). Interests held in Enamar As a result of this operation, the Group recognised in results Sociedade Transportes Marítimos, Sociedade Unipessoal, S.A. and under the caption Results related to investments in associates and in EnacolGest, Ld.ª are consolidated using the full consolidation joint ventures a net capital gain of €4m (Note 5.4). method and Sodigás Sociedade Industrial de Gases, S.A.R.L. is included in the caption “Investments in associates” (Note 5.2). b) Companies dissolved and settled On 20 December 2017, subsidiary Windhoek PEL 24 B.V. and its 4.2. Changes in the consolidation perimeter branch in Namibia, 100% owned by Galp Energia E&P, B.V., were dissolved. During the period ended 31 December, 2017, the consolidation perimeter changed from the previous year as follows: c) Other situations a) Disposal On 22 December 2017, Fundo Vera Cruz was closed and all funds were redeemed. On October 17 2016, Galp, through its subsidiaries Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, SA and Galp Energia, SGPS, SA, which respectively held 99.98% and 0.02% of the share capital of the subsidiary Galp Gambia, Limited, reached an agreement with Premiere Investment Group, SAL, for the sale of 100% of the share capital of Galp Gambia, Limited. 180 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 4.3. Reconciliation of receipts and payments from financial investments presented in the consolidated statement of cash flows – Investing Activities The amount of €69 m presented under Cash Receipts from Financial Investments and €255 m presented under the caption “Cash Payments from Financial Investments” in the consolidated statement of cash flows Investing Activities is detailed as follows: Unit: €m Investing activities: Note December 2017 Cash receipts from financial investments related to: 69 Participating interest held by the subsidiary GDP Gás de Portugal, SGPS, S.A. Decrease in share premium carried out by the joint Ventinveste, S.A. 1 Receipt due to the liquidation of the joint venture Parque Eólico da Penha da Gardunha, Lda. 5.1 (l) 2 Participating Interest from subsidiary Galp Exploração e Produção Petrolifera, S.G.P.S., S.A. Participating Interest held by the subsidiary Galp Energia Rovuma B.V. Subscription in Coral FLNG, S.A. Share Capital* 5.1 63 Participating Interest held by the subsidiary Galp Gás Natural, S.A Decrease in share capital from the associate Gasoduto Al-Andalus, S.A. 5.2 2 Decrease in share capital from the associate Gasoduto Extremadura, S.A. 5.2 1 Cash payments from to financial investments related to: (255) Participating interest held by the subsidiaries Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A and Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. Adjustment of the advance made by Premiere Investment Group, SAL, relating to the sale of 100% of the share capital of Galp Gambia, 4.2 (1) Limited. Share capital increase on Galpek, Lda. 5.1 (3) Participating interest held by subsidiary GDP Gás de Portugal, SGPS, S.A. Share Premium increase on the associate Energin Sociedade de Produção de Electricidade e Calor, S.A. 5.2 (3) Acquisition of 25% from GEO Alternativa, S.L share capital 5.2 (2) Participating interest held by the subsidiary Galp Energia Rovuma B.V. Subscription in Coral FLNG, S.A. Share Capital* 5.1 (85) Participating interest held by the subsidiary Galp Sinopec Brazil Services, B.V. Share capital increase on Tupi, B.V. 5.1 (129) Participating interest held by the subsidiary Galp Bioenergy B.V. Share capital increase on Belém Bioenergia Brasil, S.A. 5.1 (32) * The net increase in the participation interest in Coral FLNG, SA amounted to €22 m, having Galp executed payments in the amount of €85 m, of which €63 m were reimbursed by the project finance. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 181 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 5. Financial investments Accouting policy impairment losses recognised in prior years cease to exist, they are reversed. Investments in Joint Ventures When Group’s proportion of the joint venture’s accumulated losses exceeds the value at which the interest is recorded, the Galp held Interests in Joint Ventures where joint control financial investment is reported at zero value, except when the consists on the contractually agreed sharing of control over an Group has entered into commitments with the joint venture. Agreement, which only exists when decisions on the relevant In this case, the Group records a loss for the amount of joint activities require the unanimous agreement of the parties liability assumed with the joint venture. sharing control. Unrealised gains and losses on transactions with joint The classification of a joint agreement as a joint operation or ventures are eliminated in proportion to the Group’s interest a joint venture depends on the rights and obligations of the in the joint venture, against the investment in the same entity. parties on the Agreement. Unrealised losses are similarly eliminated, but only to the extent that the loss does not show that the transferred asset is A joint operation is a joint agreement whereby the parties with impaired. joint control of the agreement have rights over the assets and liabilities for the liabilities related to that agreement. These Joint operations in oil exploration consortiums are accounted parties are called joint operators. in accordance with the established contracts. Accordingly, these joint operations are recorded according to the working The classification of financial investments as joint ventures interest held in the petroleum consortium. is determined on the basis of shareholders’ agreements governing joint control. Thus, when Galp classifies a The Group’s Exploration and Production (E&P) activity is participating interest or consortium as a joint agreement, mainly carried out through partnerships with other entities, it considers various legal, contractual and accounting reflecting in financial statements the percentage held by the requirements for its appropriate accounting classification. Group in these consortium. Investments in joint ventures have been included in the Group Galp recognises the following items in its consolidated accompanying consolidated financial statements using financial statements, whenever it qualifies as a participant in a the equity method, from the date on which joint control is joint operation: exercised. Joint ventures recognised under the equity method are detailed in Note 5. The excess of the cost of acquisition over • group assets that contribute to the operation; the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities of the joint ventures on the acquisition date is recognised as Goodwill and • own liabilities associated with the joint operation; maintained at the amount of the financial investment in the caption “Investments in associates and joint ventures”. If the • share of the acquired assets and liabilities incurred in difference between the acquisition cost and the fair value of carrying out the joint operation; the net assets and liabilities acquired is negative, a profit for the year is recognized in the caption “Income from financial • share of revenues generated through sales from the joint investments” in associated companies and joint ventures, after operation; confirmation of the fair value assigned. • income from its sales share, jointly with its share of costs An evaluation of investments is carried out in joint ventures incurred; and when there is evidence that the interest may be impaired, and impairment losses if any are due recorded as cost. When the • own costs and losses incurred in the operation. 182 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Investments in associates acquisition date is recognised as Goodwill and maintained at the value of the financial investment in associates. If the Investments in associated companies (companies in which difference between the acquisition cost and the fair value the Group exercises significant influence, but does not hold of the net assets and liabilities acquired is negative, it is either control or joint control, usually holding between 20% recognised as a profit for the year in the caption “Income and 50% of a company’s share capital) are recorded using the from financial investments in associated companies”, after equity method. confirmation of the attributed fair value. Investments in affiliated companies (companies in which the An evaluation of investments in associates are carried out group has no significant influence or control, usually when when there are indications that the interest may be impaired, it holds less than 20% of its share capital or voting rights) and any impairment losses if any are recorded as cost. When are recorded at fair value or at acquisition cost in cases when the impairment losses recognised in prior years cease to exist, the shares are not listed and the fair value cannot be reliably they are reversed. measured. When the proportion of the Group in accumulated losses of Financial investments in subsidiaries are classified as the associate exceeds the value by which the investment is available-for-sale assets in accordance with the classification registered, the financial participation is reported at a nil value, in IAS 39 and are classified as non-current assets. except when the Group has entered into commitments with the associate, in which case the Group amount of joint liability According to the equity method, financial investments are assumed with the associate. recorded at cost, adjusted by the amount corresponding to the Group’s participation in changes in shareholders’ equity Unrealised gains and losses on transactions with associates (including net income) of associate companies, against results are eliminated proportionally to the Group’s interest in the relating to financial investments in associated companies, as associate, against the investment on that associate. Unrealised well as dividends received. losses are similarly eliminated, but only to the extent that the loss does not show that the transferred asset is impaired. The excess of acquisition cost over the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities of the associate company at the Annual Report and Accounts 2017 183 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 5.1. Investments in joint ventures The financial investments in joint ventures, the head offices, the percentage or interest held and the activities detained as at 31 December 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Head office Percentage interest held Companies City Country 2017 2016 Tupi B.V. (e)(j) Rotterdam The Netherlands 10.00% 10.00% Belém Bioenergia Brasil, S.A. (d) Belém Brazil 50.00% 50.00% C.L.C. Companhia Logística de Combustíveis, S.A. (b)(i) Aveiras de Cima Portugal 65.00% 65.00% Galp Disa Aviacion, S.A. (f) Santa Cruz de Tenerife Spain 50.00% 50.00% Moçamgalp Agroenergias de Mozambique, S.A. (g)(h) Maputo Mozambique 50.00% Asa Abastecimento e Serviços de Aviação, Lda. (b) Lisbon Portugal 50.00% 50.00% Caiageste Gestão de Areas de Serviço, Lda. (c) Elvas Portugal 50.00% 50.00% Galpek, Lda (m) Lisbon Portugal 50.00% 50.00% Coral FLNG, S.A. (k) Maputo Mozambique 10.00% Coral South FLNG DMCC (k) Dubai United Arab Emirates 10.00% Parque Eólico da Penha da Gardunha, Lda. (a)(l) Oeiras Portugal 50.00% Ventinveste, S.A. e subsidiárias (a)(o)(l) Lisbon Portugal 51.50% 35.00% Parque Eólico de Vale Grande, S.A. (a)(o)(l) Lisbon Portugal 51.50% 35.00% Âncora Wind Energia Eólica,S.A e subsidiárias (p) Lisbon Portugal 17.00% Parque Eólico do Douro Sul, S.A. (p) Lisbon Portugal 17.00% Parque Eólico de Vale do Chão, S.A. (p) Lisbon Portugal 17.00% Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. e subsidiárias (n) Lisbon Portugal 77.50% 77.50% Beiragás Companhia de Gás das Beiras, S.A. (n) Viseu Portugal 46.19% 46.19% Dianagás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural de Évora, S.A. (n) Lisbon Portugal 77.50% 77.50% Duriensegás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural do Douro, S.A. (n) Vila Real Portugal 77.50% 77.50% 184 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Unit: €m Book Value 2017 2016 Main activity Management, construction, purchase, sale and rental of materials and equipment for exploration, development and production of 1,062 1,027 hydrocarbons, including platforms, ships, FPSOs (floating production, storage, and off-loading), ships to transport crude, supply vessels and other types of vessels. Production, logistics and marketing of vegetable oil, as well as any other products, byproducts and related activities, research and development in agro-industrial processes, raw materials, supplies, products, by-products and applications, production, logistics, 53 38 processing and marketing of raw materials and supplies, including but not limited to bunch of fresh fruit, seeds and seedlings, generation and sale of electricity associated with its operations. Installation and operation of liquid and gas storage facilities, as well as the related transport structures, other industrial, 9 7 commercial and investigation activities and of services related to those activities. 7 6 Service rendered of aviation oil service supply, either directly or through participation in companies with the same business. The exercise of agriculture and related activities, including the transformation of oil seeds into vegetable oil that are raw or semi1 finished materials for use in other industries, namely for the manufacture of biodiesel and sale of them nationally or internationally, consequently including their transport, as well as the rendering of any other services and technical assistance in that activity. Service rendered of aviation oil service supply Management, and operation of service areas in the Caia area, including any activities and services related with such establishments and installations, namely: the supply of fuel and lubricants, the commercialisation of products and articles to convenience stores and supermarkets, the management and operation of restaurants and hotel or similar units, service stations and gift and utility selling points. Production, transportation and marketing of chemical products and other similar or derivative products, including paraxilene, benzene, refined, other aromatics and remaining subproducts; conducting studies and projects and design, construction operating 3 and exploring production and storage facilities of the products referred in the previous paragraph; and any other industrial, comercial, and research activities, and rendering services related to the activities previously referred. Engage the project design and construction of, and to develop, install, commission, finance, hold, use, manage and maintain the Coral South floating liquefied natural gas facilities, including any onshore or offshore auxiliary facilities, in order to provide 19 services for processing, liquefaction, storage and offloading to Area 4 Concessionaires in line with the Area 4 Research and Production Concession Agreement and all of its Annexes, the South Coral Supplemental Agreement and its annexes, and the Development Plan for Coral 441 approved by the Government of the Republic of Mozambique on February 23, 2016. Develop investments in offshore energy projects in the Rovuma basin in Mozambique Republic and any business related to this activity provided they are permitted under the terms of the license granted to them by the Dubai authorities. 2 Production of electrical and wind energy. Construction and operation of industrial units for the construction and assembly of wind turbine components and construction and 8 -2 operation of wind farms. Construction and operation of wind farms. The production, distribution and sale of electricity using wind power , through the construction and operation of wind farms and electricity transmission lines , as well as carrying out any other activity related to the use of renewable wind energy Construction and operation of wind farms. Construction and operation of wind farms. 217 242 Management of equity investments. Operation, construction and maintenance of regional natural gas distribution networks. Operation, construction and maintenance of regional natural gas distribution networks. Operation, construction and maintenance of regional natural gas distribution networks. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 185 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Head office Percentage interest held Companies City Country 2017 2016 Lisboagás GDL Sociedade Distribuidora de Gás Natural de Lisboa, S.A. (n) Lisbon Portugal 77.50% 77.50% Lusitaniagás Companhia de Gás do Centro, S.A. (n) Aveiro Portugal 75.05% 75.05% Medigás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural do Algarve, S.A. (n) Lisbon Portugal 77.50% 77.50% Paxgás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural de Beja, S.A. (n) Lisbon Portugal 77.50% 77.50% Setgás Sociedade de Produção e Distribuição de Gás, S.A. (n) Setúbal Portugal 77.45% 77.45% Tagusgás Empresa de Gás do Vale do Tejo, S.A. (n) Santarém Portugal 32.03% 32.03% Net Book Value [A] Provision for liabilities in joint ventures (Note 21) [B] (o) Book value of financial investments in joint ventures [A]-[B] (a) Participation held by Galp Gas & Power, SGPS, S.A. (h) Control over Moçamgalp Agroenergias de Mozambique, S.A., was shared between: Galp Exploração e Produção Petrolífera, (b) Participation held by Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. SGPS, S.A., Ecomoz – Energias Alternativas Renováveis, Lda. and Petromoc SARL, that held respectively 50%, 49% and 1% of its share (c) Participation held by Galpgeste Gestão de Areas de Serviço, S.A. capital. During the year ended 31 December 2017 the joint venture Moçamgalp Agroenergias de Mozambique, S.A. was liquidated. (d) Participation held by Galp Bioenergy B.V. As a result of this operation, the Group recognised in the (e) Participation held by Galp Sinopec Brazil Services B.V. consolidated income statement the amount of €1 m (Note 4.3 and 5.4) related to gains from exchange rate differences on the (f) Participation held by Galp Energia España, S.A. translation of financial statements denominated in foreign currency (Mozambican Meticais) which were in the caption (g) Participation held by Galp Exploração and Produção “Currency Translation Reserves”. Petrolífera, SGPS, S.A. (i) Although the Group holds more than 50% of participating interest, the entity is classified as a joint venture since there are Shareholder Agreements that give shared control of the company’s operational and financial management. 186 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Unit: €m Book Value 2017 2016 Main activity Operation, construction and maintenance of regional natural and other gas distribution networks. Operation, construction and maintenance of regional natural and other gas distribution networks. Operation, construction and maintenance of regional natural and other gas distribution networks. Operation, construction and maintenance of regional natural and other gas distribution networks. Operation, construction and maintenance of regional natural and other gas distribution networks. Production and distribution of natural gas and other fuel gases 1,378 1,321 (2) 1,378 1,323 (j) Although the Group holds more than 50% of participating (l) Control of the joint venture Parque Eólico Penha da Gardunha, interest, the entity is classified as a joint venture since there Lda. was shared between Galp Gas & Power, SGPS, S.A. and are Shareholder Agreements that give shared control of the Martifer Renováveis, SGPS, S.A. each holding 50% of its share company’s operational and financial management. capital. During the year ended 31 December 2017, the joint venture Parque Eólico da Penha da Gardunha, Lda, was liquidated. (k) In April 2017, the following joint ventures were established: As a result of this operation, the Group recognised in the • Coral FLNG, SA, whose activity consists in the development, consolidated income statement a loss of €2 m (Note 5.1 and 5.3) operation and maintenance of the Coral South floating liquefied referring to the write-off of Goodwill that was recorded in the natural gas facility (FLNG) for the exploration, development and caption “Investments in joint ventures” and recorded in the production of hydrocarbons. caption “Receipt of financial investments” the amount of €2 m related to the amounts received from the joint venture Parque • Coral South FLNG DMCC, whose activity is to borrow and Eólico Penha da Gardunha, Lda. (Note 4.3). undertake intra-group on-lending to Coral FLNG S.A.orities. The assets and liabilities held by the joint venture Parque Eólico The control of these joint ventures is shared between: the Penha da Gardunha, Lda., namely the share capital held in subsidiary Galp Energia Rovuma BV, ENI Mozambique LNG the joint venture Ventinveste, S.A. (33% of the share capital), Holdings BV, CNODC Mozambique BV, Empresa Nacional De was distributed by the shareholders in the proportion of it Hidrocarbonetos EP and KG Mozambique, each holding 10%, participating interest. As a result of this operation, the subsidiary 50%, 20%, 10% and 10% of its share capital. Galp Gas & Power, SGPS, S.A., which already owned 35% of the joint venture Ventinveste, S.A., now holds 51.5%. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 187 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The control over joint venture Ventinveste, S.A., is shared between (o) On 31 December 2017 and 2016, the provision for investments Galp Gas & Power, SGPS, S.A. and the Martifer Group, which hold in joint ventures represents the Group’s joint commitment to joint respectively 51.5% and 49.5% of its share capital. ventures with negative equity. In addition, there is a shareholder agreement that states that profits (p) The Galp Group, through the joint venture Ventinveste, S.A., from joint venture Ventinveste, S.A. should be distributed 50% to and within the scope of the existing wind project, established a Galp and 50% to Martifer. Thus, for the purposes of equity method set of agreements with suppliers and financial entities for the application, Galp recognised only 50% of Ventinveste, S.A. construction of four wind farms. The project, called Âncora, was developed under a partnership between Ventinveste and (m) On 3 October 2016, Galpek, Lda, was established which control Ferrostaal GmbH and it is financed under project finance. The is shared between Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. and Dak control of Âncora Wind-Energia Eólica, S.A. was shared between Americas Exterior SL, each with 50% participating interest. Ventinveste, S.A. and Ferrostaal GmbH, each holding 50% of its share capital. (n) On 27 October 2016, 22.5% of the participating interest on Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, SA was sold to Meet Europe Natural Gas, Lda, and its subsidiaries were considered as joint ventures, in which the control over the joint venture is shared between GDP Gás de Portugal, SGPS, SA and Meet Europe Natural Gas, Lda, which hold respectively 77.5 %% and 22.5% of its share capital. 188 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 In November 2016, the Galp Group, through joint venture Ventinveste, SA reached an agreement with First State Benedict S.A.R.L. for the sale of the participating interest held in Âncora Wind Energia Eólica, S.A. On 29 March 2017, the sale was completed. As a result of this operation, the group recognised in results under the “Results relating to financial investments” a net capital gain of €21 m and transferred to the accumulated result caption the amount of €1 m resulting from hedging reserves: Unit: €m Impact on jount venture Ventinveste, S.A. % sold through joint venture Ventinveste, S.A. 50.00% Share price 40 Share premium 31 Sale price adjustment (1) Sale Price [A] 70 Assets less Liabilities of the group Âncora Wind Energia Eólica, S.A. at the date financial participation sale 59 Investment book value [B] 30 Results from financial investments in joint venture Ventinveste, S.A. [A] [B] 40 Hedging reserves (2) Retained earnings 2 Impact in Group Galp Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. holds: 100% of the subsidiary GDP Gás de Portugal, SGPS, S.A. Which holds : 35% of joint venture Ventinveste, S.A. 35.00% 14 50% of joint venture Parque Eólico da Penha da Gardunha, Lda. Which holds: 50.00% 33% of joint venture Ventinveste, S.A. 33.00% 7 Results from financial investments recorded in Galp Group 21 Hedging reserves (1) Retained earnings 1 As a result of the sale price settlement for the participating interest held on Âncora Wind – Energia Eólica, S.A. €2 m were transferred related to interest rates financial derivatives from hedging reserves to retained earnings. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 189 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Following the summary of the financial statements of the joint ventures as at 31 December 2017 and 2016: Statement of financial position from joint ventures Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. Total Joint Ventures Tupi B.V. e subsidiárias December December December December December December Assets Notes 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Non-current assets: Tangible assets 10,802 10,810 10,255 10,580 1 1 Goodwill 2 2 2 2 Intangible assets 1,091 1,020 1,094 1,113 Investments in associates and joint ventures 27 58 12 15 Other receivables 348 33 332 16 32 Deferred tax assets 17 18 16 17 Total Non-current assets: 12,287 11,941 10,587 10,580 1,141 1,180 Current assets: Inventories 5 3 2 1 Trade receivables 110 118 10 10 Other receivables 1,020 346 362 262 70 77 Other financial investments 1 Income tax receivables 1 2 Cash and cash equivalents 525 255 164 203 17 43 Total current assets: 1,661 725 526 465 99 131 Total assets: 13,948 12,666 11,113 11,045 1,240 1,311 Liabilities: Non-current liabilities: Bank loans 28 66 21 29 Bonds 596 595 596 595 Other payables 909 279 224 233 Postemployment and other employee benefits liabilities 57 60 57 60 Deferred tax liabilities 7 9 7 9 Other financial instruments 1 Provisions 48 36 43 32 Total Non-current liabilities: 1,645 1,046 948 958 Current liabilities: Bank loans and overdrafts 262 45 10 13 Trade payables 21 22 10 14 Other payables 814 910 494 778 36 47 Current income tax payables 5 15 4 15 Total current liabilities: 1,102 992 494 778 60 89 Total liabilities: 2,747 2,038 494 778 1,008 1,047 Total equity and liabilities: 13,948 12,666 11,113 11,045 1,240 1,311 * Provisional financial statement at the closing date considered for the application of the equity method. 190 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 C.L.C. Companhia Belem Bioenergia Logística Brasil, S.A. Coral FLNG, S.A. de Combustíveis, S.A. Ventinveste, S.A. Other joint ventures December December December December December December December December December December 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 109 196 387 39 21 12 12 (1) (9) (96) 2 2 4 1 28 15 15 1 1 (1) 1 1 101 101 387 40 21 14 42 17 17 2 1 1 1 4 3 96 105 8 6 576 2 1 2 1 1 2 2 326 2 2 10 6 4 1 17 12 902 100 108 10 6 7 3 118 113 1,289 140 129 24 48 24 20 29 7 8 685 44 2 1 4 2 2 2 (1) 4 31 685 2 2 7 53 (1) 2 247 5 31 1 1 (1) 7 6 2 1 2 1 1 163 116 84 (1) 4 1 8 6 410 124 116 1 5 3 12 37 1,095 126 118 8 53 4 5 118 113 1,289 140 129 24 48 24 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 191 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Income statement and other comprehensive income from Joint Ventures Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. Total Joint Ventures Tupi B.V. e subsidiárias December December December December December December Income Statement 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Operating income: Sales 22 16 – 4 6 Services rendered 1,896 1,791 1,688 1,567 180 196 Other operating income 33 34 33 34 Total operating income: 1,951 1,841 1,688 1,567 217 236 Operating costs: Cost of sales 23 17 2 3 External supplies and services 76 86 – 64 75 Employee costs 30 28 22 21 Amortisation, depreciation and impairment losses on fixed assets 47 138 42 41 Provisions and impairment losses on receivables 7 2 Other operating costs 1,202 2,169 1,180 2,120 22 47 Total operating costs: 1,385 2,440 1,180 2,120 152 187 Operating income: 566 (599) 508 (553) 65 49 Financial income 9 11 8 9 1 Financial costs (11) (45) (19) (10) (24) Exchange (losses) gains (1) Income from financial investments and impairment losses on Goodwill 41 6 1 1 Income before taxes: 604 (627) 516 (563) 56 27 Income tax (120) (99) (102) (85) (15) (12) Energy sector extraordinary contribution (10) (10) (10) (10) Net income for the period 474 (736) 414 (648) 31 5 Income attributable to: Non-controlling interests 1 2 1 2 Shareholders 473 (738) 414 (648) 30 3 Consolidated net income for the period 474 (736) 414 (648) 31 5 Other comprehensive income (1,383) 358 (1,349) 340 (9) * Provisional financial statement at the closing date considered for the application of the equity method. 192 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Unit: €m C.L.C. Companhia Belem Bioenergia Logística Brasil, S.A. Coral FLNG, S.A. de Combustíveis, S.A. Ventinveste, S.A. Other joint ventures December December December December December December December December December December 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 15 6 2 2 1 2 25 25 3 3 15 6 25 25 2 2 4 5 20 13 1 1 3 3 7 7 1 1 1 2 2 4 4 2 1 1 87 3 8 1 1 1 6 2 1 (1) 1 (1) (1) 1 1 2 31 108 14 18 3 2 5 5 (16) (102) 11 7 (1) (1) 1 1 (1) (2) (1) (4) 40 2 4 3 (20) (102) (1) 11 7 38 4 4 (3) (2) (20) (102) (1) 8 5 38 4 4 (20) (102) (1) 8 5 38 4 4 (20) (102) (1) 8 5 38 4 4 (14) 18 (26) 2 4 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 193 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The changes in the caption “Investments in joint ventures” for the period ended 31 December 2017, which are reflected by the equity method, were as follows: Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. Total Joint Ventures Tupi B.V. e subsidiárias December December December December December December Movements in Investments in Joint Ventures Notes 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 % Share Capital held 10.00% 10.00% 77.50% 77.50% Net Book Value in Investments as of January 1 1,321 976 1,027 891 242 Investments in Joint Ventures 1,323 978 1,027 891 242 Provisions for Investments in Joint Ventures 21 (2) (2) Increase in investment (a) 184 176 129 167 Disposals/Investment decrease (4) Gains/Losses 79 (109) 41 (65) 23 2 Translaction adjustment (142) 43 (135) 34 Hedging reserves adjustment Actuarial gains/losses (3) (3) Gains/losses in investment disposals 5,4 (1) Dividends 5,5 (58) (5) (48) Transfers (b) (1) Adjustsments 243 243 Net Book Value in Investments as of December 31 1,378 1321 1,062 1027 217 242 Investments in Joint Ventures 1,378 1,323 1,062 1,027 217 242 Provisions for Investments in Joint Ventures 21 (2) (a) Increase in investment: • €129 m refers to share capital increase made by Galp Sinopec Brazil Services, B.V. The control of the entity Tupi, B.V. is shared between Galp Sinopec Brazil Services, B.V., Petrobras Netherlands, B.V. and BG Overseas Holding Ltd, holding, respectively, 10%, 65% and 25% of its share capital. • €32 m refers to the share capital increase in Belém Bioenergia Brasil, SA. The control of the entity Belém Bioenergia do Brasil, SA is shared between Galp Bioenergy BV and Petrobras Biocombustíveis SA, each holding 50% of its share capital. • €22 m refers to the share capital increase in joint venture Coral FNLG, S.A. by the subsidiary Galp Energia Rovuma B.V. (b) €1 m recorded in the caption “Transfers/Adjustments” refers to “Hedging Reserves”, arising from the sale of Âncora Wind – Energia Eólica, S.A., which were transferred to the caption “Retained Earnings” (Note 5.1). 194 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Unit: €m C.L.C. -Companhia Belem Bioenergia Logística Brasil, S.A. Coral FLNG, S.A. de Combustíveis, S.A. Ventinveste, S.A. Other joint ventures December December December December December December December December December December 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 50.00% 50.00% 10.00% 65.00% 65.00% 50.00% 35.00% 38 58 7 20 (2) (2) 9 9 38 58 7 20 9 9 (2) (2) 32 22 22 (13) 1 (4) (10) (51) 5 3 19 1 2 (7) 9 (3) 3 1 (1) (1) (3) (3) (6) (1) (2) (4) 3 53 38 19 9 7 8 (2) 10 9 53 38 19 9 7 8 10 9 (2) The caption “Gains/losses” on the joint venture Ventinveste S.A. includes the effect related to the sale of Âncora Wind Energia Eólica, S.A. and the effect by the application of the equity method as follows: Unit: €m Effect of Âncora Wind – Energia Effect of applying the Gains/Losses Eólica, S.A. Disposal equity method 19 21 (2) Parque Eólico da Penha da Gardunha, Lda. 7 (7) Ventinveste, S.A. 19 14 5 The caption “Investments in joint ventures” includes the positive Goodwill and the fair value related to the investments in joint ventures, which detail as at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 was as follows: Unit: €m Note December 2017 December 2016 53 55 Goodwill Parque Eólico da Penha da Gardunha, Lda. 5.1 (l) 2 Fair value Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. 53 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 195 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 5.2. Investments in associates Investments in associates, their head offices and the percentage or interest held as of 31 December 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Head office Percentage interest held Companies City Country 2017 2016 EMPL Europe Maghreb Pipeline, Ltd (a) Madrid Spain 22.80% 22.80% Gasoduto Al-Andalus, S.A. (a) Madrid Spain 33.04% 33.04% Gasoduto Extremadura, S.A. (a) Madrid Spain 49.00% 49.00% Sonangalp Sociedade Distribuição e Comercialização de Combustíveis, Lda. (e) Luanda Angola 49.00% 49.00% Metragaz, S.A. (a) Tanger Morocco 22.64% 22.64% Angra do Terparque Armazenagem de Combustíveis, Lda. (d) Portugal 23.50% 23.50% Heroísmo C.L.C. Guiné-Bissau – Companhia Logística de Combustíveis da Guiné-Bissau, Lda. (c) Bissau Guinea-Bissau 45.00% 45.00% IPG Galp Beira Terminal Lda (f) Maputo Mozambique 45.00% 45.00% Sodigás-Sociedade Industrial de Gases, S.A.R.L (g) Mindelo Cape Verde 45.31% 44.00% Galp IPG Matola Terminal Lda (f) Maputo Mozambique 45.00% 45.00% Aero Serviços, SARL Sociedade Abastecimento de Serviços Aeroportuários (c) Bissau Guinea-Bissau 50.00% 50.00% Energin Sociedade de Produção de Electricidade e Calor, S.A. (b) Lisbon Portugal 35.00% 35.00% (b) e Geo Alternativa, S.L. Madrid Spain 25.00% (h) Book value of financial investments in associates Provisions for Investments in associates (Note 21) (i) Net Book value of financial investments in associates (a) Participation held by Galp Gás Natural, S.A. (h) In November 2017, Galp entered into a Shareholder Agreement with the entity Geo Alternativa SL and acquired 25% in the (b) Participation held by Galp Gas & Power, SGPS, S.A. referred company, whose activity is the commercialization of electricity and natural gas. The entity has its headquarters in (c) Participação held by Petrogal Guiné-Bissau, Lda. Madrid, Spain and has a share capital of €4 m. (d) Participation held by Saaga Sociedade Açoreana de Armazenagem de Gás, S.A. (e) Participation held by Petrogal Angola, Lda. (f) Participation held by Petrogal Mozambique, Lda. (g) Participation held by Empresa Nacional de Combustíveis Enacol, S.A.R.L 196 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Unit: €m Book Value 2017 2016 Main Activity 54 63 Construction and operation of the natural gas pipeline between Morocco and Spain 13 15 Construction and operation of Tarifa–Córdoba gas pipeline. 9 11 Construction and operation of Córdoba-Campo Maior gas pipeline. Distribution and Commercialisation of liquid fuel, lubricants and other petroleum derivatives, operation of service stations and automobile 18 13 assistance and related services. 1 1 Construction, maintenance and operation of the Maghreb-Europe gas pipeline. Construction and/or operation of storage facilities for fuel 1 2 Management and operation of the liquid fuel storage facilities and of the Bandim Petroleum Terminal Develop and operate a storage terminal for petroleum products, including with no limitations, hydrocarbons, chemicals, carbonated liquid oil 3 and bitumen. 1 2 Production and sale of oxygen, acetylene, nitrogen and other industrial gases. Develop and operate a storage terminal for petroleum products, including with no limitations, hydrocarbons, chemicals, carbonated liquid oil 3 2 and bitumen. Services rendered related to storage and supply of petroleum products to aircrafts and other related and complementary activities. (2) Co-generation and sale of electric and thermic power. 2 Commercialisation of all types of energy products, namely electrical energy and natural gas. 105 107 (2) 105 109 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 197 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Following the summary of the financial statements of the associates as at 31 December 2017 and 2016: Associates statement of financial position Sonangalp Sociedade Distribuição e EMPL Europe Maghreb Comercialização de Total associate companies Pipeline, Ltd Combustíveis, Lda. Statement of financial position Notes Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 Non-current assets: Tangible assets 57 49 25 18 Intangible assets 199 43 164 3 3 Deferred tax assets 2 2 Total non-current assets: 258 94 164 28 21 Current assets: Inventories 4 4 3 3 Trade receivables 22 19 2 Other receivables 79 282 71 275 Other financial investments 24 8 15 8 Income tax receivables 3 2 Cash and cash equivalents 86 87 6 8 36 28 Total current assets: 218 402 92 291 39 33 Total assets: 476 496 256 291 67 54 Liabilities: Non-current liabilities: Bank loans 6 9 1 Other payables 3 6 3 6 Deferred tax liabilities 2 2 1 1 Provisions 1 3 Total non-current liabilities: 12 20 1 1 3 7 Current liabilities: Bank loans and overdrafts 7 15 Trade payables 66 68 17 15 24 20 Other payables 25 10 (1) 4 1 Current income tax payables 2 1 Total current liabilities: 100 94 17 14 28 21 Total liabilities: 112 114 18 15 31 28 Total equity and liabilities: 476 496 256 291 67 54 * Provisional financial statement at the closing date considered for the application of the equity method. 198 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Unit: €m Gasoduto Galp IPG Matola IPG Galp Beira Remaining Gasoduto Al-Andalus, S.A. Extremadura, S.A. Terminal Lda Terminal Lda associate companies Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 6 7 17 12 9 12 22 28 10 12 1 1 1 1 23 29 11 13 6 7 17 12 9 12 1 1 5 4 3 2 14 11 2 6 7 9 2 2 1 17 26 9 16 8 3 2 7 7 24 30 12 18 14 7 5 4 32 19 47 59 23 31 20 14 22 16 41 31 6 8 1 1 1 3 1 7 12 8 6 7 1 7 12 2 6 4 2 3 2 9 11 1 2 2 9 5 6 5 1 1 1 1 8 13 4 9 13 10 15 15 15 12 8 13 4 9 13 10 16 15 22 24 47 59 23 31 20 14 22 16 41 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 199 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Associates income statement and other comprehensive income Sonangalp Sociedade Distribuição e EMPL Europe Maghreb Comercialização de Total associate companies Pipeline, Ltd Combustíveis, Lda. Income statement Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 Operating income: Sales 625 567 311 310 251 193 Services rendered 31 32 2 2 Other operating income 6 1 2 1 Total operating income: 662 600 311 310 255 196 Operating costs: Cost of sales 216 166 214 163 External supplies and services 61 59 22 24 9 8 Employee costs 8 8 4 4 Amortisation, depreciation and impairment losses on fixed 49 51 34 37 2 2 assets Provisions and impairment losses on receivables 1 1 Other operating costs 5 1 (1) 3 Total operating costs: 334 290 57 61 228 181 Operating income: 328 310 254 249 27 15 Financial income 10 2 3 1 1 1 Financial costs (4) (4) 1 (2) (1) (1) Exchange (losses) gains 3 (5) Income before taxes: 337 303 258 248 27 15 Income tax (34) (88) (12) (72) (8) (5) Net income for the period 303 215 246 176 19 10 Income attributable to: Non-controlling interests Shareholders 303 215 246 176 19 10 Net income for the period 303 215 246 176 19 10 Other comprehensive income (31) (2) (39) 13 (1) (4) * Provisional financial statement at the closing date considered for the application of the equity method. 200 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Unit: €m Gasoduto Galp IPG Matola IPG Galp Beira Remaining Gasoduto Al-Andalus, S.A. Extremadura, S.A. Terminal Lda Terminal Lda associate companies Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 40 43 23 21 26 28 3 2 3 1 40 43 26 28 3 27 23 2 3 7 9 6 6 17 12 4 4 7 7 3 3 3 2 3 1 (1) 2 (2) 2 (3) 17 17 9 9 (1) 2 (2) 2 26 18 23 26 17 19 1 (2) 5 (2) 1 5 6 1 (1) (3) (1) (1) 3 (5) 23 26 17 19 4 (2) 8 (7) 4 (6) (7) (4) (5) (2) (3) 1 1 17 19 13 14 2 (2) 5 (6) 1 4 17 19 13 14 2 (2) 5 (6) 1 4 17 19 13 14 2 (2) 5 (6) 1 4 1 (3) 2 (2) 6 (6) Annual Report and Accounts 2017 201 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The changes in the caption “Investments in associates” for the year ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Sonangalp Sociedade Distribuição e EMPL Europe Maghreb Comercialização de Total associate companies Pipeline, Ltd Combustíveis, Lda. Movements in investments in associates Notes Dec 2017 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 Dec 2016 % Share Capital held 22.80% 22.80% 49.00% 49.00% Net Book Value in Investments as of January 1 106 134 63 62 13 11 Investments in associates 109 136 63 62 13 11 Provisions for Investments in associates 21 (2) (2) Increase in investment (a) 2 (5) Gains/Losses 81 58 56 40 9 5 Currency exchange difference (10) (3) (9) 3 (3) Dividends 5.5 (75) (62) (56) (42) (4) Changes in consolidation perimeter (15) Net Book Value in Investments as of December 31 105 107 54 63 18 13 Investments in associates 105 109 54 63 18 13 Provisions for Investments in associates 21 (2) (a) Investment increase • The negative amounts of €2 m and €1 m correspond to the share capital decrease in associates Gasoduto Al-Andalus, S.A. and Gasoduto Extremadura, S.A.; • The amount of €5 m stated in remaining associate companies includes: i) €3 m regarding share premium increase made by the subsidiary Galp Gas & Power, SGPS, S.A. in the associate Energin Sociedade de Produção de Eletricidade e Calor, S.A.; ii) €2 m refers to the acquisition of 25% share capital of the associate company GEO Alternativa, S.L., made by the subsidiary Galp Gas & Power, SGPS, S.A. 202 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Unit: €m Gasoduto Galp IPG Matola IPG Galp Beira Remaining Gasoduto Al-Andalus, S.A. Extremadura, S.A. Terminal Lda Terminal Lda associate companies Dec 2017 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 Dec 2016 33.04% 33.04% 49.00% 49.00% 45.00% 45.00% 45.00% 45.00% 15 21 11 17 2 4 4 2 15 15 21 11 17 2 4 4 5 17 (2) (2) (2) (2) (1) (3) 5 6 6 6 7 1 (1) 2 (3) 1 4 (1) 1 (1) (2) (1) (6) (10) (7) (10) (2) (15) 13 15 9 11 3 2 3 5 3 13 15 9 11 3 2 3 5 5 (2) Annual Report and Accounts 2017 203 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 5.3. Financial assets held for sale The financial investments in affiliates, presented in the Statement of financial position as Financial assets available for sale, its head offices and the percentage or interest held as of 31 December 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Unit: €m Percentage Interest Head office held Book value Companies City Country 2017 2016 2017 2016 Corporación de Reservas Estratégicas de Productos Petrolíferos Madrid Spain n.a. n.a. 2 2 Portugal Ventures Oporto Portugal 1.25% 1.25% 1 1 Adene Agência para a Energia, S.A. (*) Amadora Portugal 10.98% 10.98% Omegás Soc. D’Étude du Gazoduc Maghreb Europe (*) Tânger Morocco 5.00% 5.00% Clube Financeiro de Vigo (*) Vigo Spain P.I.M. Parque Industrial da Matola, SARL (*) Maputo Mozambique 1.50% 1.50% ADEPORTO Agência de Energia do Porto (*) Oporto Portugal Imopetro Importadora Moçambicana de Petróleos, Lda. (*) Maputo Mozambique 15.38% 15.38% OIL Insurance Limited (*) Hamilton Bermuda 1.00% 1.00% MIBG Mercado Ibérico de Gás (*) Madrid Spain 1.76% 1.76% ISPG Instituto do Petróleo e Gás (*) Lisbon Portugal 76.67% 76.67% 3 3 (*) Values below 1 million Euros ISPG is a non-profit association, established by Galp, Universidade de Aveiro, Universidade de Coimbra, Universidade do Minho, Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Universidade do Porto, Instituto Superior Técnico and Faculdade de Ciências da Universidade de Lisboa. ISPG’s mission is to gather and centralise knowledge and promote the development, transmission and diffusion of science and technology applied to the activities in the energy sector, especially oil and gas. The activities carried out aim at enhancing the competitiveness of the energy industries, in particular through the advanced training of relevant technical staff, a network of cooperation between enterprises, higher education institutions and other public and private R&D and industrial innovation entities. On 29 November 2016, Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. subscribed and realised €230 k in participating units in ISPG. (230 PU’s). Additionally, in the year ended 31 December, 2016 Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. sold to Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. 30 PU’s. Galp Energia SGPS maintains its Founding Member status and holds 200 PU’s and Petrogal holds 30 PU’s (of the total 300 which represent ISPG share capital, while the remaining are owned by the universities). 204 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 5.4. Results from financial investments The caption “Income from financial investments and impairment losses on Goodwill”, presented in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 is comprised as follows: Unit: €m Note December 17 December 2016 163 17 Effect of applying the equity method Associates 5.2 81 58 Joint Ventures 5.1 79 (109) Effect of the disposal of investments in group companies and associates: Gain on disposal of 100% of the interest held in Galp Gambia, Limited 4.2 a) 4 Gain on disposal of 22.5% of the interest held in Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. 132 Effect of the price adjustment of the disposal of investments in group companies and associates: Acquisition cost adjustment related to the financial interest held in Madrileña Suministro de Gas S.L. for the year 1 ended 31 de December 2015 Acquisition cost adjustment related to the financial interest held in Madrileña Suministro de Gas SUR S.L. for the (1) year ended 31 December 2015 Effect of the liquidation of group companies: Write off of exchange differences that resulted from the financial statements translation of the subsidiary Galp (14) Energia Tarfaya B.V., which were booked in Equity in the caption Other Reserves Liquidation of the subsidiary Parque Eólico da Gardunha, Lda. 5.1 (2) Liquidation of the subsidiary Moçamgalp Agroenergias de Mozambique, S.A. 5.1 1 Effect of Goodwill impairments of group companies: Goodwill Impairment of the subsidiary Galp Distribuicíon Oil España, SAU, which is recorded in the caption Goodwill 11 (11) Goodwill Impairment of the subsidiary Galp Comercializacíon España, SL, which is recorded in the caption Goodwill 11 (38) Others (1) Annual Report and Accounts 2017 205 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 5.5. Dividends from financial investments 5.6. Joint operations 31 December 2017: During the period ended 31 December 2017, there were no significant changes in the Joint Operations, by geographical area The caption “Investments in associates and joint ventures” and percentages held. (Note 5.1 and 5.2), includes the total amount of €133 m related to dividends corresponding to amounts approved in the General Meetings of the respective companies. The dividends received in 5.6.1. Joint operations Oil Consortium the year ended 31 December 2017 amounted to €134 m. Joint operations are subject to joint agreements designated as The difference between the amount received and the amount JOA (Joint Operating Agreement). These JOA establish the joint recognised in the caption “Investments in associates and joint decisions between the partners of the oil consortia. In addition to ventures” of €1 m refers to dividends received from Assets the JOA’s, Production Sharing Agreements may exist, which are available for sale. primarily used to determine the share of oil production in a given area that is for the consortium. In PSAs, the national oil company 31 December 2016: pays the execution, by the international oil company (contractor), of the exploration and production activity. The contractor takes The caption “Investments in associates and joint ventures” the mineral and financial risk of the initiative and, if successful, (Note 5.1 and 5.2) includes the total amount of €67 m related to recovers the cost of capital spent and costs incurred in the dividends corresponding to amounts approved in the General year (cost oil) through the share of production. In Angola, the meetings of the respective companies. The dividends received in fluctuation in international oil prices also affects the production the year ended 31 December 2016 amounted to €70 m. share (net entitlement) by which the contractor has the right to remunerate its invested capital (profit oil) after incurred costs are The difference between the amount received and the amount paid by cost oil. Thus, the investment and the stock are recognised recognised in the caption “Investments in associates and joint in the share of the assets, while sales and costs are recognised in ventures” of €3 m refers to dividends received from Assets the Income Statement. available for sale. The profit oil is a form of remuneration of the State specific for the production sharing contracts in Angola. The profit oil represents the difference between (i) the amount of oil produced and collected from each development area and not used in petroleum operations, and (ii) the oil for the cost recovery (cost oil) in the same development area. Annual audits are performed by independent auditors on the accounts submitted by the consortium, in which it is assessed the acceptance of these costs, which gives rise to adjustments for excess or insufficiency in profit oil. 206 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Joint Operations, by geographic area and percentage held as at 31 December 2017 and 2016 are as follows: 2017 Country Consortium Acquisition date Participating companies and participation interest BM-S-8 Statoil (38%); ExxonMobil (38%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (14%); Barra Energia (10%) September 2000 BM-S-11 Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (65%); BG E&P Brasil S.A. (25%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (10%) BM-S-24 August 2001 Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (80%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%) BT-POT-32 November 2004 Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (50%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (50%) BT-POT-51 January 2006 Petrogal Brasil S.A. (50%); Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (50%) BT-SEAL-13 January 2006 Petrogal Brasil S.A. (50%); Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (50%) BM-POT-17 January 2006 Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (80%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%) BM-POT-16 January 2006 Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (60%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%); Encana Brasil S.A. (20%) PEPB-M-783 Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (80%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%) March 2008 PEPB-M-839 Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (80%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%) Brazil BAR-300 BG (50%); Petrobrás (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (10%) BAR-342 BG (50%); Petrobrás (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (10%) BAR-344 BG (50%); Petrobrás (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (10%) BAR-388 BG (50%); Petrobrás (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (10%) PN-T-136 August 2013 Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (50%); Petrobrás (50%) PN-T-150 Petrobrás (50%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (50%) PN-T-166 Petrobrás (50%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (50%) PN-T-182 Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (50%); Petrobrás (50%) POT-M-764 Petrobrás (40%); BG (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (20%) Carcará Norte October 2017 Statoil (40%); ExxonMobil (40%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%) Block 14 December 1999 Galp(9%); CABGOG(31%); Sonangol (20%); ENI(20%); ANGOLA BLOCO 14 B.V.(20%) Galp(4.5%); Chevron Overseas Congo LTD(15.75%); CABGOG(15.5%); Sonangol (10%); SNPC(7.5%); Block 14K December 2002 TFE(10%); TEPC(26.75%); ENI (10%) Angola Block 32 May 2007 Galp(5%); Total(30%); Sonangol(30%); SSI Limited(20%); Esso(15%) Block 33 May 2007 Galp(5.33%); Total(58.67%); Sonangol(20%); Falcon(16%) Sonagas December 2007 Galp(10%); Sonagas(40%); ENI(20%); GAS NATURAL (20%); EXEM (10%) Mozambique Area 4 December 2007 Galp(10%); KOGAS(10%); ENI(70%); ENH (10%) East Timor Block (E) S06-04 December 2007 Galp(10%); KOGAS(10%); ENI(80%) PEL82 Namibia August 2016 Galp(80%); CUSTOS (10%); NAMCOR (10%) PEL83 BACIA DE PENICHE May 2014 Galp (100%) BACIA DO Portugal December 2014 Galp(50%)ENI(50%) ALENTEJO ALJUBARROTA 2012 Galp(50%); PORTO ENERGY(50%) Area 3 Uruguay 2009 Galp(20%); Shell(40%); YPF(40%) Area 4 Block 6 2015 Galp (45%); Kosmos Energy (45%); ANP-STP (10%) Sao Tome Block 5 2016 Galp (20%); Kosmos Energy (45%); ANP-STP(15%); Equator (20%) and Principe Block 11 2016 Galp (20%); Kosmos Energy (65%); ANP-STP (15%) Block 12 2016 Galp (20%); Kosmos Energy (45%); ANP-STP (12.5%); Equator (22.5%) Annual Report and Accounts 2017 207 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 2016 Country Consortium Acquisition date Participating companies and participation interest BM-S-8 Statoil (66%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (14%); Barra Energia (10%); Queiroz e Galvão (10%) September 2000 BM-S-11 Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (65%); BG E&P Brasil S.A. (25%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (10%) BM-S-24 August 2001 Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (80%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%) BT-POT-29 Petrogal Brasil S.A. (50%); Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (50%) November 2004 BT-POT-32 Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (50%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (50%) BT-POT-51 Petrogal Brasil S.A. (50%); Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (50%) BT-SEAL-13 Petrogal Brasil S.A. (50%); Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (50%) January 2006 BM-POT-17 Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (80%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%) BM-POT-16 Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (60%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%); Encana Brasil S.A. (20%) PEPB-M-783 Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (80%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%) Brazil March 2008 PEPB-M-839 Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (80%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%) BAR-300 BG (50%); Petrobrás (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (10%) BAR-342 BG (50%); Petrobrás (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (10%) BAR-344 BG (50%); Petrobrás (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (10%) BAR-388 BG (50%); Petrobrás (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (10%) PN-T-136 August 2013 Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (50%); Petrobrás (50%) PN-T-150 Petrobrás (50%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (50%) PN-T-166 Petrobrás (50%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (50%) PN-T-182 Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (50%); Petrobrás (50%) POT-M-764 Petrobrás (40%); BG (40%); Galp Energia Brasil S.A. (20%) Block 14 December 1999 Galp(9%); CABGOG(31%); SONANGOL (20%); ENI(20%); ANGOLA BLOCO 14 B.V.(20%) Galp(4.5%); CHEVRON OVERSEAS CONGO LTD(15.75%); CABGOG(15.5%); SONANGOL (10%); Block 14K December 2002 SNPC(7.5%); TFE(10%); TEPC(26.75%); ENI (10%) Angola Block 32 Galp(5%); Total(30%); Sonangol(30%); SSI Limited(20%); Esso(15%) May 2007 Block 33 Galp(5.33%); Total(58.67%); Sonangol(20%); Falcon(16%) Sonagas December 2007 Galp(10%); Sonagas(40%); ENI(20%); GAS NATURAL (20%); EXEM (10%) Mozambique Area 4 December 2007 Galp(10%); KOGAS(10%); ENI(70%); ENH (10%) East Timor Block (E) S06-04 December 2007 Galp(10%); KOGAS(10%); ENI(80%) PEL23 PEL24 2013 GALP(14%); HRT(86%) Namibia PEL28 PEL82 August 2016 GALP(80%); CUSTOS (10%); NAMCOR (10%) PEL83 BACIA DE PENICHE May 2014 Galp(30%); Repsol(34%); Kosmos(31%); Partex(5%) Portugal BACIA DO ALENTEJO December 2014 Galp(50%)ENI(50%) ALJUBARROTA 2012 Galp(50%); PORTO ENERGY(50%) Area 3 Uruguay 2009 Galp(20%); Shell(40%); YPF(40%) Area 4 Block 6 2015 Galp (45%); Kosmos Energy (45%); ANP-STP (10%) Sao Tome Block 5 2016 Galp (20%); Kosmos Energy (45%); ANP-STP(15%); Equator (20%) and Principe Block 11 2016 Galp (20%); Kosmos Energy (65%); ANP-STP (15%) Block 12 2016 Galp (20%); Kosmos Energy (45%); ANP-STP (12,5%); Equator (22.5%) 208 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Main impacts during the year ended 31 December 2017: The Group sold the Andorinha Field (BT-POT-28 and BT-POT-36), being its assets totally depreciated: Brazil BT-POT-28 Petrogal Brasil S.A. (50%); November 2004 Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (50%) The operated Block BT-POT-29 proved to be uneconomic, BT-POT-36 for which reason the Group proceeded to its write-off and returned the area to Agência Nacional do Petróleo, Gás Natural e Namibia Biocombustíveis – ANP: On 11 August 2016, two new licenses were acquired to operate in BT-POT-29 Petrogal Brasil S.A. (50%); Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (50%) Namibia and the consortium works with two local entities: The Group acquired 20% of participating interest in Carcará North PEL82 Blocks 2112B and 2112 GALP(80%); Custos August 2016 (10%);NAMCOR (10%) area, adjacent to the BM-S-8 concession, in the Santos basin: PEL83 Blocks 2813A and 2814B Carcará Norte Statoil (40%); ExxonMobil (40%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. (20%) Morocco The company Galp Energia Tarfaya operating in the Tarfaya The participatory structure in the BMS-8 consortium has changed, Offshore area was liquidated on 21 December 2016: in which Petrogal Brazil has strengthened its participation: Galp(50%);ONHYM(25%); Tarfaya Offshore 1 December 2012 Statoil (36.5%); ExxonMobil (36.5%); Petrogal Brasil S.A. Tangiers(25%) BM-S-8 (17%); Barra Energia (10%) Sao Tome and Principe Namibia The Galp Group reached an agreement with Kosmos Energy On 22 December 2017 the following consortium was liquidated: (Kosmos) to acquire a 20% stake in blocks 5, 11 and 12, in the Sao Tome and Principe offshore. Through this acquisition, Galp PEL24 2013 GALP(14%); HRT(86%) reinforces its presence in the country, where it has held, since 2015, the operation in block 6, in which Kosmos also participates. Portugal Galp (20%);Kosmos Energy (45%);ANP-STP (15%); Block 5 Equator (20%) Galp assumed the contractual position of each of the other Block 11 2016 Galp (20%);Kosmos Energy (65%);ANP-STP (15%) members of the consortium, giving Galp 100% stake in Peniche basin. Galp (20%);Kosmos Energy (45%);ANP-STP Block 12 (12.5%);Equator (22.5%) Main events noted during the year ended 31 December 2016: Brazil The non operated block AM-T-84 proved to be uneconomic, for which reason the Group proceeded to its write-off and returned the area to Agência Nacional do Petróleo, Gás Natural e Biocombustíveis – ANP: Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (60%); AM-T-84 April 2009 Petrogal Brasil S.A. (40%) Annual Report and Accounts 2017 209 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 5.6.2. Joint operations – Jointly controlled entities Joint ventures in jointly controlled entities, its head office, main activities and interest held as of 31 December 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Interest held Head office by the group Participating companies and Companies City Contry 2017 2016 participation interest Main activity Design and construction of underground LPG storage and of the Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. (60%); additional surface facilities needed Sigás Armazenagem Sines Portugal 60% 60% Rubis Energia Portugal, S.A. (35%); to move products. Management and de Gás, A.C.E. Repsol Polímeros, S.A. (5%) exploration of the cave including surface facilities, tanks and LPG spheres . Executing the operation and maintenance of the Perafita Park, Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. (51%); Pergás – Armazenamento ensuring the development of the Matosinhos Portugal 51% 51% Rubis Energia Portugal, S.A. (30.75%); de Gás, A.C.E. import, reception, storage, filling and Repsol Gás Portugal, SA. (18.25%) expedition activities of GPL by the respective members. Multiservicios Galp Galp Energia España, S.A. (50%); Managing the supply of aviation Barcelona Spain 50% 50% Barcelona Multiservicios Aeroportuarios, S.A. (50%) business in the Barcelona Airport. 210 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 6. Operating income Accounting policy The regulated revenue of the pass-through activities/functions assumes the recovery of the costs incurred. Consequently, each Income from sales is recognised in the income statement activity is compensated for the costs incurred plus an additional when the risks and benefits inherent to the ownership of remuneration, when applicable. the assets are transferred to the buyer and the amount of the corresponding income can be reasonably quantified. Sales are Following the above, and as the Group holds credit risk related recognised net of taxes with the exception of tax on petroleum to the tariff invoiced to final customers, the regulated Group products in the marketing activity, discounts and other costs companies, as trading companies to end customers, include related to their realisation, at the fair value of the amount in their income, the tariffs that include the remuneration/ received or receivable. recovery of all the previous activities. Costs and income are recorded in the period to which they Given the regulatory framework and legislation in place, the relate, regardless of the date of their payment or receipt. Costs differences between regulated revenues meet some conditions and income whose actual value is not known are estimated. (measurement reliability; financial asset remuneration; entitlement to their recovery and transmissibility, among In the caption “Other current receivales” and “Other current other) that support their recognition as income and assets in payables”, costs and income attributable to the current period the year they are calculated, namely that they can be reliably are recorded and expenses and revenues will only occur in measured and the certainty that economic benefits will flow future periods, as well as expenses and revenues that have to the Company. The regulated revenue calculation formula already occurred but are related to future periods and which for the “Gas Year n”, in the first and second regulated periods will be charged to the results of each of these periods, at the as published in the Tariff Regulation, include the differences amount corresponding to them. in regulated revenue in the “Gas Year n-2”. This rationale is also applied to the negative differences in regulated revenue, Exchange differences arising from Suppliers and Customers which are recorded as liabilities and costs. balances are recognised in Operating Results. In previous years, differences to the regulated revenue Natural gas activities recorded by the Group were incorporated in the respective tariff calculations in accordance with the established The sales price of natural gas to electricity production mechanisms. companies is based on specific commercial agreements. In the wholesale intermediate storage and distribution The regulated tariffs used for invoicing natural gas in the activity, the Group books in accruals and deferred income national natural gas system are established by Entidade the difference between the effective invoicing through sales Reguladora do Sector Energético (ERSE), so that they allow of the natural gas regulated tariff and the regulated revenue the recovery of the estimated regulated revenue for each gas defined for each Gas Year by ERSE, allocated to each semester year calculated for each regulated activity. Regulated revenue in accordance with the agreed seasonality coefficient of includes, in addition to operating costs for each activity, included for the compensation mechanism by the natural gas the following remuneration: (i) for the commercialisation companies – Regulated revenue (Note 13.2). activity, remuneration for the purchase and sale of natural gas, which corresponds to the effective cost of natural gas and In the wholesale last resort commercialisation activity, the remuneration of the operating commercialisation costs plus a Group books in accruals and deferred income the difference commercialisation margin; ; and (ii) for the activities of receipt, between the effective invoicing through the sales of natural transport and storage of natural gas, remuneration on the fixed gas regulated tariff and the effective cost of natural gas assets net of depreciation and grants relating to these activities. acquired – Energy Tariff Deviation (Note 13.2). Annual Report and Accounts 2017 211 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Since the natural gas regulated system is intended to result in respect of the meter reading and collection activities, in a uniform tariff (applicable to all the country’s regions) and by subcontracted external partners. considering the various levels of efficiency of the companies in the regulated market, ERSE published the compensation Un-invoiced gas sales are recorded monthly in the caption mechanism to be practiced between the companies in the “Other receivables” based on the estimated amount to be sector, so as to allow approximation of income recovered by invoiced according to historical information or meter reading application of the regulated tariffs to regulated revenue of depending on the client type, and corrected in the income these companies. Therefore ERSE, in its documents “Tariffs statement in the period in which they are invoiced (Note 13.2). and prices of natural gas” for each Gas Year, identifies the amount of compensation to be transferred (charged) between Regarding construction contracts included under IFRIC12, the companies of the national gas system. In order to ensure construction of concession assets is outsourced to specialised a practical, objective and transparent procedure for the entities which themselves assume the risk of construction referred settlement, the companies have agreed seasonal activity, and income and costs associated with building of coefficients to be applied in the issuance of the invoice for these assets (Notes 6 and 7) are then recognised. In the year the uniform tariff. The seasonality differences between ended 31 December 2016, Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. distribution and commercialisation activities reflect the and its subsidiaries ceased to be fully consolidated in the difference in payment terms. Galp Energia Group, SGPS, S.A., being the companies which comprise it recognised as joint ventures. Thus on 31 December The meter reading, invoicing and respective collection 2017, the caption “Cost/Income” from the construction of related to the gas distribution and commercialisation assets under IFRIC12 ceased to present values. activities are performed directly by the companies or, 212 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 The Group’s operating income for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 is as follows: Unit: €m Caption December 2017 December 2016 Operating income: 15,310 13,241 Sales: 14,576 12,488 goods 5,719 5,134 products 8,868 7,363 Exchange differences (11) (9) Services rendered 628 631 Services rendered 628 631 Other operating income 106 122 Supplementary income 84 83 Revenues arising from the construction of assets under IFRIC12 16 Investment government grants (Note 20.2) 1 8 Gains on fixed and intangible assets 1 5 Others 20 10 Fuel sales include the Tax on Oil Products (ISP). The increase in sales is explained by the increase in barrels produced from E&P activity and the increase in the associated price per barrel as well as the operational improvement in Refining & Marketing (R&M) related activities. Caption “Supplementary income” includes, among others, the amount of €32 m, related to third parties charges for the use of gas assets related to the E&P activity. The detail of caption “Sales of goods and products” by type of product is presented as follows: Unit: €m Caption December 2017 December 2016 Detail of sale 14,576 12,488 Crude 981 659 Gasoline 2,411 2,124 Diesel 6,178 5,553 Jet fuel 929 715 Fuel 745 516 LPG 395 352 Base oil and lubricants 132 129 Chemicals, solvents and aromatics 269 181 Naphthas 387 278 NG (natural gas) 1,694 1,550 Electricity 298 237 Store products 111 105 Petroleum products 29 82 Others 17 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 213 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 7. Operating costs The operating costs for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Unit: €m Captions Note December 2017 December 2016 Operating Costs 14,174 12,697 Cost of sales: 11,379 10,136 Raw and subsidiary materials 5,320 4,529 Goods 3,406 3,046 Tax on Oil Products 2,825 2,780 Variation in production (124) (269) Impairment in inventories 14 (16) Financial derivatives & Exchange differences (48) 18 External supplies and services: 1,550 1,285 Subcontracts network use 460 385 Transport of goods 145 120 Blocks production costs 242 178 Royalties 130 71 Other costs 573 531 Employee costs: 320 334 Amortisation, depreciation and impairment: 12.4 808 835 Provision and impairment losses on receivables: 37 11 Provisions and reversals 22 (10) Impairment losses on receivables 15 21 Other operating costs: 80 96 Other taxes 20 20 Costs arising from the construction of assets under IFRIC12 6 16 Loss on tangible and intangible assets 4 2 CO2 Licenses 28 8 8 Other operating costs 48 50 The variation in the caption “Cost of sales” is mainly related with a change in the prices of purchased products. The caption “Subcontracts – network use” refers to charges for the use of: • Distribution network use (URD); • Transportation network use (URT); • Global system use (UGS). The amount of €130 m of royalties presented in “External supplies and services” mainly relates to the Exploration and Production of oil and gas in Brazil. Royalties are calculated taking into account an applicable rate of 10% for the production volumes in proportion to the Galp share valued at the reference price of the oil or gas. 214 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 8. Remuneration of the board Accounting policy In accordance with IAS 24, key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for In accordance with the current policy, remuneration of the planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Galp Corporate Board members includes all the remuneration entity, directly or indirectly, including any directors (whether due for the positions occupied in Group companies and all executive or non-executive) of the entity. According to Galp’s accrued amounts related to the current period. interpretation of this standard only the members of the Board of Directors meet these characteristics. The remuneration of Galp’s board member, recorded under caption “Personnel costs” in the income statement for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016, is detailed as follows: Unit: €m December 2017 December 2016 Pension Pension Salary Plans Bonuses Total Salary Plans Total Remuneration of the board 5 1 1 7 5 1 6 Board members of Galp Energia SGPS 4 1 1 6 4 1 5 Executive management 4 1 1 6 4 1 5 Board members of subsidiaries 1 1 1 1 Executive management 1 1 1 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 215 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 9. Financial income and costs Accounting policy investment government grants (Note 12), until its operations start. The remainder is recognised in financial expenses The financial charges with loans obtained are recorded as a caption in the income statement for the year. Any interest financial cost on an accrual basis. income from loans directly related to the financing of fixed assets in progress construction is deducted from the financial Financial charges arising from general and specific loans charges capitalised. obtained to finance fixed asset investments are assigned to tangible and intangible assets in progress, in the proportion The financial charges included in the fixed assets are of the total expenses incurred on those investments net of depreciated according to the useful life of the respective assets. The detail of the determined amount in relation to financial income and costs for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 is as follows: Unit: €m Captions December 2017 December 2016 Financial income and costs (7) (33) Financial income: 39 39 Interest on bank deposits 25 27 Interest and other income with related companies 8 7 Other financial income 6 5 Financial costs: (46) (72) Interest on bank loans, bonds, overdrafts and others (94) (113) Interest with related parties (9) (9) Interests capitalised in fixed assets (Note 12) 89 81 Net interest on retirement benefits and other benefits (Note 19) (8) (10) Charges relating to loans and bonds (13) (13) Other financial costs (11) (8) During the period ended 31 December 2017, the Group capitalised under the caption “Fixed assets in progress”, the amount of €89 m, regarding interests on loans obtained to finance capital expenditure on tangible and intangible assets during their construction phase. 216 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 10. Income taxes and energy sector extraordinary contribution Accounting policy of participation interests), deducted of the cost recovery oil (meaning “cost-oil”), which includes the costs considered Income tax is calculated based on the taxable results of the recoverable. The amount of the “profit oil” does not include, on companies included in the consolidation in accordance with the other hand, the part of the “profit oil” that should be shared the applicable tax rules in force in the area each Galp company with the National Concessionaire (Sonangol), in accordance head office is located. with the Production Sharing Agreement. The calculation of the tax is in all terms similar to an income tax. Thus, the oil Deferred taxes are calculated based on the liability method companies subject to this tax are not subject to other income and reflect the temporary differences between the amounts taxes in Angola. of assets and liabilities recorded for accounting purposes and their amounts for tax purposes. Whenever the Group performs a sale, it pays the IRP to the Angolan Government, accounting the amount actually paid in Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated and reviewed the income statement caption “Income tax”. However, not all annually using the tax rates expected to be in force when the of the tax paid represents tax expense for the year as the Group temporary differences revert. borrows barrels from its partners in the consortium in order to perform sales in accordance with the agreement signed Deferred tax assets are recorded only when there is reasonable between all partners from the concession block, leading to a expectation of sufficient future taxable income to use them or situation of “Overlifting”. whenever there are taxable temporary differences that offset the deductible temporary differences in the period they revert. As such, a deferred tax asset is recorded based on the Temporary differences underlying deferred tax assets are borrowed barrels, so that there is a direct relationship between reviewed at each statement of financial position date in order the activity’s margin and its tax expense. As such, tax expense to recognise deferred tax assets that were not recorded in prior only relates to sold barrels which are property of the Group. years as they did not fulfil all requisites and/or to reduce the The deferred tax asset is reversed in direct proportion of amounts of deferred tax assets recorded based on the current recognition of the margin through the group production. expectation of their future recovery (Note 10.3). When the Group lends barrels (“Underlifting”), IRP is Deferred taxes are recorded in the income statement for the calculated on the lent barrels, which are recorded in income year, unless they result from items recorded directly in equity, tax payable for the year. in which case the deferred tax is also recorded in equity. Special Participation Brazil Exploration and Production activity Under the terms of Decree nº 2.705, of 3 August 1998, the Petroleum Income Tax (IRP) – Angola Petroleum, Natural Gas, Biofuels National Agency (Agência Nacional Do Petróleo, Gás Natural e Biocombustíveis – ANP), The Petroleum Income Tax (IRP) is regulated under the Law Special Participation is a financial compensation, due on 13/04, of 24 December (“Lei sobre a Tributação das Atividades a quarterly basis, by the concessionaires of oil and natural Petrolíferas” – Tax Law for Petroleum Activities), in Angola. gas exploration and production. The Special Participation As referred in paragraph 18 of the referred Law, this is a tax is calculated on a determined income (resulting from calculated on the “taxable income calculated in accordance multiplying volumes produced by reference prices used in the with this Law”. The rate applicable to the Production Sharing sale of oil/gas), to which a set of operational costs related to the Agreement contracts is of 50% on the “profit oil” of the production of hydrocarbons are deducted. Company. The “profit oil” of the Company is calculated by the difference between the crude oil sold, accrued of the oil Galp considers that these taxes fall under the scope of IAS 12. activities additional income (including gains on disposal Annual Report and Accounts 2017 217 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The Group companies headquartered in Portugal in which The following situations may affect income tax payable in the the Group has an interest equal or greater than 75%, if such future: participation ensures more than 50% of voting rights, are taxed in accordance with the special regime for the taxation of groups i) In accordance with current Portuguese legislation, corporate of companies, with taxable income being determined in Galp income tax returns are subject to review and correction by Energia, SGPS, S.A. The weighted income tax rate applied to the the tax authorities for a period of four years except when Companies headquartered in Portugal is of 29%. there are carried forward tax losses, tax benefits have been granted or there are claims or appeals in progress where, Spanish tax resident companies, in which the percentage held by depending on the circumstances, the period can be extended the Group exceeds 75% have, from 2005 onwards, been taxed on or suspended; a consolidated basis in Spain. Currently, the fiscal consolidation is performed by Galp Energia España S.A., on behalf of Galp Energia ii) Under current legislation, tax losses in Portugal can be SGPS, S.A. The weighted income tax rate applied to the Companies reported and carried forward during a period of five years, headquartered in Spain is of 25%. for 2013 and 2017 taxable income, and 12 years for taxable income arising between 2014 and 2016; However, estimated income tax of the Company and its subsidiaries is accounted for based on their tax results. In the iii) There is no limit for the use of tax losses of Group companies year ended 31 December 2017, €503 m was recorded in the caption based in Brazil and Spain. On the other hand, tax losses “Income tax”. of Group companies based in the Netherlands are carried forward for a maximum period of nine years. iv) The Group has accounted for deferred tax assets for tax losses carried forward only for subsidiaries in which there is high probability of recovery. 218 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Income tax and Energy sector extraordinary contribution for the year ended 31 December 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Unit: €m Captions December 2017 December 2016 Current tax Deferred tax Total Current tax Deferred tax Total 567 328 Income tax 446 57 503 238 22 260 Current income tax 166 92 258 119 32 151 (Excess)/Insufficiency of income tax for the preceding year 7 7 4 4 “IRP” Oil income Tax (12) 5 (7) 12 (1) 11 “PE” Special Participation Tax 285 (40) 245 103 (9) 94 Energy sector extraordinary contribution 64 68 Below is a reconciliation of the income tax for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016, and detail of deferred taxes: Unit: €m December 2017 Rate Income Tax December 2016 Rate Income Tax Income before taxes:* 1,274 27.00% 344 536 27.00% 145 Adjustments to taxable income: Effective tax rate and Tax income 39.48% 503 48.57% 260 Application of the equity method (3.53%) (45) (0.87%) (5) PE Special participation and IRP Tax on Oil Income 18.65% 238 14.31% 77 Other additions and deductions (2.64%) (34) 8.13% 43 *Base tax rate for Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. 10.1. Energy Sector Extraordinary Contribution For the year ended 31 December 2014, the Group was subject to a special tax (Energy Sector Extraordinary Contribution CESE I), pursuant to Article 228 of Law 83C/2013 of 31 December, which states that the energy companies that detain net assets in certain activities as at 1 January 2014 are subject to a tax calculated on the amount of net assets on that date. In the period ended 31 December 2015, the Group was subject to a special tax (Energy Sector Extraordinary Contribution CESE II), pursuant to Law 33/2015 of 27 April and Order No. 157 -B/2015 of 28 May, which focuses on the value of future sales, based on the four existing long term LNG sourcing contracts which are on a take-or-pay basis. Resulting from the respective Law and Order, Galp recorded a total payable amount of €156 m, to be paid in instalments of €52 m in May of each of the years 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively. During the year ended 31 December 2017, pursuant order No. 92-A / 2017 of March 2, the economic values of the take-or-pay contracts were changed, which was reflected in the increase of the CESE amount, in the amount of €32 m. This increase has no retroactive effect and applies to the current year. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 219 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world On 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016, the energy sector extraordinary contribution is detailed as follows: Unit: €m Statement of Financial Position Income Statement Provisions (Note 21) “CESE II” Deferred Cost (Note 13) Energy Sector Extraordinary “CESE I” “CESE II” Short Term Long Term Contribution 2017 Initial Balance (52) (162) 22 86 “CESE I” Increase (18) 18 Order No. 92-A / 2017 (32) 7 25 CESE II Periodization (2) (26) 28 “CESE II” Increase (8) 8 National Energy Efficiency Fund (FNEE) 10 December 2017 (70) (202) 27 85 64 2016 Initial Balance (52) (158) 23 108 “CESE I” Increase (29) 29 Changes in consolidation perimeter 29 CESE II Periodization (1) (22) 23 “CESE II” Increase (4) 4 National Energy Efficiency Fund (FNEE) 12 December 2016 (52) (162) 22 86 68 10.2. Current income tax As of 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016, the current income tax receivable and payable is as follows: Unit: €m Assets Liabilities 2017 2016 2017 2016 4 (115) (75) Galp Gás Natural Distribuição Group 4 16 State and Other Public Entities (115) (91) 220 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Galp Gás Natural Distribuição The companies of the Galp Gás Natural Distribuição Group, headquartered in Portugal in which the Group has an interest equal or greater than 75%, are taxed in accordance with the special regime for the taxation of groups of companies, with taxable income being determined in Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. Accordingly, the amount of corporate income tax advance payments made by Galp Energia SGPS, SA (as responsible under the special regime for the taxation of groups of companies) on behalf of Galp Gás Natural Distribuição Group companies, as well as amounts related to the payment/receipt of Corporate Income Tax pending of settlement with the entities, are recognised in the current income tax receivable and / or payable. State and Other Public Entities The amount due to State and other public entities includes the current income tax estimated tax for the year ended 31 December 2017, deducted from the income tax advances made (namely, payments on account, special payments on account, additional payments on account and withholding taxes). 10.3. Deferred taxes As at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016, the balance of deferred tax assets and liabilities is as follows: Unit: €m Deferred Taxes December 2016 Assets Effect of Initial currency Ending balance Effect in results Effect in equity translation balance Captions 335 (36) 16 (22) 293 Adjustments to accruals and deferrals 5 5 Adjustments to tangible and intangible assets 28 (12) (2) 14 Adjustments to inventories 1 1 Overlifting adjustments 2 (1) 1 Retirement benefits and other benefits 87 10 (3) 94 Double economical taxation 3 3 Financial instruments 1 1 Tax losses carried forward 96 (45) (2) 49 Regulated revenue 7 1 8 Non deductible provisions 47 30 (4) 73 Potential foreign exchange differences Brazil 21 (31) 20 (10) Others 38 12 (1) (5) 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 221 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Unit: €m Deferred Taxes December 2016 Assets Effect of Changes in the Initial Effect in Effect in currency consolidation Other Ending balance results equity translation perimeter adjustments balance Captions 462 (60) (92) 43 (18) 335 Adjustments to accruals and deferrals 7 (1) (1) 5 Adjustments to tangible and intangible assets 41 (14) 2 (1) 28 Adjustments to inventories 1 1 Overlifting adjustments 1 1 2 Retirement benefits and other benefits 102 (2) (1) (12) 87 Double economical taxation 3 3 Financial instruments 2 (2) Tax losses carried forward 102 (13) 6 1 96 Regulated revenue 9 1 (3) 7 Non deductible provisions 33 11 4 (1) 47 Potential foreign exchange differences Brazil 133 (50) (89) 27 21 Others 30 5 4 (1) 38 Unit: €m Deferred Taxes December 2017 Liabilities Effect of Changes in the currency consolidation Initial balance Effect in results translation perimeter Ending balance Captions (66) (21) 7 (2) (82) Adjustments to accruals and deferrals (1) 1 Adjustments to tangible and intangible assets (27) (6) 4 (29) Adjustments to tangible and intangible assets fair value (9) 2 (7) Dividends (14) 14 Financial instruments (1) (2) (3) Regulated revenue (12) (12) Accounting revaluations (1) (1) Others (31) 3 (28) Outros (1) 1 (2) (2) Unit: €m Deferred Taxes December 2016 Liabilities Effect of Changes in the currency consolidation Initial balance Effect in results translation perimeter Ending balance Captions (109) 39 (6) 10 (66) Adjustments to accruals and deferrals (1) (1) Adjustments to tangible and intangible assets (40) 18 (5) (27) Adjustments to tangible and intangible assets fair value (15) 4 (1) 3 (9) Dividends (28) 14 (14) Financial instruments (1) (1) Regulated revenue (23) 5 6 (12) Accounting revaluations (2) 1 (1) Others (1) (1) 222 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Changes in deferred taxes reflected in Equity, correspond to: Regarding the assumptions underlying the existence of future taxable income sufficient to realise the deferred tax assets, • The amount of €4 m of changes in deferred taxes related to Galp follows the medium and long-term plan designed for the actuarial gains/(losses); and companies. • €20 m, which includes €14 m related to deferred taxes on It should also be noted that in the case of jurisdictions where exchange rate differences resulting from financial contributions there are fiscal consolidation regimes, Galp simulates the which are similar to quasi-capital (Note 17) and €6 m relating to implementation of these consolidations. It should also be referred non-controlling interests. that the prescribed legal limits for recovery of the losses are considered as the period for the recovery of deferred tax assets Potential foreign exchange differences in Brazil result from the tax arising from tax losses. option to tax potential foreign exchange differences only when they are realised. In situations where the legal period for recovery exceeds the periods for which the Group makes the preparation of budgets and Tax losses for which deferred tax assets were recognised are as plans, forecasts are made for those periods based on the values follows: established for the Budgets and Plans. Unit: €m Tax losses carried forward in Brazil, namely regarding Petrogal Tax losses Brazil S.A., will be recovered through future taxable results that carried Limit year Deferred Year forward use tax asset may be expected as a result of the growing oil exploration activity. The Netherlands: 27 7 In the Galp Energia Brazil S.A. case, since there is no expectation of taxable profit over the next five years, the respective deferred 2016 27 2025 tax assets was derecognised. Spain: 138 34 2015 138 No limit Regarding the companies headquartered in the Netherlands, the Brazil 23 8 deferred tax assets established in 2016 in relation to losses from 2016 23 No limit liquidation of Tarfaya BV were partially reversed, once Galp Energia E&P BV generated positive results in 2017. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 223 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 11. Goodwill Accounting policy Any impairment losses are recorded immediately in the statement of financial position as a deduction to the The differences between the subsidiaries acquisition cost amount of the assets and are recorded against the income and the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of statement caption Results from investments in associates and these companies at the acquisition date (or during a period impairment losses on Goodwill, included in financial results. of 12 months after that date), if positive, are recorded under Goodwill (when it results from Goodwill in Group companies) If initial recognition of a business combination can only be or included in the caption “Investments in associated determined provisionally at the end of the period in which companies” (when it results from associates). The negative the concentration occurred (due to the fact that the fair value differences are recognised immediately in the income attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent statement. liabilities of the acquired entity can only be determined provisionally) Galp recognises the business combination The positive differences between the acquisition cost of using the information available. The amounts determined investments in foreign entities and the fair value of the provisionally are adjusted when the fair value of the assets identifiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition (or and liabilities are accurately determined, up to a period of during a period of 12 months after that date), are recognised 12 months after the acquisition date. During that period, in their functional currencies and translated to the Group’s Goodwill or any other recognised gain will be adjusted by an functional currency (Euros) at the rate of exchange at the end amount equal to the adjustment to the fair value at the date of the reporting period. Exchange rate differences resulting of acquisition of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities from the translation are recorded in equity in the caption identifiable being recognised or adjusted and the comparative “Translation reserve”. information presented for the periods prior to the completion of the initial accounting of the combination. This includes Goodwill on acquisitions prior to the date of transition to IFRS any depreciation, amortisation or other additional gain or loss (1 January 2004) has been maintained at the amount recorded recognised as result of completing the initial recognition. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in Portugal (deemed cost) as at that date and was subject to impairment tests at the reporting date. Goodwill stopped being amortised as at that date, but is subject to impairment tests, at least annually. 224 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 This page is intentionally left blank. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 225 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The difference between the amounts paid to acquire an equity share in Group companies and the fair value of the acquired companies’ equity as at 31 December 2017 was as follows: Acquisition Subsidiaries Acquisition year cost Galp Energia España, S.A. (*) Galp Comercializacion Oil España, S.L. (a) 2008 177 Galp Distribuición Oil España, S.A.U. (b) 2008 173 Petróleos de Valência, S.A. Sociedad Unipersonal (a) 2005 14 Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. Galp Comercialização Portugal, S.A. (c) 2008 146 Galp Swaziland (PTY) Limited 2008 18 Galpgest Petrogal Estaciones de Servicio, S.L.U. 2003 7 Empresa Nacional de Combustíveis Enacol, S.A.R.L 2007 and 2008 8 Galp Mozambique, Lda. 2008 6 Duriensegás Soc. Distrib. de Gás Natural do Douro, S.A. 2006 3 Lusitaniagás Companhia de Gás do Centro, S.A. 2002/3 and 2007/8/9 1 * Additionally, Goodwill exists regarding the acquisition of the Companies Gasinsular – Combustíveis do Atlântico, SA, SAAGA – Sociedade Açoreana de Armazenagem de Gás, S.A., and Galp Sinopec Brazil Services (Cyprus), but as their amount is below €0.5m they are not disclosed. a) The subsidiaries Petróleos de Valência, S.A. Sociedad Unipersonal and Galp Comercializacion Oil España, S.L. were incorporated in Galp Energia España, S.A., through a merger process, during 2010. b) The subsidiary Galp Distribuición Oil España, S.A.U., was incorporated in Galp Energia España, S.A. through a merger process, during 2011. c) The subsidiary Galp Comercialização Portugal, S.A., was incorporated in Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. through a merger process, during 2010. d) The exchange differences result from the conversion of Goodwill recorded in local companies’ currency to Group’s reporting currency (Euros) at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the financial statements (Notes 2.3.1 and 17.2). e) In 2016 Galp Gás Natural Distribuição (GGND) Group ceased to fully consolidate in the Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. Group, and the companies comprising the Group are therefore presented as joint ventures . f) Amounts determined as a result of Goodwill impairment tests (Note 5.4), carried out in 2016. 226 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Unit: €m Goodwill movements Equity proportion at the acquisition date 2015 2016 2017 Currency Changes in Currency exchange consolidation exchange differences perimeter Impairments differences % Amount Dec 2015 (d) (e) (f) Dec 2016 (d) Dec 2017 137 1 (2) (49) 87 (3) 84 100.00% 129 38 (38) 100.00% 124 11 (11) 100.00% 6 100.00% 69 51 51 51 100.00% 1 21 1 22 (3) 19 100.00% 1 6 6 6 15.77% 4 4 4 4 100.00% 3 4 4 4 25.00% 1 1 (1) 1.54% 1 1 (1) Annual Report and Accounts 2017 227 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Goodwill Impairment analysis When performing impairment tests, Goodwill is allocated to the respective cash generating unit. Value in use is determined by the present value of the estimated future cash flows of the cash generating unit. The recoverable amount is estimated for the cash-generating unit to which it may belong, according to the method of discounted cash flows. The discount rate used reflects Galp Energia Group’s WACC for the reporting segment and country of each cash generating unit. Assumptions Discount Rate Cash generating unit Valuation model Cash flow Groth factor December 2017 December 2016 WACC between: WACC between: Gordon model with 2% R&M [7.3%-11.1%] R&D [7.3%-11.1%] Investment (Business According to corporate business DCF (Discounted Cash Flow) of perpetuity growth segments) plan E&P [10%-12%] E&P [10%-12%] factor G&P [6.3%-6.9%] G&P [6.3%-6.9%] E&P Exploration & Production R&M Refining & Marketing G&P Gás & Power According to the defined assumptions, in the year ended 31 December 2017, there were no impairment losses under Goodwill. Stress testing was performed on the valuation model, with assumptions varying (i) in a pessimistic scenario, a WACC rate increase of 2%, while cash flow reduce by 10%, as well as (ii) an optimistic scenario, presenting the maintenance of the WACC rate and increase in cash flows by 10%, not resulting from the pessimistic scenario any impairment in Goodwill. 228 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 12. Tangible and intangible assets Accounting policy: The capital gain/loss resulting from the write-off or disposal of tangible assets is determined by the difference between the sale price and the net book value as of the date of the write-off/ Tangible assets disposal. The net book value includes accumulated impairment losses. The resulting accounting capital gains/losses are recorded Tangible assets acquired up to 1 January 2004 (date of in the consolidated income statement “Other operating income” transition to IFRS) are measured according with IFRS 1 option, or “Other operating costs”, respectively. at deemed cost, which corresponds to cost, revalued, when applicable, in accordance with the legislation in force up to Recurring repair and maintenance costs are expensed in that date, less accumulated depreciation and cumulative the year they are incurred. Major overhauls involving the impairment losses. replacement of parts of equipment or of other tangible assets are recorded as tangible assets if the replaced parts are Tangible assets acquired after that date are recorded at cost identified and written off, and depreciated over the remaining less accumulated depreciation and cumulative impairment period of economic useful life of the respective tangible assets. losses. Acquisition cost includes the invoice price, transport and assembly costs and financial costs incurred during the Oil exploration and production activity construction phase. The Exploration and Production activity is divided in three Tangible assets in progress refer to tangible assets in phases: Exploration, Development and Production. construction and are recorded at cost less cumulative impairment losses. Tangible assets are depreciated as from What distinguishes the three phases is essentially the stage of date the assets are substantially completed or the assets are the works performed and the discovery or not of commercially ready for use. viable reserves. Thus, in the exploration phase the company performs expenditures on research (i.e. seismic, drilling, Deemed cost (for acquisitions up to 1 January 2004) or geological and geophysical studies). At this stage IFRS 6 is acquisition cost depreciation is calculated on a straight-line applied, and Galp has adopted the accounting criteria accepted basis (on a monthly basis), as from the year the assets are by the standard, thus maintaining its previous accounting available for use, as intended by management, at the rates policy, which in this case consists of the capitalisation of these considered most appropriate to depreciate the assets during operating expenses. At this stage, there are contingent and their estimated economic useful life, limited, when applicable, prospective resources, and the company performs periodic to the concession period. impairment analysis, recognising dry wells (i.e. no proved reserves or without subsequent use) as a cost of the year. The average annual depreciation rates used are as follows: The company may incur some expenses prior to the acquisition Rates 2017 Rates 2016 of mineral rights, which are recognised as costs of the year. Land and natural resources Buildings and other constructions 4.80% 4.48% In the development phase there are already commercially Machinery and equipment 12.42% 10.25% viable reserves, not yet developed. Thus, Galp starts carrying Transport equipment 16.27% 17.41% out investments for the extraction of these reserves, related to platforms, pipelines and expenses with internal and Tools and utensils 21.77% 19.38% contracted technical labour. Galp capitalises technical labour Administrative equipment 19.11% 18.99% internal expenses with engineers and geologists hired by Reusable containers 12.96% 13.43% Galp for the development of resources and reserves for the Other tangibel assets 8.03% 8.61% extraction of those minerals. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 229 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Finally in the production phase there are proved developed Leases reserves, and as a result such mineral resources commence being extracted and sold. Lease contracts are classified as: At any of these stages, including production, the company • Finance leases if all the risks and benefits of ownership are performs periodic impairment tests in order to rule out any substantially transferred, and evidence of non-recoverability of the investment. • Operating leases when this does not occur. Tangible assets related to oil exploration and production are recorded at acquisition cost and mainly relate to costs Finance and operating leases are classified based on the incurred in the exploration and the development of the substance rather than the form of the legal contract. exploration area, including overheads incurred up to the beginning of production and are recorded in tangible assets in Leases in which the Group is the Lessee progress. When the oil field begins production, these costs are transferred from tangible assets in progress to tangible fixed Tangible assets acquired under finance lease contracts and assets and depreciated at the UOP method according to the the corresponding liabilities are recorded in accordance with expenses’ nature. the financial method. In accordance with this method the cost of the assets (the lower of the fair value or the discounted Joint operations in oil exploration consortiums are recognised amount of the lease instalments) is recorded in tangible assets, in accordance with the established agreements. Therefore, the corresponding liability is recorded and interest included these jointly operations are recorded by the proportion of the in the lease instalments and depreciation of the fixed assets, interest held (“working interest”) in the oil consortium. calculated as explained in Note 7, are recorded as a financial cost and amortisation and depreciation cost in the income Development and Exploration expenses are depreciated statement of the year to which they relate, respectively. In the in accordance with a coefficient calculated based on the case of operating leases, the lease instalments are recorded as proportion of the volume produced in each period in relation costs for the year, on a straight-line basis over the period of the to the proved developed reserves at the end of the period plus contract, in the income statement caption “External supplies production for the period (“UOP”). and services”. The proved developed reserves, used by the Group to Floating production storage and offloading (FPSO) rents determine the depreciation rate in accordance with UOP that are being used in the exploration and production (E&P) method, were determined by a specialised and independent business are derived from contracts established within entity. existing consortium and are charged to the Group in the proportion of the share held in each of the consortium. Those Exploration expenses relating to fields which are still in the charges regarding FPSO are likely to be classified as debt under exploration and development phase are classified as tangible IFRS 16 (for accounting periods after 1st of January 2019). assets in progress in the caption “Tangible assets”. 230 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Intangible assets The amortisation rates are set in accordance with the period of the existing contracts or expected use of the intangible assets. Intangible assets are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Intangible assets are Oil exploration and production activities only recorded if it is probable that they will result in future economic benefits to the Group, they are controlled by the Intangible assets recognised in oil exploration and production Group and can be reliably measured. are recorded at acquisition cost and are mainly related with acquiring oil exploration and production licences (signature Development expenses are only recognised as intangible bonus), and are amortised on a straight-line basis, as from assets if the Group has the technical and financial ability to the date production starts, over the remaining period of the develop the asset, decides to complete the development and licence. starts commercialising or using it, and it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits. If the Natural gas operations development costs do not fulfil these requirements, they are recorded in profit and loss for the year when occurred. The natural gas infrastructures, namely the gas distribution networks, are amortised over the concession period (45 years) Research expenses not related to petroleum exploration and or of the exploration licence (20 years). production activities are recognised as an expense of the period. The Group capitalises costs relating to the conversion of natural gas consumptions, which involves costs incurred Intangible assets include costs incurred on information adapting the installations. The Group considers that it can systems development, exclusivity bonuses paid to retailers control the future economic benefits resulting from this of Galp products and rights on land use costs, which are conversion through the continued sale of gas to its clients amortised over the period of the respective contracts (which (Dec-law 140/2006 of 26th of July). These costs are amortised ranges from ten to 20 years). on a straight-line basis up to the end of the natural gas distribution company’s concession period. Intangible assets with finite useful life are amortised on a straight-line basis. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 231 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 12.1. Movements in tangible assets Movements in tangible assets at 31 December 2017 are as follows: 2017 Buildings Land and natural and other Machinery and Tangible Assets: resources constructions equipment Acquisition cost: Acquisition cost at 1 January 2017 284 936 8,097 Additions 155 Additions by financial costs capitalisation (Note 9) Write-offs/Disposals (3) (26) Exchange differences 1 (334) Transfers 5 584 Acquisition cost at 31 December 2017 284 939 8,476 Accumulated impairments at 1 January 2017 (14) (15) (23) Increase in impairments (10) Exchange differences Utilisation 1 2 Transfers of impairments (117) Impairments balance at 31 December 2017 (13) (15) (148) Total acquisition cost balance at 31 December 2017 271 924 8,328 Accumulated depreciations Accumulated depreciations at 1 January 2017 (2) (689) (5,312) Depreciations for the year (35) (646) Write-offs/Disposals 3 23 Exchange differences 219 Accumulated depreciations at 31 December 2017 (2) (721) (5,716) Net amount at 31 December 2017 269 203 2,612 The additions in the period ended 31 December 2017 include capitalised interest in the amount of €89 m (Note 9). Caption of “Exchange differences” refers to the revaluation of the opening balances and the depreciation/impairment of the financial year of the assets of subsidiaries denominated in foreign currency into Euro. The transfer of Impairments, in the amount of €117 m, is due to the transfer from tangible assets in progress to fixed tangible assets. 232 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Unit: €m Transport Administrative Reusable Other tangible Tangible assets Total tangible equipment Tools and utensils equipment containers assets in progress assets 30 5 178 160 91 2,935 12,716 1 2 1 605 764 89 89 (1) (5) (1) (41) (77) (357) (690) 4 5 (601) (3) 31 5 183 160 91 2,630 12,799 (1) (2) (324) (379) (71) (81) 41 41 40 43 117 (1) (2) (197) (376) 31 5 182 160 89 2,433 12,423 (28) (4) (167) (145) (80) (6,427) (1) (6) (4) (2) (694) 1 5 1 33 219 (29) (4) (172) (144) (81) (6,869) 2 1 10 16 8 2.433 5,554 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 233 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Movements in tangible assets at 31 December 2016 are as follows: 2016 Buildings Land and natural and other Machinery and Tangible Assets: resources constructions equipment Acquisition cost: Acquisition cost at 1 January 2016 285 943 7,498 Additions 1 40 Additions by financial costs capitalisation (Note 9) Write-offs/Disposals (1) (11) (87) Adjustments (131) Adjustments for currency differences in initial balance (3) 203 Transfers 9 577 Transfer to investments held for sale (2) (3) Changes in perimeter (1) Acquisition cost at 31 December 2016 284 936 8,097 Accumulated impairments at 1 January 2016 (10) (21) (24) Increase in impairments (2) (1) (8) Reversal of impairments 2 Exchange differences Utilisation/Transfers of impairments (2) 7 7 Impairments balance at 31 December 2016 (14) (15) (23) Total acquisition cost balance at 31 December 2016 270 921 8,074 Accumulated depreciations Accumulated depreciations at 1 January 2016 (2) (675) (4,861) Depreciations for the year (25) (532) Write-offs/Disposals 9 76 Adjustments 111 Adjustments for currency differences in initial balance 1 (108) Transfer to investments held for sale 1 2 Accumulated depreciations at 31 December 2016 (2) (689) (5,312) Net amount at 31 December 2016 268 232 2,762 234 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Unit: €m Transport Administrative Reusable Other tangible Tangible assets in Total tangible equipment Tools and utensils equipment containers assets progress assets 30 5 178 159 92 2,278 11,468 2 1 980 1,024 81 81 (5) (3) (4) (123) (234) (4) (135) (2) 318 516 1 3 6 2 (595) 3 (1) (6) (1) 30 5 178 160 91 2,935 12,716 (1) (2) (230) (288) (191) (202) 2 (15) (15) 112 124 (1) (2) (324) (379) 30 5 177 160 89 2,611 12,337 (28) (4) (167) (145) (80) (5.962) (1) (5) (4) (3) (570) 5 3 3 96 111 1 (106) 1 4 (28) (4) (167) (145) (80) (6,427) 2 1 10 15 9 2,611 5,910 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 235 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Movements in intangible assets at 31 December 2017 are as follows: 2017 Unit: €m Industrial Intangible Total property and assets in intangible Intangible Assets: other rights Goodwill progress assets Acquisition cost: Acquisition cost at 1 January 2017 607 20 42 669 Additions 2 177 179 Write-offs/Disposals (14) (14) Exchange differences (8) (4) (12) Transfers 11 (8) 3 Acquisition cost at 31 December 2017 598 20 207 825 Accumulated impairments at 1 January 2017 (46) (8) (3) (57) Increase in impairments (1) (2) (3) Exchange differences 5 5 Utilisation 12 12 Transfers of impairments 21 (21) Impairments balance at 31 December 2017 (8) (9) (26) (43) Total acquisition cost balance at 31 December 2017 590 11 181 782 Accumulated amortisations Accumulated amortisations at 1 January 2017 (334) (10) (344) Amortisations for the year (30) (30) Write-offs/Disposals 1 1 Exchange differences 1 1 Total Accumulated amortisations at 31 December 2017 (362) (10) (372) Net amount at 31 December 2017 228 1 181 410 The caption “Industrial property and other rights” essentially includes the Surface Rights and Signature Bonus. 236 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Movements in intangible assets at 31 December 2016 are as follows: 2016 Unit: €m Intangible assets in Industrial Service Intangible progress Service Total property and Concession assets in Concession intangible Intangible Assets: other rights Goodwill Arrangements progress Arrangements assets Acquisition cost: Acquisition cost at 1 January 2016 600 20 1,744 32 2 2,398 Additions 4 20 15 39 Write-offs/Disposals (10) (1) (11) Exchange differences 3 4 7 Transfers 11 15 (14) (15) (3) Transfers to assets held for sale (1) (1) Changes in the consolidation perimeter (1,758) (2) (1,760) Acquisition cost at 31 December 2016 607 20 42 669 Accumulated impairments at 1 January 2016 (51) (8) (3) (62) Increase in impairments (1) (1) Exchange differences (1) (1) Utilisation 7 7 Impairments balance at 31 December 2016 (46) (8) (3) (57) Total acquisition cost balance at 31 December 2016 561 12 39 612 Accumulated amortisations Accumulated amortisations at 1 January 2016 (305) (10) (617) (932) Amortisations for the year (30) (34) (64) Write-offs/Disposals 1 1 2 Changes in the consolidation perimeter 650 650 Total Accumulated amortisations at 31 December 2016 (334) (10) (344) Net amount at 31 December 2016 227 2 39 268 12.2. Main events occurring during the year ended 31 December 2017 The increases noted in tangible and intangible assets captions, amounting to €1,032 m, mainly include: Exploration & Production segment • €658 m regarding exploration and development investments in blocks in Brazil; • €179 m regarding exploration investments in blocks in Angola; • €66 m regarding exploration in other geographies. Gas and Power segment • €9 m regarding development of information systems. Refining & Marketing Segment • €111 m related to industrial investments made in the refineries, terminals, parks and in the retail business. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 237 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Others Segment • €4 m related to investments made by the service provider at the corporate level. In the period ended on 31 December 2017, tangible and intangible assets amounting to €57 m were disposed and written-off, of which €55 m were already in an impairment situation, refering essentially to equipment, expenses and block without economic viability. 12.3. Split of tangible and intangible assets in progress The split of tangible and intangible assets in progress (including advances to suppliers on tangible and intangible assets net of impairment losses) in the year ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 is as follows: Unit: €m December 2017 December 2016 Assets in Assets in Captions progress Impairments Net amount progress Impairments Net amount Assets in progress 2,837 (223) 2,614 2,977 (327) 2,650 Exploration of oil in Brazil 1,411 (23) 1,388 1,568 (30) 1,538 Exploration of oil in Angola 824 (127) 697 835 (230) 605 Exploration in Mozambique 312 (7) 305 315 (7) 308 Other projects 290 (66) 224 259 (60) 199 The Exploration & Production segment is divided in three stages: Exploration, Development and Production. The transition from the exploration stage to the development stage is related to the discovery of commercially viable reserves and the transition to the production stage is related with the beginning of the production process, which is when the proved reserves are developed. As mentioned in the accounting policies, Galp capitalises the investment expenses in all three stages, subjecting them to periodic impairment tests. 12.4. Amortisation, depreciation and impairment losses in the year Amortisation, depreciation and impairment losses for the years 2017 and 2016 are as follows: Unit: €m December 2017 December 2016 Tangible Intangible Total Tangible Intangible Total Amortisation, depreciation and impairment (Note 7) 775 33 808 770 65 835 Amortisation, depreciation for the period 694 30 724 570 30 600 Amortisation for the period service concession arrangements 34 34 Impairments Gross amount 81 3 84 200 1 201 238 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 12.5. Impairment on tangible and intangible assets Accounting policy information is analysed in this way, and operational decisions and investments are made on that basis. Impairment tests are performed as of the financial statements date and whenever a decline in the asset value is identified. The impairment tests carried out by the Group are based on Whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its the estimated recoverable amount of each service station recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recorded against compared to its net book value at the end of each reporting income statement caption Amortisation, depreciation and period. The recoverable amount (value in use) determined by impairment loss of tangible assets. the Group corresponds to the present value of the expected future cash flows determined based on annual budgets and The recoverable amount is the greater of the fair value and the business plans for each service station, using the WACC value in use. Fair value is the amount that would be obtained discount rate of that business segment, according to its from selling the asset in a transaction between independent specific risk. knowledgeable parties, less the costs directly attributable to the sale. Value in use corresponds to the present value Impairment tests are also performed on other assets of the of the future cash flows generated by the asset during its refining and distribution segment, including refineries and estimated economic useful life. The recoverable amount is tangible assets associated with logistics and storage activities. estimated for the asset or cash generating unit to which it belongs. The discount rate used reflects WACC used by Galp The period of the projections of the cash flows varies as a for the reporting segment and country of the asset. The cash function of the cash generating unit’s average useful life. generating unit subject to impairment analysis depends on the reporting segment. Gas & Power assets Impairment losses recorded in previous periods are reversed Whenever there are impairment indicators in the Gas & Power when it is concluded that they no longer exist or have assets, the Company performs impairment tests. The CGU of decreased. Such tests are made whenever there are indications the gas segment is defined as the gas networks and respective that an impairment recorded in an earlier period has reverted. concessions. For the Power segment, the defined CGUs are the Reversal of impairment is recognised as a decrease in the specific cogeneration plants. income statement caption Amortisation, depreciation and impairment loss of tangible assets. However, impairment The impairment tests carried out by the Group are based on losses are only reversed up to the amount the asset would the estimated recoverable amount of each CGU compared be recorded (net of amortisation or depreciation) if the to its net book value at the end of each reporting period. The impairment loss had not been recorded previously. recoverable amount (value in use) determined by the Group corresponds to the present value of the expected future cash Refining and distribution assets flows determined based on annual budgets and business plans for each CGU at its present condition, using the WACC Tangible and intangible assets related with refining and discount rate of that business segment, according to its distribution of oil products are assessed by the Group for specific risk. impairment at the end of each reporting period, considering internal and external sources of information, namely the The period of the projections of the cash flows varies as a Portuguese and Spanish service station networks. In its function of the cash generating unit’s average useful life. annual impairment tests in respect of the oil distribution segment, the Group considers the cash generating unit (CGU) In the case of activities in which the assets are regulated the to be the service station network of each country and has impairment analysis is based on the Regulatory Asset Base applied this criteria consistently given the importance of the (RAB). This analysis is based on the value of the remunerated interdependence of income resulting from the existence of assets for regulated rate purposes. loyalty and fleet owner’s cards that the company provides to its customers. This is based on the fact that management Annual Report and Accounts 2017 239 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Oil exploration and production assets The EMV model considers in its calculation the POS (Probability of Geological Success or Probability of Success), The impairment losses on oil exploration and production which is a conditional statistical probability (Bayesian assets are determined when: probability). This probability used in the Geology science considers a probability matrix based on seismic information • Economically feasible reserves are not found; and other G&G (Geological & Geophysical) information. This information is measured taking into account the quantity, • The licensing period ends and the exploration licence is not quality and certainty (data control) thereof. expected to be renewed; The cash flow projection period is equal to the recovery of • When an acquired area is returned or abandoned; reserves and resources period, limited to the period of the concession contracts, when applicable. • When the expected economic future benefits are less than the investment made. The information contained in paragraphs: Tangible and intangible assets related with oil exploration and (i) is determined by independent experts for the quantification production are assessed periodically (annually and quarterly of the estimated oil reserves; when indicators are noted) by the Group for impairment. The selected cash generating unit is the country or block (ii), (iii), (iv), (vii), (viii) and (ix) is internally determined by depending on the stage of maturity of the investments. Galp, or, whenever available, through information provided by the operator of each Block, namely the information The assessment for block/country impairment is made in included in the approved development plans, adjusted to the accordance with the Expected Monetary Value (EMV model), expectation of the Company and legal information available; comparing the carrying amount of the investments with the and present value of the expected future cash flows using the WACC discount rate, calculated considering the estimates of: (v) and (vi) is that contained in the five-year budget of Galp Group and constant after that period. i) Probable reserves; The assessment of impairment by country is similar to that ii) Investment and future operating costs needed to recover described by block, however the estimated cash flows only the probable reserves; take into account the information contained in paragraphs (iii) to (ix) above, since probable reserves are not yet determined. iii) Contingent resources, adjusted by a factor of probability of success; Galp prepares impairment testing in any stage of Exploration and Production, meaning, in the Exploration, Development iv) Investment and future operating costs required to recover and Production stages. the contingent resources; v) Reference price of a barrel of Brent; vi) Exchange rate Euro/U.S. Dollar; vii) CGU taxation mechanisms; viii) Estimated production level and concession period; and ix) Abandonment costs and environmental restoration. 240 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 In the Exploration phase, the CGU depends on investment In the development and production stages, Galp considers characteristics in each country where the investment is as CGU the block. Also, in these stages the model considers made. At an early investment stage in a country the CGU is P.O.S., higher than the one considered in the first stage, since the country, given that the investment comprises investment there are already commercially viable reserves. Impairment in signature bonuses and any generic research performed tests are performed based on 2P reserves (proved and probable in the area/total areas. When the total areas are divided by reserves), since these are used by Galp and its partners the official authorities of the country in blocks, Galp sets as in the consortium in the decisions to carry out or not the CGU the block, down-levelling the assessment in impairment investments. tests. At this stage as there are no reserves, Galp uses in the impairment tests the prospective and contingent resources (1C, 2C and 3C) with very low POS (Probability of Success). Thus, if reserves discovery occurs, the investment passes to the next stage, development, having previously been subject to impairment tests. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 241 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world In the year ending December 31 2017, the amount of €419 m, net of tangible and intangible impairments, presented the following movements: Unit: €m December 2017 December 2016 Initial Increase/ Ending Initial Increase/ Ending balance Decrease Utilisation Adjustments balance balance Decrease Utilisation Adjustments balance 436 84 (55) (46) 419 350 201 (131) 16 436 Tangible Assets 379 81 (43) (41) 376 288 200 (124) 15 379 Intangible 57 3 (12) (5) 43 62 1 (7) 1 57 Assets The accumulated amount of €419 m at year end 31 December, 2017 During the year 2017, impairments were recognised in Angola mainly include: (€45 m 14/14k block and Malange), resulting from the likelihood of a negative outcome in relation to the ongoing negotiations • €269 m for impairment losses on non-operated and operated of the fiscal regime with a negative impact on Net Present Value blocks and other assets in Brazil and Angola; (NPV) and in the case of the Malange area assets, the impairment results from the abandonment of the development activities • €45 m for impairment losses in blocks in Namibia; of this area. • €74 m for impairment losses in the retail network in Portugal and The impairment amount recognized in the Peniche´s basin in Spain; Portugal, includes assets in the exploration phase, due to the revision made during the year to Galp’s assets portfolio, from The increases/decreases in the amount of €84 m refers to: which it was concluded that there is a low probability of these assets being developed. • €45 m for impairment losses in Block 14 and Malange in Angola; The impairment resulting from recent areas in Brazil (€5 m), results • €22 m for impairment losses in a 3 Blocks from Peniche Basin in from the acquisition of seismic data of third round, as a result of Portugal; which Galp concluded that the investment will not be realised. • €6 m for impairment losses related with the closure of some fuel The economic impairment in the oil exploration area in East stations and other tangible assets related to the retail business in Timor is due to committed expenses with assets whose economic Spain; recoverability is reduced. • €5 m for impairment losses on exploration activities in some The remaining impairments in the amount of €10 m refer to recent blocks in Brazil; tangible assets with negative performance (i.e. in Spain) or that are obsolete (scheduled refining stoppages) for which losses are • €4 m for impairment losses due to the disinvestment of several expected to arise from the maintenance interventions. tangible assets in the Refining & Marketing business. The amount of €55 m utilisation corresponds essentially to • €2 m for impairment losses on oil exploration activities from East equipment, expenses and block rights without economic viability Timor. in Namibia, Peniche and Brazil in the amounts of €24 m, €21 m and €7 m respectively. Adjustments mainly refers to the revaluation of foreign currency balances from subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies. 242 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Stress analysis for impairment tests over tangible Refining and Marketing of Oil products segment and intangible assets Impairment tests were carried out on the service station network in Portugal and Spain accompanied by a stress analysis. Oil exploration and production segment For the two CGU, stations network in Portugal and in Spain, the stress Tangible and intangible assets of the oil exploration and analysis was based on the following fundamental assumptions: production segment were subject to impairment tests at year end, being also tested the sensitivity of the carrying value of the main • A negative variation of cash flows by 10%; assets to the Brent price fluctuation. • An increase in the discount rate by 1%. Assumptions: The retail station network in Portugal presents a positive safety The forecast of Brent prices considered in impairment studies, margin, and if subject to a sensitivity analysis taking into account was based on the estimates of the main brokers and peers of the the aforementioned assumptions does not reveal potential future Company (see table below), being the oil resources and reserves impairments. The cash-generating unit was subject to a discount considered for accounting purposes referred to in Note 24. rate that reflects the WACC of Business Unit, in accordance with Note 11. Year 2018 Year 2019 Year 2020 Year 2021 Year 2022 55$/bbl 60$/bbl 65$/bbl 70$/bbl 70$/bbl The retail station network in Spain presents a positive safety margin. In a sensitivity analysis to the network in Spain, a The analysis considered a future average exchange rate of EUR/ potential additional impairment exists to the one recognised in USD of 1.21 and EUR/BRL of 3.91 and a discount rate of 10.5%, the amount of €75 m. This impairment can occur if the negative which reflects the WACC of the E&P Business Unit, calculated on assumptions are noted in the future, considering a scenario where a USD basis. the remaining variables of the analysis would remain immutable. The cash-generating unit was subject to a discount rate that From the impairment tests carried out, the safety margin to the reflects the WACC of Business Unit, in accordance with Note 11. carrying value per CGU, of the regions in which Galp operates (Angola, Mozambique and Brazil) is positive, with exception from From the analysis made to the refining cash-generating unit, the Block14/14K in Angola, due to asset advanced maturity. referred CGU has a positive safety margin. A sensitivity analysis was performed on the impairment test, considering assumptions In the context of the stress analysis carried out to test the impact identical to those used for the impairment tests of the network. of Brent’s volatility on the value of the main E&P assets, it is The result of this sensitivity analysis was positive. The cashpossible to summarise the following conclusions: generating unit was subject to a discount rate that reflects the WACC of Business Unit, in accordance with Note 11. Angola: a 10% reduction in Brent price has a negative impact on the impairment test, resulting in a potential impairment of approximately €94 m in specific CGUs. This impairment may occur in a future scenario of reduction of the Brent assumption, in which the remaining variables of the analysis would remain immutable (e.g. Opex, Capex); Mozambique and Brazil: the 10% reduction in the Brent price does not represent a risk of potential impairments in the CGU of these geographies; Annual Report and Accounts 2017 243 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 12.6. Exploration segment assets The table below, details the Assets in progress and Fixed assets for the exploration and production segment on year ended 31 December 2017: Unit: €m East Angola Brazil Timor Namibia Mozambique Portugal Uruguai S. Tome Total 1,847 3,106 5 311 45 22 5,336 Assets in progress 724 1,327 5 307 45 22 2,430 Signature Bonus 160 2 1 163 Investment 160 21 2 3 1 187 Impairment (21) (3) (24) Assets in exploration 142 393 5 249 37 20 846 Investment 234 409 4 29 255 41 8 20 1,000 Impairment (92) (16) (4) (24) (6) (4) (8) (154) Assets in development 541 598 18 1,157 Investment 577 605 18 1,200 Impairment (36) (7) (43) Financial interests 41 173 38 8 1 261 Investment 41 174 38 8 1 262 Impairment (1) (1) Others 3 3 Investment 3 3 Fixed Assets 1,123 1,779 4 2,906 Signature Bonus 21 4 4 29 Investment 21 4 2 4 31 Impairment (2) (2) Assets in exploration 10 83 93 Investment 109 83 192 Impairment (99) (99) Assets in development 1,090 1,641 2,731 Investment 1,107 1,641 2,748 Impairment (17) (17) Financial interests 2 48 50 Investment 2 48 50 Others 3 3 Investment 3 3 244 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Expenses capitalised as assets in the exploration and evaluation stage, for which proved reserves do not currently exist as of year end 2017 and 2016, are as follows: Unit: €m Gross Assets Costs Cash-Flow Signature Net Annual Annual Geography bonus Exploration Interests Total Impairments Assets impairment investment 2017 215 868 107 1,190 (317) 873 (28) 280 Angola 1 53 54 (54) Brazil 181 458 61 700 (190) 510 (5) 184 East Timor 2 4 6 (6) (2) 2 Namibia 21 29 50 (45) 5 3 Mozambique 6 255 37 298 (6) 292 66 Portugal 3 41 8 52 (8) 44 (21) 6 Uruguay 8 8 (8) Sao Tome 1 20 1 22 0 22 19 and Principe 2016 87 951 92 1,130 373 758 (25) 72 Angola 1 50 51 (51) Brazil 35 511 51 597 (214) 382 (25) 45 East Timor 2 3 5 (5) Namibia 38 45 83 (79) 5 4 Mozambique 7 276 30 313 (7) 306 21 Portugal 3 55 11 69 (9) 61 (1) Uruguay 8 8 (8) Sao Tome 1 3 4 4 3 and Principe 13. Trade and other receivables Accounting policy According to the categories established in IAS 39, accounts receivable is initially recorded at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any impairment losses, recognised under “Impairment losses on accounts receivable”. Usually, the amortised cost of these assets does not differ from their nominal value or their fair value. Third party debt is a category of financial assets (see Note 2.3.4 a). Annual Report and Accounts 2017 245 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 13.1. Trade receivables The caption Trade receivables as of 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 includes the following detail: Unit: €m December 2017 December 2016 Captions Current Non-current Current Non-current 1,018 1,041 1 Trade Receivables 1,193 1,224 1 Trade receivables current accounts 1,011 1,034 1 Trade receivables doubtful accounts 181 188 Trade receivables notes receivable 1 2 Impairment on trade receivables (175) (183) The movements in the caption “Impairment of trade receivables” for the years ending 31 December 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Unit: €m Changes in Impairment on Trade Initial consolidation Ending receivables Balance Increases Decreases Utilisation Transfers Adjustments perimeter balance December 2017 183 18 (2) (22) (2) 175 December 2016 200 47 (26) (36) (1) (1) 183 The increase and decrease in the caption “Impairment of trade receivables” in the net amount of €16 m was recorded in the caption “Provision and impairment losses on receivables” (Note 7). The following is an ageing schedule of Group trade receivables as of 31 December 2017 and 2016: Unit: €m Ageing other Overdue up Overdue up Overdue up Overdue up Overdue up Overdue over receivables Not Overdue to 90 days to 180 days to 365 days to 545 days to 730 days 730 days Total 2017 881 103 13 9 1 1 10 1,018 Gross amount 881 108 51 27 5 4 117 1,193 Impairments (5) (38) (18) (4) (3) (107) (175) 2016 866 83 25 4 1 59 3 1,041 Gross amount 866 91 58 12 7 177 13 1,224 Impairments (8) (33) (8) (6) (118) (10) (183) Overdue balances which have not been subject to adjustments are in respect of receivables for which there are payment agreements or for which there is a total or partial expectation of settlement. The average days receivable of Galp not overdue trade receivables balance is lower than 30 days. 246 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 13.2. Other receivables Accounting policy which by right belongs to Galp (entitlement), and therefore falls under the scope of IAS 18.14. Overlifting is a sale made by Galp of stock that by right belongs (entitlement) to the partner. Under/Over Lifting Therefore, the revenue recognition principle is not satisfied and for this reason the sale is deferred through other accounts It is industry practice to do under or overliftings of its share payable. Payments and receipts of over and underlifting are in crude. This under/overlifting intends to optimise the compensated in a subsequent date in barrels of crude, as transport costs between the partners. In underlifting, the defined in the Production Sharing Agreement (PSA). The partner has made a sale on behalf of the company. Thus, an Company considers that in terms of substance over form the account receivable is recorded and a sale is recognised. This production shared under the Production Sharing Agreement account receivable is tested for impairment. So, in a situation is not subject to price risk since the operation is for use of the where the crude market price as of the end of the reporting contractors and the settlement of the under and overlifting is period is lower than the price considered in the valuation of made through physical delivery (Barrels of crude). Therefore, the account receivable (accrual) an impairment is recognised the accounts receivable and accounts payable are not under in the income statement (gross margin). In overlifting, the the scope of IAS 39, that is, the measurement at fair value, in Company recognises a sale and then defers it through Other accordance with the exemption referred in paragraph 5 (own accounts payable (Note 20). Underlifting is in fact, on a use exemption). substance over form basis, a sale made by the partner of stock Annual Report and Accounts 2017 247 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The non-current and current caption “Other receivables” as of 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 is detailed as follows: Unit: €m December 2017 December 2016 Captions Note Current Non-current Current Non-current 990 254 1,166 245 997 254 1,174 248 State and Other Public Entities: 27 17 77 Value Added Tax Reimbursement requested 4 4 COFINS Contribution to social security financing 12 PIS Program of social integration and formation of the patrimony of the 5 public servant ICMS tax on goods and services rendered 2 17 Others 4 73 Other debtors 215 192 Non operated blocks 127 144 Underlifting 70 19 Suppliers debtor balances 12 17 Operated blocks 4 5 Advances to suppliers 2 7 Related Parties 495 30 631 38 Share capital subscribers 23 29 Dividends 5.5 Loans granted to Sinopec Group 23 459 610 Loans to associates, joint ventures and other related parties 23 30 38 Other receivables associates, joint ventures and other related parties 23 7 21 Other accounts receivables 47 36 47 36 Means of payment 6 7 Personnel 2 2 Guarantees 2 9 1 12 ISP Tax on Oil Products Congeners credit 1 1 Loans granted 5 Other receivables 36 22 36 24 Accrued income: 145 63 163 63 Sales and services rendered not yet invoiced Natural Gas 32 57 Sales and services rendered not yet invoiced Electricity 52 45 Sales and services rendered not yet invoiced 15 21 Adjustment to tariff deviation pass through 18 21 Accrued management and structure costs 3 3 Adjustment to tariff deviation Regulated revenue 1 1 1 1 Adjustment to tariff deviation Energy tariff 3 62 62 Other accrued income 21 15 Deferred charges: 68 108 64 111 Energy sector extraordinary contribution 10.1 27 85 22 86 Catalyser charges 9 14 Deferred charges external supplies and services 8 6 Prepaid rent 3 5 Prepaid rent relating to service stations concession contracts 4 23 3 25 Prepaid insurance 1 1 Other deferred costs 16 13 Impairment of other receivables (7) (8) (3) 248 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 The movement occurred in the caption “Impairment of other receivables” for the year ending 31 December 2017 and 2016 was as follows: Unit: €m Initial Ending Impairment of other receivables Balance Increases Decreases Utilisation Transfers balance December 2017 11 2 (3) (5) 2 7 Other receivables Current 8 2 (3) (2) 2 Other receivables NonCurrent 3 (3) December 2016 11 11 Other receivables Current 8 8 Other receivables NonCurrent 3 3 The increase and decrease in the caption “Impairment of other with the billing of natural gas consumption in December, to be receivables” in the net amount of €1 m is included in the caption issued to customers in January. “Provisions and impairment losses on receivables” (Note 7). The caption “Accrued income sales and services rendered not yet The caption “Loans granted” includes the amount of €459 m invoiced Electricity”, amounting to €52 m, is mainly related with (US$551 m) relating to a loan granted by the Group to Tip Top the billing of electricity consumption in December, to be issued to Energy, SARL (Company from Sinopec Group) on 28 March 2012, customers in January. renewable every three months until September 2018, remunerated at a three-month LIBOR interest rate plus a spread and registered Expenses recorded in deferred costs amounting to €27 m, relate as a current asset. In the period ending 31 December 2017, interest to prepayments of rents regarding service station leases and are related to loans granted related to related companies amounted to registered as a cost over the respective concession period, which €7 m. varies between 17 and 32 years. The amount of €70 m recorded in the caption “Other receivables – There are core activities and pass through activities within the underlifting” represents the amounts to be received by the Group Retailers of Last Resort (RLR). This classification relates to the for the lifting of barrels of crude oil below the production quota nature of which, in the first there is “value creation” intrinsic to (underlifting) and is valued at the lower of the market price at the the company and in the second activity the company is limited sale date and the market price on 31 December 2017. to billing its customers, and to pass on to the companies the amounts due for their core activities. The amount of €127 m presented in the caption “Other receivable – Non-operated Blocks”, includes the amount of €79 m related to In general terms, in the case of the pass-through activities: carry from public participation interests, referring to amounts receivable from public partners during the exploration period. • For RLRs, they charge to the end customers the tariffs for access to Farm-in contracts agreed with partners consider that, during the transport and distribution infrastructures (UGS, URT and URD the exploration period, the Group is responsible for investment tariffs), which pass on the ONGDNs (the fraction of transportation through cash calls and requested by the operator to the partner up access fee is then passed by these to REN) and the cost of natural to their participation limit. gas is simply passed on to the Retailer of Last Resort Wholesaler (RLRW) in the Energy Tariff. The caption “Accrued income sales and services rendered not yet invoiced Natural Gas”, amounting to €32 m, is mainly related Annual Report and Accounts 2017 249 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The caption Accrued income – Adjustments to tariff deviation – Energy tariff, contains the following detail: Unit: €m Wholesale gas commercialisation activity Energy Tariff (“CURG”) 2016 Variation 2017 44 3 47 Gas Year 2008-2009 2 2 First half of Gas Year 2008-2009 (31.12.2008) 32 32 Second half of Gas Year 2008-2009 (30.06.2009) 28 28 Adjustment to regulated tariff Real Gas year 2008-2009 7 7 Regulated Revenue in respect of Gas year 2008-2009 Amortisation difference (65) (65) Second half of 2009 8 8 Second half of 2009 8 8 Fiscal Year of 2010 16 16 First half of 2010 15 15 Second half of 2010 1 1 Fiscal Year of 2011 34 34 First half of 2011 21 21 Second half of 2011 13 13 Fiscal Year of 2012 (4) (4) First half of 2012 (4) (4) Second half of 2012 Fiscal Year of 2013 (2) (2) First half of 2013 (1) (1) Second half of 2013 (1) (1) Fiscal Year of 2014 (10) (10) First half of 2014 (6) (6) Second half of 2014 (4) (4) Fiscal Year of 2015 2 2 First half of 2015 1 1 Second half of 2015 1 1 Fiscal Year of 2016 (2) (2) First half of 2016 (1) (1) Second half of 2016 (1) (1) Fiscal Year of 2017 3 3 First half of 2017 3 3 Second half of 2017 44 3 47 Accrued charges (Note 20.2) (18) (18) Accrued Income 62 3 65 250 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 The amount of €47 m relates to the cumulative difference between the natural gas acquisition cost from the Group’s suppliers and regulated tariffs defined by ERSE for each Gas Year, applied in the billing to customers. This difference will be recovered by the tariff reviews of the following years, in accordance with the mechanism established by ERSE. These amounts are to be paid at euribor 12 months plus a spread defined annually by ERSE. Galp recorded €62m in non-current assets as of 31 December, 2017, relating to the energy tariff deviation, which will be recovered in accordance with the time schedule defined by ERSE. Presently, since the Gas Year 2014-2015, this process is interrupted. The caption “Accrued income – Adjustments to tariff deviation – Regulated revenue”, includes the following detail: Unit: €m Regulated Revenue Adjustment between in respect of Gas year the estimated regulated Amortisation / Reversal revenue and the revenues Distribution and commercialisation of natural gas 2016 (Note 6) invoiced (Note 6) 2017 (12) 5 (7) (14) Fiscal Year of 2014 (1) 2 1 First half of 2014 (1) (1) Second half of 2014 (2) (2) Adjusment to Fiscal year 2014 Regulated Revenue Fiscal Year 2 2 4 2014 Reversal Fiscal Year of 2015 (6) 3 (3) First half of 2015 Second half of 2015 (6) (6) Regulated Revenue Fiscal Year 3 3 2015 Reversal Fiscal Year of 2016 (5) (5) First half of 2016 (3) (3) Second half of 2016 (2) (2) Fiscal Year of 2017 (7) (7) First half of 2017 (3) (3) Second half of 2017 (4) (4) (12) 5 (7) (14) Accrued charges (Note 20.2) (14) 5 (7) (16) Accrued Income 2 2 The caption “Adjustment to tariff deviation – regulated revenue” During the year ending 31 December, 2017, the differences for amounting to €14 m is related to the difference between the the Group’s Regulated Revenue for the calendar year 2015 were estimated regulated revenue published for the regulated activity settled, resulting in an amount payable of €3 m. As the accrual and the revenue for the real invoices issued (Note 6). These made is lower than the amount agreed, the Group recognised in amounts are remunerated at the twelve-month Euribor rate, plus a the caption Rendered services the respective decrease amounting spread defined annually by ERSE. to €3 m. From 2010, financial statements for ERSE, started to be reported Items contained in Section IX of the Tariff Regulations: in accordance with the calendar year. Consequently, the opening “Compensation for the application of tariff uniformity of the balances have been reclassified to reflect the calendar year. Tariff Regulations” defines the Compensations and Transfers between Regulated Entities. These amounts, enshrined in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017 251 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world annual publication of ERSE for Regulated Revenues are designed to ensure the recovery of the regulated revenues and ensure economic and financial equilibrium for the regulated entities. Finally, it should be noted that the ERSE has established this compensation and transfer mechanism to allow the establishment of a uniform national tariff, since from the consumption structure in each distribution area (absolute size of the consumption and weight on the domestic and industrial sectors) there are distributors which are not able to achieve a recovery of the revenue (“insufficient” tariff), while in others there is an overrecovery (“high” tariff). Thus, in the latter case (“payers”) the excess income recovered is transferred to the former (“receivers”), ensuring a balanced recovery of the regulated revenues. The following is an ageing schedule of Group Other receivables as of 31 December 2017 and 2016: Unit: €m Ageing other Overdue up Overdue up Overdue up Overdue up Overdue up Overdue over receivables Not Overdue to 90 days to 180 days to 365 days to 545 days to 730 days 730 days Total 2017 1,241 2 1 1,244 Gross amount 1,243 2 6 1,251 Impairments (2) (5) (7) 2016 1,406 1 3 1 1,411 Gross amount 1,411 1 3 7 1,422 Impairments (5) (6) (11) The amounts of other receivables that are overdue but for which no impairment has been recognised correspond to credits which have payment agreements, are covered by credit insurance or for which there is an expectation of partial or total settlement. Galp holds collateral guarantees on receivables, namely bank guarantees and security deposits, which as of 31 December 2017, amount to approximately €103 m. 252 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 14. Inventories Accounting policy costs. The cost of sales is determined on a weighted average basis. However, extracted crude oil, namely in Brazil, is valued Inventories (merchandise, raw and subsidiary material, at net realisable value in the statement of financial position, finished and semi-finished products, and work in progress) are as there is a contract with the operator for the sale of crude oil stated at the lower acquisition cost (in the case of merchandise and also as this is a common practice for oil producers to value and raw and subsidiary material) or production cost (in the their crude stock at the net realisable value, in accordance case of finished and semi-finished products and work in with IAS 2.3 par. a) and IAS 2.4. progress) or net realisable value. Oil products finished and semi-finished products are Net realisable value corresponds to the normal selling price measured at production cost, which includes the cost of raw less costs to complete production and costs to sell. and other materials consumption, direct labour costs and production overheads. If acquired from third parties they Whenever cost exceeds net realisable value, the difference is are measured at cost, which includes the invoice price and recorded in the operating cost caption “Cost of sales”. transport and insurance costs. The cost of sales is determined on a weighted average basis applied to families of products As such, the cost of inventories used/sold is determined as considering the characteristics of the products. follows: The Petrogal subgroup includes, in the caption finished and Raw and subsidiary materials semi-finished products, the Tax on Oil Products (Imposto sobre Produtos Petrolíferos – ISP) relating to finished goods Crude oil – the cost includes the invoice price, transport dispatched for consumption which are subject to that tax and insurance costs, being the cost of sales determined on and is stated at cost (since it is similar to a customs duty). a weighted average basis, applicable to a single family of The cost of sales is determined on a weighted average basis. products, which includes all crude oil types. This tax is reflected in Cost of Sales when the sale of finished goods occurs and it is also reflected in the selling price of the Other raw materials (excluding general materials) – the cost products in equal value. Galp details the amount recognised as includes the invoice price, transport and insurance costs. The cost of sale in Note 6. cost of sales is determined on a weighted average basis, by family of products, determined considering the characteristics Other finished and semi-finished products – production costs of the different materials. include raw materials and variable and fixed production costs. The cost of sales is determined on a weighted average basis. General materials – the cost includes the invoice price, transport and insurance costs. The cost of sales is determined Goods on a weighted average basis. Cost includes the invoice price, transport and insurance costs. Products and work in progress The cost of sales is determined on a weighted average basis. Production cost includes the cost of materials, external The cost of imported natural gas also includes the costs supplies and services and overheads. relating to transport and rights of passage through Moroccan territory incurred up to the Portuguese border. Finished and semi-finished products As mentioned above, the Petrogal subgroup also includes, in Crude oil – crude oil produced in the oil exploration and the inventories caption, Tax on Oil Products relating to goods production activity held in inventory as at 31 December of each already dispatched which are subject to that tax. year, corresponds to the Company’s share of the total inventory of each development area. Such inventories are measured at Raw materials supplies and goods in transit are not available their production cost, which includes direct production costs, for consumption or sale and are segregated from other the depreciation for the year and abandonment provision inventories and valued at specific cost Annual Report and Accounts 2017 253 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Inventories as of 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 are The detail of the Inventory caption by type of product can be detailed as follows: broken down as follows: Unit: €m Unit: €m December December Detail of inventories per type December December 2017 2016 of product 2017 2016 Captions 970 869 Total Inventories 970 869 Raw, subsidiary and consumable Crude 313 198 369 249 materials: Other raw materials 19 15 381 261 Gasoline 70 94 Crude oil 156 142 Diesel 223 246 Other raw materials 65 60 Jet fuel 61 56 Raw material in transit 160 59 Fuel 53 39 Impairment on raw, subsidiary (12) (12) LPG (petroleum gas) 15 12 and consumable materials Base oil and lubricants 36 30 Finished and semi-finished products: 423 408 Chemicals, solvents and aromatics 18 17 423 408 Naphthas 16 19 Finished products 193 209 NG (natural gas) 29 51 Semi-finished products 230 196 Special Taxes Finished products in transit 3 58 24 ( ISP in Portugal and IIEE in Spain) Impairment on finished and semiStore products 24 6 finished products Various materials 6 28 Goods 178 212 Petroleum products basket 27 29 179 213 Others 2 5 Goods 178 213 Goods in transit 1 Impairment on goods (1) (1) The caption “Goods” mainly relates to natural gas in pipelines and crude oil derivative products of the subsidiaries headquartered in Spain and Africa. As of 31 December 2017, and 31 December 2016, the Group’s liability to competitors in relation to strategic reserves, which are satisfied by sales in advance, amounted to €12 m and €35 m respectively (Note 20.2). The subsidiary Petróleos de Portugal – Petrogal, SA has a contract with the national entity for the fuel market (ENMC) for the storage and exchange of crude oil and for the storage of refined products, for the national strategic reserve. The ENMC’s crude oil and refined products are stored in Petrogal’s installations, in such a way that allows ENMC to audit them whenever it so wishes, in terms of quantity and quality. In accordance with the contract, Petrogal must, when so required by ENMC, exchange the stored crude oil for refined products, receiving in exchange an amount representing the refining margin as of the date of exchange. Crude oil and refined products stored in the installations of Petróleos de Portugal – Petrogal, SA under this contract are not reflected in the Group financial statements. 254 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 The movement in Inventories impairment captions for the years ending 31 December 2017 and 2016 is as follows: Unit: €m Initial Ending Captions balance Increases Decreases balance December 2017 13 13 Impairment on raw, subsidiary and consumable materials 12 12 Impairment on goods 1 1 December 2016 29 1 (17) 13 Impairment on raw, subsidiary and consumable materials 12 12 Impairment on finished and semi-finished products 3 1 (4) Impairment on goods 14 (13) 1 15. Other financial investments Other financial investments as at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 are detailed as follows: Unit: €m December 2017 December 2016 Captions Current Non-Current Current Non-Current Other Financial Investments 66 32 19 26 Financial derivatives at fair value through profit and loss (Note 22) 51 11 19 2 Swaps and Options over Commodities 42 11 19 2 Futures over Commodities 9 Other Financial Assets 15 21 24 Futures with physical delivery of Natural Gas 15 Others 21 24 As at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016, the derivative financial instruments are valued at their fair value on those dates (Note 22). The caption Other Financial assets – Others is related with the loan granted to Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos (ENH) under the activity developed in Area 4 in Mozambique. Despite the loan being expected to be settled within the next twelve months, management considers prudent to present the amount as Non-current. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 255 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 16. Cash and cash equivalents For the periods ending 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016, the caption “Other negotiable securities” presented the following detail: Unit: €m Accounting policy December December 2017 2016 The amounts included in Cash and cash equivalents Other negotiable securities 3 69 correspond to cash values, bank deposits, time deposits High liquidity Futures (Note 22) 4 and other cash investments, which maturity is less than Electricity Futures 3 three months and can be immediately mobilised with a CO2 Futures 1 risk of insignificant change in value. Other securities 3 65 Futures with physical delivery For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, the of Natural Gas 3 1 caption “Cash and cash equivalents” also includes bank Bank deposits certificates 64 overdrafts included in the caption “Loans and overdrafts” in the statement of financial position. These futures are recorded in this caption due to their high liquidity and reduced risk of loss of value (Note 22). For the periods ending 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 During 2017, there were no restrictions or constraints, besides the caption “Cash and cash equivalents” is detailed as follows: those that result from the law itself, regarding the use or distribution of funds presented as Cash and cash equivalents, in its Unit: €m various geographies. December December 2017 2016 Cash and cash equivalents in the 1,096 923 consolidated statement of cash flows Cash and cash equivalents 1,197 1,033 Cash 7 5 Cash Deposits 611 218 Term deposits 61 33 Other negotiable securities 3 69 Other treasury investments 515 708 Bank overdrafts (101) (110) Bank overdrafts (Note 18) (101) (110) 256 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 17. Equity 17.1. Share capital Capital structure Equity management policy The share capital of Galp Energia SGPS, S.A. is comprised of 829,250,635 shares, with nominal value of 1 Euro each and fully The Galp Group has equity at 31 December 2017 in the subscribed. Of these, 771,171,121, (93% of the share capital), are amount of €6.1 bn and set in its equity management policy listed on the Euronext Lisbon stock exchange. The remaining a limit of indebtedness in amounts equal to or lower than 58,079,514 shares, representing some 7% of the share capital, 2x Net Debt/EBITDA, despite the contracts with financial are indirectly held by the Portuguese State through Parpública – institutions allowing a ratio between 3.5 and 3.75. The net Participações Públicas, SGPS, S.A. and are not listed. debt at year ending 2017 amounted to €1.9 bn, setting this target ratio at 0,95x. The qualified participations in the share capital of Galp are calculated in accordance with article 16 and 20 of the Portuguese The Group’s organisational structure is supported by three Securities Code. In accordance with these articles, the sub-holdings, one for the Exploration and Production (E&P) shareholders of Galp have to notify the Company whenever their business, the other for the Refining and Marketing (R&M) participations reach, exceed or are reduced in relation to certain business and the other for Gas and Power (G&P). limits. These limits are 2%, 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 1/3, 50%, 2/3 and 90% of the voting rights. Galp Energia E&P BV covers the entire E&P business in dollars and finances its subsidiaries primarily with equity and internal loans. The capital employed by the company is primarily owned by Galp E&P BV and Galp Sinopec Brazil Services BV and amounts to approximately €4.8 bn. The R&M business is developed by Petrogal, S.A. and its subsidiaries, which has an employed capital of €2.5bn. Petrogal is financed with share premium amounting to €2 bn in accordance with a reasonable Net Debt/EBITDA ratio. The G&P business is basically supported by Galp Gás Natural, S.A., with an employed capital of €0.6 bn. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 257 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The Company’s shareholder structure as of 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 was as follows: December 2017 December 2016 Number % of % of Number % of % of of shares Capital Voting rights of shares Capital Voting rights Total 829,250,635 100% 829,250,635 100% Amorim Energia,BV 276,472,161 33.34% 33.34% 276,472,161 33.34% 33.34% Parpública Participações Públicas, SGPS, S.A. 62,021,340 7.48% 7.48% 58,079,514 7.00% 7.00% Free float 490,757,134 59.18% 59.18% 494,698,960 59.66% 59.66% 17.2. Reserves As of 31 December 2017, and 31 December 2016 the captions “Translation reserves”, “Hedging reserves” and “Other reserves” are detailed as follows: Unit: €m Changes in the period December December (December 2017 Captions Notes 2017 2016 December 2016) Reserves 2,506 3,095 (589) Legal reserves 166 166 Free distribution reserves 28 28 Translation reserves: 17.2.2 (186) 404 (590) Reserves financial allocations ( quasi capital ) 17.2.2 (174) (149) (25) Reserves financial allocations ( quasi capital ) 17.2.2 (282) (243) (39) Reserves Tax on financial allocations ( quasi capital ) 17.2.2 and 10.3 108 94 14 Reserves Translation of financial statements 17.2.2 (14) 548 (562) Reserves Goodwill currency update 11 2 5 (3) Hedging reserves: 17.2.3 4 3 1 Reserves financial derivatives 17.2.3 and 27 6 5 1 Reserves Deferred tax on financial derivatives 17.2.3 and 10.3 (2) (2) Other reserves: 17.2.4 2,494 2,494 Reserves Capital increase in the subsidiaries Petrogal Brasil, S.A. and Galp Sinopec 2,493 2,493 Brazil Services B.V. Reserves Capital increase in other subsidiaries 1 1 258 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 17.2.1. Legal reserves In accordance with the Company deeds and Commercial Law (Código das Sociedades Comerciais CSC), the Company must transfer a minimum of 5% of its annual net profit to a legal reserve until the reserve reaches 20% of share capital. The legal reserve cannot be distributed to the shareholders but may, in certain circumstances, be used to increase capital or to absorb losses after all the other reserves have been utilised. In 2017 the caption did not present any changes as the legal reserves have already reached 20% of share capital. 17.2.2. Translation reserves The caption “Translation reserve” reflects the exchange rate fluctuations: i) €14 m cumulative balance relating to negative exchange differences resulting from the translation of financial statements in foreign currency to Euros Unit: €m Exchange rate as of Initial Ending Exchange rate as of Translation reserves Per currency: 31 December 2016 balance Variation balance 31 December 2017 Reserves Translation reserves 548 (562) (14) Gambian Dalasi 44.1 (1) 1 55.8 United States Dollars 1.054 710 (473) 237 1.199 Cape Vert Escudos 110.265 110.265 Guinea-Bissau CFA Francs 655.957 655.957 Angolan Kwanza 184.475 (8) 3 (5) 184.497 Swaziland Lilangeni 14.424 14.881 Mozambican Meticais 74.94 (21) 1 (20) 70.09 Brazilian Reais 3.431 (132) (94) (226) 3.973 Morroccan Dirham 10.613 11.155 ii) €174 m cumulative balance relating to negative foreign exchange rate differences on the financial contributions from Galp Exploração e Produção Petrolífera, S.A., Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A., Petrogal Brasil, B.V., Galp Sinopec Brazil Services B.V. and Winland International Petroleum, SARL (W.I.P.), to Petrogal Brasil, S.A. stated in Euros and US Dollars, remunerated and not remunerated, and for which there is no intention of reimbursement, and as such are similar to share capital (quasi capital), thus being considered an integral part of the net investment in that foreign operational unit in accordance with IAS 21; iii) €2 m cumulative balance regarding positive exchange rate differences resulting from the translation of Goodwill Annual Report and Accounts 2017 259 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 17.2.3. Hedging reserves Hedging reserves reflects changes that have occurred in financial derivatives on commodities (e.g. electricity) from Galp Power and interest rates of joint ventures and associates that are contracted to hedge the price variation and the changes in interest rate on loans (cash flow hedge) and their respective deferred taxes. In the period ending 31 December 2017, the amount of €6 m (Note 22) is related with fair value of financial derivatives – cash flow hedges and €2 k relates to the respective tax impact, and presents the following detail: Unit: €m Changes in the period (December 2017 Hedging reserves December 2017 December 2016 -December 2016) Hedging reserves 4 3 1 Reserves financial derivatives (Note 22) 6 5 1 Group companies (*) 7 6 1 Financial investments in associates and joint ventures (*) (2) (1) (1) Hedging reserve. arising from the sale of Âncora Wind Energia Eólica. S.A.. 1 1 transferred to the Retained earnings Caption (Note 5.1) Reserves Deferred tax on financial derivatives (2) (2) Group companies (Note 10) (*) (2) (2) (*) Comprehensive income for the year attributable to shareholders. 17.2.4. Other reserves Reserves – capital increases in other subsidiaries (amounts bellow 1 m) Reserves – capital increases in Petrogal Brasil, S.A. and Galp Brazil Services, B.V. Reserves – increase of 99% in the capital of On 28 March 2012,WIP, a subsidiary of Tip Top Energy, SARL subsidiary Enerfuel, S.A (Sinopec Group), subscribed and paid a capital increase amounting to $4,797,528,044.74 in respect of the subsidiaries In July 2013, under the terms of a contract signed in August Petrogal Brasil, S.A. and Galp Sinopec Brazil Services, B.V. 2012 in which it committed to purchase the remaining shares at (previously denominated Galp Brazil Services, B.V.), acquiring completion of the plant, the Group acquired 99% of the capital 30% of the shares and voting rights of both Galp subsidiaries. of Enerfuel, S.A. As the Group already had control, the Company was already consolidated using the full consolidation method. As a result of the capital increase operation, the Galp Group has Accordingly, the negative difference of €31 k between the amount retained the operational and financial control of the companies, paid and the book value of equity at the acquisition date, was for which it now owns 70% of the capital and voting rights, recognised in equity under reserves. continuing, under IFRS 10, to consolidate their assets by the full consolidation method. Accordingly, the difference of €2,493 m Reserves increase of 33.0541% in the capital of the between the amount paid of the capital increase and the book subsidiary Setgás Comercialização, S.A. value of the equity at the date of the increase was recognised in equity under the caption “Reserves”. On 21 December 2015, the Group acquired from Enagás – SGPS, S.A. 33.0541% of the capital of the subsidiary Setgás – Comercialização, S.A., which was previously controlled by the Group and consolidated using the full consolidation method. Accordingly, the difference of €450 k between the amount paid and the book value of the equity at the acquisition date, was recognised in equity under reserves. 260 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Special reserves The amount of €20 k refers to a donation made in the subsidiary Gasinsular Combustíveis do Atlântico, S.A. 17.3. Earnings per share Earnings per share as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Unit: €m Note December 2017 December 2016 Consolidated net income for the year attributable to the Shareholders of Galp Energia SGPS. S.A. 614 179 Weighted average number of shares for the purpose of net income per share 17.1 829,250,635 829,250,635 Basic and diluted earnings per share (amounts in Euros): 0.74 0.22 Due to the fact that there were no dilutive situations, the diluted earnings per share was equal to the basic earnings per share. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 261 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 17.4. Non-controlling interests As of 31 December 2017, the caption “Non-controlling interests” included in equity refers to the following subsidiaries: Galp Sinopec Brazil Total Services B.V. Movement occurred under Non-controlling interests Notes Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 % Non-controlling interest at 1 January 2017 30.00% 30.00% Non-controlling interests at 1 January 2017 1,563 1,416 1,310 1,269 Share capital 2 Share premium 95 (4) Reserves (a) Reserves Translation of financial statements (a)(*) (195) 99 (164) 42 Reserves financial allocations ( quasi capital ) (a) (*) (11) 52 Retained earnings (*) Previous years results (*) Net result for the year (*) 93 29 33 (1) Changes in the consolidation perimeter (c) (20) Assigned dividends (b) (86) (13) (64) Non-controlling interests at 31 December 2017 1,461 1,563 1,111 1,310 % Non-controlling interest at 31 December 2017 30.00% 30.00% Dividends paid to other shareholders (b) (78) (9) (68) (*) Comprehensive income for the year attributable to non-controlling interests. a) Changes in non-controlling interests in the caption translation reserves has the following detail: • Foreign exchange variations resulting from the translation of the financial statements of the subsidiary Petrogal Brasil, SA from Brazilian Reais (BRL) into Euros (EUR) and of the subsidiary Galp Sinopec Brazil Services BV from US Dollars (USD) into Euros (EUR); • Foreign exchange differences resulting from the financial allocations made to Petrogal Brasil, SA, denominated in Euros and in United States dollars, which are similar to the share capital (quasi capital), also forming an integral part of the net investment in that foreign operation in accordance with IAS 21. b) Dividends attributed and paid to minority shareholders (Note 17.5). Of the amount of €86 m of allocated dividends, €78 m were paid in the year ending 31 December 2017. Additionally, the subsidiary Petrogal Brasil, S.A. paid €5 m, related to dividends for the year ending 31 December 2016, to the minority shareholder Winland International Petroleum, SARL (WIP), and €3 m corresponds to exchange differences that occurred between the allocation and payment date. Thus, during the year ending December 31, 2017, dividends were paid in the amount of €78 m (Note 17.5). 262 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Unit: €m Empresa Nacional de Petromar Sociedade de Petrogal Brasil, S.A. Combustíveis Enacol, S.A.R.L Abastecimentos de Combustíveis, Lda. Other companies Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 30.00% 30.00% 51.71% 51.71% 20.00% 20.00% 230 105 19 20 3 3 1 19 2 99 (30) 56 (1) 1 (11) 52 (1) 1 54 24 3 2 1 1 2 3 (20) (18) (7) (2) (3) (2) (3) 326 230 20 19 4 3 1 30.00% 30.00% 51.71% 51.71% 20.00% 20.00% (5) (4) (2) (3) (3) (2) c) Changes in consolidation perimeter in the year ending 31 December 2016: The Company Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. (GGND) holds financial interests in the subsidiaries i) Lusitaniagás Companhia de Gás do Centro, S.A. (96.842%); ii) Beiragás Companhia de Gás das Beiras, S.A. (59.519%); and iii) Setgás Sociedade de Produção e Distribuição de Gás, S.A. Due to the sale of 22.5% of the share capital of the subsidiary Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. (GGND) during 2016 and considering the Shareholders’ agreements which establish joint control over the Company, Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. and its respective subsidiaries are accounted for under the equity method. The amount of €20 m corresponds to non-controlling interests in the subsidiaries at the disposal date, at which time they ceased to be fully consolidated and were accounted by using the equity method. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 263 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The following table includes the detail of the financial statements (i.e. statement of financial position and income statement) of the entities with non-controlling interests as of 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016: Statement of Financial Position Assets Galp Sinopec Brazil Services B.V. Petrogal Brasil, S.A. Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 Non-current assets: Intangible assets 2,285 2,352 Tangible assets 158 8 Investments in associates and joint ventures 1,062 1,027 (2) Other receivables 1,021 1,186 34 19 Deferred tax assets 85 88 Total Non-current assets: 2,083 2,213 2,560 2,467 Current assets Inventories 96 19 Trade receivables 1 60 156 Other receivables 1,570 2,069 245 200 Income tax receivables 19 15 Cash and cash equivalents 60 96 180 75 Total current assets: 1,650 2,165 596 450 Total assets: 3,733 4,378 3,156 2,917 Liabilities: Non-current liabilities: Bank loans Other payables 1,544 1,781 Deferred tax liabilities 34 13 Provisions 201 94 Total Non-current liabilities: 1,779 1,888 Current liabilities: Bank loans and overdrafts Trade payables 1 1 13 17 Other payables 194 197 Other financial instruments 1 Current income tax payable 29 11 85 49 Total Current liabilities: 30 12 292 264 Total liabilities 30 12 2,071 2,152 Total Equity and Liabilities 3,733 4,378 3,156 2,917 * Provisional financial statements at the closing date. 264 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Unit: €m Empresa Nacional Petromar Sociedade de Combustíveis Enacol, S.A.R.L de Abastecimentos de Combustíveis, Lda. Other companies Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 17 17 5 5 31 33 2 2 1 (2) 1 1 19 19 5 5 33 32 4 5 2 4 3 3 16 15 3 2 6 7 5 7 3 3 3 3 2 1 2 (1) 26 14 17 7 7 13 12 41 45 17 16 24 51 60 64 22 21 57 83 15 19 10 10 1 3 (1) 28 29 3 3 11 16 2 9 10 8 9 3 2 13 10 3 2 1 1 1 1 22 27 4 5 26 24 22 27 4 5 54 53 60 64 22 21 57 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 265 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Income Statement Galp Sinopec Brazil Services B.V. Petrogal Brasil, S.A. Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 Operating income: Sales 1,174 719 Services rendered 52 16 2 1 Other operating income 33 39 Total operating income: 52 16 1,209 759 Operating costs Cost of sales (99) 20 External supplies and services 52 16 426 248 Employee costs 12 9 Amortisation. depreciation and impairment losses on 278 204 fixed assets Provisions and impairment losses on receivables (1) Other operating costs 37 38 Total operating costs: 52 16 654 518 Operating result: 555 241 Financial income 88 80 11 16 Financial costs (52) (37) Exchange (losses) gains (11) (3) Income from financial investments and impairment 42 (65) (1) losses on Goodwill Income before taxes: 130 15 503 216 Income tax (19) (17) (324) (138) Energy sector extraordinary contribution Net income for the year 111 (2) 179 78 * Provisional financial statements at the closing date. 17.5. Dividends In accordance with the resolution of the General Shareholders’ Meeting held on May 12, 2017, Galp Energia, SGPS, SA shareholders were granted dividends in the amount of €413m related to the distribution of net income for the year 2016 and retained earnings. An interim dividend of €206 m was distributed on September 23, 2016 and the remaining €207 m was paid on May 30, 2017. In addition, the Board of Directors approved the payment of an interim dividend, in the amount of €207 m fully paid on September 21, 2017, related to the 2017 fiscal year. During the year ending December 31, 2017, dividends amounting to €78 m were paid by subsidiaries of the Galp group to minority shareholders (Note 17. 4)). As a consequence of the above, during the year ending December 31, 2017, the Group paid dividends amounting to €491 m. 266 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Unit: €m Empresa Nacional Petromar Sociedade de Combustíveis Enacol, S.A.R.L de Abastecimentos de Combustíveis, Lda. Other companies Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 16 111 88 62 51 57 56 1 1 13 91 2 2 4 17 114 91 62 51 74 164 89 68 53 41 45 44 10 9 2 2 15 51 4 5 1 1 3 6 2 2 1 1 3 19 1 2 4 (1) (2) 1 9 108 88 56 43 67 129 6 3 6 8 7 35 1 (1) (1) (10) 1 1 (1) 1 1 1 8 5 5 7 8 25 (2) (1) (1) (2) (2) (5) (5) 6 4 4 5 6 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 267 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 18. Loans Current and non-current loans and bonds, excluding origination fees, bank overdrafts and discounted notes, have the following repayment plan as of 31 December 2017: Accounting policy Unit: €m Loans Loans are recorded as liabilities at the nominal value Maturity Total Current Non-current received, net of expenses incurred in the issuance of these 2,992 454 2,538 loans. Loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost. 2018 454 454 2019 699 699 Financial charges are calculated at the effective interest rate and are recorded in the income statement in 2020 649 649 accordance with the accrual basis. 2021 535 535 2022 110 110 Financial charges include interest and commission 2023 and subsequent 545 545 expenses with the structuring of the loans. years As of 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016, loans and bonds obtained, excluding bank overdrafts and discounted notes, are Loans details expressed in the following currencies: Loans and bonds obtained as of 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2017 December 2016 December 2016 were as follows: Total Total initial Due initial Due Unit: €m Currency amount amount amount amount 2,992 2,804 December 2017 December 2016 United States NonNonDollars USD 100 83 126 60 Current current Current current Euro EUR 3.426 2,909 3.580 2,744 551 2,532 325 2,578 159 937 308 912 Bank loans: 159 937 308 912 The average interest rates of the loans and bonds, including costs associated with overdrafts, incurred by the Group, in 2017 and Origination Fees (1) (1) (1) (1) 2016, amounted to 3.46% and 3.52% respectively. 160 938 309 913 Loans and commercial paper 59 938 198 913 Description of the main loans Bank overdrafts 101 110 (Note 16) Discounted notes 1 Commercial paper issuance Bonds and Notes: 392 1,595 17 1,666 As of 31 December 2017, the Group has contracted commercial Origination Fees (3) (5) (6) (4) paper programs which are fully underwritten, amounting to €940 395 1,600 23 1,670 m, which are divided into €490 m mediumand long-term and Bonds 395 100 23 670 €450 m short-term. Of this amount, the Group has used €490 m of Notes 1.500 1.000 the medium and long-term program. These instruments bear interest at the Euribor rate applicable for the respective period of issuance, plus variable spreads. The referred interest rates are applicable to the amount of each issuance and remain unchanged during the respective period of the issue. 268 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Revolving credit facility As of 31 December 2017, the Group has contracted Revolving Credit Facilities, with an underwriting commitment totaling €383 m and with approximately 1.5 years of maturity. This amount was fully available, but not used, as of 31 December 2017. Bank loans Detail of the main bank loans, contracted by the subsidiary Galp Energia E&P BV, as of 31 December 2017: Unit: €m Entity Due amount Interest Rate Maturity Reimbursement 233 UniCredit Bank Austria 150 6M Euribor + spread April 2020 April 2020 Bank Itaú 83 6M Libor + spread June 2022 June 2022 Additionally, the Group has project finance loans amounting to €20 m, obtained by the company CLCM – Companhia Logística de Combustíveis da Madeira, S.A. Detail of the loans obtained from the European Investment Bank (EIB) as of 31 December 2017: Unit: €m Entity Due amount Interest Rate Maturity Reimbursement 254 EIB (Instalment A Sines cogeneration) 16 Fixed rate September 2021 Semi-annual instalments beginning in March '10 EIB (Instalment B Sines cogeneration) 8 Fixed rate March 2022 Semi-annual instalments beginning in September '10 EIB (Instalment A refinery conversion) 138 Revisable fixed rate February 2025 Semi-annual instalments beginning in August '12 EIB (Instalment B refinery conversion) 92 Fixed rate February 2025 Semi-annual instalments beginning in August '12 Loans contracted with the EIB, for the purpose of financing the cogeneration projects in the Sines and Matosinhos refineries and Instalment A for the conversion project of the Sines and Matosinhos refineries, are guaranteed by Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. The remaining loan with the EIB, amounting to €92 m, is guaranteed by a bank syndicate. The Galp Group has bank loans contracted, which in some cases have covenants which, if triggered by banks, lead to early repayment (Note 26). Bonds Detailed information for bonds as of 31 December 2017: Unit: €m Emission Due amount Interest Rate Maturity Reimbursement 495 GALP ENERGIA/2012-2018 FRN 260 Euribor 3M + spread February '18 February '18 GALP ENERGIA/2013-2018 110 Euribor 3M + spread March '18 March '18 GALP ENERGIA/2013-2018 €200 M. 25 Euribor 6M + spread April '18 April '18 GALP ENERGIA/2012-2020 100 Euribor 6M + spread June '20 June '20 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 269 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Notes issuance Galp has established, as part of its financing plan, an EMTN Programme (€5,000,000,000 Euro Medium Term Note Programme). On November 15, 2017, Galp issued notes under the EMTN Program in the amount of €500 m, with maturity on February 15, 2023 and a 1% coupon, which are admitted to the trading on the London Stock Exchange. BNP Paribas, Caixa BI, Deutsche Bank, Société Générale CIB (B&D) and UniCredit acted as Joint-Bookrunners. Detail by issue, as of December 31, 2017: Unit: €m Emission Due amount Interest Rate Maturity Reimbursement 1,500 Galp 4.125% 01.2019 500 Fixed rate 4.125% January 2019 January 2019 Galp 3.000% 01.2021 500 Fixed rate 3.000% January 2021 January 2021 Galp 1.000% 02.2023 500 Fixed rate 1.000% February 2023 February 2023 The fair value of the bonds (Note 27) was measured based on inputs observed in the market, therefore its classification in the fair value hierarchy is Level 2 (Note 22). Detail of the reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities (including loans obtained, excluding overdrafts and discounted notes) as of December 31, 2017, for the purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows is as follows: Unit: €m Non monetary changes Currency December 2016 Cash Flow Acquisition translation impact December 2017 Long term debt 2,804 193 (5) 2,992 Long Term Loans 2,804 193 (5) 2,992 270 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 19. Post employment benefits Accounting policy Net interest related with retirement benefits is reflected on the income statement caption Net interest on retirement benefits and other benefits. Retirement benefits The benefit plans identified by the Petrogal Sub-Group is Some Group companies are commited to pay their employees’ complementary to the public social security scheme, in pension supplements due to age, disability and pensions accordance with the rules officially in force on December 31, to surviving relatives, as well as early retirement and pre1993 and provides the following benefits: retirement pensions. With the exception of early retirement and pre-retirement pensions, these payments are calculated • Pension supplements for retirement, disability and surviving on an incremental basis in accordance with the years of orphans; service of the employee. Early retirement and pre-retirement pensions mainly correspond to the employee’s wage. When • Pre-retirement; applicable, these commitments also include the payment of Social Security of pre-retired personnel, voluntary social • Early retirement; insurance of early retirees and retirement bonuses payable upon normal retirement. • Retirement bonus; The Group has created autonomous pension funds managed • Voluntary social insurance; by external entities (Fundo de Pensões Petrogal, Fundo de Pensões Sacor Marítima and Fundo de Pensão Galp Energia España) The Petrogal closed Pension Fund has the purpose of paying to cover their liabilities relating to pension supplements. supplementary pensions for old age and disability, as well as Although some liabilities, such as, early retirement pensions survivors’ pensions. are covered by specific provisions included on the statement of financial position caption Post-employment and other The Sacor Maritima Defined Benefit Plan is complementary to employee benefits liabilities. the public schemes and provides the following benefits: At the end of each reporting period the companies obtain • Pension supplements for retirement and disability; actuarial valuations by a specialised entity in accordance with the Projected Unit Credit Method and compare the amount of • Pension supplements for surviving dependents; and their liabilities with past services with the market value of the funds and with the balance of the liabilities recognised, in order • Pre-retirement pension. to determine any additional liabilities that need to be recorded. The closed Sacor Maritima Pension Fund aims for the payment Actuarial gains and losses determined in each year and for of pension supplements for retirement and disability and each of the benefits granted, resulting from adjustments survival pensions. to the demographic assumptions, experience adjustments, are recorded in the statement of comprehensive income The pension plans are governed by Portuguese law applied to impacting the financial position. pension funds and supervised by the Supervisory Authority for Insurance and Pensions (Autoridade de Supervisão de Seguros e The discount rate is determined by the actuary through Pensões – ASF). developed models that take into account the maturity of the liabilities and characteristics of the population for each The Fund Management Company is responsible for executing plan. The discount rate consists of half-yearly rates (i.e. zero all necessary or convenient acts and operations to ensure coupon) developed from high-quality corporate bond pricing the good administration and management of the Fund in and yield information in accordance with IAS 19. accordance with what has established in the Constitution Agreement and in the Fund Management Contract. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 271 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world CGD Pensões is the fund management company of the The Defined Contribution Plan provides that in the event Petrogal Fund, and Pensões Gere manages the Sacor Maritima of death or invalidity of a worker in active employment, pension fund. the monthly benefit to be paid added to the Social Security pension shall guarantee a minimum total pension equal to Two scenarios have been used for the calculation of the 50% of the pensionable salary of the employee on the date of liabilities of these defined benefit plans: occurrence. • Finance scenario used by Galp Group to determine Under such plans, the Companies make contributions of 3% liabilities; and of the pensionable salary and a “matching” contribution of an amount equal to the employee’s contribution, up to a limit of • Minimum Solvency Level scenario scenario using 1% of the pensionable salary. recommended assumptions to calculate the minimum amount of funding of the Pension Funds (Rule No. 21/96 -R). The annual cost is fixed as a percentage and has no risk to changes in life expectancy, fund performance, Social Security The liabilities presented in this report have been calculated contributions, and does not require actuarial valuations. based on the Projected Unit Credit method. The principle behind this method is to cover the benefits of each of the Other retirement benefits health care, life participants of the plan as they accrue, taking into account insurance and minimum defined benefit plan the future growth of costs associated with the benefit under benefit (disability and survival) analysis. Thus, the total cost for each participant is divided into units, each of which is associated with a past or future The Group’s costs with respect to healthcare, life insurance and year of service. defined contribution minimum benefit plan are recognised over the period the employees entitled to these benefits are For the purpose of the assessment, the cumulative liability of in service of the respective companies, the liability being an individual is the present value of the accumulated benefits, reflected in the statement of financial position caption Postat the reference date. employment and other employee benefits liabilities. Payments to the beneficiaries are deducted from the liability. Post Service Liability (PSL) result from the sum of the accumulated liabilities for all participants in the plan. The health insurance benefit aims to cover medical/hospital expenses in accordance with existing policies. On 31 December 2002 the Portuguese Insurance Institute authorised the creation of the Galp Energia defined The life insurance benefit aims to ensure financial protection of contribution Pension Fund. In 2003 Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. employees and/or spouses and children in the event of death or created a defined contribution Pension Fund for its employees disability and in accordance with the existing policies. and allowed employees of other Group companies to join this fund. Presently, Galp Energia SGPS, Petróleos de Portugal – At the end of each reporting period the companies obtain Petrogal, S.A., Galp Energia SA, Galp Exploração e Produção actuarial valuations by a specialised entity in accordance with Petrolífera, SAAGA – Sociedade Açoreana de Armazenagem de the Projected Unit Credit Method and compare the amount of Gás, SA, Galp Gás Natural SA, Galp Gas & Power, SA and Galp their liabilities with past services with the market value of the Power SA are associates of the Fund. When the new plan is funds and with the balance of the liabilities recognised, in order chosen, Group companies contribute with an annually defined to determine any additional liabilities that need to be recorded. amount to the fund, corresponding to a percentage of the salary of each employee, which is recorded as a cost for that year The actuarial gains and losses recorded in each year are recorded as described above. In the Defined Contribution Plan, the benefits to be attributed to employees are the result of the contributions made up to the time of retirement by both the Company and employees. 272 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 On December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the assets of the In the year ending December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Petrogal and Sacor Marítima Pension Funds, valued at fair value, Group had recorded in equity the following amounts related to were as follows, in accordance with the report presented by the retirement benefits and other benefits: respective management company: Unit: €m Unit: €m Captions December 2017 December 2016 December 2017 December 2016 90 118 Total 270 284 111 142 Bonds 166 173 Retirement benefits 59 67 Shares 59 51 Other benefits 52 75 Other Investments 10 10 Deferred tax (note 10) (21) (24) Real Estate 3 3 Liquidity 2 17 The caption Employee costs Retirement benefits pensions and Property 30 30 insurance in the amount of €28 m (Note 7) includes essentially: During the year ending 31 December, 2017, no contributions were Unit: €m made to the Pension Funds. December 2017 December 2016 25 28 As of 31 December 2017, and 2016, the Group had the following Retirement benefits 10 14 amounts related to liabilities for retirement benefits and other Other benefits 6 6 benefits: Defined contribution plan 4 4 Unit: €m Pre-retirements and early retirements 5 4 not included in previous items Captions December 2017 December 2016 (326) (359) Retirement benefits (124) (136) The caption Financial Costs Net interest with retirement Other benefits (202) (223) benefits and other benefits in the amount of €8 m (Note 9) mainly includes: The caption Retirement benefits include retirement, disability Unit: €m and orphanage supplements, pre-retirement, early retirement, Captions December 2017 December 2016 retirement premium and voluntary social insurance. The other 7 9 benefits consist essentially of health insurance, life insurance and Retirement benefits 2 3 the minimum benefit of the defined contribution plan. Other benefits 5 6 The caption Retirement Benefits amounting to €124 m includes €8 m for the subsidiary Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A., to cope with The table below shows the number of participants and already agreed pre-retirements that will only be effective in 2018. beneficiaries of the Petrogal and Sacor Maritima pension funds sorted by category: December 2017 December 2016 6,574 6,646 Active 1,684 1,659 Pre-Retired 304 312 Early Retirements 303 320 Disability Retirements 51 72 Age Retirements 2,636 2,671 Pensioners Widows/Orphans 1,596 1,612 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 273 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world During 2017 there were 29 new cases of pre-retirement, 16 new cases of early retirement and 4 withdrawals for termination by mutual agreement. The average maturity of liabilities for the defined benefit plans, is 9.7 years. The assumptions used for the calculation of post-employment benefits and other benefits are considered by the Group as those that best meet the commitments set out in the pension plan and are set out as follows: Retirement benefits Other Benefits 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rate of return on assets 2.25% 2.25% Technical interest rate 2.25% 2.25% 2.25% 2.25% Rate of increase in salaries/costs 1.00% 1.00% [ 1.00% 3.50%] [1.00% 4.00%] Rate of increase in pensions [0.00% 2.00%] [0.00% 1.40%] Current personnel and pre-retirees mortality table INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 Retired personnel mortality table INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 INE 2009-2011 Disability table 50% EVK 80 50% EVK 80 50% EVK 80 50% EVK 80 66 years or 65 years 66 years or 65 years 66 years or 65 years 66 years or 65 years Common age for retirement if at least with 43 years of if at least with 43 years of if at least with 43 years of if at least with 43 years of discounts to S.S. at 65 discounts to S.S. at 65 discounts to S.S. at 65 discounts to S.S. at 65 Method Projected credit unit Projected credit unit Projected credit unit Projected credit unit 274 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 The detail of the caption Retirement Benefits and Other benefits at December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 are as follows: Unit: €m Total Retirement benefits Other benefits 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Changes in past service liability (PSL) PSL at the end of the previous year 639 738 416 484 223 254 Current service cost 6 7 1 6 6 Interest cost 13 16 8 10 5 6 Actuarial (gain) / loss (20) 2 3 10 (23) (8) Benefit payments made b ​​ y the Fund (24) (24) (24) (24) Benefit payments made b ​​ y the Company (34) (37) (25) (27) (9) (10) Changes in the benefits plan 2 2 Cut back Early retirements 4 7 4 7 Cut back Pre-retirement 6 6 6 6 Cut Back Migration to DC (5) (5) Changes in consolidation perimeter (76) (51) (25) PSL at the end of the current year 587 639 385 416 202 223 Changes in coverage of financial assets (pension fund) Assets at the end of the previous year 284 319 284 319 Net interest 6 7 6 7 Benefit payments (24) (24) (24) (24) Changes in consolidation perimeter (24) (24) Cut Back Migration to DC (5) (5) Financial gains / (losses) 10 6 10 6 Assets at the end of the current year 271 284 271 284 Reconciliation of gains and losses through Comprehensive Income (Gain) / loss from actuarial experience 8 15 (3) (3) 11 18 (Gain) / loss by actuarial assumptions change 12 (17) (7) 12 (10) Financial (Gain) / loss 10 6 10 6 Other impacts (30) (4) (7) 4 (23) (8) (Gains) / losses to be recognized in the year-end Reconciliation to the Statement of Financial Position (Gains) / losses recognized at the beginning of the year Asset/(Liability) (355) (419) (132) (165) (223) (254) Net cost of the year (25) (29) (14) (17) (11) (12) Benefit payments made directly ​​by the Company 34 37 25 27 9 10 Gains / (losses) recognized through Comprehensive Income 30 4 7 (4) 23 8 Changes in consolidation perimeter 27 2 25 Transfers between companies 25 25 Other adjustments effects Total recognized at year end Assets / (Liabilities) (316) (355) (114) (132) (202) (223) Net cost of the year Current service cost 6 7 1 6 6 Interest cost 7 9 2 3 5 6 Net cost of the year before special events 13 16 2 4 11 12 Cut back impact Early Retirement 4 7 4 7 Cut back impact Pre-retirement 6 6 6 6 Other adjustments 2 2 Net cost of the year 25 29 14 17 11 12 Reconciliation of gains and loss recognizedthrough Comprehensive Income Cummulative (Gains) / losses recognized at the beginning of the year 142 147 67 63 75 84 Actuarial (Gains) and Losses from experience (8) (15) 3 3 (11) (18) (Gains) / losses from change in assumptions (12) 17 7 (12) 10 Financial (Gains) / losses (10) (6) (10) (6) Associates (1) 6 (1) 4 2 Changes in consolidation perimeter (7) (4) (3) Cummulative (Gains) / losses recognized at the end of the year 111 142 59 67 52 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 275 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The actuarial losses related to past service liabilities which occurred in 2017 amounting to €20 m can be segregated as follows: by changes in assumptions: losses of €12 m related only to the change in the growth rate with health costs; and by experience: losses amounting to €8 m; The financial losses resulting from the Funds, amounting to €10 m, are a consequence of the difference between the estimated value for the development of the Fund and the actual value shown in the previous paragraph, as detailed below: Unit: €m Estimated Real Deviation Date Initial balance 306 284 (22) 31/12/2016 Estimate adjustment (22) 22 Benefits payment (24) (24) Associates contributions 2 (2) Transfer to the Galp Energia Pension Fund (relating to the employee 2017 (5) (5) migration to the DC Plan) Total Movements (44) (29) (7) Fund return 6 16 10 Ending balance 268 271 3 31/12/2017 As of December 31, 2017, the breakdown of the expected value of future benefit payments for the next five years is as follows: Unit: €m Payment Expectation Total Retiremet benefits Other benefits 150 104 46 2018 35 26 9 2019 33 24 9 2020 31 22 9 2021 28 19 9 2022 23 13 10 Payment distribution associated with the Petrogal Pension Fund: Financing scenario Solvency minimum 24,0 24,0 21,0 21,0 18,0 18,0 15,0 15,0 € Millions € Millions 12,0 12,0 9,0 9,0 6,0 6,0 3,0 3,0 1 5 9 13 17 21 25 29 33 37 41 45 49 53 57 61 65 69 73 77 1 5 9 13 17 21 25 29 33 37 41 45 49 53 57 61 65 69 73 77 Years Years CF of Active employees CF of Pensioners CF of Active employees CF of Pensioners 276 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Sensitivity analysis of the discount rate A sensitivity analysis was performed in order to measure the impact on liabilities caused by a change in the discount rate. For this purpose, a negative variation of 25 b.p. in the discount rate was considered. Unit: €m Discount rate Discount rate Liabilities 2.25% 2.00% Variation 587 602 Retirement benefits 385 394 2.34% Other benefits 202 208 2.97% Sensitivity analysis of the growth rate of health insurance costs Unit: €m Captions 2.50% 3.50% 4.50% Past Services Liabilities 161 185 215 Impact on past services liabilities (24) 30 Increase / (Decrease) in Liabilities -13% 16% Historical analysis of the actuarial gains and losses The historical analysis, for the last five years, of actuarial gains and losses was carried out with reference to the Petrogal Pension Fund, considering its representation in the Group total: Unit: €m Discount rate 2.25% 2.25% 2.50% 2.75% 3.75% 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Liabilities amount (a) 264 282 288 294 302 Value of the Fund (b) 263 275 286 304 307 Actuarial Gains (+) and Losses (-) (2) (10) (11) (19) 35 Gains (+) and Losses (-) for changes in assumptions (6) (6) (24) 44 Actuarial Gains (+) and Losses (-) from experience ( c ) (2) (4) (5) 5 (9) Financial Gains (+) and Losses (-) (d) 10 7 (2) 26 (3) (c)/(a) -1% -1% -2% 2% -3% (d)/(b) 4% 3% -1% 9% -1% Real Return on Plan Assets (%) 6.00% 4.90% 2.10% 12.70% 3.60% Real Return on Plan Assets 15 14 6 37 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 277 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Group post-employment defined benefit pension 20. Trade payables and other payables plan and health and life insurance are exposed to various risks, among which are the following: a) Longevity risk Accounting policy Real longevity higher than projected may lead to an increase in Trade payables and other payables are initially measured liabilities. at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Usually, the b) Bond interest rate risk amortised cost of these liabilities does not differ from their nominal value. A decrease of the reference interest rate used as discount rate leads to increased liabilities, which can be mitigated in the situation where a Fund exists as a financing vehicle, by the exposure of the assets to the Bond segment. 20.1. Trade payables c) Investment risk As of 31 December 2017, and 31 December 2016 the amounts The main investment risks are the risk of the interest rate, credit recorded in the caption Trade payables were as follows: risk, equity market risk and currency risk. The implications that the level of risk related to the investment policy may have on Unit: €m compliance with the minimum solvency of the fund, result from December December interest rate fluctuations, exposure to shares and alternative Captions 2017 2016 markets, resulting in a lower performance to the discount rate. Trade payables 889 850 Being, in this specific case, the risk of interest rate fluctuation the Trade payables current accounts 227 363 most relevant, since the portfolios are primarily invested in this Trade payables pending invoices 662 487 asset class. This, together with the impact of risks which cannot be mitigated (e.g. variations of the population), increases the The balance of the caption “Trade payables –pending invoices” probability of necessary additional contributions (other than the mainly corresponds to the purchase of crude oil, natural gas and current service cost) to maintain the solvency of the fund. goods in transit at those dates. d) R  isk of adverse developments in the real cost with health insurance and life insurance Asset/Liability management strategy used for risk mitigation The fund’s current investment strategy resulted from an alignment study between the financial asset and liabilities promoted by the Associate. The Associate collaborates with the Actuary in monitoring the adequacy of the financial assets that comprise the portfolio of the fund and the liabilities assumed by the pension plan. The Fund management entity has software in which the investment restrictions established by the legislation in force at each moment are modeled. It has also modeled the restrictions arising from the Investment Policy agreed with the Associate. Since all assets in the portfolio are classified and framed in one or more groupings created for this purpose, daily deviations control reports are available automatically and the need for management adjustments is analysed. 278 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 20.2. Other payables Accounting policy Advance payments from third parties for the constitution of the strategic reserve Galp constitutes, under the law in force, the strategic reserves of certain entities for which it is required to do so and that are Galp’ customers. Strategic reserves, as the remaining stock in the statement of financial position, are valued at the lower of book value (Weighted Average Basis) and the market price. The advance payments are valued at market value, depending on the contractual terms of each customer/operator and are updated on monthly basis. Market prices are those of refined products which constitute the strategic reserves. Galp charges a storage fee in respect of the strategic stock stored for third parties. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 279 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world As at 31 December 2017 and of 31 December 2016, the non-current and current captions “Other payables” were detailed as follows: Unit: €m December 2017 December 2016 Captions Note Current Non-Current Current Non-Current 854 286 886 305 State and other public entities: 380 351 Value Added Tax payables 249 195 ISP Tax on oil products 93 116 Personnel and Corporate Income Tax Withheld 13 10 Social Security contributions 6 6 Other taxes 19 24 Other payables 130 79 197 84 Tangible and intangible assets suppliers 77 79 97 84 Advances on sales 14 12 35 Overlifting 34 60 Non operated Blocks 2 2 Trade receivables credit balances 2 3 Trade receivables advance payments 3 Related parties 12 158 7 180 Other payables Associates. joint ventures and other related companies 2 Dividends payable 17.5 and 23 12 5 Loans Other shareholder 23 158 180 Other accounts payables 40 4 38 4 Personnel 9 7 ISP Other operators debit 11 5 Guarantee deposits and guarantees received 3 4 2 3 Advances related to disposal of financial investments 4.2 5 Other creditors 17 19 1 Accrued costs: 280 27 271 31 External supplies and services 143 117 Holiday, holiday subsidy and corresponding contributions 26 26 Bonuses to employees 24 3 27 4 Accrued interest 45 49 Accrued insurance premiums 1 2 Adjustment to tariff deviation regulated revenue ERSE regulation 6 10 5 9 Adjustment to tariff deviation other activities ERSE regulation 6 5 Discounts. bonuses and rappel related to sales 5 4 Adjustment to tariff deviation energy tariff ERSE regulation 4 14 18 Other accrued costs 20 36 Deferred income: 12 18 22 6 Services rendered 8 7 Government investment grants 1 6 1 6 Others 3 12 14 280 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 The caption “Advances on sales” amounting to €12 m is related The caption “Non-current tangible and intangible assets with Group liabilities with competitors for strategic reserves suppliers” essentially refers to surface rights. (Note 14). Land use rights presented in the Galp financial statements The amount of €34 m presented in the caption “Other payables represent exclusive use rights over such land. These rights grant Overlifting” represents the Group’s liability in respect of excess the same legal rights and obligations attributed to the owners of crude oil lifted considering its production quota. the land (in particular, the rights to build and use) over a given period of time, as contractually established. The amount of €11 m recorded in the caption “ISP – Other operators credit” is related to the fact that the bonded warehouse The most relevant land use rights relate to the Sines refinery, in is confined to Galp. Therefore, it is Galp’s responsibility to Portugal, with an initial period of 30 years, and being continuously collect the ISP (tax on petroleum products) from counterparties extended by option of Galp, which is accounted for as intangible (partners/competitors) and to deliver it over to the State assets with a net book value of €51 m. Regarding Spain, several land surface rights recognised as intangible assets present the net The amount of €158 m recorded in the caption “Loans – Other book value of €22 m. shareholders” refers, essentially, to the following: The information regarding the maturity of the liabilities for the • Winland International Petroleum, SARL, granted loans land surface rights is detailed as follows: amounting to €157 m (US$188 m) under the form of shareholders loans to the subsidiary Petrogal Brasil, S.A. This loan bears Unit: €m interest at market rates and has a maturity of 10 years. In Net amount 68 the period ending 31 December 2017 the amount of €7 m is Total 76 recognised under the caption “Interest”, regarding loans obtained <1 year 6 from related companies (Note 9). >1 year and <5 years 24 >5 years 46 Government investment grants are recognised as income over Interests (Amortized cost) (8) the useful life of the assets. The amount to be recognised in future periods amounts to €7 m. Considering the maturity of the land surface rights and the Considering the consolidated net result presented by the Group, conditions for renewal of such rights, they are similar to a the net income for the year includes an accrual of €21 m, related financial lease. to the participation of the employees in the result for the period, which is included in the caption Bonus to employees current, in the amount of €24 m. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 281 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 21. Provisions Accounting policy Provisions are based on the operator’s estimate of total abandonment costs. The Company recognises the abandonment provisions proportionally, as it builds each General production well in order to meet its decommissioning obligations. Therefore, it apportions the expenditure with Provisions are recorded when, and only when, the Group has a the dismantling of the wells and environmental recovery by present obligation (legal, contractual or constructive) resulting the number of wells that it estimates to build, recognising from a past event, and it is probable is probable that an outflow over time the obligation in proportion to the wells already of resources embodying economic benefits will be required constructed. The estimated expenditure’s net present value to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made is calculated at a risk-free interest rate and a corresponding of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are reviewed and amount is capitalised in tangible assets. The provision for adjusted on each consolidated statement of financial position abandonment is subsequently increased by the risk-free date so as to reflect the best estimate at that date. interest rate and increased or decreased by changes in the operator’s estimates. Changes to estimates also affect the Galp measures the uncertain tax positions, including valuation of the asset. provisions for taxes, by the tax estimate amount and not by probabilities. Estimated expenditure to be incurred and capitalised in tangible assets is depreciated using the UOP Method, in Exploration and Production activities (Block which that expenditure is multiplied by a coefficient that is abandonment) the proportion of the volume produced in each depreciation period in relation to the proved developed reserves at the end Provisions for abandonment costs are intended to cover all of the period plus production for the period. the costs incurred by the Company at the end of the useful production life of oil fields. The changes in provisions in the year ending 31 December 2017 and 2016 were as follows: Unit: €m Changes in the Initial consolidation Ending Captions balance Increases Decreases Utilisation Adjustments perimeter balance December 2017 429 236 (24) (3) (18) 619 Lawsuits 20 2 (1) (2) 19 Financial investments 4 (2) (2) Taxes 31 (21) (2) 8 Environmental matters 3 15 18 Abandonment of blocks 139 154 (12) 281 CESE I 52 18 70 CESE II 162 40 202 Other risks and charges 18 7 (3) 21 December 2016 428 93 (53) (16) 7 (31) 429 Lawsuits 29 (12) 3 20 Financial investments 4 4 Taxes 33 2 (5) 1 31 Environmental matters 2 1 3 Abandonment of blocks 129 47 (41) 4 139 CESE I 52 29 (29) 52 CESE II 158 4 162 Other risks and charges 21 10 (10) (1) (2) 18 282 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 The increase in provisions, net of the decreases, as of 31 December 2017 were as follows: Unit: €m Operating Investments Costs Financial Energy sector Deferred in associates Provisions Tangible income/ extraordinary costs and joint (Note 7) assets costs contribution “CESE” Income tax ventures Total December 2017 22 147 5 54 4 (21) 211 Other risks and charges 22 22 Abandonment of blocks 147 7 154 Estimate for additional payments of IRP Petroleum (21) (21) Income Tax Financial investments (2) (2) CESE I 18 18 CESE II 36 4 40 December 2016 (10) 16 3 33 (9) 7 40 Other risks and charges 4 4 Abandonment of blocks (14) 16 4 6 Estimate for additional payments of IRP Petroleum (9) (9) Income Tax and Special participation Financial Investments () Future liabilities with disposal 7 7 of GGND CESE I 28 28 CESE II 4 4 Lawsuits Taxes The provision for current lawsuits amounts to €19 m and includes The caption provision for taxes in the amount of €8 m includes mainly: an amount of €4 m relating to liability for fines applied essentially the provision to cover a tax contingency related to a by the Competition Authority for contracts entered into with correction to the taxable amount of the subsidiary Petrogal for the distributors in the LPG business and the amount of €10 m related years 2001 and 2002. to the provision of the estimate for payment of an additional amount of the special participation tax in Brazil. The amount During the year ending December 31, 2017, the decrease in the of €2 m included in the heading Adjustments corresponds to provision by €21 m resulted from the reversal of a provision for the translation differences arising from the translation from the Angolan tax authority for additional liquidations of IRP. functional currency to the Group reporting currency (EUR) mainly from this provision. Environmental issues Financial investments The amount of €18 m presented in the caption Environmental provisions is related to costs associated with soil decontamination The provision for financial investments reflects the joint of certain facilities occupied by the Group where, due to legal commitment of the Group in respect of its associates and joint obligation, a decision has already been taken to carry out the ventures that have reported negative equity (Note 5). decontamination. During the year ending December 31, 2017, the increase in the provision of €15 m arises from the creation of the provision for decontamination of soils in storage facilities. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 283 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Abandonment of blocks The amount of €281m recorded in provisions for the abandonment of blocks is destined to cover all costs to be incurred with the dismantling of assets and soil decontamination at the end of the useful life of those areas. The changes in provisions for the abandonment of blocks at year end were as follows: Unit: €m NPV Initial interests Exchange Exchange Ending balance Increases increase differences (Cta’s) (a) differences (P/L) (b) balance 139 147 7 (17) 5 281 Blocks in Brazil 79 112 5 (11) 6 191 Lula and Gas pipeline 51 71 3 (7) 4 122 Iracema 28 41 2 (4) 2 69 Blocks in Angola 60 35 2 (6) (1) 90 Block 1 7 (1) 6 Block 14 Kuito 13 2 (1) 14 Block 14 BBLT (3) 4 1 2 Block 14 TL 41 5 2 (6) 42 Block 14 K 2 2 4 Block Kaombo 22 22 (a) Exchange differences resulting from conversion of the functional currency to the Group’s currency (Euro) are recorded in equity under caption Translation reserve (Cta’s). (b) The provision is recorded in USD, being the currency valuation for the functional currency of the company(ies) recorded in the statement (P/L) under the heading Exchange (loss)/ gains. The increases recorded are mainly due to the start of production Other risks and charges of new production wells and update of the abandonment estimate cost. As at 31 December 2017 the caption “Provisions – other risks and charges”, amounting to €21 m, comprises €7 m for the provision CESE I related to potential compensation to the buyer of 22.5 % in GGND in case CESE I tax becomes due, if the subsidiaries of In the year ending December 31, 2017, the provision for “Energy the Galp Group Gás Natural Distribuição S.A. need to make the Sector Extraordinary Contribution I – CESE I” includes the amount payment of CESE I. of €70 m corresponding to the total responsibility on that date, and which the group is disputing. This provision was increased in The remaining amounts are regarding past events mentioned in the amount of €18 m, recognised in the income statement under prior years financial statements. the caption “ Energy Sector Extraordinary Contribution “ (Note 10). CESE II In the year ending December 31, 2017, the caption provisions for the tax “Energy Sector Extraordinary Contribution II – CESE II” includes the amount of €202 m corresponding to the total responsibility on that date, and which the group is disputing. An increase of €40m was recorded in the current year, recognised as described in Note 10, in Deferred Costs and in the results under the item Energy Sector Extraordinary Contribution. 284 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 22. Other financial instruments financial derivatives Accounting policy In fair value hedge, the derivatives are recorded at their fair value through profit and loss. In situations where the hedged instrument is not measured at fair value (i.e. commodity Derivative instruments trading contracts), the effective portion of the hedge is adjusted to the book value of the hedged instrument through Hedge accounting the income statement. The Group uses derivative instruments in managing financial Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative risks as a way to hedge such risks. Derivative instruments to instruments mature or are sold. Where the derivative hedge financial risks are not used for trading purposes. instrument stops qualifying as a hedging instrument, the accumulated fair value differences deferred in the equity Derivative instruments used by the Group to hedge cash flows caption “Hedging reserves” are transferred to the income mainly relate to commodities price hedging (electricity). statement or added to the book value of the asset which gave The indices are as identical as possible to actual purchases. rise to the hedging transaction, and subsequent revaluations Derivative instruments used by the Group to hedge fair value are recognised directly in the income statement. mainly relate to commodities price hedging (natural gas). The indices are identical to the contracts signed with customers. A review was made of the Galp Group’s existing contracts so as to detect embedded derivatives, namely contractual The following criteria are used by the Group to classify clauses that could be considered as financial derivatives and derivative instruments as cash flow and fair value hedging no financial derivatives that should be recognised at fair value instruments: have been identified. • The hedge is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the When embedded derivatives exist in other financial changes in the cash flow of the hedged risk (cash flow hedge) instruments or other contracts, they are recognised as separate or changes in the fair value (fair value hedge); derivatives in situations in which the risks and characteristics are not intimately related to the contracts and in situations • The hedging effectiveness can be reliably measured; in which the contracts are not reflected at fair value with • There is adequate documentation of the hedge at the unrealised gains and losses reflected in the income statement. beginning of the operation; and • The hedged transaction is highly probable. Trading instruments Financial derivatives are initially recorded at fair value To manage the risk related to the variance in the Group’s calculated by independent external entities using generally refining margin, the Group uses derivative financial accepted valuation methods (such as Discounted cash flows, instruments, essentially crude oil and finished product swaps. Black-Scholes model, Binomial and Trinomial models and Although these instruments are contracted to hedge financial Monte-Carlo simulations, among others, depending on the risk in accordance with the Group’s risk management policies, type and nature of the financial derivative). they do not comply with the requirements of IAS 39 for hedge accounting, and so changes in their fair value are recorded Changes in the fair value of these instruments are presented in in the income statement for the period in which they occur. the equity caption “Hedging reserves”, being transferred to the These investments are measured at fair value. income statement when the hedged instrument affects profit and loss. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 285 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The Group may use financial derivatives to hedge interest rate Fair value hierarchy risk, market fluctuation risks, particularly the risks of variation in crude oil prices, finished products and refining margins, as well as In accordance with IFRS 13 an entity must classify the fair price variation risk of natural gas and electricity which affect the value measurement, based on a fair value hierarchy that financial value of the assets and the future cash flows expected reflects the meaning of the inputs used in measurement. from its activities. The fair value hierarchy must have the following levels: Financial derivatives are defined, in accordance with IAS/ • Level 1 the fair value of assets or liabilities is based on IFRS, as “financial assets at fair value through profit and loss” or active liquid market quotation at the date of the statement “financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss”. Financial of financial position; derivatives on commodities that are contracted to hedge the fair value variability or to address any risks that may affect the results • Level 2 the fair value of assets or liabilities is determined of customer contracts of exercise are termed as “fair value hedge”. through valuation models based on observable market On the other hand, financial derivatives on commodities that are inputs; contracted to hedge cash flow of customer contracts are termed as “cash flow hedges”. • Level 3 the fair value of assets or liabilities is determined through valuation models, whose main inputs are not The fair value of financial derivatives is Level 2, and was observable in the market determined by external and independent financial entities, applying evaluation models (such as Discounted cash flows, BlackScholes model, Binomial and Trinomial models and Monte-Carlo simulations, among other models depending on the type and characteristics of the financial derivative under analysis) based on generally accepted principles. Futures are traded in the stock exchange and subject to a Clearing House, and as such their valuation is determined by quoted prices (Level 1 from fair value hierarchy). The fair value of the remaining financial derivatives (Swaps, Forwards and Options) booked were determined by financial entities using observable market inputs and using generally accepted techniques and models. 286 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Derivative financial instruments portfolio as of 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 are detailed as follows: Unit: €m 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Fair value Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities NonNonEquity NonNonEquity Current Current Current Current (Note 17.2.3) Current Current Current Current (Note 17.2.3) Financial derivatives 51 11 (21) (3) 7 23 2 (17) (1) 6 Commodities Financial 51 11 (21) (3) 7 23 2 (16) (1) 6 Derivatives Swaps (Note 15) 42 11 (21) (3) 3 19 2 (16) (1) (1) Futures (Note 15) 9 4 7 Futures (Note 16) 4 Currency Financial (1) Derivatives Non-deliverable Forwards (1) The MTM (Mark-to-Market) of the derivative financial liabilities amounts to €24 m. Of this amount, €21 m are classified as current liabilities and will be realised over one year. The amount presented in non-current liabilities, amounting to €3 m will be realised until 2022. The accounting impact as of 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 of the gains and losses with derivative financial instruments is presented in the following table: Unit: €m 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Equity Equity Income Statement (Note 17.2.3) Income Statement (Note 17.2.3) Potencial Potencial Potencial Potencial (MTM) Real MTM+Real (MTM) (MTM) Real MTM+Real (MTM) Gains and losses on financial 4 8 12 1 7 (57) (50) 8 instruments Commodities Financial Derivatives 3 12 15 1 8 (48) (40) 8 Swaps 27 (11) 16 2 30 (14) 16 2 Swaps Fair value hedge (22) (22) (23) (23) Futures (2) 23 21 (1) 1 (34) (33) 6 Currency Financial Derivatives 1 (4) (3) (1) (9) (10) Non-deliverable Forwards 1 (4) (3) (1) (10) (11) Forwards 1 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 287 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The caption “Income from financial instruments” includes The fair value of financial instruments recognised under cost the potential value of MTM (Mark-to-market) of commodities of sale amounts to a positive amount of €20 m, which includes derivatives, as shown in the following table: derivatives on commodities and MTM of derivatives in Contango operations (Note 7). Unit: €m December December The changes in fair value reflected in Equity, resulting from cash 2017 2016 flow hedges, are as follows: Income on Financial Instruments 18 Commodities Financial Derivatives (5) 8 Unit: €m Swaps (3) 7 December December 2017 2016 Futures (2) 1 Fair Value changes in Equity 1 7 Other operations 5 10 Group companies (Note 17.1.3) 2 7 Other trading operations 5 10 Associates and joint ventures (Note 17.1.3) (1) Financial derivatives open positions have the following notional values per maturity: Unit: €m 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Maturity Maturity < 1 year > 1 year < 1 year > 1 year Notional value of outstanding financial derivatives 113 2 81 (4) Commodities Financial Derivatives Buy 307 86 129 14 Swaps Sell 302 88 142 21 Buy 131 4 76 3 Futures Sell 26 6 Currency Financial Derivatives Buy 3 27 Non-deliverable Forwards Sell Buy 41 Swaps Sell 44 288 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Galp Group has financial derivatives over commodities recognised 23. Related parties as fair value hedge and cash-flow hedge. These financial derivatives have been contracted for the reduction of risks associated with contracts signed with customers and suppliers. Accounting policy Accordingly, the income statement shows, under the MTM (Mark-to-market) caption, the negative amount of €22 m, through A related party is a person or entity that is related to the the caption Other financial instruments, related to the fair value entity that is preparing its financial statements. hedge and in Equity, under the caption Hedging reserves, the positive amount of €1 m relating to cash-flow hedge. The cash (a) A person or a close member of that person’s family is flow hedges reflected in Equity, when closed are reclassified to related to a reporting entity if that person: (i) has control or income for the year. The amount of closed hedging instruments joint control over the reporting entity; (ii) has significant amounts to positive €20 m, and was recognised under the heading influence over the reporting entity; or (iii) is a member of Cost of Sale. the key management personnel of the reporting entity or of a parent of the reporting entity. Galp Group trades financial instruments denominated as futures. Given their high liquidity, as they are exchange-traded, they (b) An entity is related to a reporting entity if any of are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit and the following conditions applies: (i) The entity and the loss and included in Cash and cash equivalents caption if its reporting entity are members of the same group (which maturity and management intention are for maintaining it for means that each parent, subsidiary and fellow subsidiary less than 3 months in its portfolio (IAS 7.7). Otherwise, these is related to the others); (ii) One entity is an associate or financial derivatives are included in the portfolio of the remaining joint venture of the other entity (or an associate or joint derivatives. The gains and losses on commodity futures (Brent and venture of a member of a group of which the other entity is electricity) are classified in the caption “Cost of sales”. Changes in a member); (iii) Both entities are joint ventures of the same the fair value of open positions are recorded in financial income, third party; (iv) One entity is a joint venture of a third entity under income from financial instruments. As these futures are and the other entity is an associate of the third entity; (v) exchange-traded, subject to a Clearing House, gains and losses are The entity is a post-employment defined benefit plan for continuously recorded in the income statement. the benefit of employees of either the reporting entity or an entity related to the reporting entity. If the reporting entity is itself such a plan, the sponsoring employers are also related to the reporting entity; (vi) The entity is controlled or jointly controlled by a person identified in (a); (vii) A person identified in (a)(i) has significant influence over the entity or is a member of the key management personnel of the entity (or of a parent of the entity). Annual Report and Accounts 2017 289 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Balances and transactions with related parties in 2017 and 2016, respectively, were as follows: Assets Unit: €m 2017 Non-current Current Total related Other parties Loans granted Trade Loans granted receivables Accruals and (Note 13) receivables (Note 13) (Note 13) deferrals 570 30 35 459 36 10 Associates 20 8 2 4 6 Joint ventures 42 22 16 2 2 Tip Top Energy. SARL 459 459 Other related parties 49 17 30 2 Unit: €m 2016 Non-current Current Total related Other parties Loans granted Trade Loans granted receivables Accruals and (Note 13) receivables (Note 13) (Note 13) deferrals 681 38 8 610 21 4 Associates 28 15 6 4 3 Joint ventures 43 23 2 17 1 Other related parties Tip Top Energy. SARL 610 610 Current and non-current loans granted to associates, joint ventures and related companies as of 31 December 2017 refers essentially to loans granted to the following entities: Unit: €m Current assets loans granted Interest related to loans granted (Note 13) (Note 9) by Galp Sinopec Brazil Services B.V. 459 -7 to Tip Top Energy. SARL 459 -7 290 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Tip Top Energy, an entity of the Sinopec Group, and Galp Galp Sinopec is entitled to any guarantee from Sinopec. The loan established a Loan Facility Agreement in which they established agreement follows an unsecured loan format. that part of the funds resulting from the capital increase made by Sinopec in Petrogal Brasil would be lent to the shareholders. The The loan that Galp Sinopec Brazil Services BV granted to Sinopec repayment plan for these loans was indexed to the CAPEX needs on March 28, 2012, is remunerated at a 3-month LIBOR interest of E&P Brasil with a maturity of March 2016 (4 years). However, as rate, plus a spread, reaching maturity in September 2018. loan balances have been reduced less than expected due to a more efficient investment level, Galp and Sinopec partner have agreed In the year ending December 31, 2017, interest amount of €8m to extend the repayment maturity of these loans. was recorded under interest related to loans granted to related companies (Notes 9 and 13.2). On May 2017, Galp and Sinopec agreed to change the terms of the final reimbursement clause established in the Loan Facility The movement in the Loans granted to Sinopec since the Agreement, being established as the maturity date September 28, execution of the agreement up to 31 December, 2017 is as follows: 2018. In view of the foregoing and with the aim of giving greater flexibility to the management of the agreement, the parties Exchange rate Unit: US$m 31 December 2017 €m further agreed that the Loan Facility Agreement would be renewed Other receivables 551 1.1993 459 from September 2017 for successive periods of 3 months until 28 September 2018, and either party may notify the remainder that Loan 28/03/2012 1.229 1.1993 1,024 it does not intend to renew, and that notification should be made Interest capitalization 78 1.1993 65 with at least 180 days before the next renewal. Received interests (61) 1.1993 (51) Partial reimbursements (695) 1.1993 (579) Regarding the credit risk of the balance, Sinopec has a rating of A + (S & P) and A1 (Moody’s). Neither Sinopec require Galp nor The remaining loans granted bear interest at market rates and do not have a defined repayment term. Liabilities Unit: €m 2017 Non-current Current Total related parties Loans obtained Trade Other payables Accruals and (Note 20.2) payables (Note 20.2) deferrals 265 158 70 12 25 Associates 7 7 Joint ventures 81 62 19 Winland International Petroleum. SARL (W.I.P.) 174 157 12 5 Other related parties 3 1 1 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 291 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The amount of €157 m recorded in the medium and long term to be paid to Winland International Petroleum, SARL (WIP) – Sinopec Group entity, relates to shareholder loans obtained by the subsidiary Petrogal Brasil, SA, which bear interest at market rate and have defined 10-year reimbursement plan. Unit: €m 2016 Non-current Current Total related parties Loans obtained Trade Other payables Accruals and (Note 20.2) payables (Note 20.2) deferrals 278 180 64 7 27 Associates 7 7 Joint ventures 80 57 2 21 Winland International Petroleum. SARL (W.I.P.) 190 179 5 6 Other related parties 1 1 Income tax The caption Current income tax payable includes the amounts calculated by the Galp Gás Natural Distribution Group through the special tax regime for groups of companies to be received by Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. in the amount of €4 m. Transactions Unit: €m 2017 Financial Financial Operating Operating Costs Income Purchases costs income (Note 9) (Note 9) 73 127 (262) 9 (8) Associates 73 6 (25) Joint ventures 107 (31) Tip Top Energy. SARL (7) Winland International Petroleum. SARL (W.I.P.) 9 Other related parties 14 (206) (1) 292 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 The amount of €206 m presented in Operating income – Other related parties includes €136 m of sales and services rendered to Repsol Polímeros, SA. Unit: €m 2016 Financial Financial Operating Operating Costs Income Purchases costs income (Note 9) (Note 9) 77 44 (11) 9 (7) Associates 77 7 (2) (1) Joint ventures 37 (9) (1) Tip Top Energy. SARL (5) Winland International Petroleum. SARL (W.I.P.) 9 24. Oil and gas reserves (unaudited) Information regarding Galp’s oil and gas reserves is subject to independent assessment by a suitably qualified company with the methodology established in accordance with the Petroleum Resources Management System (PMRS), approved in March 2007 by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE), the World Petroleum Council, the American Association of Petroleum Geologists and the Society of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers. Reserves considered by Galp for accounting purposes are as follows: Prospective Volume Contingent Contingent Contingent resources (in Kboe) 1P Reserves 2P Reserves 3P Reserves resources 1C resources 2C resources 3C (mean risked) Africa 78,546 106,176 121,656 93,094 398,816 1,064,458 327,632 Latin America 304,217 642,054 843,494 203,351 952,764 2,232,318 141,690 Rest of the world 96,291 Total 382,763 748,230 965,150 296,445 1,351,580 3,296,776 565,613 The description of the type of reserves and resources can be found in the glossary attached to this report. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 293 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 25. Financial and risk management Accounting policy similar indexes, so as to protect the business margin from adverse market changes. The Group has an organisation and systems to identify, measure and control the different risks to which it is exposed b) Exchange rate risk to and uses various financial instruments to hedge, in accordance exposed to with corporate guidelines common to The US dollar is the currency used for the reference price the Group. The contracting of these instruments is centralised. in the oil and natural gas markets. Since Galp prepares its financial statements in Euros, this factor, among others, Risk management exposes its operations to exchange rate risk. Given that the operating margin is mainly related to US dollars, the Company Galp is exposed to several types of market risks (price risk, is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates, which can exchange rate risk and interest rate risk) inherent to the contribute positively or negatively to income and margins. petroleum, natural gas and electricity industries, which affect the Group’s financial results. The main market risks result Since this is a currency risk associated to other variables, from fluctuation of the crude oil price, its derivatives and the such as the price of oil and natural gas, the Company takes exchange rate. a cautious approach to hedging risk, as there are natural hedges between the statement of financial position and cash Galp discloses in the Management Report a chapter on flows. The level of exposure of cash flows and especially the Risk Management and the main risks to which the Group is statement of financial position is a function of the price levels exposed to including operating risks, not mentioned in this of oil and natural gas. document. As a result of the above, Galp controls its exchange rate Market risk exposure on an integrated basis rather than on each operation exposed to exchange risk. The purpose of exchange rate a) Commodities price risk risk management is to limit the uncertainty resulting from variations in exchange rates. As of 31 December 2017, Galp held Due to the nature of its business, Galp is exposed to the derivatives to hedge exchange rate risk (Note 22). risk of volatility of the international price of crude oil, of its derivatives and of natural gas and electricity. The frequent c) Interest rate risk fluctuations in the price of crude oil and refined products generate uncertainty and have a significant impact on The total interest rate position is managed centrally. Interest operating results. rate exposure relates mainly to bank loans and bonds bearing interests. The purpose of managing interest rate risk The Group partially controls this risk through the derivatives is to reduce the volatility of financial costs in the income market for oil and natural gas, to protect the refining margin statement. The interest rate risk management policy aims to from adverse market changes. reduce exposure to variable rates fixing interest rate risk on loans, using a mix of variable and fixed rate instruments. In respect of the natural gas and electricity activities, the Group partially controls this risk through the establishment As at 31 December 2017 Galp did not hold interest rate of natural gas and electricity purchase and sale contracts with derivatives positions. 294 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Sensitivity analysis performed to market risks Foreign currency investments were not included in the analysis as resulting from financial instruments, as required by the Group does not record them at fair value as defined in IAS 39. IFRS 13 Fluctuations of monetary balances in foreign currencies may The analysis prepared by the Group in accordance with IFRS 7 and directly affect the caption Translation reserves included in IFRS 13 is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of profit before taxes Equity in Galp Group’s consolidated financial statements, if those and of equity to potential variations in the Brent, natural gas and monetary balances are stated in the same functional currency of electricity prices, exchange rates and interest rates of financial the individual company under analysis. instruments, as defined in IAS 32, such as financial assets and liabilities and financial derivatives reflected on the statement of Therefore, the sensitivity analysis is illustrative and does not financial position as of 31 December 2017 and 2016. The financial represent actual current loss or gain, or other current variations in instruments affected by the above mentioned market risks equity. include Trade receivables, Other receivables, Trade payables, Other payables, Loans, Cash and Financial derivatives. When cash flow The following assumptions were considered in the sensitivity hedges are applied, fair value is recorded in the equity caption analysis of exchange rates: Hedging reserves only if it is shown that the hedge is efficient. • Exchange rate variation of +/10% There may be financial instruments with more than one market risk, in which case the sensitivity analysis is performed for each The sensitivity analysis includes significant balances in foreign variable at a time, the others remaining constant, therefore currency relating to Trade receivables, Other receivables, Trade ignoring any correlation between them, which is unlikely to occur. payables, Other payables, Loans, Financial derivatives and Cash. Sensitivity analyses do not include the impact of current or deferred taxes, which could reduce the presented variations, depending on the tax laws in the various geographic areas where the Group operates, as well as fiscal conditions for each company. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 295 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The sensitivity analysis performed on exchange rates, presented in the statement of financial position, is as follows: Unit: €m 2017 2016 Income Statement Equity Income Statement Equity Attributable NonAttributable NonAttributable NonAttributable NonExposure to controlling to controlling Exposure to controlling to controlling amount Shareholders interests Shareholders interests amount Shareholders interests Shareholders interests Investments Depreciation/ +10% 26 34 18 8 55 3 (appreciation) 618 658 of x% of the EUR -10% (26) (34) (18) (8) (55) (3) versus USD Investments Depreciation/ +10% 12 5 (1) 4 2 (4) (2) (appreciation) 153 63 of x% of the BRL versus USD and -10% (12) (5) 1 (4) (2) 4 2 versus EUR (a) Investments Depreciation/ +10% 2 (appreciation) 24 of x% of the EUR -10% (2) versus AOA Loans Depreciation/ +10% (16) (7) 15 (21) (appreciation) 233 210 of x% of the EUR -10% 16 7 (15) 21 versus USD Derivatives Depreciation/ +10% (1) (1) (appreciation) 7 10 of x% of the EUR -10% 1 1 versis USD (a) Payables Depreciation/ +10% (14) (6) (appreciation) 144 64 of x% of the EUR -10% 14 6 versus USD Receivables Depreciation/ +10% 9 32 14 7 43 18 (appreciation) 550 681 of x% of the EUR -10% (9) (32) (14) (7) (43) (18) versus USD Payables Depreciation/ +10% (11) (5) (13) (5) (appreciation) 157 189 of x% of the BRL versus USD and -10% 11 5 13 5 versus EUR (b) (a) Includes derivatives drawn in USD. Exposure over exchange rate variability of Mark-to-Market. (b) Includes 10% variation in the exchange rate of BRL to USD, and 10% variation in the exchange rate of USD to EUR. The following assumptions were considered in the commodities price sensitivity analysis: • Price variation of +/10% of the price of the commodity; • Correlation between market risks was ignored; • Sensitivity analysis was made for balances relating to financial derivatives over commodities. 296 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 The effect of changes in the proved petroleum reserves as a result of changes in the Brent price was not calculated. Commodity “Brent Futures” were not considered in the sensitivity analysis performed on the commodity price derivatives, as these have a monthly maturity. A summary of the sensitivity analysis for the commodities price reflected on the statement of financial position is presented below: Unit: €m 2017 2016 Income Statement Equity Income Statement Equity Attributable NonAttributable NonAttributable NonAttributable NonExposure to controlling to controlling Exposure to controlling to controlling amount Shareholders interests Shareholders interests amount Shareholders interests Shareholders interests Variation in the price of the +10% underlying 34 12 derivatives on natural gas -10% commodities (a) Variation in +10% (27) (9) the price of the underlying (7) (9) derivatives on oil -10% 27 9 commodities Variation in the price of the +10% underlying 11 5 derivatives on -10% other commodities (a) Exludes impacts of derivatives classified as fair value hedge and cash flow hedge. The following assumptions were considered in the interest rate sensitivity analysis: • Parallel shift of 0.5% in the time structure of interest rates; • Analysis of interest rate risk includes Sinopec accounts receivable, variable interest rate loans and interest rate financial derivative; • The income before taxes is affected by the interest rate risk sensitivity analysis, except for interest rate financial derivatives classified as cash flow hedges, in which the sensitivity analysis, if within the required efficiency parameters, affects equity. A summary of the sensitivity analysis for financial instruments reflected on the statement of financial position is presented below: Unit: €m 2017 2016 Income Statement Equity Income Statement Equity Attributable NonAttributable NonAttributable NonAttributable NonExposure to controlling to controlling Exposure to controlling to controlling amount Shareholders interests Shareholders interests amount Shareholders interests Shareholders interests Loans +0.5% (4) (7) Parallel shift 2.992 2.812 in interest rate -0.5% 4 7 Applications +0.5% 2 6 1 Parallel shift 931 1.473 in interest rate (a) -0.5% (2) (6) (1) (a) Includes outstanding balance with Tip Top (Sinopec) The analysis was not affected by interest rate derivatives as the referred derivatives were not noted in subsidiaries, but only in the associates and joint ventures. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 297 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Liquidity risk Insurance claim risk Liquidity risk is defined as the amount by which profit and/or Galp has insurance contracts in place to reduce its exposure to cash flow of the business are affected as a result of the Group’s various risks resulting from insurance claims that may occur constraint to obtain the financial resources necessary to meet its during the pursuit of its activities, as follows: operating and investment commitments. • Property insurance covering risks of Material Damages, Galp finances itself through cash flows generated by its operations Machinery Breakdown, Loss on Exploration and Construction; and maintains a diversified portfolio of loans and bonds. The Group has access to credit amounts that are not fully used but • General liability insurance covering risks of general activity (onthat are at its disposal. These credits can cover all loans that are shore), risks related to maritime activities (off-shore), aviation risks, repayable in 12 months. The available short term and medium/ environmental risks and management risks (Directors & Officers); long term credit lines that are not being used, amount to 1,3 billion Euros as of 31 December 2017 and are sufficient to meet • Social insurance covering risks of work accidents, personal any immediate demand. In addition to these credits, the Group accidents, life and health; had approximately 1.2 billion Euros of cash and cash equivalents, as stated in the statement of financial position, as of 31 December • Financial Insurance covering credit risk, collateral and theft; 2017 which, combined with the credit facilities, amounted to 2.5 billion Euros of liquidity as of 31 December 2017. • Transportation Insurance covering all risks related to cargo and hull; Credit risk • Other insurances covering vehicles, travel, etc. Credit risk results from potential non-compliance, by one of the parties, of contractual obligations to pay and so the risk level 26. Contingent assets and liabilities depends on the financial strength of the counterparty. In addition, counterparty credit risk exists on monetary investments and hedging instruments. Credit risk limits are established by Galp 26.1. Contingent assets and are implemented in the various business segments. The credit risk limits are defined and documented and credit limits for Regarding the contract termination process related to the certain counterparties are based on their credit ratings, period of construction of the “Sacor II” ship and following the decision exposure and monetary amount of the exposure to credit risk. of the arbitration court, the manufacturer was ordered to pay the sum of €4 m (€3 m plus interest). On 3 April 2013, the Impairment of accounts receivable is detailed in Note 13. insolvency administrator filed for closure and liquidation of the manufacturing company. As of 31 December 2017, the effective liquidation from the sale of the assets is pending. Due to uncertainty regarding the amount receivable resulting from liquidation, the amount receivable was not recorded in the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2017. 26.2. Contingent liabilities As of 31 December 2017, the Company and its subsidiaries had the following contingent liabilities: i) A legal proceeding which was brought against the Group by a subcontractor in relation to the construction of “Sacor II” ship amounting to a total of €2 m, is currently suspended at the Lisbon Maritime Court, awaiting the final judgment. The Board of Directors, supported by its legal advisors believes that it is not possible to determine the responsibilities that may arise to 298 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 the subsidiary Sacor Maritima SA as a result of that process, but made for 20-25 years, require a minimum purchase quantity and considers the chances of a condemnation to be reduced. are subject to price revision mechanisms indexed to international oil / gas quotes. The amounts were calculated based on the ii) Additional Corporate Income Tax assessments amounting to natural gas prices on December 31, 2017. The contractual purchase €37 m for which provision of €8 m was booked (Note 10 and 21). commitments updated at a WACC rate of 6.4% represent about 5.5 billion Euros. iii) Related with the agreement celebrated with Matosinhos Municipality Council as of 14 June 2013, some liabilities may Unit: €m arise associated with the decontamination process of the 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Post-2022 soils, before the final disposal of the plots to the Matosinhos Natural 571 325 325 163 163 204 Municipality Council. To this date, the Company has no gas sales information to enable it to estimate the amount of such liabilities since the necessary studies and assessments have not These amounts refer to contractual commitments for the sale yet been prepared. of natural gas under medium and long-term contracts with negotiated Take-or-Pay clauses. The amounts were calculated based on the natural gas prices on 31 December 2017. The 26.3. Other financial commitments contractual sales commitments updated at a WACC rate of 6.4 % represent approximately 1.5 billion Euros. The Group’s financial commitments not included in the statement of financial position as of 31 December 2017 are: 26.4. Guarantees granted i) Galp Group has bank loans that in some cases have covenants that can, if triggered by banks, lead to early repayment of the As part of ongoing business operations, the Group has entered into borrowed amounts. As of 31 December 2017, the Medium/Long agreements where commitments have been given for commercial, term debt amounted to 2,5 billion Euros. From this amount, regulatory or other operational purposes totalling €397 m. the contracts with covenants correspond to 0.3 billion Euros. The existing covenants are designed essentially to ensure As of December 31, 2017, responsibilities with collaterals granted compliance with financial ratios that monitor the financial mainly includes: position of the Company, including its ability to service debt. The Total Net Debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio is the most i) Collateral for crude oil exploration concession agreements frequently used and as at 31 December 2017 was 0,95x in have been granted to the Brazilian Agency of Petroleum, accordance with the methodology stated in the contracts. The Natural Gas and Biofuels (“ANP”), in the amount of €13 m. ratio stipulated in the contracts without is in general terms of The collateral has been granted in connection with the 3,5 – 3,75 x EBITDA; and performance of the Minimum Exploration Programs, where Galp, as consortium member, is required to perform certain ii) Galp Group has medium and long-term contracts with Gas seismic and drilling well activities during the exploration suppliers and Gas clients, which guarantee a minimum of period; acquisitions and sales, guaranteeing a good operational performance. ii) Collateral granted to Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (“Petrobrás”) in the amount of €82 m to guarantee the gas supply contract from the The valued contractual commitments are presented below: development modules of Lula Pilot and Lula NE. Unit: €m iii) Under the financing of the Coral South FLNG project, Galp 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Post-2022 Energia SGPS SA shall provide a guarantee (DSU-Debt Service Natural Undertaking agreement) on the total outstanding amount at gas 1.247 1.217 1.219 658 555 1.871 each moment in proportion to its participation. This guarantee purchases expires at the time of the Actual Completion Date (estimated for the year 2024) if no obligations are outstanding under the These amounts refer to contractual commitments to purchase DSU. As of December 31, 2017, Galp’s stake on the responsibility natural gas under long-term contracts with Take-or-Pay clauses amounted to €84 m. negotiated and held for own use. These contracts are normally Annual Report and Accounts 2017 299 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world iv) Also within the scope of this financing, Galp Energia SGPS Due to the acquisition in previous years of licences to cover CO2 SA provides a guarantee covering 1/9 of the DSU on behalf emission liabilities, Petrogal recognised a cost of €8m as an of ENH (“Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos” and one of expense in the year (Note 7). consortium members of Coral South FLNG project), which corresponds to the Galp’s share on the consortium excluding As of 31 December 2017, the pro-forma values of greenhouse gas ENH. As of December 31, 2017, Galp’s stake on the responsibility emissions were below assigned and acquired licences. Thus, no taken on regarding ENH amounted to €9 m. accruals were made to the additional costs mentioned above. 27. Financial assets and liabilities at book 29. Subsequent events value and fair value The carrying amount and fair value of the financial assets and Accounting policy liabilities presented in Statement of Financial Position are the same for most of the cases. However, due to difficulties in the Events that occur after the financial statements date that settlement of the fair value, financial assets available for sale provide additional information on conditions that existed (which are equity instruments not admitted to listing on regulated at the end of the reporting period are recorded in the markets) are recorded at acquisition cost as referred in the consolidated financial statements. Events that occur after respective note. For the bond loans recognised in the Financial the financial statements date that provide information on Position, their fair value is €1,555 m as of December 31, 2017 and conditions that exist after the financial statements date, €1,743 as of December 31, 2016, and were measured based on if material, are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated observable market variables, being the classification in the Fair financial statements. Value hierarchy Level 2 (see fair value hierarchy in Note 22). 28. Information on environmental matters Change in accounting policy for the Exploration and Production (E&P) activity with effect from January 1, 2018 Accounting policy In accordance with the accounting policy followed from 1999 to CO2 emitted by the Group’s industrial plants and the “CO2 date for E&P activity, Galp capitalises the exploration expenses, in emission licences” attributed to it under the National CO2 accordance with IFRS 6 ‘Exploration and evaluation of mineral Licence Allotment Plan do not give rise to any financial resources’, which are depreciated in the event of commercial statement recognition provided that: (i) it is not estimated viable discoveries, over the production period. that there will probably be a need for costs to be incurred by the Group to acquire emission licences in the market, As an interim standard, IFRS 6 provides for a voluntary change which would be recognised by the booking of an accrual in the accounting policy defined at the date of the first adoption or (ii) it is not estimated that such licences are sold. In the of IFRS, continuing also to allow that this new policy does not event that these excessive licences are sold, income would fully comply with the IFRS conceptual framework, as long as be recognised. it complies with paragraph 13 of IFRS 6, which requires the information provided by the new policy to be more relevant and reliable. Emissions during the year 2017 amounted to 3,589,981 TON/ Galp believes that the new accounting policy being adopted CO2, being the EUA’s securities held by the Galp Group of is more reliable, as it considers a more prudent approach and 3,594,177 TON/CO2, which are sufficient to meet Galp Group’s provides better comparability with other companies as it is commitments. adopted by all major IOC´s (International Oil Company) . Galp holds in its portfolio Futures on CO2 maturiting in December 2018, which represents 400,000 Ton/CO2. 300 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Thus, with effect from January 1, 2018, Galp will recognise as Galp agreement with ExxonMobil for farm-down in operating cost all expenditures incurred in the exploration phase Namibia (ie exploration and evaluation assets) related to exploration, ie expenditures related to geology and geophysics studies (G&G) and Galp is in the process of farming-down a 40% participating general and administrative expenses (G&A). Other exploration interest in the Petroleum Exploration Licence (PEL) 82 in Namibia phase expenditures, namely Exploratory Wells, are capitalised in to an ExxonMobil subsidiary. assets in progress, which are subject to periodic impairment tests, recognising however dry wells as cost for the year. At the start of Following the conclusion of the transaction, both Galp and production, capitalised costs are depreciated based on the present ExxonMobil will hold a 40% interest in the licence, and Galp will depreciation policy. maintain the operatorship. The National Petroleum Corporation of Namibia (NAMCOR) and Custos, a local Namibian company, In addition to the costs related to the exploration phase each hold a 10% stake in the licence. mentioned above, the overhead expenses related to general and administrative expenses (G&A) carried forward, in accordance The licence is located in the Walvis basin and covers an area of with the previous accounting policy, from the exploration phase to 11,444 km2 in water depths ranging from 300 m to 2,000 m. the development phase, will be adjusted in equity according to the adoption of the new accounting policy. The transaction conclusion is subject to satisfaction of customary conditions precedent, including the approval of the relevant Being a voluntary change in accounting policy, the referred competent Namibian authorities. accounting policy will be retrospectively applied in accordance with IAS 8 and comparative information restated. Acquisition of a 20% interest in an exploratory block of the 15th licitation round of oilblocks in Brazil The expected effect on Shareholders’ Equity on January 1, 2018 is detailed as follows: The group acquired in 29th March, 2018 a stake of 20% in block C-M-791 in the basin of Campos, which has a pre-salt play Unit: €m potential. The work commitment for the exploration period of Equity on 01/01/2018 – Current policy* 4,619 7 years includes the acquisition of 3D seismic and the drilling of Exploration and appraisal assets an exploration well. This block has Shell (as operator) and Chevron G&G e Seismic (118) as partners with an individual stake of 40% each. G&A (75) Others (73) Development Assets G&A (54) Others (1) Capitalized interest: (43) Deferred tax: 62 Equity on 01/01/2018 – New policy* 4,317 Equity impact (302) *Amount similar to total equity as of December 2017. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 301 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 30. IFRS standards adopted and to be adopted 30.1. IFRS standards published by IASB The IFRS standards published by IASB, with accounting application foreseen after 2017, as well as the approval status by the European Union (EU) are summarised in the following tables: Standard, Amendments to Standards and Interpretations published by the IASB but not yet approved by the EU: Publication date Expected date Financial year IAS Standards on IASB of EU approval in which it applies Observations Annual improvements in the 12/DEC/2017 2018 2019 No predictable impact. IFRS cycle 2015-2017 Impact. still to be determined. with the application IFRS 17: Insurance Contracts 18/MAY/2017 No date set 2021 of the standard. IFRIC 23: uncertainty over 07/JUN/2017 2018 2019 No significant accounting impacts. income tax treatments Amendments to IAS 28: Investments in associates and 12/OUT/2017 2018 2019 No predictable impact. joint ventures Amendments to IFRS 9: Prepayment with negative 12/OUT/2017 2018 2019 Predictable impact when such payments exist. compensation Amendments to IFRS 2 Amendments: Share-based 20/JUN/2016 1Q 2018 2018 Not applicable Payment Annual improvements in the 08/DEC/2016 1Q 2018 2018 No significant accounting impacts. IFRS cycle 2014-2016 IFRIC 22: Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance 08/DEC/2016 1Q 2018 2018 No predictable impact. consideration Amendments to IAS 40: 08/DEC/2016 1Q 2018 2018 No predictable impact. Investment Properties Standard, Amendments to Standards and Interpretations endorsed by the European Union to be applied in subsequent years, if applicable: Publication date Financial year IAS Standards on EU in which it applies Observations IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments 29/NOV/2016 2018 Impacts detailed in Note 30.2. Clarification to IFRS 15: Customer contract awards 09/NOV/2017 2018 Impacts detailed in Note 30.2. IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers 29/OCT/2016 2018 Impacts detailed in Note 30.2. Amendments IFRS 4: Insurance contracts in IFRS 9 09/NOV/2017 2018 No predictable impact. and IFRS 4 application Ongoing project to determine and evaluate IFRS 16: Leases 09/NOV/2017 2019 accounting impacts. Standard, Amendments to Standards and Interpretations published by the IASB and approved by the EU, which entered in force on 2017: Publication date Financial year IAS Standards on EU in which it applies Observations Impact on the disclosures in the notes to Amendments to IAS 7: Disclosures review 09/NOV/2017 2017 consolidated accounts. Amendments IAS 12: Recognition of deferred tax assets 09/NOV/2017 2017 Without impact 302 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Standards, amendments to standards and As already provided in IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’, financial Interpretations published by IASB but still not guarantee contracts may be included under IFRS 17 as long as endorsed by the European Union: they are classified as insurance contracts. For fixed rate service contracts, whose objective is the provision of services, the option Annual improvements in the IFRS cycle 2015-2017 in accounting according to IFRS 17 or IFRS 15 ‘ Revenue from Contracts whith Costumers’ is established. • IAS 23 – Borrowing costs With the approval by the European Union, this standard will This improvement clarifies that specific loans obtained that are replace the current IFRS 4, which is being applied to the Group’s still in place, after the qualifying assets to which they relate are in insurance activity. their use or sale condition should be added to the generic loans to determine the average capitalisation interest rate on other Galp considers premature to determine possible impacts of this qualifying assets. new standard, as it may still be subject to future changes. • IAS 12 – Income taxes IFRIC 23 uncertainty over income tax treatments This improvement clarifies that the tax impacts of dividends are Interpretation aims to clarify how to apply the recognition and recognised on the date the entity recognises the responsibility measurement requirements of IAS 12 ‘Income Tax’ when there is for the dividends payment, which are recognised in the income uncertainty over the fiscal framework of a transaction. statement for the year, other comprehensive income or equity, depending on the underlying transaction or event. In these situations, the entity shall make the best estimate and record the income tax assets or liabilities in accordance with • IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IAS 12 ‘Income Tax’, based on the expected value or the most probable amount and not in accordance with IAS 37 ‘Provisions, These improvements clarify that: (i) when gaining control over a Liabilities and Contingent Assets’. business that is a joint venture, the interests held previously by the investor are remeasured at fair value; and (ii) where an investor in Galp considers that the interpretation has no accounting impact a joint venture, which does not exercise joint control, obtains joint on the financial statements, to the extent that Galp already control over a joint transaction that is a business, the interest held accounts in accordance with such interpretation, as clarified in previously is not remeasured. the accounting policy regarding tax provisions. Galp considers that the amendments to IAS 23 intended to Amendments to IAS 28: Investments in Associates and Joint clarify the existing standard and have no material effects on the Ventures measurement or presentation of the financial statements. With regard to the amendments to IAS 12, Galp stipulates that they will This amendment clarifies that an entity should apply IFRS 9 – not have an accounting impact on the financial statements. As Financial instruments to long-term investments in associates for the amendments to IFRS 3 and IFRS 11, Galp foresees that the or joint ventures for which no equity model is applied, either on amendments may have potential future impacts. initial recognition, or subsequently, being applied the estimated credit losses model. IFRS 17 Insurance contracts Galp considers that the amendments referred above clarify The standard applies to all entities that issue insurance the standards in force, not presenting relevant impacts on the contracts, reinsurance contracts and investment contracts with measurement or presentation of financial statements. discretionary participation characteristics and is based on the current measurement of technical liabilities at each reporting date. Such measurement can be based on a complete model (building block approach) or a simplified model (premium allocation approach). Annual Report and Accounts 2017 303 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Amendments to IFRS 9: Prepayment features with negative • IAS 28 – Investments in associates and joint ventures compensation This improvement clarifies that the option to measure, on initial According to IFRS 9 published in November 2016, when an recognition, at fair value through profit and loss, the investments instrument does not pass the SPPI (Solely Payments of Principal in associates or joint ventures held by a venture capital and Interest) test, it should be measured at fair value through organisation is assessed for each investment, on a standalone profit or loss. The amendment to IFRS 9 allows, subject to certain basis, without requirements of consistency for each class of conditions, that in the case of prepayments with negative investments. compensation, the condition of the SPPI is exceeded, and the instrument is measured at amortised cost. Galp considers that the amendments referred above clarify the standards in force, not presenting relevant impacts on the Galp considers that these amendments will only have impacts measurement or presentation of financial statements. when there are situations of early payments with negative compensations, however they are not recurring situations. IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration Amendments to IFRS 2: Share based payments This interpretation intends to determine the date of transaction This amendment clarifies the measurement basis for cash-settled, which defines the exchange rate used to translate the foreign share-based payments and the accounting for modifications to currency transactions. The Interpretation is applied when an a share-based payment plan that change the classification from entity either pays or receives consideration in advance for foreign cash-settled to equity-settled. currency denominated contracts and defines that: It also introduces an exception to the basis of IFRS 2 that will i) The transaction date, for determination of the exchange rate, require a shared based plan to be treated as if it was wholly equityis the date of initial recognition of the non-financial asset or settled, where an employer is obliged to withhold in shares an the non-financial liability resulting from the consideration in amount for the employee’s tax obligation associated with a shareadvance. based payment and pay that amount to the tax authority. ii) If several payments or receipts in advance are noted, a date of This amendment has no accounting impact in Galp’ financial transaction is established for each payment or receipt. statements, has there are no share-based payment plans. Galp considers that this Interpretation has no accounting Annual improvements in the IFRS cycle 2014-2016 impact in its financial statements, as Galp is already performing accounting in accordance with this Interpretation. • IFRS 1 – First time adoption of IFRS Amendments to IAS 40: Investment Property This improvement on IFRS 1 deletes the short-term exemptions for IFRS 7, IFRS 10 and IAS 19 as they were no longer applicable, for This amendment clarifies that when assets are transferred to, or first time adopters of IFRS. from investment properties, the evidence of the change in use is required to conclude on the change of use of an investment • IFRS 12 – Disclosure of interest in other entities property there should be an evaluation to confirme that the property meets the definition established in the standard. A The improvement clarifies the scope of application of the change of management intention itself is not sufficient to support standard, specifying that disclosure requirements apply to a transfer. share interests in entities covered by the standard (ie subsidiary, joint arrangement, associate and unconsolidated structured Galp estimates that the amendment will not have an accounting entities) held for sale or as discontinued operations, and that the impact on its financial statements. only exemption relates to the disclosure of the summary of the financial information of these entities. 304 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 Standards, amendments to standards and revenue when the contractual obligation to deliver the goods interpretations endorsed by the European Union, to or services is satisfied and by the amount that reflects the be applied in subsequent years, if applicable: consideration the entity is expected to be entitled to, following a five step approach. IFRS 9 – Financial instruments The estimated accounting impacts arising from the adoption of IFRS 9 replaces the guidance in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: this new standard and the accounting policy currently adopted by recognition and measurement, regarding: Galp are detailed in Note 30.2. i) the classification and measurement of financial assets, Amendments to IFRS 4: Insurance Contracts, in the introducing a simplification in the classification based on the application of IFRS 9 and IFRS 4 business model defined by the management; In response to the volatility resulting from the application of IFRS ii) the recognition of “own credit risk” in the fair value measurement 9 to insurance contracts under IFRS 4, these amendments allow of liabilities classified as voluntarily measured at fair value; two different solutions for insurance companies: a temporary exemption from IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ for entities iii) the recognition of credit impairment (based on the expected meeting specific requirements (applied at reporting entity level); credit losses model), replacing the incurred losses model; and and the “overlay approach”. iv) the hedge accounting requirements, which is intended to be Both the temporary exemption and the overlay approach will no more aligned with the economical rationale for risk hedging longer apply when the new IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’ policy defined by the management comes into force, with insurance companies having the option to cease this exemption before that date. The estimated accounting impacts arising from the adoption of this new standard and the accounting policy currently followed by Galp believes that these amendments will have no impact on the Galp are detailed in Note 30.2. financial statements. Clarification to IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with IFRS 16 – Leases customers This standard specifies how leases should be recognised, The amendments refers to: (i) additional instructions for measured, presented and disclosed. The standard provides a determining the performance obligations of a contract, the timing single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise for revenue recognition of an intellectual property licence; (ii) assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 the review of the indicators for the classification of the principal months or less or the underlying asset has an imaterial value. versus agent relationship and (iii) the new arrangements Lessors continue to classify leases as operating or finance, with established to simplify the transition. IFRS 16’s approach to lessor accounting substantially unchanged from its predecessor, IAS 17. The estimated accounting impacts arising from the adoption of this new standard and the accounting policy currently followed by In order to evaluate the impacts arising from the changes provided Galp are detailed in Note 30.2. for in this standard, a project is currently underway based on the exhaustive analysis of all the contracts that underlie the “use” of IFRS 15 – Revenue from contracts with customers an asset. Galp is still determining and quantifying the impacts of this new standard on its activities. This new standard applies only to contracts with customers to provide goods or services, and requires an entity to recognise Annual Report and Accounts 2017 305 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Standards, amendments to standards and 30.2. Changes in accounting policies by the interpretations published by the IASB and approved introduction of new IFRS standards by the EU, which entered into force in 2017: As a result of the IASB approval of IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ IAS 7 – Statement of Cash Flows: Disclosures and IFRS 15 ‘ Revenue from Contracts with Customer ‘, Galp, from January 1, 2018, will recognise in accounting the requirements of Requires an entity to disclose a reconciliation between the the new regulations . changes in financial liabilities with the cash flows (financing activities), namely: IFRS 9 replaces IAS 39 ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ and introduces divisible changes into three major i) Changes in financing cash flows; blocks: ii)  hanges arising from obtaining or losing control on C • Classification and measurement simplifies the classification in subsidiaries or other businesses; only three categories depending on the nature of the respective contractual cash flows and the business model associated with iii) The effect of changes in exchange rates; their holding (amortised cost, fair value through profit or loss and fair value through other comprehensive income); iv) Changes in fair value; and • Hedge accounting presents an approach based on principles, v) Other non-monetary changes. not so much on rules, whose main objective is to align hedge accounting with the entities’ risk management practices; The impact of this amendment on disclosures is presented in the notes to the financial statements. • Impairment of financial assets introduces a set of significant changes in the methodology for calculating and reporting Amendments to IAS 12: Income taxes impairment losses, changing the method of estimating losses from operations to the expected loss model where credit risk The amendments in IAS 12 refers to the recognition of deferred assessment is required since the initial recognition. tax assets for unrealised losses, and clarifies the following aspects: With respect to the transition from IAS 39 to IFRS 9 and in i) Unrealised losses on debt instruments measured at fair value accordance with the possibility expressed in paragraph 7.2.15 of or measured at cost for tax purposes give rise to a deductible IFRS 9, Galp will apply the effects of this standard retrospectively temporary difference regardless of whether the debt instrument’s with the cumulative effect on the initial recognition an holder expects to recover the carrying amount of the debt adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings for the instrument by sale or by use. annual reporting period beginning on January 1, 2018. ii) The carrying amount of an asset does not limit the estimation IFRS 15 defines a unique and robust model to be used by entities in of its future realisable value, which can be higher. revenue recognition, improving comparability among companies, jurisdictions, industries and capital markets, by simplifying and iii) Estimates for future taxable profits exclude tax deductions improving information for readers of the financial statements. resulting from the reversal of deductible temporary differences. iv) An entity assesses a deferred tax asset in combination with other deferred tax assets. Where tax law restricts the utilisation of tax losses, an entity would assess a deferred tax asset in combination with other deferred tax assets of the same type. This clarification had no impact on the deferred tax calculations and recognition performed. 306 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 In conceptual terms, IFRS 15 is distinguished, essentially, from the previous revenue standard, IAS 18, in the following aspects: • IFRS 15 is based on a single revenue recognition model applicable to all customer contracts, known as the 5-step model, rather than the 5 different revenue recognition models referred by IAS 18 (goods, services, interest , royalties and dividends); and • The IFRS 15 revenue recognition model is based on the concept of control, that is, recognition of revenue as control over goods and services is transferred to the customer, rather than the concept of significant transfer of risks and benefits referred by IAS 18. With its approval by the IASB and the European Union, this standard replaces the following standards / interpretations: IAS 11 ‘Construction Contracts’, IAS 18 ‘Revenue’, SIC 31 ‘Barter Transactions Involving Advertising Services’ , IFRIC 13 ‘Customer Loyalty Programmes’, IFRIC 15 ‘Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate’ and IFRIC 18 ‘Transfers of Assets from Costumers’. With respect to the transition from IAS 18 to IFRS 15 and in accordance with the possibility expressed in paragraph C3 of IFRS 15, Galp will apply the effects of this standard retrospectively with the cumulative effect of the initial recognition presented as an adjustment to the opening balance sheet of retained earnings for the annual reporting period beginning on January 1, 2018. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 307 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The accounting impacts expected in the opening balance retained earnings on January 1, 2018 are detailed as follows: (Amounts stated in millions Euros€m) IFRS 9 IFRS 15 IFRS 15 January 2018 Assets January 2018* adjustments adjustments Reclassification (adjusted) Non-current assets: Tangible assets 5,554 (1) 5,553 Goodwill 84 84 Intangible assets 410 410 Investments in associates and joint ventures 1,483 1,483 Financial assets available for sale 3 3 Other receivables 254 (1) 1 254 Deferred tax assets 293 1 294 Other financial investments 32 32 Total non-current assets: 8,113 8,112 Current assets: Inventories 970 970 Trade receivables 1,018 (3) 1,015 Loans to Sinopec 459 459 Other receivables 531 531 Other financial investments 66 66 Income tax receivables 4 4 Cash and cash equivalents 1,197 1,197 4,245 (3) 4,242 Non-current assets held for sale Total current assets: 4,245 (3) 4,242 Total assets: 12,358 (3) 12,355 IFRS 9 IFRS 15 IFRS 15 January 2018 Equity and Liabilities January 2018* adjustments adjustments Reclassification (adjusted) Equity: Share capital 829 829 Own Shares 82 82 Share premium 2,506 2,506 Reserves 588 588 Retained earnings 614 (3) 611 Consolidated net income for the period Total equity attributable to shareholders: 4,619 (3) 4,616 Non-controlling interests 1,461 1,461 Total equity: 6,080 (3) 6,077 Liabilities: Non-current liabilities: Bank loans 937 937 Bonds 1,595 1,595 Other payables 286 286 Post-employment and other employee benefits liabilities 326 326 Deferred tax liabilities 82 82 Other financial instruments 3 3 Provisions 619 619 Total non-current liabilities: 3,848 3,848 Current liabilities: Bank loans and overdrafts 159 159 Bonds 392 392 Trade payables 889 889 Other payables 854 854 Other financial instruments 21 21 Current income tax payables 115 115 2,430 2,430 Liabilities associated with Non-current assets held for sale Total current liabilities: 2,430 2,430 Total liabilities: 6,278 6,278 Total equity and liabilities: 12,358 (3) 12,355 * Similar amounts to the balance sheet of the Galp Group as of December 31, 2017. 308 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.1. Financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2017 The adjustments presented above refer essentially to: Recalculation of impairment on trade receivables according to the “estimated credit losses” model, in accordance with the application of IFRS 9; and Readjustment of the amount recognised in revenue related to contracts of combined sales of goods with associated services, in accordance with the application of IFRS 15. Without effects on the statement of financial position, but only at the level of presentation in the income statement, as from January 1, 2018 the underlifting and overlifting positions arising from the E&P activity will be recognised in results as other operating income and other operating costs instead of being recognised in the operating gross margin, in accordance with the application of IFRS 15. 31. Approval of the financial statements The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 13 April 2018. However, they are still subject to approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders, in accordance with the commercial law in place in Portugal. The Board of Directors believes that these financial statements reflect in a true and fair manner the Group’s operations, financial performance and cash flows. Chairman: Paula Amorim Vice-Chairmen: Miguel Athayde Marques Carlos Gomes da Silva Members: Filipe Crisóstomo Silva Thore E. Kristiansen Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo Abdul Magid Osman Marta Amorim Raquel Vunge Carlos Costa Pina Francisco Rêgo Jorge Seabra de Freitas José Carlos Silva Pedro Ricardo Tiago Câmara Pestana Rui Paulo Gonçalves Luís Todo Bom Diogo Tavares Joaquim Borges Gouveia The Accountant: Carlos Alberto Nunes Barata 32. Explanation added for translation These financial statements are a translation of the financial statements originally issued in Portuguese in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union some of which may not conform to generally accepted accounting principles in other countries. In the event of discrepancies, the Portuguese language version prevails. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 309 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 8.2. Supplementary oil and gas information (unaudited) The following information is presented in accordance with Extractive Activities – Oil & Gas (Topic 932) of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). Operating income from E&P activities Operating income from E&P activities by geography, for the years 2017, 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Unit: €k Africa Latin America Rest of the world Total 31 December 2017 Consolidated total contribution Sales 107,040 1,283,800 1,390,840 Production costs (25,155) (149,196) (174,351) Royalties (129,784) (129,784) Other operating costs (5,005) (93,845) (63) (98,913) Exploration costs (5,085) (23,983) (29,069) Depreciation, amortisation and provisions for the period (126,988) (296,108) (423,096) Operating income before tax for the E&P activities (50,108) 609,781 (24,046) 535,627 Income tax 8,063 (350,478) 5,707 (336,708) Operating income for the E&P activities (42,045) 259,304 (18,340) 198,919 31 December 2016 Consolidated total contribution Sales 105,512 705,409 810,921 Production costs (27,870) (95,754) (123,625) Royalties (70,749) (70,749) Other operating costs (25,076) (66,528) 60 (91,543) Exploration costs (29,318) (48) (29,366) Depreciation, amortisation and provisions for the period (245,341) (275,043) (520,384) Operating income before tax for the E&P activities (192,775) 168,017 12 (24,747) Income tax (7,543) (147,958) (4) (155,505) Operating income for the E&P activities (200,318) 20,058 8 (180,251) 31 December 2015 Consolidated total contribution Sales 110,991 507,094 618,085 Production costs (35,586) (71,969) (107,555) Royalties (49,777) (49,777) Other operating costs (4,885) (62,015) (1) (66,901) Exploration costs (17,232) (55,310) 41 (72,500) Depreciation, amortisation and provisions for the period (151,053) (164,522) (315,575) Operating income before tax for the E&P activities (97,765) 103,501 40 5,777 Income tax (2,349) (92,475) 10 (94,814) Operating income for the E&P activities (100,114) 11,027 50 (89,037) 310 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.2. Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas (unaudited) Sales from production includes revenues from the production and sale of oil and natural gas. Production costs include direct production costs associated with blocks which are currently in production, namely costs relating to the operation and maintenance of wells, equipment related to the support facilities for the extraction of oil and gas operations, collecting system and other general and administrative costs related to production. This caption is presented net of income regarding leasing of production equipment, registered in companies that are not fully consolidated in the Group. The following deductions were made: €67,250 k in 2017, €42,328 k in 2016, and €32,283 k in 2015. Other operating costs include the responsibility for R&D associated with production activities in Brazil, as well as overhead costs pertaining to areas directly related to exploration and production activities. This caption excludes general corporate overhead costs related to Group companies, in accordance with FASB Topic 932, and includes costs recorded in companies that are not fully consolidated in the amount of €4,368 k in 2017, €8,717 k in 2016 and €7,159 k in 2015. Exploration costs correspond to exploration impairments, namely costs of dry wells or asset impairments following the decision to relinquish exploration licenses, in accordance with the accounting policy described in Note 2.3 Tangible Assets from the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Amortisation, depreciation and provisions for the period include costs recorded in companies that are not fully consolidated and which amounted to €22,625 k in 2017, €96,565 k in 2016 and €8,597 k in 2015. In 2016, the amount included impairments related to the transfer of contracts for the construction of hulls related to replicant FPSOs in Brazil. Operating income does not include overhead costs and financial costs, in accordance with FASB Topic 932. The caption “Taxes” includes: oil tax payable in Africa, the Special Participation Tax (SPT) applicable to blocks in Brazil, and income tax in accordance the applicable tax laws applicable in each country. The amount of taxes has been adjusted to exclude overheads and financial costs that were excluded from operating income. Capital expenditure in E&P activities Capital expenditure in E&P activities by geography, for the years 2017, 2016 and 2015 is as follows: Unit: €k Africa Latin America Rest of the world Total 31 December 2017 Consolidated total contributions Acquisitions without proved reserves 151,023 151,023 Exploration 24,005 14,694 5,926 44,625 Development 185,110 471,047 656,157 Total incurred in the period 209,115 636,764 5,926 851,805 31 December 2016 Consolidated total contributions Acquisitions without proved reserves Exploration 10,319 27,425 (700) 37,044 Development 255,257 746,717 1,001,974 Total incurred in the period 265,576 774,142 (700) 1,039,017 31 December 2015 Consolidated total contributions Acquisitions without proved reserves Exploration 14,145 72,846 6,879 93,870 Development 303,558 705,469 1,009,027 Total incurred in the period 317,703 778,314 6,879 1,102,896 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 311 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Amounts reported include capitalised costs and costs charged Investments are stated in the Group’s functional currency. to expense when incurred for the acquisition, exploration and For companies where the functional currency is not the Euro, development of oil and gas property. The exploration costs assets were accounted for at the corresponding exchange rate presented above include drilling and equipment costs for at the end of the year, in accordance with the accounting policy exploration wells and geological and geophysical expenses. defined in paragraph 2.12 of the Notes to the consolidated Development costs include drilling costs and equipment financial statements. In 2017, an exchange rate of 3.9729 EUR:BRL for development wells, as well as the construction of related was considered for assets in Brazil and an exchange rate equipment. of 1.1993 EUR:USD was considered for assets in Africa. Amounts in the caption “Development” include assets which Capitalised interests were not included in capital expenditure. are related to transport and production equipment for block BM-S-11 in Brazil and Area 4 in Mozambique, recorded in companies consolidated by the equity method, in the amount of €173,133 k in 2017, €167,062 k in 2016 and €213,928 k in 2015. 312 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.2. Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas (unaudited) Cumulative investments in E&P activities Cumulative investments include total expenditure in the acquisition of proved or unproved reserves and in exploration and development activities of blocks in which Galp holds a stake. Exploration costs are fully capitalised in accordance with Note 2.3 Tangible Assets from the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Dry wells are recognized as costs and included in the table below, as are impairments. Relinquished blocks are written-off from assets, and consequently, are not included in this information. Cumulative investments in E&P activities which are reflected in the Group’s financial position are as follows: Unit: €k Africa Latin America Rest of the world Total 31 December 2017 Consolidated total contributions Assets with proved reserves Fixed assets 1,159,279 2,244,068 3,403,347 Incomplete wells (assets in progress) 923,388 1,158,494 2,081,882 Assets without proved reserves 301,727 490,772 51,119 843,618 Support equipment 312 16,472 39 16,824 Gross cumulative investment 2,384,706 3,909,806 51,159 6,345,671 Cumulative amortizations, depreciations and impairments (1,163,616) (690,526) (14,222) (1,868,364) Net cumulative investments 1,221,091 3,219,281 36,936 4,477,308 31 December 2016 Consolidated total contributions Assets with proved reserves Fixed assets 1,260,992 1,654,878 2,915,870 Incomplete wells (assets in progress) 61,638 1,512,181 1,573,819 Assets without proved reserves 1,175,317 468,240 62,396 1,705,954 Support equipment 9,711 5,350 39 15,100 Gross cumulative investment 2,507,658 3,640,649 62,436 6,210,742 Cumulative amortizations, depreciations and impairments (1,364,328) (513,867) (12,470) (1,890,665) Net cumulative investments 1,143,330 3,126,782 49,966 4,320,077 31 December 2015 Consolidated total contributions Assets with proved reserves Fixed assets 1,181,999 812,503 1,994,502 Incomplete wells (assets in progress) 83,314 1,178,631 1,261,945 Assets without proved reserves 993,675 392,039 63,096 1,448,810 Support equipment 7,829 4,595 12,424 Gross cumulative investment 2,266,817 2,387,768 63,096 4,717,681 Cumulative amortizations, depreciations and impairments (1,164,176) (224,935) (12,421) (1,401,532) Net cumulative investments 1,102,641 2,162,834 50,675 3,316,150 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 313 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Investments were classified in accordance to the following Oil and gas reserves assumptions: 1. Assets with Proved Reserves (PR or 1P): assets related to fields Total proved reserves (1P) on 31 December 2017, 2016 and 2015 which hold proved reserves at the end of each year. which are presented in the tables below, include developed and undeveloped proved reserves. These reserves were determined 1.1 Fixed assets with PR: assets related with fields which hold by the independent entity DeMac, whose methodology is in proved reserves at the end of each year, already producing accordance with the PMRS, approved in March 2007 by the Society and subject to depreciation; of Petroleum Engineers (SPE), the World Petroleum Council (WPC), 1.2 Work in progress with PR (incomplete wells): assets related the American Association of Petroleum Geologists and the Society with fields with proved reserves at the end of each year, of Petroleum Evaluation Engineers. which are not yet in production. Proven reserves are the quantities of oil and gas that, by analysis 2. Assets without PR: assets related with fields without proved of geosciences and engineering data, can be estimated with reserves, at the end of each year. reasonable certainty to be commercially recoverable in 3. Support equipment: basic and administrative equipment accordance with defined economic considerations, operational allocated to E&P activities. methods, and government regulations. Amounts in the following captions include assets related to Proven reserves include estimated quantities related to transport and production equipment for block BM-S-11 in Brazil production sharing contracts (PSC) that are reported under the and Area 4 in Mozambique, accounted for in companies which net entitlement method (which is subject to fluctuations in were consolidated through the equity method. Under fixed assets commodity prices and recoverable costs), as well as estimated with PR, it is accounted €586,724 k in 2017, €419,056 k in 2016 quantities related to concessions (royalty regime) in which the and €255,736 k in 2015. Under assets in progress, it is accounted net entitlement corresponds to the working interest. As of €554,331 k in 2017, €647,651 k in 2016 and €542,601 k in 2015. Under December 31, 2017 approximately 21% of the total proved cumulative amortisations, depreciations and impairments it is reserves are related to PSC located in Africa. recorded €52,587 k in 2017, €60,554 k in 2016 and €17,063 k in 2015. As required by Topic 932, the economic limit of reserves is based In the table above, cumulative investments are stated in the on the average prices of the last 12 months and current costs. Group’s functional currency. Regarding companies whose The economic cut-off date affects the reserve estimate. Therefore, functional currency is not the Euro, assets were updated taking as prices and cost levels change from year to year, the estimate into account the corresponding exchange rate at the end of proved reserves may also change. of the year, in accordance with the accounting policy defined in paragraph 2.12 of the notes to the consolidated financial The reference price used to determine the Company’s net statements. In 2017, an exchange rate of 3.9729 EUR:BRL entitlement reserves, which are those to be developed as per the was considered for assets in Brazil and an exchange rate agreements signed for the exploration and production activity, of 1.1993 EUR:USD was considered for assets in Africa. was $54.27/bbl, $43.69/bbl and $52.46/bbl and corresponds to the average market price of Brent for 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 314 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.2. Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas (unaudited) Reserves associated with blocks in Brazil correspond to 100% of the stake held by Petrogal Brasil in those blocks, since this company is fully consolidated in the Galp Group. The impacts of PSC (price effect and/or change in recoverable costs) in reserves associated with this type of agreements are reflected in the caption “Revisions of previous estimates”. Oil reserves (1P proved reserves) Unit: kbbl Africa Latin America Total 2017 Reserves on 31 December 2016 7,247 227,598 234,845 Developed 5,915 72,530 78,445 Undeveloped 1,332 155,068 156,400 Extensions and discoveries Acquisitions and sales Revisions of previous estimates 16,971 61,456 Production (2,181) (26,896) Reserves on 31 December 2017 22,037 262,159 284,196 Developed 4,740 109,143 113,883 Undeveloped 17,297 153,016 170,313 2016 Reserves on 31 December 2015 8,409 228,164 236,573 Developed 7,075 47,455 54,530 Undeveloped 1,334 180,709 182,043 Extensions and discoveries Acquisitions and sales Revisions of previous estimates 1,509 18,647 20,156 Production (2,671) (19,213) (21,884) Reserves on 31 December 2016 7,247 227,598 234,845 Developed 5,915 72,530 78,445 Undeveloped 1,332 155,068 156,400 2015 Reserves on 31 December 2014 7,817 195,549 203,366 Developed 6,426 37,210 43,636 Undeveloped 1,391 158,339 159,730 Extensions and discoveries Acquisitions and sales Revisions of previous estimates 3,164 44,569 47,733 Production (2,572) (11,954) (14,526) Reserves on 31 December 2015 8,409 228,164 236,573 Developed 7,075 47,455 54,530 Undeveloped 1,334 180,709 182,043 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 315 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Gas reserves (proved reserves 1P) Natural gas reserves are presented in millions of cubic feet (mmscf), with one barrel of oil equivalent (boe) corresponding to 6,000 cubic feet of gas. Unit: mmscf Africa Latin America Total 2017 Reserves on 31 December 2016 235,474 235,474 Developed 68,579 68,579 Undeveloped 166,895 166,895 Extensions and discoveries Acquisitions and sales Revisions of previous estimates 339,054 42,782 381,836 Production (25,906) Reserves on 31 December 2017 339,054 252,350 591,404 Developed 119,267 119,267 Undeveloped 339,054 133,083 472,137 2016 Reserves on 31 December 2015 236,250 236,250 Developed 52,501 52,501 Undeveloped 183,749 183,749 Extensions and discoveries Acquisitions and sales Revisions of previous estimates 10,855 10,855 Production (11,631) (11,631) Reserves on 31 December 2016 235,474 235,474 Developed 68,579 68,579 Undeveloped 166,895 166,895 2015 Reserves on 31 December 2014 174,008 174,008 Developed 27,941 27,941 Undeveloped 146,067 146,067 Extensions and discoveries Acquisitions and sales Revisions of previous estimates 68,966 68,966 Production (6,724) (6,724) Reserves on 31 December 2015 236,250 236,250 Developed 52,501 52,501 Undeveloped 183,749 183,749 316 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.2. Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas (unaudited) Standard measure of discounted future net cash flows The standard measure of discounted future cash flows has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Topic 932 of FASB and corresponds to an economic translation of the proved reserves presented in the previous section. Future cash inflows represent future revenues associated with the production of proved reserves, calculated by applying the average market price of Brent during 2017: $54.27/bbl. Future production costs correspond to the estimated production costs associated with proved reserves. Future royalties are estimated considering production revenue. Future development and abandonment costs correspond to the estimated costs for the development of proved reserves (drilling and installation of production platforms), as well as the estimated costs of field abandonment. Future income taxes include estimates of oil tax payable in Africa calculated according to the existing PSC; SPT (applicable to blocks in Brazil) and income taxes, according to tax laws in each country. The cash flows were calculated in U.S. Dollars and translated into Euros at the average exchange rate of 2017 (1.1297 EUR:USD). Unit: €k Africa Latin America Total 31 December 2017 Future cash inflows 2,790,204 12,626,456 15,416,659 Future production costs (791,446) (2,376,991) (3,168,438) Future royalties (1,399,933) (1,399,933) Future development and abandonment costs (847,906) (797,079) (1,644,985) Future net cash flow before tax 1,150,852 8,052,453 9,203,304 Future income tax (253,911) (4,690,760) (4,944,671) Future net cash flows 896,941 3,361,692 4,258,633 Discount factor (10%) (859,208) (1,305,170) (2,164,377) Standard measure of discounted future cash flows on 31 December 2017 37,733 2,056,523 2,094,256 The principles applied are those required by Topic 932 and do not reflect the expectations of the actual revenues of the reserves nor their present value, and thus do not constitute criteria for investment decision. An estimate of the fair value of reserves should also take into account, among other variables, the recovery of reserves not currently classified as proved, the risks inherent in the estimation of reserves, the expectation of future hydrocarbons price variation and the cost structure, as well as the consideration of an adequate discount factor. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 317 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 8.3. 4. Reporting entities Galp report payments This Report includes payments to Public Administrations made by to governments in 2017 Galp. Payments made by entities over which Galp has joint control and Payments made by entities over which Galp has no control, are excluded from this report. 1. Introduction Galp believes that values such as accountability and good 5. Public Administrations governance are reinforced by supporting the concept of For the purpose of this report, Public administrations include any transparency in revenue flows from oil and gas activities. national, regional or local authority of a European Union member It enables citizens to access the information required to hold State or of a third country, and includes any unit, agency or entity Public Administrations (defined in 5. Public Administrations) that is a subsidiary thereof, which includes a national oil company. accountable for the way they use funds received through taxes and other agreements. 6. Project As a member of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), Payments are reported at project level except any not attributable since 2010, Galp has been working with Public Administrations, to a specific project which are reported at the entity level. non-governmental organizations and international agencies to increase transparency, disclosure and accountability of payments A project is defined as all operational activities governed by (defined in 7. Payments) made to Public Administrations. a single contract, license, lease, concession or similar legal agreement, and forms the basis for payment liabilities to a In addition to the Payments stated in this Report, Galp contributes Public Administration. If such agreements are substantially to the economies of the countries in which it operates as a result interconnected, those agreements are treat as a single project. of other Extractive Activities (concept defined below) by making payments to Public Administrations for example in relation For a fully integrated Project (concept defined below), which does to the transporting, trading, manufacturing and marketing of not have an interim contractual cut off point where a value can products derived from oil and gas. In addition, Galp contributes be ascribed separately to the Extractive activities and to other to the economies of the countries in which it operates, by creating processing activities, payments to Public Administrations will be employment opportunities, purchasing products and services disclosed in full. from local suppliers and undertaking social investment activities. 7. Payments 2. Subject For the purpose of this Report, a Payment is an amount paid in This Report provides an overview of the Payments to Public cash or in kind under the following forms: Administrations by Galp Energia SGPS, S.A., and its subsidaries (hereinafter together referred to as “Galp”), covering the full year Production Entitlements of 2017 whenever such companies make such payments as a result exploration, prospecting, discovery, development and extraction These include the host government’s share of production in the of oil, natural gas deposits or other materials (referred to as reporting period, from projects operated by Galp. This includes “Extractive activities”). the government’s share as a sovereign entity or through its participation as an equity or interest holder in projects within its sovereign jurisdiction (home country). Production 3. Legislation Entitlements arising from activities or interests outside the home This report is prepared in compliance with the provisions of country are excluded. article 245-B of the Portuguese Securities Code and its contents comply with the provisions of chapter 10 of the Directive 2013/34/ For the year ended 31 December, 2017, there were no Production EU transposed to Portuguese law under the Decree-Law n. 98/2015 Entitlement for projects Operated by Galp. (herein together referred to as the applicable “Legislation”). 318 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.3. Galp report payments to Governments in 2017 Taxes 8. Other provisions These are taxes paid by Galp on its income, profits or production Operatorship (which include petroleum income tax in Angola or Corporate income Tax and Special Participation in Brazil), including those When Galp makes a Payment directly to a Public Administration settled by a Public Administration on behalf of Galp under a arising from a Project, the full amount paid is disclosed, even tax-paid concession. Payments are reported net of refunds. Taxes where Galp, as operator, is proportionally reimbursed by its on transactions and on consumption (including but not limited non-operating venture partners through a an invoicing process to Value Added Taxes), personal income taxes, sales taxes, and (cash-call). property taxes are excluded from this Report.. Cash and in-kind payments Royalties Payments are reported on a cash basis meaning that they are These are payments for the rights to extract oil and gas resources, reported in the period in which they are paid, as opposed to being typically set at a percentage of revenue less any deductions. reported on an accruals basis (which would mean that they would be reported in the period for which the liabilities arise). Bonuses Materiality level These are usually paid upon signing an agreement or a contract, when a commercial discovery of oil and gas is declared, or when This Report includes all types of payment to Public Administrations, production has commenced or a milestone as been reached. either on a single payment basis or as part of a series of related payments, provided they are above €100,000. License fees, rental fees, entry fees and other considerations for licenses and/or concessions Exchange rate These are taxes and other fees paid as consideration for acquiring For the purposes of this Report, payments in currencies other a license for gaining access to an area where Extractive Activities than Euro are converted based on the foreign exchange rate at the are performed. Any Administrative government fees that are not annual average rate. specifically related to Extractive Activities, or in order to access extractive resources, are excluded from this Report. Infrastructure improvements These are payments which relate to the construction of infrastructure not substantially dedicated to the use of Extractive Activities. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 319 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Summary Report (€k) Production Infrastructure Entitlement Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Improvements Total Angola 5,754 5,754 Brazil 281,308 136,415 174,902 231 592,856 East Timor 1 1 Mozambique 1 1 Namibia 15 15 Sao Tome and Principe 146 250 396 TOTAL 287,225 136,415 175,152 231 599,023 Report by country: Angola Government Report (€k) Production Infrastructure Entitlement Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Improvements Total Public Administrations Financial Ministry 5,754 5,754 TOTAL 5,754 5,754 Project Report (€k) Production Infrastructure Entitlement Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Improvements Total Projects Block 14 4,336 4,336 Block 14k 1,418 1,418 TOTAL 5,754 5,754 320 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.3. Galp report payments to Governments in 2017 Report by country: Brazil Government Report (€k) Production Infrastructure Entitlement Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Improvements Total Public Administrations Revenue 17,891 136,415 154,306 Agência Nacional do Petróleo, Gás Natural e Biocombustíveis 263,417 174,902 231 438,550 (Brazilian energy sector regulator) TOTAL 281,308 136,415 174,902 231 592,856 Project Report (€k) Production Infrastructure Entitlement Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Improvements Total Entity level payment Petrogal Brasil, S.A. 17,891 17,891 Galp Energia, S.A. Projects Block BM-S-8 69 69 Block BM-S-11 263,417 135,896 399,313 Block POT-T-394 Block POT-T-440 Block POT-T478 Block POT-T479 331 331 Block SEAL-T-412 48 48 Block SEAL-T-429 188 188 Block PN-T-136 57 57 Block PN-T-182 57 57 Carcará North 174,902 174,902 TOTAL 281,308 136,415 174,902 231 592,856 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 321 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Report by country: Namibia Government Report (€k) Production Infrastructure Entitlement Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Improvements Total Public Administrations Ministry of Mines and Energy 15 15 TOTAL 15 15 Project Report (€k) Production Infrastructure Entitlement Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Improvements Total Entity Level payment Windhoek PEL 23 BV Branch 5 5 Windhoek PEL 24 BV Branch 10 10 TOTAL 15 15 Report by country: Sao Tome and Principe Government Report (€k) Production Infrastructure Entitlement Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Improvements Total Public Administrations Financial Ministry 146 146 Projects 250 250 TOTAL 146 250 396 Project Report (€k) Production Infrastructure Entitlement Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Improvements Total Entity level payment Galp Energia São Tomé 146 146 and Príncipe, Lda. Projects Block 6 Block 5 83 83 Block 11 83 83 Block 12 84 84 TOTAL 146 250 396 322 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.3. Galp report payments to Governments in 2017 Report by country: Mozambique Government Report (€k) Production Infrastructure Entitlement Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Improvements Total Public Administrations Financial Ministry 1 1 Revenue TOTAL 1 1 Project Report (€k) Production Infrastructure Entitlement Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Improvements Total Entity level payment Area 4 1 1 TOTAL 1 1 Report by country: East Timor Government Report (€k) Production Infrastructure Entitlement Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Improvements Total Public Administrations Financial Ministry 1 1 Revenue TOTAL 1 1 Project Report (€k) Production Infrastructure Entitlement Taxes Royalties Bonuses Fees Improvements Total Entity level payment Block E 1 1 TOTAL 1 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 323 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 8.4. Reports and opinions of the Audit Board and the Statutory Auditor Audit Board’s report and opinion Dear shareholders, According to the Legislation in force and the Company’s By-laws, and under our mandate, we hereby present our opinion on the management Integrated Annual Report (including the Corporate Governance reporting), the individual and consolidated financial statements and the proposed allocation of net profit presented by the Board of Directors of Galp Energia SGPS, S.A., with regards to the year ended 31 December 2017. We have met several times with the statutory auditor/external auditor, monitoring the performance of their role. We have monitored the process of preparation and disclosure of financial statements, as well as the legal certification of the accounts. We have verified and supervised the independence of the statutory auditor/external auditor, in compliance with the applicable law, mainly verifying the adequacy and approving the providing of other services than auditing. We have reviewed the legal certification of the accounts and the audit report of the individual and consolidated accounts regarding the year of 2017, which deserve our agreement. Under the terms and for the purposes of article 245, first paragraph c) of the Portuguese Securities Code, each of the below indicated members of the Audit Board declares that, to the extent of his/her knowledge, the management report, the financial statements, the legal certification of the accounts and further accounting documents were prepared in compliance with the applicable accounting rules and gives a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Galp and the companies included in the consolidation perimeter, and the management report includes a fair view of the development of the business and the performance and position of Galp and the companies included in the consolidation perimeter, and includes on description of the main risks and uncertainties faced by Galp and the companies included in the consolidation perimeter in their operations. Under the scope of our mandate, we have verified and we hereby declare also to the extent of our knowledge that: a) the accounting principles and the metrical criteria used follow the IFRS, as adopted by the EU, and are adequate as to guarantee an appropriate representation of both the Company’s and the other companies’ included in the consolidation perimeter assets and results; b) the corporate governance chapter of the management report regarding the year of 2017 includes all the information required by article 245-A of the Portuguese Securities Code. Accordingly, taking into consideration the information received from the Board of Directors and other Company departments, as well as the conclusions set out in the legal certification of the accounts and the audit report about the individual and consolidated financial statements, we express our agreement to the management report, to the individual and consolidated financial statements and to the proposal of application of net profit for the financial year 2017, so we are of the opinion that those documents should be approved by the General Shareholders Meeting. Lastly, the Audit Board wishes to express its gratitude to the Board of Directors and to the Executive Committee of Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A., whose cooperation greatly simplified, at all times, the exercise of the Audit Board duties. Lisbon, 16 April, 2018 Chairman: Daniel Bessa Member: Gracinda Raposo Member: Pedro Antunes de Almeida 324 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.4. Report and opinions of the Audit Board and the Statutory Auditor Annual activity report of the Audit Board g) receiving reports of irregularities made by shareholders, Company employees or others; for the financial year 2017 h) proposing to the general shareholders’ meeting the In accordance with paragraph 1 g) of article 420 of the Portuguese appointment of the Statutory Auditor or the statutory auditing Commercial Companies Code ( (CSC) and of paragraph 1 g) of company; article 8 of the regulations of the Audit Board of Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. (hereinafter referred to as Galp or Company), the Board i) monitoring the independence of the External Auditor, notably hereby presents its report on the supervisory activities performed as regards the provision of additional services; during 2017. j) appointing or dismissing the Company’s External Auditor and assessing its activity each year through a critical appraisal of the I. Introduction reports and documentation that it draws up in the performance of its duties. According to the corporate governance model implemented by Galp, which consists in the Latin model set out in paragraph 1 a) of article 278 and paragraph 1 b) of article 413, both from the II. Activity performed by the Audit Board Companies Code, the Audit Board is responsible for supervising the Company’s activities. concerning the financial year 2017 During 2017 the Audit Board held 15 (fifteen) meetings and The Audit Board in office was elected at the General Shareholders’ implemented several measures within the scope of its duties, of meeting held on April 16, 2015, for the 2015-2018 term of office, which the following are highlighted: and comprises three members, two of whom are independent in 1. Permanently monitoring the Company’s activity, monitoring accordance with the criteria set out in paragraph 5 of article 414 of compliance with the law and Articles of association, and the CSC. overseeing the Company’s management All members of the Audit Board meet the compatibility criteria Ongoing monitoring of the Company during 2017 was undertaken, for the performance of their duties as laid down in paragraph 1 of in particular, through meetings with the heads of Galp’s corporate article 414-A of the CSC. centre, most regularly the Internal Audit Department, the Risk Management Department and the Legal & Governance The main duties of the Audit Board stemming from applicable Department. legislation and the respective regulation, refer to the following key areas: The Audit Board met regularly with the Statutory Auditor/ External Auditor and the head of Accounts department, and met c) permanently monitoring the Company’s activities, monitoring with the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Executive compliance with the law and Articles of association, and overseeing the Company’s management; Director responsible for finance. d) monitoring compliance with accounting policies and Moreover, members of the Audit Board attended the meetings of practices, as well as the preparation and disclosure of financial the Board of Directors at which the quarterly, half-yearly and annual information, and supervising the audit of the accounts included accounts were approved, along with the annual plan and budget. in the Company’s accounting documents; During 2017, the Audit Board also monitored the functioning of e) monitoring the effectiveness of the risk-management and Galp’s corporate governance system and its compliance with legal internal-control systems, annually assessing with the Executive requirements, regulations and by-laws, and monitored legislative Committee the internal-control and audit procedures and and regulatory developments in the field of corporate governance, any issues raised about the accounting practices adopted having also monitored the process of the Company´s corporate by the Company, addressing to that Committee such governance improvement. recommendations as it may deem fit; f) overseeing the adoption by the Company of the principles and Also within the context of monitoring corporate governance policies for the identification and management of the key risks matters, the Audit Board reviewed the Corporate Governance of a financial and operational nature related to the Company’s Report for 2017, and confirmed that the report includes the business, and monitoring and performing adequate and timely information required by article 245-A of the Portuguese Securities control and disclosure of such risks; Code (CVM) and by Portuguese Securities Market Commission (CMVM) regulation no. 4/2013. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 325 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 2. Monitoring compliance with the accounting policies and Evaluation of the proper working of the risk-management and practices and with the process of preparation and disclosure of internal-control systems, and assessment of the effectiveness financial information and of the legal audit of the accounts and efficiency of the implementation of controls and mitigation systems were performed by the Internal Audit department, The Audit Board monitored the accounting policies, criteria and independently and systematically, having regularly informed and practices and the reliability of the financial information through drawn the attention of the Audit Board to the most significant the information received from the Accounts Department and the comments and recommendations, detailing opportunities for reports of the Statutory Auditor/External Auditor, and through improvement and corrective measures. an appraisal of the findings of the audits and of the procedure evaluations performed during the year by the Statutory Auditor/ The Audit Board also considers that, in implementing the Internal External Auditor. Audit department plan of activities, the assessment of the internal control systems and of compliance with established procedures, The Audit Board reviewed the documents relating to the 2017 as well as the use of the resources allocated, were performed audit and legal certification of the accounts, having issued a efficiently. favourable opinion thereupon. 5. Annual assessment of the activity of the Company’s External Auditor Access to the financial information by the Audit Board was conducted on a regular and adequate basis, and there were no The Audit Board performed its duties as the Company’s constraints on its duties. interlocutor with the External Auditor and as the first recipient of the information it draws up, having provided the External Auditor 3. Monitoring and overseeing the effectiveness of the internalwith the information and other appropriate conditions required control and risk-management systems, and annual review of the working of the systems and internal procedures for the effective performance of its activity. During 2017, the Audit Board performed several actions directed at During 2017, the Audit Board assessed the activity of the monitoring, supervising and evaluating the working and adequacy External Auditor, having monitored its activity on a regular of Galp’s internal-control, risk-management and internal-audit basis, in particular through critical appraisal of the reports and systems, either through the reporting of information by the documentation that it produced in the performance of its duties. Internal Audit and Risk Management department or through the report on internal control issued by the External Auditor. In its annual assessment, the Audit Board considers that the External Auditor provided its services in a satisfactory manner Within the scope of its supervisory duties, the Audit Board in accordance with the defined work plan, having complied with was also charged with supervising the implementation by the the applicable rules and regulations, displayed technical rigour Company of principles and policies for the identification and in its activities, quality in its conclusions – particularly with management of key financial and operational risks associated regard to the legal certification of the accounts – timeliness and with Galp’s business, having supervised the measures to monitor, efficiency in the recommendations presented and competence in control and disclose the risks. its procedures. The Audit Board’s understanding is that the Executive Committee Within the scope of its verification of compliance by the External and the Board of Directors have attributed increasing importance Auditor with the rules of independence, the Audit Board to the development and improvement of the risk-management, monitored, during 2017, the provision of services other than internal-control and internal-audit systems, in line with CMVM audit services, which depends on a prior appraisal by the Audit recommendations in relation to the Corporate Governance Code. Board, having confirmed the safeguarding of the independence of the External Auditor. The Audit Board notes that the value of 4. Supervision of the activity of the Internal Audit Department services other than auditing corresponds to 16.3% of the total During 2017, the Audit Board supervised the activity of the services provided by the External Auditor, thus complying with Internal Audit Department, which reports officially to this Board, recommendation IV.2 of the CMVM Corporate Governance through monthly monitoring of the implementation of the Code approved in 2013. On the other hand, non-audit services respective annual plan of audit activities approved by the Audit provided by the External Auditor did not exceed 70% of the total Board and of the information on resource allocation, having value of the fees paid in the last three financial years for the legal received from that department periodic reports on the audits. certification of Galp Group’s accounts, complying with the limits imposed by Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 and Statute of the Order of Statutory Auditors. 326 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.4. Report and opinions of the Audit Board and the Statutory Auditor With a view to selecting the Statutory Auditor and External Auditor to propose to the General Shareholders’ Meeting for the new term to begin in 2019, the Audit Board monitored the market consultation process organized by Galp Energia, SA, namely by the Accounting and Procurement departments, having approved the rules of the respective process, defined the criteria and the selection process. 6. Company business with related parties During 2017 there were no related-party transactions subject to the prior opinion of the Audit Board under “Regulation applicable to related-party transactions by the Galp Group”. 7. Reporting irregularities In accordance with best corporate governance practices and applicable market rules, as well as in line with the principles of fairness, correctness, honesty, transparency and integrity on the basis of which Galp conducts its business, the Galp Irregularity Reporting Ethics Line Procedure, available on its website and intranet, governs the mechanism for reporting to the body responsible, the Audit Board, through Galp’s Committee of Ethics and Conduct, alleged irregularities or breaches of the Code of Ethics or the rules that develop it or that deal with the matters listed in it, in the fields of accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing, fight against corruption and banking and financial crime occurring at Galp Group companies. In the course of 2017, Galp’s Committee of Ethics and Conduct held periodic meetings with the Audit Board to report communications received and assessment on the respective forwarding. In fulfillment of the reporting obligation provided for in point eight of Galp’s Committee of Ethics and Conduct Regulations, this Committee presented to the Audit Board the annual report on the communications received in 2017, the procedures adopted and the actions/measures proposed. Lastly, the Audit Board would like to express its thanks to the Board of Directors and to the Executive Committee of Galp for the co-operation provided in the performance of their duties. Lisbon, 16 April, 2018 Chairman: Daniel Bessa Member: Gracinda Raposo Member: Pedro Antunes de Almeida Annual Report and Accounts 2017 327 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Statutory Audit Report and Auditors’ Report (Free translation from the original in Portuguese) Report on the audit of the consolidated financial statements Opinion We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Galp Energia S.G.P.S., S.A. (the Group), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31, 2017 (which shows total assets of Euro 12,358 million and total shareholders' equity, including noncontrolling interests, of Euro 6,080 million including a net profit of Euro 614 million), the consolidated statement of income, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Galp Energia S.G.P.S., S.A.as at December 31, 2017, and their consolidated financial performance and their consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the European Union. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) and other technical and ethical standards and recommendations issued by the Institute of Statutory Auditors. Our responsibilities under those standards are described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements” section below. In accordance with the law we are independent of the entities that are included in the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the ethics code of the Institute of Statutory Auditors. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report. PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. Sede: Palácio Sottomayor, Rua Sousa Martins, 1 3º, 1069-316 Lisboa, Portugal Tel +351 213 599 000, Fax +351 213 599 999, www.pwc.pt Matriculada na CRC sob o NUPC 506 628 752, Capital Social Euros 314.000 Inscrita na lista das Sociedades de Revisores Oficiais de Contas sob o nº 183 e na CMVM sob o nº 20171485 PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. pertence à rede de entidades que são membros da PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited, cada uma das quais é uma entidade legal autónoma e independente. 328 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.4. Report and opinions of the Audit Board and the Statutory Auditor Key Audit Matters Summary of the Audit Approach Impairment of non-current assets for the Upstream business Disclosures related to non-current assets for the Upstream business are presented in notes 2 and 12 of the The audit approach to this key audit matter consisted Consolidated financial statements. of: assessing management’s assumptions considered in The upstream asset portfolio is mainly concentrated in oil the impairment testing, having defined the following blocks in Angola, Brazil, Mozambique and Portugal. The as the most significant: recoverable reserves/volumes referred investments, net of impairment losses, in the and investments necessary for the recovery of those consolidated statement of financial position as at volumes, estimated future oil and gas prices and December 31, 2017 amount to Euro 5,336 million (2016: discount rates considered to reflect the time impact of Euro 5,162 million). the future cash flows.; understanding and assessing the controls, designed The analysis of the recoverable amount of the upstream and operated by management, for monitoring the assets is performed based on a discounted cash flows recoverable amount of the upstream assets; model, which is highly subjective due to, amongst other assessing the methodology considered by the factors, the evaluation of oil reserves (estimated based on management to calculate the recoverable amount of evaluations performed by external experts, who have the assets allocated to each cash generating unit, to extensive experience in this market in which the Group determine its compliance with the accounting policies operates), estimated future prices for oil and gas, in place and its consistent application; estimates of operational expenses and investments in terms of reserves, we assessed the consistency of necessary for the exploration of the estimated reserves by the recoverable volumes considered by the the operator consortium of each block and definition of management with the independent expert report the discount rate to be applied. prepared as of December 31, 2017, and discussed with management the evolution of the referred reserves The relevance of this matter in our audit is related with compared with previous reports, taking into account the unpredictability associated with the outcome of the the production model of the blocks and the significant estimates, and to the fact that any change on discoveries noted. In this respect, we assessed the the assumptions can result on a significant change in the competence and objectivity of the expert; financial statements. -corroborated estimates of future cash flows and challenged the management as to whether these were The decrease in current and future oil and gas prices, appropriate in light of future price assumptions under the present market conditions, is putting (market forward prices) and the investment/cost additional pressure in the valuation of the upstream budgets approved by each block consortium. We assets, having a significant effect on the financial performed sensitivity analyses over main inputs to the statements of the Group, as evidenced by the cash flow models. impairments recognized in upstream assets for the past assessment over the specific inputs related to the three years, as disclosed in Note 12 of the notes to the determination of the discount rate, including the consolidated financial statements, either by the decrease assessment of the risk-free rate and geographic risks, in sales price itself, or by its impact on operating as well as the cost of capital/financing of the Group. decisions (delays in First oil, abandonment/on hold These inputs were also compared with the rates decisions due to the low profitability). considered in the international markets in which the Group operates. As a result of the impairment testing performed by the management, impairment losses were recognized in the We also assessed the adequacy of the disclosures amount of Euro 74 million in upstream non-current associated with the impairment losses recognized in assets (2016: Euro 192 million). the consolidated financial statements, considering the requirements of the applicable accounting standard. Statutory Audit Report and Auditors’ Report Galp Energia SGPS, SA December 31, 2017 PwC 2 of 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 329 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Key Audit Matters Summary of the Audit Approach Recoverable amount of non-current assets in Spain Disclosures related to non-current assets in Spain are We have assessed the impairment testing, based on presented in notes 2, 10, 11 and 12 of the Consolidated discounted future cash-flows model, considering the financial statements. following audit procedures: assessing the mathematical accuracy of the model; As at December 31, 2017, the amount of the non-current comparison of the future cash-flows considered in assets recognized in the consolidated financial statements the impairment testing with the budget plan approved of the Galp Group, related to the distribution network of by the Executive Committee; refined products in Spain, amounts to Euro 377 million benchmarking the reasonableness of the future cash(Tangible fixed assets: Euro 255 million; Intangible flow estimates, by comparison with the historical assets: Euro 72 million; Deferred tax assets: Euro 50 performance; million). assessing the adequacy of the discount rate considered; In accordance with IAS 36 – Impairment of assets, the performing sensitivity analysis, by changing the management should perform an impairment annual relevant assumptions; and assessment and evaluate if impairment indicators exist assessing the estimates and judgments approved by related to the carrying amount of the non-current assets. the management, underlying the relevant The carrying amount of the cash-generating unit is assumptions supporting the model. compared with the recoverable amount, which is the higher between the value in use and the fair value less For assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets, costs to sell. The retail network of refined products in we have compared the future taxable income Spain has been considered by the management as a single estimates with the cash-flow estimates referred above, cash-generating unit. As at December 31, 2017, the Group assessed the mathematical accuracy of the calculation has determined the recoverable amount of its cash and assessed the adequacy of the tax rate considered. generating units (CGU) through the value in use. We also assessed the adequacy of the disclosures Additionally, the management assesses the recoverability associated with the impairment testing and deferred of the deferred tax assets related to the cash-generating taxes presented in the notes to the consolidated unit, considering the estimates of future taxable income, financial statements, considering the requirements of in accordance with IAS 12 – Income taxes. the applicable accounting standard. The relevance of this matter in our audit is related with the complexity and high level of judgment over the impairment model. The calculation of the recoverable amount requires the use of estimates and assumptions by the management, which depend on economic and market estimates, namely related to future cash-flows, growth rates in the perpetuity and discount rates to be used. As a result of the impairment testing performed by the management, impairment losses were recognized in the amount of Euro 6 million for the non-current assets related to the retail network of refined products in Spain. In addition, as a result of the good performance presented in the period and the annual revaluation performed on the temporary differences underlying the deferred tax assets, deferred tax assets in the year ended December 31, 2017 were reduced by Euro 28 million. Statutory Audit Report and Auditors’ Report Galp Energia SGPS, SA December 31, 2017 PwC 3 of 8 330 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.4. Report and opinions of the Audit Board and the Statutory Auditor Key Audit Matters Summary of the Audit Approach Litigation and tax contingencies Disclosures related to litigation and tax contingencies The audit procedures performed included: are presented in notes 2, 10, 21 and 26 of the obtaining the detailed listing of the pending tax Consolidated financial statements. contingencies and legal actions, categorized by outcome probability; The dimension and structure of the Galp Group and the understanding tax and legal contingency processes; dispersion of its operational activity, originates an obtaining and analysing the replies to the increase in the complexity of the tax recognition in the confirmation letters sent to external lawyers; financial statement of the Group. As a consequence, the inquiry of the Management and of the tax and legal Group has several pending tax matters, namely those Directors of the Group over the estimates and resulting from tax inspections in Portugal and Petroleum judgments considered. Income tax in Angola, recognizing provisions whenever the Group considers that a negative outcome is probable, We also assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in accordance with IAS 37. The assessment of the presented in the notes to the consolidated financial outcome probability is supported by the legal consultants statements, considering the requirements of the and tax advisors of the Group, as well as by the applicable accounting standard. management judgment in relation to these matters. As at December 31, 2o17 the tax provisions recognized in the consolidated financial statements amounted to Euro 280 million (2016: Euro 245 million). The relevance of this matter in our audit is related with the complexity and high level of judgment over the corresponding tax matters, as well as the unpredictability associated with the respective outcome. Responsibilities of management and supervisory board for the consolidated financial statements Management is responsible for: a) the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, which present fairly the financial position, the financial performance and the cash flows of the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the European Union; b) the preparation of the Directors’ Report, including the Corporate governance Report, in accordance with the applicable law and regulations; c) the creation and maintenance of an appropriate system of internal control to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; d) the adoption of appropriate accounting policies and criteria; and e) the assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue its activities. Statutory Audit Report and Auditors’ Report Galp Energia SGPS, SA December 31, 2017 PwC 4 of 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 331 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the process of preparation and disclosure of the Group’s financial information. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements Our responsibility is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: a) identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control; b) obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control; c) evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management; d) conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern; e) evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation; f) obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. Statutory Audit Report and Auditors’ Report Galp Energia SGPS, SA December 31, 2017 PwC 5 of 8 332 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.4. Report and opinions of the Audit Board and the Statutory Auditor We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion; g) communicate with those charged with governance, including the supervisory board, regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit; h) of the matters we have communicated to those charged with governance, including the supervisory board, we determine which one’s were the most important in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current year, these being the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our report, except when the law or regulation prohibits their public disclosure; and i) confirm to the supervisory board that we comply with the relevant ethical requirements regarding independence and communicate all relationships and other matters that may be perceived as threats to our independence and, where applicable, the respective safeguards. Our responsibility also includes verifying that the information included in the Directors’ report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and the verification set forth in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article No. 451 of the Portuguese Company Law, and verifying that the non-financial information was presented. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Director’s report In compliance with paragraph 3 e) of article No. 451 of the Portuguese Company Law, it is our opinion that the Director’s report, including the information related to management, sustainability and governance (hereinafter referred as Integrated Report) has been prepared in accordance with applicable requirements of the law and regulation, that the information included in the Integrated report is consistent with the audited consolidated financial statements and, taking into account the knowledge and assessment about the Group, no material misstatements were identified. As set forth in paragraph 7 of article No. 451 of the Portuguese Company Law, this opinion is not applicable to the non-financial statement included in the Integrated report. Non-financial information set forth in article No. 508-G of the Portuguese Company Law In compliance with paragraph 6 of article No. 451 of the Portuguese Company Law, we hereby inform that the entity included in its Integrated report the non-financial information set forth in article No. 508-G of the Portuguese Company Law. Statutory Audit Report and Auditors’ Report Galp Energia SGPS, SA December 31, 2017 PwC 6 of 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 333 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Corporate governance report In compliance with paragraph 4 of article No. 451 of the Portuguese Company Law, it is our understanding that the Integrated report, in the information related to corporate governance, includes the information required under article No. 245-A of the Portuguese Securities Market Code, that no material misstatements were identified in the information disclosed in this report and that it complies with paragraphs c), d), f), h), i) and m) of that article. Additional information required in article No. 10 of the Regulation (EU) 537/2014 In accordance with article No. 10 of Regulation (EU) 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of April 16, 2014, and in addition to the key audit matters referred to above, we also provide the following information: a) We were appointed auditors of Galp Energia S.G.P.S., S.A. in the Shareholders’ General Meeting of April 16, 2015 for the period from 2015 to 2018. b) The management has confirmed to us it has no knowledge of any allegation of fraud or suspicions of fraud with material effect in the financial statements. We have maintained professional scepticism throughout the audit and determined overall responses to address the risk of material misstatement due to fraud in the consolidated financial statements. Based on the work performed, we have not identified any material misstatement in the consolidated financial statements due to fraud. c) We confirm that our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report that was prepared by us and issued to the Group’s supervisory board as of April 16, 2018. d) We declare that we did not provide any prohibited non-audit services referred to in paragraph 8 of article No. 77 of the by-laws of the Institute of Statutory Auditors (“Estatutos da Ordem dos Revisores Oficiais de Contas”) and that we remain independent of the Group in conducting our audit. e) In addition to the services disclosed in the Integrated report of the Group we inform that, besides the audit services, the following additional services, permitted by law and regulation in force, were provided by us to the Group: Other assurance services Limited review on the interim financial statements; Agreed upon procedures report on financial ratios; Certification of the annual declaration of assets under the scope of the Oil Insurance Policy; Reports on regulated accounts (“ERSE”; “ASECE”; “TOS”; Purchases of natural gas); Reports on Successive Revaluations (“ERSE”); Verification of sustainability information (Sustainability Report and Databooks); Issuance of comfort letter regarding debt issuance; Verification of the Man Power rate; and Verification of the Replacement Cost performance measure. Statutory Audit Report and Auditors’ Report Galp Energia SGPS, SA December 31, 2017 PwC 7 of 8 334 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.4. Report and opinions of the Audit Board and the Statutory Auditor Other non-assurance services Consulting over the information to be provided for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. April 16, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. represented by: António Joaquim Brochado Correia, R.O.C. Statutory Audit Report and Auditors’ Report Galp Energia SGPS, SA December 31, 2017 PwC 8 of 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 335 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 8.5. Independent Limited Assurance Report Independent Assurance Report * (Free translation from the original in Portuguese) To the Board of Directors Introduction 1 We were engaged by the Board of Directors of Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. (“Galp” or “Company”) to perform a reasonable assurance engagement on the indicator identified in the paragraph 4 below and a limited assurance engagement on the sustainability information also mentioned in that paragraph, which integrate the sustainability information included in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017, for the year ended in December 31, 2017, prepared by the Company for the purpose of communicating its annual sustainability performance. Responsibilities 2 It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to prepare the sustainability information identified in the paragraph 4 below, included in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017, in accordance with the sustainability reporting guidelines “Global Reporting Initiative” version GRI Standards and with the instructions and criteria disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017, as well as for the maintenance of an appropriate internal control system that enables the adequately preparation of the mentioned information. 3 Our responsibility is to issue an assurance report, which is professional and independent, based on the procedures performed and specified in the paragraph below. Scope 4 The work performed was conducted in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) “Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information”, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board of the International Federation of Accountants. This standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain an assurance level: 4.1 reasonable on whether Galp’s Carbon Footprint 2017, and 4.2 limited on whether 2017 remaining sustainability information, is free from material misstatement. 5 For this purpose the above mentioned work included: (i) Inquiries to management and senior officials responsible for areas under analysis, with the purpose of understanding how the information system is structured and their awareness of issues included in the report; (ii) Identification of the existence of internal management procedures leading to the implementation of economic, environmental and social policies; PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. Sede: Palácio Sottomayor, Rua Sousa Martins, 1 3º, 1069-316 Lisboa, Portugal Tel +351 213 599 000, Fax +351 213 599 999, www.pwc. pt Matriculada na CRC sob o NUPC 506 628 752, Capital Social Euros 314.000 Inscrita na lista das Sociedades de Revisores Oficiais de Contas sob o nº 183 e na CMVM sob o nº 20161485 PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. pertence à rede de entidades que são membros da PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited, cada uma das quais é uma entidade legal autónoma e independente. 336 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.5. Independent Limited Assurance Report (iii) Testing, on a sampling basis, the efficiency of processes and systems in place for collection, consolidation, validation and reporting of the performance information previously mentioned, through calculations and validation of reported data; (iv) Confirmation that operational units follow the instructions on collection, consolidation, validation and reporting of performance information; (v) Execution of substantive procedures, on a sampling basis, in order to collect evidence of the reported information; (vi) Comparison of financial and economic data included in the sustainability information with the audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados, SROC, Lda, in the scope of the legal review of Galp’s financial statements for the year ended in December 31, 2017; (vii) Analysis of the process for defining the materiality of the sustainability issues, based on the materiality principle of GRI Standards and on the AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (AA1000APS), according to methodology described by the Company in the Report; (viii) Verification that the sustainability information included in the Report complies with the requirements of GRI Standards, for the option “In accordance – Comprehensive”. 6 In addition, for the purpose of reasonable assurance work, we performed analytical and substantive tests, and based on defined materiality criteria we assured the adequate application of reporting criteria defined by Company in the Carbon Footprint 2017 calculation, disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017. 7 In the limited assurance work, the procedures performed were more limited than those used in an engagement to obtain reasonable assurance and, therefore, less assurance was obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. 8 We believe that the procedures performed provide an acceptable basis for our conclusion. Quality control and independence 9 We apply the International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC1) and, accordingly, maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. 10 We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants and of the ethics code of the Institute of Statutory Auditors. Conclusion on the reasonable assurance work 11 Based on the work performed, it is our opinion that the Galp’s Carbon Footprint 2017, included in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017, for the year ended in December 31, 2017, was prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with GRI Standards requirements and with the instructions and criteria disclosed on it. Conclusion on the limited assurance work 12 Based on the work performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the remaining sustainability information, included in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017, for the year ended in December 31, 2017, was not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with GRI Standards requirements and with the instructions and criteria disclosed on it, and that Galp has not Independent Assurance Report Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. December 31, 2017 PwC 2 de 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 337 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world applied, in the sustainability information included in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017, the GRI Standards, for the option “In accordance – Comprehensive”. Restriction on use 13 This report is issued solely for information and use of the Board of Directors of the Company for the purpose of communicating the annual sustainability performance in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017, and should not be used for any other purpose. We will not assume any responsibility to third parties other than Galp by our work and the conclusions expressed in this report, which will be attached to the Company's Annual Report and Accounts 2017. April 16, 2018 PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas, Lda. represented by: António Brochado Correia, R.O.C. * (This is a translation, not to be signed) Independent Assurance Report Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. December 31, 2017 PwC 3 de 3 338 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.6. Statement of compliance by the members of the Board of Directors 8.6. Statement of compliance by the members of the Board of Directors Under the terms and for the purposes of article 245, first paragraph c) of the Portuguese Securities Code, each of the below indicated members of the Board of Directors declares that, to the extent of his/her knowledge, the management report, the financial statements, the legal certification of the accounts and further accounting documents were prepared in compliance with the applicable accounting rules and gives a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Galp and the companies included in the consolidation perimeter, and the management report includes a fair view of the development of the business and the performance and position of Galp and the companies included in the consolidation perimeter, and includes on description of the main risks and uncertainties faced by Galp and the companies included in the consolidation perimeter in their operations. Lisbon, 13 April 2018 The Board of Directors Chairman: Paula Amorim Vice-Chairmen: Miguel Athayde Marques Carlos Gomes da Silva Members: Filipe Crisóstomo Silva Thore E. Kristiansen Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo Abdul Magid Osman Marta Amorim Raquel Vunge Carlos Costa Pina Francisco Rêgo Jorge Seabra de Freitas José Carlos Silva Pedro Ricardo Tiago Câmara Pestana Rui Paulo Gonçalves Luís Todo Bom Diogo Tavares Joaquim Borges Gouveia Annual Report and Accounts 2017 339 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 8.7. Members: Filipe Crisóstomo Silva (CFO) Compulsory statements Thore E. Kristiansen Carlos Costa Pina José Carlos Silva 1. Corporate bodies Tiago Câmara Pestana The composition of the Galp’s governing bodies for the mandate Pedro Ricardo under way for 2015-2018, is as follows: Company Secretary Board of the General Meeting Standing: Chairman: Rui de Oliveira Neves Daniel Proença de Carvalho Alternate: Vice-Chairman: Maria Helena Claro Goldschmidt Victor Manuel Pereira Dias Audit Board Secretary: Maria Helena Claro Goldschmidt Chairman: Daniel Bessa Fernandes Coelho Board of Directors Member: Chairman: Gracinda Augusta Figueiras Raposo Paula Fernanda Ramos Amorim Member: Vice-Chairmen: Pedro Antunes de Almeida Miguel José Pereira Athayde Marques Carlos Nuno Gomes da Silva Alternate: Amável Alberto Freixo Calhau Members: Filipe Quintin Crisóstomo Silva Statutory Auditor Thore Ernst Kristiansen Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo Standing: Abdul Magid Osman PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados – Sociedade de Revisores Marta Cláudia Ramos Amorim Barroca de Oliveira Oficiais de Contas, Lda. represented by António Joaquim Brochado Raquel Rute da Costa David Vunge Correia, or by Ana Maria Ávila de Oliveira Lopes Bertão Carlos Manuel Costa Pina Francisco Vahia de Castro Teixeira Rêgo Alternate: Jorge Manuel Seabra de Freitas José Manuel Henriques Bernardo José Carlos da Silva Pedro Carmona de Oliveira Ricardo Remuneration Committee João Tiago Cunha Belém da Câmara Pestana Rui Paulo da Costa Cunha e Silva Gonçalves Chairman: Luís Manuel Pego Todo Bom Amorim Energia, B.V. Diogo Mendonça Rodrigues Tavares Joaquim José Borges Gouveia Member: Jorge Armindo Carvalho Teixeira Executive Committee Member: Chairman: Joaquim Alberto Hierro Lopes Carlos Gomes da Silva (CEO) 340 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.7. Compulsory statements 2. Treasury shares Galp holds no treasury shares. During the financial year of 2017, Galp did not acquire or sell any treasury shares. 3. Information on the shares holdings of the members of the management and supervisory bodies on 31 December 2017 Period from 1 January to 31 December 2017 Purchase Disposal Total shares No. Value No. Value Total shares on on 31.12.2016 Date of shares (€/share) Date of shares (€/share) 31.12.2017 Members of the Board of Directors Paula Amorim* Miguel Athayde Marques 1,800 1,800 Carlos Gomes da Silva 1 2,410 2,410 Filipe Crisóstomo Silva 2 10,000 10,000 Thore E. Kristiansen 2 Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo Abdul Magid Osman Marta Amorim* 19,263 19,263 Raquel Vunge Carlos Costa Pina 2 Francisco Rêgo* 17,680 17,680 Jorge Seabra de Freitas* José Carlos Silva 2 275 275 Pedro Ricardo 2 5,230 5,230 Tiago Câmara Pestana 2 Rui Paulo Gonçalves* Luís Todo Bom Diogo Mendonça Tavares 2,940 2,940 Joaquim Borges Gouveia Members of the Supervisory Board Daniel Bessa Gracinda Raposo Pedro Antunes de Almeida 5 5 Amável Calhau Statutory Auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers & Associados, Lda. José Manuel Henriques Bernardo * For the effects of art. 447, par. 2, sub-par. d) of the Commercial Companies’ Code, it is hereby provided that Amorim Energia B.V., in which the mentioned director also exercises administrative functions, is the holder of 276,472,161 Galp shares. 1 Stock ownership held by the CEO expressed as multiple of CEO annual fixed saalary: 0.0353. 2 Average stock ownership held by Executive Officers (other than CEO) expressed as multiple of the average Executive Officers annual fixed salary: 0.1717. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 341 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 4. Company Directors’ business During the fiscal year of 2017, no authorisations were requested from the members of the Board of Directors of Galp, for doing business with the Company or with companies that are in ownership or group relationship with the Company. 5. Exercising of other activities by the Directors During the fiscal year of 2017, none of the directors of Galp exercised any temporary or permanent functions under a labour, subordinate or autonomous agreement, with the Company or companies that are in ownership or group relationship with the Company. The employment agreement of director José Carlos da Silva Costa with Galp Energia, S.A., a company within the group, has remained suspended since he was first nominated as a member of the Board of Directors of Galp on 23 November 2012. On the date upon which the director Pedro Carmona de Oliveira Ricardo was nominated (16 April 2015), the employment agreement that he entered into with Galp Gás Natural, S.A., a company that is in an ownership or group relationship with Galp, was suspended. 6. Creditors’ positions in relation to related parties companies See note 23 of the Appendix to the financial statements of the individual accounts of Galp. 342 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.8. Biographies of the members of the management and supervisory bodies and the members of the Remunerations Committee 8.8. Biographies of the members of the management and supervisory bodies and the members of the Remunerations Committee Board of Directors Chairman | Paula Amorim Paula Ramos Amorim was born in Porto, Portugal, on 20 January 1971. Paula Amorim is a non-executive member of Galp’s Board of Directors since April 2012 and Chairman since October 2016. She was Vice-Chairman between 2015 and 2016. She joined the Américo Amorim Group in 1992, and since then she has occupied a range of Directorial roles. She is the fourth generation of Amorim family, with 150 years of business success history, and is the Chairman of Amorim Investimentos e Participações, SGPS, S.A., which holds a majority share capital at Corticeira Amorim, the world leader in cork business, being also Chairman of Amorim Holding II, SGPS, S.A. In 2005, she created Amorim Fashion Company and is the sole shareholder of, with luxury multibrand retail as focus. In December 2010, she created Amorim Luxury – SGPS, S.A., to expand and diversify her business, particularly to become the representative of Gucci brand, and currently Ladurée in Portugal. Her experience in fashion industry was decisive for Américo Amorim Group to become a relevant investor in Tom Ford International in 2007, and recently in Platforme, an innovative and disruptive project of luxury items customization. Recently, revealing once again her entrepreneurship, has implemented an innovative project of gastronomy and lifestyle, the JNcQUOI.. Paula Ramos Amorim attended the Real Estate Management course at the Escola Superior de Atividades Imobiliárias. Vice-Chairman | Miguel Athayde Marques Miguel Athayde Marques was born in Lisbon, Portugal, on 29 April 1955. He is an independent member of Galp’s Board of Directors since November 2012 and Vice-Chairman since October 2016. He is also Vice-rector at Universidade Católica Portuguesa and Professor at Faculty of Economics and Management Católica Lisbon School of Business & Economics, responsible for the areas of Corporate Governance and International Business. He has been an independent non-executive director of Brisa, Concessão Rodoviária, S.A., since December 2010, and Chairman of the Audit Board of Caixa Banco de Investimento, S.A., since January 2012. Before joining Galp he was Chairman of the Board of Directors of Euronext Lisbon S.A. and Interbolsa, S.A. and executive Director of Euronext N.V. (Amsterdam), between January 2005 and June 2010. During this period, he was non-executive director of Euronext Amsterdam, Euronext Brussels and Euronext Paris. Between April 2007 and June 2010, he was a member of the Management Committee of the New York Stock Exchange. He was also executive director of Caixa Geral de Depósitos (between 2000 and 2004) and of Jerónimo Martins (between 1996 and 2000). Before that he was Chairman of the Board of Directors of AICEP. Miguel Athayde Marques holds a degree, with distinction, in Business Administration and Management from Universidade Católica Portuguesa and a Doctorate in Business Management, from the University of Glasgow, School of Financial Studies. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 343 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Vice-Chairman | Carlos Gomes da Silva Carlos Gomes da Silva was born in Porto, Portugal, on 25 February 1967. He is a member of Galp’s Board of Directors since 2007 and vice-president and president of the Executive Committee since April 2015. He is a professional with 29 years of experience in different industries, in particular oil & gas. He joined Galp Energia/Petrogal early in the 1990’s, where he played several managerial roles leading the areas of refining operations, supply & trading, planning & control and strategy. From 2001, and for six years, he served in the beverages industry (at Unicer, a Carlsberg group company) as Head of M&A and Strategy and subsequently as Executive Director (for the supply chain, retail and human resources). He returned to the oil & gas industry in 2007 to serve as Board Member in Galp Energia, having served in several executive roles since 2008 as Executive Director namely for marketing oil, gas & power, trading oil & gas and corporate divisions (procurement, marketing, human resources, legal, corporate governance and compliance). Carlos Gomes da Silva holds a Degree in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science by the School of Engineering of the Porto University and an MBA by ESADE/IEP (Barcelona). Member | Filipe Crisóstomo Silva Filipe Crisóstomo Silva was born in Lisbon, Portugal, on 4 July 1964. He is a member of the Board of Directors and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of Galp since July 2012. Since 1999 and before joining Galp, he was responsible for the investment banking areas of Deutsche Bank in Portugal and since 2008 was also CEO of Deutsche Bank in Portugal. Filipe Crisóstomo Silva is graduate in economics and financial management and holds a Masters in financial management, both from the Catholic University of America, Washington D.C. 344 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.8. Biographies of the members of the management and supervisory bodies and the members of the Remunerations Committee Member | Thore E. Kristiansen Thore E. Kristiansen was born in Stavanger, Norway, on 4 July 1961. He is an executive member of Galp’s Board of Directors and member of the Executive Committee since October 2014 and is responsible for Galp’s Exploration and Production business unit. He was senior Vice-Chairman of Statoil for South America and Chairman of Statoil Brazil from January 2013 until he joined Galp. He was at Statoil for over 25 years, with responsibilities in the areas of distribution of oil products, trading and business negotiation in Norway, UK, Denmark and Germany, in the area of exploration and production, with a special focus on Norway, sub-Saharan Africa and South America, and also corporate functions, particularly in finance and M&A, such as Investor Relations Officer. He was also Chairman of Statoil Germany and Statoil Venezuela. Thore E. Kristiansen holds a degree in Management from the Norwegian School of Management and a Masters in Petroleum Engineering from the University of Stavanger, Norway. Member | Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo was born in Salvador, Brazil, on 3 October 1949. He is an independent non-executive member of Galp’s Board of Directors since July 2012. He was secretary of planning of the State Government of Bahia between March 2012 and December 2014 and was a non-executive member of the Board of Directors of Itausa S.A. until March 2015. Before joining Galp he was a member of the Board of Directors and CEO of Petrobras between July 2005 and February 2012. He was also CFO and director of investor relations of Petrobras between 2003 and 2005. He was also a member of the Boards of Directors of Desenbahia – State Development Agency of Bahia and of CAR – Companhia de Desenvolvimento e Ação Regional. Sérgio Gabrielli de Azevedo holds a degree and Masters in Economics from the Universidade Federal da Bahia and a doctorate in Economics from Boston University. He was a visiting researcher at the London School of Economics and Political Science in 2000. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 345 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Member | Abdul Magid Osman Abdul Magid Osman was born in Maputo, Mozambique, on 11 June 1944. He is an independent non-executive member of Galp’s Board of Directors since July 2012. He is also founder and Chairman of the BIOFUND Foundation (biodiversity protection) since 2011, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Épsilon Investimento since 2007 and is Chairman of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee of Tchuma Cooperativa de Crédito e de Poupança. Before joining Galp he was Minister of Finance from 1986 to 1991 and Minister of Mineral Resources of Mozambique between 1979 and 1983. He was a non-executive director of Mercantile Bank, in South Africa, from 2002 to 2007 and Chairman of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee of BCI Banco Comercial de Investimentos. He was Director of the Management, Development and Governance Division in the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), managing the programme with projects in over 60 countries. Abdul Magid Osman has a degree in Economic and Financial Sciences from the Instituto Superior de Economia of Lisbon. Member | Marta Amorim Marta Amorim was born in Porto, Portugal, on 29 April 1972. She is a non-executive member of Galp’s Board of Directors since October 2016. Marta Amorim currently serves as Vice-Chairman of the Américo Amorim Group and is a member of the Board of Directors of Amorim Energia B.V. Marta Amorim holds a degree in Business Administration and Management from the Universidade Católica Portuguesa and has several years of experience in the banking sector, namely in Banco Nacional de Crédito (currently named Banco Santander Totta, S.A). Member | Raquel Vunge Raquel Vunge was born in Luanda, Angola, on 30 June 1967. She is non-executive member of Galp’s Board of Directors since October 2014. She is also a Member of the Board of Directors of Banco Comercial Português and Caixa Angola. In recent years, she has also been member of the Board of Directors and CFO of Sonangol EP and held other responsibilities in Sonangol EP from 1997, as Directo of Finance between 2010 and 2012, Head of the Central Treasury from 2001 to 2010 and Accounts Analyst in the Accounting and Finance Department until 2001. Raquel Vunge holds a degree in Management from the Lisbon Instituto Superior de Gestão (School of Management). 346 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.8. Biographies of the members of the management and supervisory bodies and the members of the Remunerations Committee Member | Carlos Costa Pina Carlos Costa Pina was born in Lisbon, Portugal, on 14 December 1970. He is an executive member of Galp’s Board of Directors and a member of the Executive Committee since April 2012, and he is responsible for corporate services and the New Energy business area. Previously he worked in Technology, Media and Telecommunications, real estate and services companies in the Ongoing group (Portugal and Brazil). He was Secretary of State for Treasury and Finance in the XVII and XVIII Portuguese Constitutional Governments (2005-2011) and therefore occupied roles in several international financial institutions. He has also been a director at CMVM (Portuguese Securities Market Regulator) (2000-2005), a member of the Advisory Board of the Insurance Institute of Portugal (20012005) and a lawyer with his own legal practice, particularly in oil exploration and production (1994-1998). He was also a lecturer in the Lisbon Law School where he is preparing his doctorate. Carlos Costa Pina is the author of numerous published works and holds a degree in Law and a Masters in Legal and Business Sciences from the School of Law, University of Lisbon. Member | Francisco Rêgo Francisco Rêgo was born in Porto, Portugal, on 9 July 1972. He is a non-executive member of the Board of Directors since April 2015. He has been a Director of Amorim Holding II and other companies in the Américo Amorim Group since 2004. From 2002 to 2004 he was in the Commercial Department of SODESA, S.A., an electricity trading company. From 1997 to 2002 he was at ECOCICLO, an Energy Engineering, Audit and Consulting company. Francisco Rêgo graduated in Mechanical Engineering at the School of Engineering of Porto University and completed an Advanced Postgraduate course in Quantitative Management Methods at the School of Management from Porto University. Member | Jorge Seabra de Freitas Jorge Seabra de Freitas was born in Porto, Portugal, on 27 February 1960. He is a non-executive member of Galp’s Board of Directors since November 2012. He has also been a director of Amorim Holding II since August 2011 and a director of Grupo Arcotêxteis, S.A., since March 2009. Before joining Galp, he was Chairman of the Board of Directors of Coelima Indústrias Têxteis, S.A., between January 1992 and May 2011. Jorge Seabra Freitas holds a degree in Economics from the Porto School of Economics, as well as in the International Executive Programme and Competitive Strategy, both from INSEAD. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 347 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Member | José Carlos Silva José Carlos Silva was born in Porto, Portugal, on 5 January 1963. He is a member of Galp’s Board of Directors since November 2012 and a member of the Executive Committee since December 2012, and is responsible for various corporate services and for the Sourcing, Refining and Planning business. With over two decades of experience in Procurement, Supply Chain and Project Management, he is Chief Operating Officer (COO) of Refining and Trading Oil, after several leadership roles in the Company, namely as Chief Corporate Officer in the 2012-2014 period, whilst member of the Executive Committee. Currently, in the capacity of CCO, he is responsible for the corporate services of Engineering, Project Management and Procurement. His professional experience also includes the automotive and tourism industries. José Carlos da Silva Costa holds a degree in Chemical Engineering from the Porto Instituto Superior de Engenharia (School of Engineering) and specialised training in Quality Management, Information Systems and Innovation. Member | Pedro Ricardo Pedro Ricardo was born in Lisbon, Portugal, on 20 December 1964. He is a member of Galp’s Board of Directors and Executive Committee since April 2015, and is responsible for the Gas & Power business unit. He joined Transgás, the company that introduced natural gas to Portugal, in 1994, where he was the head of natural gas Procurement and Sales. In 1998 he was appointed Executive Director of Transgás, responsible for supplies, engineering and operation and maintenance. Between 2002 and 2005 he was executive director of GDP Distribuição, Galp Group’s sub-holding company in the gas distribution sector, and executive director of some of the natural gas distribution companies. Between 2006 e 2015 he was a board member of Galp Gás Natural responsible for supply and Gas and electricity trading. Pedro Ricardo holds a degree in Chemical Engineering from the Instituto Superior Técnico in Lisbon and holds an MBA from Universidade Nova de Lisboa. Member | Tiago Câmara Pestana Tiago Câmara Pestana was born in Porto, Portugal, on 4 September 1964. He is an executive member of Galp’s Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee since April 2015, and he is responsible for the Iberian and International Oil Marketing. Before joining Galp, he had mainly occupied roles in the food distribution industry. Between 1999 and 2014, he was the CEO of Dia Portugal Supermercados. Prior to that, he was executive director of Lojas de Conveniência Extra, executive director of the Jumbo Portugal and Spain hypermarkets network, executive director of the Pão de Açúcar group, Portugal, where he was responsible for the management of the Minipreço chain, between 1998 and 1999. Tiago Câmara Pestana holds a degree in Aeronautical Engineering from the University of Salford (Manchester, UK) and a Masters in Administrative and Industrial Sciences from City University (London, UK). 348 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.8. Biographies of the members of the management and supervisory bodies and the members of the Remunerations Committee Member | Rui Paulo Gonçalves Rui Paulo Gonçalves was born in Porto, Portugal, on 30 May 1967. He is a non-executive member of Galp’s Board of Directors since May 2008. He has also been a director and General Manager of Amorim – Investimentos Energéticos, SGPS, S.A. since December 2007. Is still Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting of Amorim Holding II, SGPS, S.A. Before joining Galp, he practised Law in Porto and was visiting Lecturer at the Portuguese Institute of Administration and Marketing (IPAM) on the degree course and on various post-graduate courses between 2004 and 2007. He was legal adviser to the Unicer Group from 2002 and 2007 and, at the same time, Deputy Director of the legal office of the same group. Rui Paulo Gonçalves has a post-graduate degree in Management for law graduates from the School of Economic and Business Sciences of the Universidade Católica and a Degree in Law from the Law School of the same university. Member | Luís Todo Bom Luís Todo Bom was born in Luanda, Angola, 1 May 1948. He is an independent non-executive member of Galp’s Board of Directors since November 2012. He is also non-executive Chairman of Multitel Angola, non-executive director of Onyria Internacional (Onyria group), Scutvias and AutoEstradas XXI (Globalvia group) and visiting associate lecture at ISCTE. Before joining Galp, he was non-executive director of Taguspark between 2010 and 2012, non-executive director of Chamartín Imobiliária, SGPS, S.A. between 2007 and 2009, non-executive director of Companhia de Seguros Sagres, S.A., between 2003 and 2009, non-executive director of Portugal Telecom International, Portugal Telecom Brazil and Semapa, SGOS, betwenn 2003 and 2006 and non-executive director of Amorim Imobiliária, SGPS, S.A., between 2002 and 2007. He was Chairman of the Board of AITECOEIRAS between 2008 and 2012 and a member of the MRG Group’s Strategy Board between 2009 and 2012. He was Inspector-general and Chairman of the Advisory Board of the Portugal Telecom group and also a non-executive director of Inotec Angola – Ambiente, Energia e Comunicações, S.A. Luís Todo Bom has a degree in Chemical-Industrial Engineering from the Instituto Superior Técnico and a MBA from the Universidade Nova de Lisboa/Wharton School of Pennsylvania. He attended the Stanford Executive Program and the Executive Program on Strategy Organisation at Stanford University. He also attended the DBA – Doctor of Business Administration Programme at the University of Cranfield and ISCTE. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 349 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Member | Diogo Tavares Diogo Tavares was born in Montijo, Portugal, on 31 October 1945. He is a member of Galp’s Board of Directors since April 2012. Before joining Galp he was advisor to the Chairman of Amorim Holding II, SGPS, S.A. between 2006 and 2011, director of that same company between 2011 and 2013, and also non-executive director at Galp, S.A. between 2006 and 2008. He was President of UNIRISCO, the first venture capital company in Portugal and, among other positions, he was Vice-Chairman of IAPMEI, Vice-Chairman of the Tourism Institute of Portugal, Director of IFADAP, Director of IPE-CAPITAL, Vice-Chairman of ICEP and Chairman of Urbimeta, S.A. Sociedade Imobiliária. Diogo Tavares holds a degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Instituto Superior Técnico and is a graduate of the Advanced Business Management Programme (IAESE/Harvard Business School). Member | Joaquim Borges Gouveia Joaquim Borges Gouveia was born in Porto, Portugal, 24 October 1950. He is an independent non-executive member of Galp’s Board of Directors since May 2008. Joaquim Borges Gouveia has been retired Professor of the Department of Economics, Industrial Management and Engineering at the Universidade de Aveiro since 2001 and has been also director and coordinator of several departments at the Universidade de Aveiro. He was coordinator of GOVCOPP Governance, Competitiveness and Public Policy – a research unit of the Research Institute of the Universidade de Aveiro, between 2009 and 2011, and director of the master’s course in Sustainable Energy Systems, between 2007 and 2011. He was Chairman of the Board of RNAE – National Network of Energy and Environment Agencies being now Chairman of the respective Board of the General Meeting. He is also Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Energaia Agência da Área Metroplitana do Sul do Porto. Joaquim Borges Gouveia holds a degree in Electrical Engineering from the School of Engineering of Porto, in 1973 and a doctorate in electrical and computer engineering, also from the School of Engineering of Porto, in 1983. He is an associate lecturer in Electrical and Computer Engineering at the Engineering School of the Universidade do Porto. 350 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.8. Biographies of the members of the management and supervisory bodies and the members of the Remunerations Committee Audit Board Chairman | Daniel Bessa Daniel Bessa was born in Porto, Portugal, 6 May 1948. He is Chairman of Galp’s Audit Board since 5 October 2006. He was Chairman of the Board of Porto Business School between 2000 and 2009. He has held posts in teaching (Faculty of Economics and Faculty of Engineering of the Universidade do Porto and at Porto Business School), in the management of education units (Faculty of Economics and Vice-Chancellor’s office, Universidade do Porto, and School of Technology and Management of the Instituto Politécnico de Viana do Castelo). He was director of Finibanco and Finibanco Holding, non-executive director of CELBI – Celulose Beira Industrial, of Efacec Capital and INPARSA – Indústrias e Participações, a member of the General and Supervisory Board of BCP – Banco Comercial Português, S.A., Chairman of the Audit Board of SPGM, and external employee of the Sonae group. He was general manager of COTEC Portugal – Business Association for Innovation from 2009 to 2015. He was also a director of AICEP and Chairman of the Advisory Board of IGFCSS – Institute for the Management of Social Security Capitalisation Funds. Daniel Bessa holds a degree in Economics, from Universidade do Porto, and a doctorate in Economics, from Universidade Técnica de Lisboa. Member | Gracinda Raposo Gracinda Raposo was born in Arraiolos, Portugal, 19 March 1954. She is member of Galp’s Audit Board since May 2008. She is Director of ECS Capital – Private Equity and Distress Funds Management Firm. Between 2007 and 2009 she was advisor to the Board of Directors of the Santander Group. Between 2004 and 2006, she was also a Director of Caixa Geral de Depósitos and nonexecutive Director of Caixa BI, among other functions. Gracinda Raposo was also a member of the Audit Board of Banco BIC Portugal until 2013. She has a degree in management from ISCTE and a Master’s degree in operational management from the University of Georgetown, Minneapolis, USA. Member | Pedro Antunes de Almeida Pedro Antunes de Almeida was born in Lisbon, Portugal, 31 December 1949. He is member of Galp’s Audit Board since November 2012. From 2006 to 2015, Pedro Antunes de Almeida was Consultant for Economic and Business Affs to the President of the Portuguese Republic. As an independent business consultant in the tourism industry, he was Chairman of the Board of Directors of ICEP, Chairman of the Executive Committee of ENATUR – Pousadas de Portugal, Secretary of State for Tourism (XV Government) and Ambassador of Portugal to the World Tourism Organisation. Between 2011 and 2012 he was Secretary of the Board of Galp’s General Shareholders Meeting. Pedro Antunes de Almeida has a degree in Economics and Sociology from the Universidade Nova de Lisboa, with a post-graduate qualification in European Economic Studies, from the Universidade Católica Portuguesa, a course on Public Relations, Marketing and Publicity, from the Graduate School of Media, Lisbon, and the Course for National Defence Auditors from the National Defence Institute. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 351 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Alternate member | Amável Calhau Amável Alberto Freixo Calhau was born in Setúbal, Portugal, 20 November 1946. He is deputy member of Galp’s Audit Board since 5 October 2006. He is Statutory Auditor and has been a Managing Partner of Amável Calhau, Ribeiro da Cunha e Associados – Sociedade de Revisores Oficiais de Contas since 1981. He was an Accountant and Auditor for an auditing company between 1970 and 1979 and has been an individual Statutory Auditor since 1980. Statutory Auditor in dozens of companies, from several industry sectors, since 1981, among which are: since 1991 to 2012, Statutory Auditor of Portuguese Securities Market Commission Audit Committee; since 2006 to 2014, Statutory Auditor of Banco de Portugal Audit Committee, and since 2008 to 2012, Statutory Auditor of Agência de Gestão da Tesouraria e da Dívida Pública – IGCP, E.P.E Audit Committee. Amável Alberto Freixo Calhau is an accounting expert from the Army Pupils’ Military Institute and an individual Statutory Auditor. Remuneration Committee Member | Jorge Armindo de Carvalho Teixeira Jorge Armindo de Carvalho Teixeira is Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Turismo, SGSP, S.A. and associates and Chairman of APC – the Portuguese Casinos Association. He began his professional career in 1976 as Assistant Lecturer in the Porto Faculty of Economics, teaching Business Management and International Financial Management until 1992. In 1982 he joined what is now the Amorim Group as Chief Financial Officer and in 1987 was appointed Vice-Chairman of the Group, a position he held until 2000. In 1997, at the invitation of the Government, he was appointed Chairman of Portucel – Empresa de Celulose e Papel de Portugal, SGPS, S.A. and he also took the chair of all companies in which Portucel, SGPS, S.A. had investments until its privatisation. Jorge Armindo de Carvalho Teixeira has a degree in Economics from the Faculty of Economics of Universidade do Porto. Member | Joaquim Alberto Hierro Lopes Joaquim Alberto Hierro Lopes is a member and managing partner of GED Partners and, at the same time, a member of the Board of Directors of the Fund Management Companies GED V España GED Eastern Fund II, GED Iberian B, GED Sur (CEO) and of the Board of Directors of several GED Fund subsidiaries, including Estudio Pereda4 Ingenieria, Nuceri International, Iconsa Engineering,Megafood S.A, in Spain and FASE – Estudos e Projectos Engenharia, S.A. and Serlima Services S.A., in Portugal. Before joining Galp, he was a Lecturer in Financial Mathematics and Management Accounting at the ISAG – Graduate School of Administration and Management; he was executive director of Norpedip/PME Capital – Sociedade Portuguesa de Capital de Risco, Chairman and Board Member of several companies, including FiberSensing, Altitude Software, Payshop, Cabelte, Bluepharma, TV Tel Grande Porto, Fibroplac., and participated in the launch and management of various investment funds. Between 2007 and 2014 he was a member of the Audit Board of Corticeira Amorim SGPS, S.A. Joaquim Alberto Hierro Lopes completed a degree in Accounting and Administration at Porto Accounting and Business School, graduated in Mathematics at the Faculty of Sciences of the Universidade do Porto, and he completed a MBA at Porto Business School. He is Master in Business Management, also at the Universidade do Porto. 352 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.8. Biographies of the members of the management and supervisory bodies and the members of the Remunerations Committee 8.9. Positions held in other companies by the Members of the management and supervisory bodies and the members of Remunerations Committee 8.9. Positions held in other companies by the members of the management and supervisory bodies and the members of Remunerations Committee Inside Galp Group* Executive Members Carlos Tiago Gomes Filipe Thore Carlos José Carlos Pedro Câmara da Silva Silva Kristiansen Costa Pina Silva Ricardo Pestana CLC Companhia Logística de Combustíveis, S.A. CBD Enerfuel, S.A. CBD Europe Maghreb Pipeline, Ltd. D Galp Alentejo E&P, S.A. D CBD Galp Bioenergy B.V. D D D Galp E&P Brasil B.V. D D D Galp East Africa B.V. D D Galp Energia Brasil, S.A. CBD D D D D Galp Energia E&P B.V. D D D D D D D Galp Energia España, SAU CBD D D D Galp Energia Overseas B.V. D D D Galp Energia Overseas Block 14 B.V. D D Galp Energia Overseas Block 32 B.V. D D Galp Energia Overseas Block 33 B.V. D D Galp Energia Overseas LNG, B.V. D D Galp Energia Portugal Holdings B.V. D D D Galp Energia Rovuma B.V. D D D Galp Energia São Tomé e Príncipe, Limitada M M Galp Energia, S.A. CBD D D D D D D Galp Exploração e Produção (Timor-Leste), S.A. CBD D D D D D D Galp Exploração e Produção Petrolífera, S.A. CBD D D D D D D Galp Gas & Power, SGPS, S.A. CBD D D D D D D Galp Gás Natural, S.A. CBD Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. CBD Galp Marketing International, S.A. CBD Galp Power, S.A. CBD Galp Sinopec Brazil Services B.V. D D D D D Galp Swaziland, Limited D GALPEK, Lda. CMB Gasoducto Al-Andalus, S.A. D Gasoducto de Extremadura, S.A. D GDP Gás de Portugal, S.A. CBD MIBGAS, S.A. D Metragaz Societé pour la Construction de L'Exploitation Technique du Gazoduc D Maghreb Europe Petrogal Angola, Lda. CMB Petrogal Brasil B.V. D D Petrogal Brasil, S.A. CBD D D D D Petrogal Guiné-Bissau, Lda. CMB Petróleos de Portugal Petrogal, S.A. CBD D D D D D D Tagus RE, S.A. CBD Windhoek PEL 23 B.V. D D Windhoek PEL 28 B.V. D D CBD Windhoek PEL 23 B.V. D D Windhoek PEL 24 B.V. D D Windhoek PEL 28 B.V. D D CBD Chairman of the Board of Directors D Director CMB Chairman of the Management Board M Manager * For this purpose, all companies directly or indirectly affiliated by Galp are deemed included in the Galp Group. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 353 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Non-executive members of the Board of Directors do not held In the Amorim group positions in other companies from the Galp Group. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Investimento e Participações, SGPS, S.A. Outside the Galp Group* In the Amorim Luxury Paula Amorim Sole Director of Amorim Luxury – SGPS, S.A. Sole Director of Amorim Fashion, S.A. In the Américo Amorim Group Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Guedes Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim de Sousa, S.A. Holding II, SGPS, S.A. Manager of Amorim Five, Lda. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Projetos, SGPS, S.A. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Others Negócios, SGPS, S.A. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Fundação Galp Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Investimentos Energéticos, SGPS, S.A. Chairman of the Board of Directors of I.I. Miguel Athayde Marques – Investimentos Ibéricos, SGPS, S.A. Vice-rector of Universidade Católica Portuguesa Chairman of the Board of Directors of Imoeuro, SGPS, S.A. Professor at the Universidade Católica Portuguesa, Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of School of Economics and Business Gaivina – Empreendimentos Turísticos e Imobiliários, S.A. Independent non-executive director of Brisa, Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Portal Concessão Rodoviária, S.A. do Sol – Sociedade Imobiliária Amorim, S.A. Chairman of the Audit Board of Caixa Banco de Investimento, S.A. Director of Amorim Energia, B.V. Founder and Coordinator of Portugal Economy Probe Director of Investmark Holdings, B.V. Chairman of the Association of Former Management and Chairman of the Board of Directors of AH FB’I, Inc. Economics Students of Universidade Católica Portuguesa Chairman of Amorim/TFI, Inc. Member of the Scientific and Pedagogical Council of the Higher Director of Tom Ford International, LLC Institute of Bank Management (Portuguese Banking Association) Director of Platforme International Limited, Inc. Member of the Advisory Board of Junior Achievement Young Enterprise Portugal Member of the Board of Directors of Stockprice, SGPS, S.A. Member of the Advisory Board of GRACE Group Chairman of the Board of Directors of Alqueva Verde, S.A. for Reflection and Support for Corporate Citisenship Member of the Board of Directors of Amorim e Alegre – Sociedade Imobiliária, S.A. Carlos Gomes da Silva Manager of Sociedade Agro-florestal do Panasquinho, Lda. Member of the Board of Directors of Warranties, SGPS, S.A. Chairman of the Board of ISPG – Instituto do Petróleo e Gás, Association for Research and Advanced Training Member of the Board of Directors of Great Prime, S.A. Chairman of the Board of AEM – Association of Companies Issuing Listed Securities Member of the Board of Directors of Fundação Galp Vice-Chairman of EPIS – Association of Entrepreneurs for Social Inclusion * For this purpose, all companies directly or indirectly affiliated with Galp are deemed included in the Galp Group. 354 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.9. Positions held in other companies by the Members of the management and supervisory bodies and the members of Remunerations Committee Filipe Crisóstomo Silva Director of Great Prime, S.A. Director of AGS – Mozambique, S.A. Member of the Board of ISPG – Instituto do Petróleo e Gás, Association for Research and Advanced Training Director of Agromoz – Agribusiness de Mozambique, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Fundação Galp Director of Angola Real Estate Investments B.V. Director of Topbreach Holding B.V. Director of Amorim Financial Sector B.V. Abdul Magid Osman Director of Amorim Aliança B.V. Chairman of the BIOFUND foundation (biodiversity protection) Director of Amorim Energia B.V. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Épsilon Investimentos, S.A. Director of Power Oil & Gas Investments B.V. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Banco Único Director of Ligardis Holding B.V. Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting of Director of Itacaré, B.V. FDC Fundação de Desenvolvimento Comunitário Director of Praia do Forte, B.V. Director of Oil Investments B.V. Marta Amorim Director of Investmark Holdings, B.V. In the Américo Amorim Group Director of Amorim Investments II, S.A. Director of Amorim Investments V, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Amorim Energia, B.V. Director of AHFB I, Inc. Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Holding II, SGPS, S.A. Director of Amorim/TFI, Inc. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Holding Chair of Banco Luso-Brasileiro, S.A. Financeira, SGPS, S.A. Director of A.P.I. – Amorim Participações Chairman of the Board of Directors of Solfim, SGPS, S.A. Internacionais, SGPS, S.A. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Chair of Paisagem do Alqueva, S.A. Financial, SGPS, S.A. Chair of S.S.A. – Sociedade de Serviços Agrícolas, S.A. Director of Amorim Projectos, SGPS, S.A. Vice-Chair of IMOBIS – Empreendimentos Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of I.I. – Investimentos Imobiliários Amorim, S.A. Ibéricos, SGPS, S.A. Chair of Mosteiro de Grijó – Empreendimentos Turísticos, S.A. Vice-Chairman of Amorim Investimentos Energéticos, SGPS, S.A. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Gevisar, SGPS, S.A. Chairman of the Board of Directors of Financimgest – Sociedade Raquel Vunge de Consultoria de Gestão de Créditos, S.A. Board member of Banco Comercial Português and Caixa Angola Chairman of Sotomar – Empreendimentos Industriais e Imobiliários, S.A. Vice-Chair of Amorim Negócios, SGPS, S.A. Carlos Costa Pina Director of Lusares – Sociedade Imobiliária, S.A. Chairman of the Scientific and Technological Council of ISPG – Instituto do Petróleo e Gás, Association for Research and Chair of Portal do Sol – Sociedade Imobiliária Amorim, S.A. Advanced Training Director of Warranties, SGPS, S.A. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 355 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Vice-Chairman of the Board of BCSD Portugal – Business Council Director of Portal do Sol – Sociedade Imobiliária Amorim, S.A. for Sustainable Development Director of Vintage Prime, SGPS, S.A. Member of the Board of AIPQR Associação das Indústrias da Director of Angola Real Estate Investments B.V. Director Petroquímica, Química e Refinação (Association of Topbreach Holding B.V. of Petrochemical, Chemical and Refining Industries) Director of Amorim Financial Sector B.V. Director Member of the Board of Directors of Fundação Portugal – África of Amorim Aliança B.V. Member of the General Board of IPCG – Portuguese Institute of Director of Amorim Energia B.V. Corporate Governance Director of Ligardis Holding B.V. Member of the General Board of EGP Porto Business School Director of Itacaré, B.V. Director of EPRA – European Petroleum Industry Association (FuelsEurope and Concawe) Director of Praia do Forte B.V. Member of the Board of Founders of Fundação da Casa da Música Director of Oil Investments B.V. Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting of Director of Amorim Investments II, S.A. APEEN – Portuguese Association for Energy Economics Director of Amorim Investments V, S.A. Director of AHFB I, Inc. Member of the Audit Board of IDEFF – Instituto de Direito Director of Amorim/TFI, Inc. Económico, Financeiro e Fiscal Substitute Director of the Banco Luso-Brasileiro, S.A. Chairman of the Board of Auditors of Fundação Res Publica Member of the Advisory Board of APDC – Associação Portuguesa Others para o Desenvolvimento das Comunicações Chairman of the Board of Directors of Moreira, Gomes & Costas, S.A. Francisco Rêgo Director of Época Global, SGPS, S.A. In the Américo Amorim Group Director of Actual, SGPS, S.A. Director of Cardan Grande Porto, S.A. Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Holding II, SGPS, S.A. Manager of AVS – Agência de Viagens Sandinense, Lda. Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of Amorim Holding Financeira, SGPS, S.A. Jorge Seabra de Freitas Director of Amorim Energia B.V. In the Américo Amorim Group Vice-Chairman of Solfim SGPS, S.A. Director of Amorim Financial, SGPS, S.A. Director of Amorim Energia, B.V. Director of Amorim Negócios, SGPS, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Amorim Holding II, SGPS, S.A. Director of Amorim Projectos, SGPS, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Solfim, SGPS, S.A. Director of Amorim Investimentos Energéticos, SGPS, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Amorim Financial, SGPS, S.A. Director of Gevisar SGPS, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Amorim Director of Financimgest – Sociedade de Consultoria Holding Financeira, SGPS, S.A. e Gestão de Créditos, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Amorim Negócios, SGPS, S.A. Director of ImoEuro, SGPS, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Amorim Projetos, SGPS, S.A. Director of Gaivina – Empreendimentos Turísticos e Imobiliários, S.A. 356 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.9. Positions held in other companies by the Members of the management and supervisory bodies and the members of Remunerations Committee Member of the Board of Directors of II – Investimentos Ibéricos, SGPS, S.A. Pedro Ricardo Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Scientific and Technological Council of Financimgest – Sociedade de Consultoria of ISPG – Instituto do Petróleo e Gás, Association de Gestão de Créditos, S.A. for Research and Advanced Training Member of the Board of Directors of AGS – Mozambique, S.A. President of the Board of AGN – Portuguese Association Chairman of the Board of Directors of Natural Gas Companies of Agromoz – Agribusiness de Mozambique, S.A. Director of Angola Real Estate Investments B.V. Tiago Câmara Pestana Director of Topbreach Holding B.V. Member of the Scientific and Technological Council Director of Amorim Financial Sector B.V. of ISPG – Instituto do Petróleo e Gás, Association Director of Amorim Aliança B.V. for Research and Advanced Training Director of Power Oil & Gas Investments B.V. President of the Board of APETRO – Portuguese Association of Oil Director of Ligardis Holding B.V. Companies Director of Itacaré, B.V. Director of Praia do Forte B.V. Rui Paulo Gonçalves Director of Oil Investments B.V. In the Américo Amorim Group Director of Amorim Investments II, S.A. Director and general manager of Amorim Investimentos Director of Amorim Investments V, S.A. Energéticos, SGPS, S.A. Director of AHFB I, Inc. Director of Amorim Energia, B.V. Director of Amorim/TFI, Inc. Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting of Member of the Board of Directors of Sotomar Empreendimentos Amorim Holding II, SGPS, S.A. Turísticos e Imobiliários, S.A. Others Member of the Board of Directors of Porta do Sol Sociedade Imobiliária Amorim, S.A. Vice-Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting of Banco Único, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Lusares Sociedade Imobiliária, S.A. Luís Todo Bom Others Managing partner of Terfran – Investimentos e Serviços, Lda. Adviser to the Banco Luso-Brasileiro, S.A. Managing partner of Angopartners Investments Consulting, Lda. Member of the Board of Directors of Banco Único, SGPS, S.A. Non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of Multitel Angola – Serviços de Telecomunicações, Lda. Non-executive director of Onyria Internacional, S.A. José Carlos Silva (Onyria group) Member of the Scientific and Technological Council Non-executive director of Scutvias – Autoestradas da Beira of ISPG – Instituto do Petróleo e Gás, Association for Research Interior, S.A. and Auto-Estradas XXI, S.A. (Globalvia group) and Advanced Training Visiting Associate Lecturer of ISCTE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 357 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Joaquim Borges Gouveia Pedro Antunes de Almeida Retired Professor of the Department of Economics, Industrial Member of the Audit Board of Fundação Galp Management and Engineering of the Universidade de Aveiro Member of the Audit Board of Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. Chairman of the Board of APM – Portuguese Association of Management Chairman of the Audit Board of Fidelidade Seguros Chairman of the General Shareholders Meeting of RNAE – Non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of grupo NAU National Network of Energy and Environment Agencies. Hotels & Resorts Chairman of the Board of Directors of ENERGAIA, Vila Nova de Gaia District Energy Agency Amável Calhau Member of the Board of Directors of ABAP/BIOCANT Substitute member of the Audit Board of Fundação Galp Audit Board Substitute member of the Audit Board of Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. Daniel Bessa Member of the audit board of several companies Chairman of the Audit Board of Fundação Galp Chairman of the Audit Board of Galp Gás Natural Distribuição, S.A. Chairman of the Audit Board of Sonae, SGPS, S.A. Chairman of the Audit Board of Bial – Portela e Companhia, S.A. Non-executive Chairman of Amorim Turismo, SGPS, S.A. Non-executive Chairman of AEGI Amorim Entertainment and Gaming International, SGPS, S.A. Non-executive Chairman of Sociedade Figueira Praia, S.A. Chairman of the Board of the General Shareholders Meeting of Amkor Technology Portugal, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors and of the Executive Committee of Fundação Bial Member of the Investment Board of PVCI – Portuguese Venture Capital Initiative (undertaking with investment by BEI Group, through the EIF – European Investment Fund) Gracinda Raposo Member of the Audit Board of Fundação Galp Non-executive Director of Tagusgás – Empresa de Gás do Vale do Tejo, S.A. Director of ECS-Capital – Private Equity and Distress Funds Management Firm. 358 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.9. Positions held in other companies by the Members of the management and supervisory bodies and the members of Remunerations Committee Remuneration Committee Member of the Board of Directors of SPIGH – Sociedade Portuguesa de Investimentos e Gestão Hoteleira, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Troia Península Jorge Armindo de Carvalho Teixeira Investimentos, SGPS, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Amorim – Entertainment Member of the Board of Directors of Turyleader, SGPS, S.A. e Gaming Internacional, SGPS, S.A. Member of the Executive Board of AHP Member of the Board of Directors of Amorim Turismo, SGPS, S.A. Hospitality Association of Portugal Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Executive Board of ELO – Portuguese Association of BLUE & GREEN – Serviços e Gestão, S.A. for Economic Development and Cooperation Member of the Board of Directors of Bl&Gr, S.A Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of the CTP Portuguese Confederation of Tourism Member of the Board of Directors of CHT – Casino Hotel de Tróia, S.A. Chairman of the Audit Board of the APR Portuguese Resorts Association Member of the Board of Directors of ELEVEN – Restauração e Catering, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Estoril Sol, SGPS, S.A. Joaquim Alberto Hierro Lopes Member of the Board of Directors of Fozpatrimónio, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of the GED Partners, SL Member of the Board of Directors of Fundição Member of the Board of Directors of the Capital do Alto da Lixa, S.A. Promoción Empresarial del Sru, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors of the GED Capital of Goldtur – Hotéis e Turismo, S.A. Development, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Grano Salis Inv. Turísticos, Member of the Board of Directors of the GED Iberian Jogo e Lazer, S.A. Private Equity, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Grano Salis II Investimentos Member of the Investment Committees of all GED Funds Turísticos e de Lazer, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of the Megafood, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Hotel Turismo, S.A.R.L. Member of the Board of Directors of the FASE-Estudos Member of the Board of Directors of Iberpartners e Projectos, S.A. Gestão e Reestruturação de Empresas, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of the Serlima Member of the Board of Directors of Iberpartners Services, S.A. Cafés, SGPS, S.A. Chairman of the Board of Directors of ISAG – Graduate School Member of the Board of Directors of Imofoz, S.A. of Administration and Management Member of the Board of Directors of Mobis – Hotéis de Mozambique, S.A.R.L. Member of the Board of Directors of Notel Empreendimentos Turísticos, S.A.R.L. Member of the Board of Directors of Prifalésia Construção e Gestão de Hotéis, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of SGGHM Sociedade Geral de Hotéis de Mozambique, S.A. Member of the Board of Directors of Sociedade Figueira Praia, S.A. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 359 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world 8.10. CIF, +15.3% LSFO 1% FOB Cg; C&L: 7.7%; Terminal rate: $1/ton; Ocean loss: 0.15% over Brent; Freight 2017: WS Aframax Glossary and abbreviations (80 kts) Route Sullom Voe/Rotterdam – Flat $7.66/ton. Yields in % of weight. Glossary Rotterdam base oils margin Absenteeism The Rotterdam base oils margin has the following proﬁle: Ratio between the number of working hours lost by absence and -100% Arabian Light, +3.5% LGP FOB Seagoing (50% Butane + the maximum potential of working hours (number of employees x 50% Propane), +13% Naphtha NWE FOB Bg, +4.4% 21 days x 11 months x 8 hours). Jet NWE CIF, 34% ULSD 10 ppm NWE CIF, +4.5% VGO 1.6% NWE FOB Cg,+ 14% Base Oils FOB, +26% HSFO 3.5% NWE Bg; API density Consumptions: -6.8% LSFO 1% CIF NWE Cg; C&L: 7.4%; Terminal rate: $1/ton; Ocean loss: 0.15% over Arabian Density expressed in API degrees, deﬁned by the American Light; Freight 2017: WS Aframax (80 kts) Route Sullom Petroleum Institute by means of the following formula: Voe/Rotterdam – Flat $7.66/ton. Yields in % of weight. API°= (141.5/g) – 131.5, where g is the density of the oil to 60°F (15.6 °C). This is the formula that is internationally used Rotterdam aromatics margin to establish the density of crude oil. The greater the API density, the lighter the crude oil. The Rotterdam aromatics margin has the following proﬁle: -60% EuroBob NWE FOB Bg, -40% Naphtha NWE FOB Bg, Atmospheric distillation +37% Naphtha NWE FOB Bg, +16.5% EuroBob NWE FOB Bg, +6.5% Benzene Rotterdam FOB Bg, +18.5% Toluene Rotterdam Distillation of crude oil effected under atmospheric pressure, FOB Bg, +16.6% Paraxylene Rotterdam FOB Bg, +4.9% from which oil product fractions are produced (light oil, heavy Ortoxylene Rotterdam FOB Bg; Consumption: -18% LSFO 1% oil, diesel fuels, and heavy products, for example). After suitable CIF NEW. Yields in % of weight. treatment, these fractions are the components of the finished products. CO2 Benchmark refining margin Carbon dioxide, colourless gas that is heavier than air, this being one of its natural components. Produced by certain natural The benchmark reﬁning margin is calculated with the following processes, such as the carbon cycle, and by the complete burning weighting: 45% hydrocracking margin + 42.5% cracking margin + contained in fossil fuels. 7% Base oils + 5.5% Aromatics. Cogeneration Rotterdam hydrocracking margin Power generation technology that allows the combined The Rotterdam hydrocracking margin has the following production of heat and electricity. The advantage of cogeneration proﬁle: -100% Brent dated, +2.2% LPG FOB Seagoing is the capacity it has to take double advantage of the heat (50% Butane + 50% Propane), +19.1% EuroBob NWE FOB produced by burning the fuel for the generation of thermal energy Bg, +8.7% Naphtha NWE FOB Bg, +8.5% Jet NWE CIF, +45.1% for the generation of electricity. This process allows the same ULSD 10 ppm NWE CIF, +9.0% LSFO 1% FOB Cg; C&L: 7.4%; installation to comply with the heat (hot water or steam) and Terminal rate: $1/ton; Ocean loss: 0.15% over Brent; Freight electricity needs of both industrial clients and urban settlements. 2017: WS Aframax (80 kts) Route Sullom Voe/Rotterdam – Flat This system improves the energy efficiency of the generation $7.66/ton. Yields in % of weight. process and reduces use of the fuel. Rotterdam cracking margin Complexity The Rotterdam cracking margin has the following proﬁle: The complexity of a refinery lies in its capacity to process -100% Brent dated, +2.3% LPG FOB Seagoing (50% Butane + crude oil and other raw materials and is measured by means 50% Propane), +25.4% EuroBob NWE FOB Bg, +7.5% Naphtha of the complexity index, calculated separately by different NWE FOB Bg, +8.5% Jet NWE CIF, +33.3% ULSD 10 ppm NWE organisations within the sector, such as energy sector consultants 360 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.10. Glossary and abbreviations Solomon Associates and Nelson. A refinery’s complexity index Cracking is calculated by attributing a complexity factor to each one of the refinery’s units, which is based above all on the level of technology Transformation through a breaking down of the hydrocarbon used in the construction of the unit, taking as a reference molecules in long chains, with the objective of obtaining a crude oil primary distillation installation to which is attributed a hydrocarbon molecules in shorter chains, thus increasing the complexity factor of 1.0. The complexity index of each unit proportion of lighter and more volatile products. Distinguishing is calculated by the multiplication of the complexity factor with between thermal cracking and catalytic cracking. Thermal the unit’s capacity. The complexity of a refinery is equivalent to the cracking is only caused by the actions of heat and pressure. weighted average of the complexity index of each one of its units, Catalytic cracking uses catalysers that, at the same temperature, including the distillation units. A refinery with a complexity index allow a deeper and more selective transformation of fractions that of 10.0 is considered to be 10 times more complex than a refinery could be heavier. equipped with just crude oil atmospheric distillation, for the same quality of processed product. Dated Brent Condensates Price of shipments of Brent oil as announced by the price fixing agencies. This is the reference price for the vast majority of crude Hydrocarbons that, when stored in the respective deposits, are oils sold in Europe, Africa and the Middle East, and is one of the found to be in a gaseous state, but which on the surface become most important references for the prices on the spot market. liquids under normal pressure and temperature conditions. Dated Brent oil is the light crude oil from the North Sea that, This essentially concerns pentane and other heavier products. since July 2006, has included the Fortis and Oseberg branches. The crude mix has an average API density of approximately 38.9°. Contingent resources Diesel These are quantities of oil that are estimated on a given date to be potentially recoverable from known accumulations but are not A mix of liquid hydrocarbons destined for feeding compression currently considered to be commercially recoverable. This may ignition engines (Diesel cycle). The behaviour of diesel fuel happen for a variety of reasons. For example, maturity issues (the depends on the temperatures at which it is used. discovery needs further appraisal in order to firm up the elements of the development plan); technological issues (new technology Distillation needs to be developed and tested for commercial production); or market-driven issues (sales contracts are not yet in place or the A method for separating (liquid or solid) substances by infrastructure needs to be developed in order to get the product evaporation followed by condensation. Distillation may take place to market). 2C contingent resources are those that are calculated under atmospheric pressure or in a vacuum, depending on what based on the best estimate, while 3C resources correspond to the products are desired. This process produces distillates. highest estimate, thus reflecting a larger level of uncertainty. Volumes that fall into this category cannot be referred to Emissions as reserves. Release of gases into the atmosphere. Within the context of global Conversion climactic alterations, the gases released include gases capable of altering the climate – the so-called GGEs. A typical example Set of various treatments (catalytic or thermal) where the principal is the release of CO₂ during the burning of fuels. reaction is effected on the carbon connections, with this having the possibility of being more or less deep due to the conditions Direct emissions (A1) imposed. This process is typically associated with the conversion of fuel oils in lesser fractions (diesel fuels, gasoline and gases) These can be directly controlled by the Company and and fuel oils that are more sophisticated from the perspective concern the emissions due to the consumption of fuel in its of their use. In a modern refinery, these processes have assumed own installations: ovens, heat or steam generators, or the a growing importance. Organisation’s cars. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 361 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world Indirect emissions (A2) ICE These are a result of the Company’s activities but which use The Intercontinental Exchange, Inc., or ICE, is a North-American another organisation’s resources: use of grid, heat or steam company that operates virtual markets, in which futures electricity, produced at installations that are not the Company’s. contracts are transacted as well as OTC contracts on energy and commodities, and other financial derivatives products. Indirect emissions (A3) Jet fuel Emissions due to the consumption of fuel in installations that are not the Company’s: leased cars, planes, waste incineration, Fuel for jet motors used in aviation. logistics activities or services. Liquefied natural gas (LNG) FPSO Natural gas that is changed into its liquid state to enable A floating, production, storage and offloading (FPSO) unit is transportation. Liquefaction is performed by a reduction a floating oil production system, built on a ship structure, with in the temperature of the gas, to atmospheric pressure, to amounts a capacity for oil and natural gas production processing, liquid of less than -160°C. The volume of the LNG is approximately storage and transfer of oil to tankers. Regarding the FPSO units in 1/600 of the volume of natural gas. the Brazilian pre-salt, the natural gas produced is exported through a pipeline to the brazilian onhsore, in order to supply that market. Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) FLNG Gaseous hydrocarbons, under normal conditions of temperature and pressure, and liquids, by raising the pressure or reduction A floating, liquefied natural gas unit is a floating natural gas of temperature, which can legally be transported and stored. liquefaction system, built on a ship structure, with a capacity The most common are propane and butane. for production, liquefaction and storage of liquefied natural gas. The stored product is exported through the transfer to LNG vessels Lubricants Fuel oil Products obtained by mixing one or more base oils and additives. This process obeys specific formulas due to the use A mix of hydrocarbons destined for the production of heat of the lubricant. The percentage of additives in the lubricating in thermal installations. There are various types of fuel oil, due to oils reaches 40%. The lubricating oils have three main uses: its viscosity, which conditions their use. automobiles, industry and marine. Gasoline Naphtha Fuel for automobiles equipped with motors that use the Otto Oil product fraction that is located between gases and oil. cycle. This should comply with precise specifications concerning This is also a raw material in the petrochemical industry, from its physical and chemical qualities, of which the most important which cracking provides a large variety of products. This can also is resistance to self-inflammation. form part of the composition of engine gasoline (light naphtha) or, in the case of heavy naphtha, serve as a raw material for the Hydrocracking production of reformate. Process of cracking with the use of hydrogen and under the action Natural gas of catalysts that allows the conversion of less valuable, highboiling-point oil fractions into lighter, more valuable fractions. Mix of light hydrocarbons found in the subsoil, in which The hydrogen allows working at lower temperatures and greater methane is present at a percentage of more than 70% volume. selectivity and, therefore, produces better results. The composition of natural gas may vary depending upon the field in which it is produced and the processes of production, The products from the reaction are saturated compounds, conditioning, processing and transport. which provide them with important stability qualities. 362 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.10. Glossary and abbreviations Net entitlement production reserves are based on geological or engineering data similar to those used in estimates of proven reserves but in relation to which The production percentage of the rights for the exploration technical, contractual, economic or regulatory uncertainties and production of hydrocarbons in a concession following preclude such reserves from being classified as proven. Probable production-sharing agreements. reserves are those quantities of oil that, by analysis of geological and engineering data, have a lower probability of being recovered Prospective resources than the proven reserves, but higher than the possible reserves. If probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 50% Quantities of oil that have, on a certain date, been estimated probability that the quantities actually recovered will equal as potentially recoverable from undiscovered accumulations or exceed the 2P estimate. through future development projects. The estimation of a prospect’s resources is subject to both commercial and Proven, probable and possible reserves (3P) technological uncertainties. Risked mean estimate prospective resources have a higher implied recovery probability than 3P reserves correspond to the sum of proven, probable and unrisked mean estimate resources. The quantities classified possible reserves. Under the definition approved by the SPE and as prospective resources cannot be classified as contingent the WPC, possible reserves are a category of unproven reserves. resources or reserves. Unproven reserves are based on geological or engineering data similar to those used in estimates of proven reserves but in Proven reserves (1P) relation to which technical, contractual, economic or regulatory uncertainties preclude such reserves from being classified Under the definitions approved by the SPE and the WPC, proven as proven. Possible reserves have a lower probability of being reserves are those quantities of oil which, by analysis of geological recovered than probable reserves. If probabilistic methods are and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable used, there should be at least a 10% probability that the quantities certainty to be commercially recoverable, from a given date actually recovered will equal or exceed the 3P estimate. forward, from known reservoirs and under current economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations. Refineries’ utilisation rate If deterministic methods are used, the expression “reasonable certainty” is intended to express a high degree of confidence that Ratio of the total quantity of crude processed oil in the crude oil the quantities will be recovered. If probabilistic methods are used, distillation units in relation to these units’ maximum processing there should be at least a 90% probability that the quantities capacities. actually recovered will equal or exceed the estimate. Refinery The definition of current economic conditions should include relevant historical oil prices and associated costs. In general, The installation where the industrial processes designed reserves are considered proven if the commercial productivity of to transfer the crude oil into products adapted to the needs of the the reservoir is supported by actual production or formation tests. consumers (fuels, lubricants, bitumen, etc.) or into raw materials In this context, the term “proven” refers to the actual quantities for other so-called ”second generation” industries (for example, of oil reserves and not just the productivity of the well or reservoir. the petrochemical industry). The area of the reservoir considered as proven includes (1) the area delineated by drilling and defined by fluid contacts, if any, Renewable energy and (2) the undrilled portions of the reservoir that can reasonably be judged as commercially productive on the basis of available Energy that is available from permanent and natural energy geological and engineering data. Reserves may be classified as conversion processes and is economically exploitable under proven if facilities to process and transport those reserves present conditions or in the foreseeable future. to market are operational at the time of the estimate or there is a reasonable expectation that such facilities will be installed. Replacement Cost (RC) Proven and probable reserves (2P) According to this method, the cost of goods sold is valued at the cost of replacement, i.e. at the average cost of raw materials 2P reserves correspond to the sum of proven (1P) and probable on the month when sales materialise irrespective of inventories reserves. Under the definitions approved by the SPE and the WPC, at the start or end of the period. The Replacement Cost Method probable reserves are a category of unproven reserves. Unproven is not accepted by the Portuguese IFRS and is consequently not Annual Report and Accounts 2017 363 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world adopted for valuing inventories. This method does not reflect Wind farm the cost of replacing other assets. Group of wind turbines for the production of electrical energy Replacement Cost Adjusted (RCA) interlinked by a common network by means of a system of transformers, distribution lines and, usually, a substation. In addition to using the replacement cost method, RCA items The functions of exploration, control and maintenance are exclude non-recurrent events such as capital gains or losses on normally centralised by means of a monitored IT system, which the disposal of assets, impairment or reinstatement of fixed assets is complemented by visual inspections. and environmental or restructuring charges which may affect the analysis of the Company’s profit and do not reflect its regular Wind power operational performance. Kinetic energy – that is, energy that is generated by movement Seismic that is obtained by displacement of the air, or in other words, wind. This can be converted into mechanical energy for the Seismic acquisition involves the generation (source) and enactment of pumps, mills and electrical energy generators. recording (receiver) of seismic data. A source, such as a vibrator unit, dynamite shot, or an air gun, generates acoustic or elastic Working interest production waves that travel into the Earth, pass through strata with different seismic responses and filtering effects, and return to the surface The production percentage of the rights for exploration to be recorded as seismic data. The receiver may include different and production of hydrocarbons in a concession before the effect configurations, including laying geophones or seismometers on of production-sharing agreements. the surface of the Earth or seafloor, pulling hydrophones behind a marine seismic vessel, suspending hydrophones vertically in the sea or placing geophones in a wellbore (as in a vertical seismic profile) to record the seismic signal. Social Return on Investment (SROI) Cost-benefit analysis of the social value generated by the intervention of an organisation. This social impact assessment tool compares the social value generated by the intervention with the necessary expense for this benefit through a ratio between the net present value of the benefits and the net present value of the investment. Spot market The name, relating to products such as oil, used to describe the international commerce of products shipped in single cargos, such as crude oil, the prices of which closely follow the respective demand and availability. Storage facility Installation used by principal and collector pipeline companies, producers of crude oil, and terminal operators (except refineries) for storage of crude oil and oil products. Turnover Ratio between the number of departures and the total number of employees, considering only departures on their own initiative. 364 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.10. Glossary and abbreviations Abbreviations and acronyms AFI: accident frequency index EITI: Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative IIRC: International Integrated Reporting Council AGU: autonomous gas units EMPL: Europe-Maghreb Pipeline IRP: Oil income tax (Angola) Amorim Energia: Amorim Energia, B.V. EMTN: Euro Medium Term Note ISIN: International securities identification number ANEFA: National Association of Forestry, Agriculture EngIQ: Refining, Petrochemical and Chemical ISO: International Organisation for Standardisation and Environment Companies Engineering Doctorate Programme ISP: Portuguese Tax on Oil Products (Imposto sobre ANP: Agência Nacional do Petróleo, Gás Natural e ENH: Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos Produtos Petrolíferos) Biocombustíveis (Brazilian energy sector regulator) (National hydrocarbons company of Mozambique) IsPG: I nstituto do Petróleo e Gás (Brazilian Institute of Oil ASF: Supervisory Authority for Insurance and Pensions Eni: Eni, S.p.A. and Gas) (Autoridade de Supervisão de Seguros e Pensões) ENMC: national entity for the fuel market (Entidade Janus Henderson: Janus Henderson Group Plc b.p.: basis points Nacional para o Mercado de Combustíveis, E.P.E.) JOA: Joint Operating Agreement bbl: oil barrel EPC: Engineering, Procurement and Construction k: thousand/thousands BBLT: Benguela, Belize, Lobito and Tomboco EPCIC: Engineering, Procurement, Construction, kboepd: thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day bcm: billion cubic metres Installation and Commissioning kbpd: thousand barrels of oil per day BlackRock: BlackRock, Inc. EQS: Environment, Quality and Safety km/km2/km3: kilometres / square kilometres / cubic bn: billion EQSE: Environment, Quality, Safety and Energy kilometres boe: barrel of oil equivalent ERM: Entreprise Risk Managment Kosmos: Kosmos Energy CEC: Ethics and Conduct Committee ERSE: Entidade Reguladora dos Serviços Energéticos kton: thousand tonnes (Portuguese energy market regulator) CEO: Chief executive officer LNG: liquefied natural gas ERU: emission reduction units CESE: Energy Sector Extraordinary Contribution LPG: liquefied petroleum gas (Portugal) EU: European Union LRO: Local risk officer CFO: Chief financial officer EUA: emission unit allowances LTIF: Lost time injury frequency CGD: Caixa Geral de Depósitos, S.A. EUR (or €): Euro m: million CGU: cash generating unit EWT: Extended well test m₃: cubic metres CITE: Comissão para a Igualdade no Trabalho e no FASB: Financial Accounting Standards Board mm₃: million cubic metres Emprego (Commission for Equality in Labour and FAME: fatty acid methyl ester Employment) mmboe: million barrels of oil equivalent FCC: Fluid catalytic cracking CLCM: Companhia Logística de Combustíveis da mmbtu: million British thermal units FID: Final Investment Decision Madeira, S.A. mmscf: millions of cubic feet FLNG: Floating, liquefied natural gas CMVM: Comissão do Mercado de Valores Mobiliários MRV: Mozambique Rovuma Venture S.p.A. (Portuguese Securities Market Regulator) FormAG: Advanced Management Training Course MScEP: Masters in Petroleum Engineering CNPC: China National Petroleum Corporation FPSO: Floating, production, storage and offloading mtpa: million tonnes per annum CO2: Carbon dioxide FPSO #6: FPSO Cidade de Saquarema mton: million tonnes COFINS: Contribution to social security financing FPSO #7: FPSO P-66 MW: megawatt CONCAWE: Conservation of Clean Air and Water in FSB: Financial Stability Board MWh: megawatt-hour Europe Funae: Fundo Nacional de Energia (Mozambique) n.m.: no meaning COO: chief operating officer G&P: Gas & Power NAMCOR: National Petroleum Corporation of Namibia CORES: Corporación de Reservas Estratégicas Galp: Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A., Company, Group or de Productos Petrolíferos Corporation NE: North-east COSO: Committee of Sponsoring Organisations GHG: greenhouse gases NG: natural gas of the Treadway Commission GIIP: gas initially in place NGNDN: Natural Gas National Distribution Network CRO: chief risk officer GRI: Global Reporting Initiative NGNS: Natural Gas National System CSC: Commercial Law (Código das Sociedades Comerciais) GVA: Galp Added Value NGNTN: Gas National Transportation Network CTA: Cumulative Translation Adjustment GWh: gigawatt-hour NPV: Net Present Value CVM: Portuguese Securities Code HC: hydrocracking OECD: Organisation for Economic Cooperation and D&P: Development and production Development HSE: Health, Safety and the Environment DeMac: DeGolyer and MacNaughton OHSAS: Occupational Health and Safety Assessment IAS: International Accounting Standards Services DERI: Investor Relations Department IASB: International Accounting Standards Board OTC: over-the-counter DP: Development plan IASC: International Accounting Standards Committee p.p.: percentage points DJSI: Dow Jones Sustainability Index IBAT: Integrated Biodiversity Assessment Tool Parpública: Parpública – Participações Públicas, SGPS, DST: drill stem test ICE: Intercontinental Exchange S.A. E&P: Exploration & Production IFRIC: I nternational Financial Reporting Interpretation Petrobras: Petróleo Brasileiro, S.A. Ebit: Earnings before interest and taxes Committee Petrogal: Petróleos de Portugal – Petrogal, S.A. Ebitda: Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards PIA: Production Individualisation Agreement and amortisation IIA: The Institute of Internal Auditors Annual Report and Accounts 2017 365 To our stakeholders Strategic framework Strategic execution Energy for a changing world PIS: P rogram of social integration and formation of the patrimony of the public servant PMRS: Petroleum Resources Management System POS: Probability of Geological Success or Probability of Success POS: Probability of Success PPSA: Pré-Sal Petróleo S.A. PSA: production sharing agreement PSI-20: portuguese stock market reference index PSL: Post Service Liability PwC: PricewaterhouseCoopers R&D: Research & Development R&M: Refining & Marketing R&T: Research & Technology RAB: Regulatory Asset Base RC: replacement cost RCA: replacement cost adjusted RCM: Reliability centred maintenance RLR: Retailers of Last Resort RLRW: Retailer of Last Resort Wholesaler ROC: Statutory Auditor ROI: return on investment SDG: Sustainable Development Goals SGPS: Sociedade Gestora de Participações Sociais (Holding company) SIC: Standing Interpretation Committee SPE: Society of Petroleum Engineers SPPI: Solely Payments of Principal and Interest SROC: Firm of statutory auditors Standard Life: Standard Life Investments (Holdings) Limited SXEP: STOXX Europe 600 Oil & Gas Index ton: tonne tC0₂: tonnes of carbon dioxide tC0₂e: tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tcf: trillion cubic feet TCFD: Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure Templeton: Templeton Global Advisors Limited ToP: take-or-pay TSR: Total Shareholder Return UGS: global system use UNGC: United Nations Global Compact UOP: unit of production URD: distribution network use URT: transportation network use USA: United States of America USD (or $): United States Dollar VGO: vacuum gas oil WAC: weighted-average cost WACC: Weighted Average Cost of Capital WEST: Western European Summer Time WPC: World Petroleum Council YoY: year-on-year 366 Financial performance Corporate Governance Proposal for Appendices Galp allocation of results 8.10. Glossary and abbreviations Disclaimer This report has been prepared by Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. (“Galp” or the “Company”) and may be amended and supplemented. This report does not constitute or form part of and should not be construed as, an offer to sell or issue or the solicitation of an offer to buy or otherwise acquire securities issued by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates in any jurisdiction or an inducement to enter into investment activities in any jurisdiction. Neither this report nor any part thereof, nor the fact of its distribution, will form the basis of, or be relied on in connection with, any contract or commitment or investment decision whatsoever in any jurisdiction. This report may include forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements other than in respect of historical facts. The words “believe”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “intends”, “estimate”, “will”, “may”, “continue”, “should” and similar expressions usually identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may include statements regarding: objectives, goals, strategies, outlook and growth prospects; future plans, events or performance and potential for future growth; liquidity, capital resources and capital expenditures; economic outlook and industry trends; energy demand and supply; developments of Galp’s markets; the impact of regulatory initiatives; and the strength of Galp’s competitors. The forward-looking statements in this report are based upon various assumptions, many of which are based, in turn, upon further assumptions, including, without limitation, management’s examination of historical operating trends, data contained in the Company’s records and other data available from third parties. Although Galp believes that these assumptions were reasonable when made, these assumptions are inherently subject to significant known and unknown risks, uncertainties, contingencies and other important factors, which are difficult or impossible to predict and are beyond its control. Important factors that may lead to significant differences between the actual results and the statements of expectations about future events or results include the Company’s business strategy, industry developments, financial market conditions, uncertainty of the results of future projects and operations, plans, objectives, expectations and intentions, among others. Such risks, uncertainties, contingencies and other important factors could cause the actual results of Galp or the industry to differ materially from those results expressed or implied in this report by such forward-looking statements. The information, opinions and forward-looking statements contained in this report speak only as at the date of this report, and are subject to change without notice. Galp and its respective representatives, agents, employees or advisers do not intend to, and expressly disclaim any duty, undertaking or obligation to, make or disseminate any supplement, amendment, update or revision to any of the information, opinions or forward-looking statements contained in this report to reflect any change in events, conditions or circumstances. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 367 EDITION TEXT REVISION Caligrama Produção Editorial CREDITED AND UNCREDITED PHOTOGRAPHS THROUGHOUT THE REPORT Digital Bank Galp: pages 47 and 66 Photographs for Visão in partnership with Galp by the following photographers: Arlindo Camacho: pages 4 and 5, 10, 12, 28, 33, 58, 63, 76, 82, 145, 146 and 150 Enric Vives-Rubio: pages 8 and 85 Jardiel Carvalho: pages 27 and 36 Mauro Vombe: pages 50 and 86 DESIGN AND CONCEPTION J. Walter Thompson Rua Tomás da Fonseca, Torre C 1600 209 Lisbon Tel.: +351 217 240 866 Fax: +351 217 242 965 Galp Energia, SGPS, S.A. e-mail: investor.relations@galp.com Public Company galp.com
