ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Keep creating 2 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CONTACT CON TACT If you have any questions or remarks regarding this report, we kindly invite you to contact us. Corbion nv P.O. Box 349 1000 AH Amsterdam The Netherlands Tel. +31 20 590 69 11 E-mail communications@corbion.com Website www.corbion.com Registered office: Amsterdam Registered Amsterdam no. 33006580 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Contents 3 CO NTE N TS Corbion at a glance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Report of the Supervisory Board. . . . . . .69 Message from the CEO. . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Remuneration report. . . . . . . . . . . . . .74 Company highlights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Sustainability statements . . . . . . . . . . 82 Materiality and stakeholder engagement. . . . . . . . 82 Report of the Board of Management . . . . 11 GRI Index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93 UN Global Compact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96 Our strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Execution of our strategic direction 2015-2018. . . . 12 Financial statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99 Strategy update 2018-2021. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 How Corbion creates value. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Other information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 158 Sustainability framework. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Group structure. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 158 Independent auditor’s report. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 160 Our performance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Assurance report of the independent auditor. . . . 167 Financial performance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Five years in figures. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 170 Sustainability performance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 Investor relations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 171 Our governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 Board of Management/Executive Committee. . . . . 42 Supervisory Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 Corporate governance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48 Risk management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57 4 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 at a glance AT A GLAN CE Corbion is a leading provider of sustainable ingredient solutions in food and biochemicals. Corbion is the global market leader in lactic acid and lactic acid derivatives, and a leading company in emulsifiers, functional enzyme blends, minerals, vitamins, and algae ingredients. We develop sustainable ingredient solutions to improve the quality of life for people today and for future generations. For over 100 years, we have been committed to safety, quality, innovation, and performance. Drawing on our deep application and product knowledge, we work side by side with customers to make our cutting-edge technologies work for them. In manufacturing we have a long history of excellence in sustainable and resource-efficient production processes across four key areas: organic acids, polymers, emulsifiers, and powder technology. At Corbion, we live our brand promise “Keep creating”, through our science, through a clear understanding of the markets we serve, and of course through our creative people. Corbion’s strategy and all aspects of our operations are built around advancing sustainability underpinned by high ethical standards, whether this relates to the management of our global supply chain, responsible procurement of our raw materials, or the safety and well-being of our people. In 2017, Corbion generated annual sales of € 891.7 million and had a workforce of 1,794 FTE. Corbion is listed on Euronext Amsterdam. Two lines of business At Corbion we distinguish between two lines of business, each with a different set of characteristics: Ingredient Solutions (formerly known as Biobased Ingredients) and Innovation Platforms (formerly known as Biobased Innovations). These business units are supported companywide by globally managed R&D, operations, and business support functions. Ingredient Solutions Our Ingredient Solutions business unit focuses on our core business: ingredients and solutions for Food and Biochemicals. Food We are a global food ingredient solutions supplier for leading food manufacturers. We strive to be the leader in keeping food tasty, fresh, and safe from date of production to day of consumption. With our proven food solutions we enable our customers to make conscious choices, we work side by side to empower them to grow and create affordable food (in the meat, beverage, bakery, confectionery, and dairy markets) that people love and can safely enjoy with their friends and family, just as we enjoy with ours. designelementen 3.indd 1 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 at a glance 5 Biochemicals The inherent safety, sustainability, and performance of our products is what sets us apart in biochemicals supported by our continuous drive to find better solutions and new opportunities for our customers. We lead the way in sustainable practices through the use of renewable feedstocks and our rich heritage in lactic acid. This forms the foundation for our biochemical applications in everything from (agro)chemicals, to resin adhesives, electronic components, pharmaceuticals, home and personal care products, and animal health & nutrition. We are constantly exploring opportunities to bring the benefits of our products and solutions to our customers applications. Innovation Platforms Through our Innovation Platforms business unit, we build new business platforms, applying disruptive technologies built on decades of experience in fermentation and industrial scale manufacturing – to deliver real long-term value. Collaborating with like-minded partners we empower our customers to make conscious choices, so they can create better, more sustainable products, based on renewable resources. Ultimately, we believe in a circular economy, where our innovations can help improve quality of life – both today and for future generations. Total Corbion PLA bv, our 50/50 joint venture with Total for the production and marketing of poly lactic acid polymers and lactide, is functionally part of this business unit. Innovation Platforms also comprises our Algae Ingredients business and the succinic acid joint venture with BASF (Succinity). Also included in this business unit are our longer-term development programs such as FDCA, a biobased building block with unique properties in (bio-) polymers and a potential replacement for purified terephthalic acid (PTA), our gypsum-free lactic acid process, and use of alternative feedstocks (lignocellulosic biomass, agricultural residues, waste) to make lactic acid. 6 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Executive Committee E XEC UTIVE COM MI TTE E Members of the Executive Committee From left: Marcel Wubbolts CTO, Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot CFO, Andy Muller EVP Ingredient Solutions, to right Marc den Hartog EVP Innovation Platforms, Jacqueline van Lemmen EVP Operations, Johan van der Hel EVP Human Resources, Tjerk de Ruiter CEO 12-01-1 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Message from the ceo 7 ME SSAGE FROM TH E CEO During this last year of our “Disciplined Value Creation” strategy we continued to work hard on improving our profitability. We invested in our emulsifier and clean-label technologies, strengthened our salesforce through commercial excellence projects, and optimized our production footprint in the US, allowing us to maintain our market leadership. For our Bakery business, 2017 was a difficult year as our portfolio rationalization affected top-line performance adversely. Despite this headwind we created a strong, profitable company and we are well-positioned to enter the next phase of sales growth and continued value creation for our shareholders. Since 2014 we have made great strides in strengthening Corbion, building one coherent company, and creating value in a disciplined way. We can be proud of the progress we have made. Nevertheless, the one aspect where we have not been able to achieve our goals is top-line growth, which is a cornerstone of our “Creating Sustainable Growth” strategy we presented in November 2017. The aim of this strategy is to be the leading innovator for sustainable ingredient solutions by offering conscious choices to our customers, uniquely tailored to create customer value. We are able to do that from the strong foundation we have created in recent years. The growing maturity of the projects in our Innovation Platforms business unit required a dedicated position at Executive Committee level, a role Marc den Hartog took on. As a consequence, in April, we further strengthened our Executive Committee with Jacqueline van Lemmen, to succeed Marc in the role of Executive Vice President Operations. Jacqueline’s long track record of successful operational leadership positions combined with her knowledge of biobased processes position her well to take our operations to the next level. In March of this year, the joint venture Total Corbion PLA officially launched its operations to produce and market poly lactic acid (PLA) polymers. The start-up of operations marked an important milestone for Corbion and for PLA, one of the first renewable polymers able to compete with existing polymers. Total Corbion PLA produced the very first PLA resin in their pilot plant in Thailand just before the end of 2017. Their PLA polymerization plant is planned to become operational for the second half of 2018. With the acquisition of the assets of TerraVia in September 2017, we welcomed a team of highly dedicated colleagues to the global Corbion family. TerraVia brings us a versatile microalgae12-01-17 12:12 based platform which will enable us to expand into the field of producing through fermentation, specialty lipids and proteins, structured fats, and tailored oils. Its IP portfolio and R&D pipeline, as well as the partnerships with industry leaders, provide high-growth opportunities for many years to come. At the same time, we are of course aware of the challenge of bringing the business from promise to commercial success. Corbion’s more than 80 years of reliably and economically running industrial-scale fermentation plants and producing sustainable ingredient solutions will 8 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Message from the ceo help us to create successful businesses with the Algae Ingredients platform in the coming years. Sustainability continues to be a source of pride and purpose for everything we do. Our strategy is aimed at creating value for all stakeholders by growing our business in sustainable ingredient solutions. Having aligned our strategy to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) we aim to maximize our contribution to Zero hunger (SDG2) and Responsible production and consumption (SDG12). In order to increase the clarity and trustworthiness of our sustainability information, and improve the robustness of the methods used to gather it, we have asked our external auditor to review a selection of sustainability indicators aimed at obtaining a limited level of assurance. None of the above would be possible without the support of all our stakeholders. We are grateful to our employees for their commitment, energy, and passion and we want to thank our customers, suppliers, partners, and shareholders for their unwavering support. We create Corbion’s success together! On behalf of the Executive Committee Tjerk de Ruiter M E S SAGE FROM T HE CEO CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE 9 Our global presence We market our products through a worldwide network of sales offices and distributors, and have a global supply chain with manufacturing facilities in the US, Thailand, Brazil, the Netherlands, and Spain. Our innovation centers are located across the globe and our headquarters is based in the Netherlands. Corbion Headquarters Corbion Production Location Corbion Sales Office Corbion Innovation Center Canada The Netherlands Korea Poland Russia China Japan USA Spain India France Singapore Mexico Brazil Thailand Argentina 10 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Company highlights COMPAN Y H I G HL IG HTS Net sales EBITDA excluding one-off items Free cash flow Organic sales growth -0.4% Decreased organically by 2.3% Decreased by € 47.9 million € 891.7 mln € 164.1 mln € 24.2 mln Balance sheet ratios Earnings per share ROCE excluding one-off items Net debt /EBITDA ratio 0.6x in 2016 Decreased by 16.1% 20.6% in 2016 1.0x EBITDA € 1.46 17.4% Net sales EBITDA excluding one-off items by business unit Ingredient Solutions € 172.9 million Ingredient Solutions 2% € 870.2 million Innovation Platforms -€ 8.8 million Innovation Platforms € 21.5 million Number of employees (FTE) By unit Business units 546 30% 98% Ingredient Solutions 470 86% Innovation Platforms 76 14% By business unit R&D 86 5% Operations 982 55% Support functions 180 10% Asia By region Asia 218 12% 14% € 124.9 million EMEA 605 34% Latin America 135 8% EMEA 19% North America 836 46% € 169.4 million 61% Latin America Total 1,794 6% € 53.5 million Emissions North America Scope I 92 kT CO2 equiv € 543.9 million By region Scope II 86 kT CO2 equiv Scope III 691 kT CO2 equiv CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Company highlights 11 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT Keep creating 12 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our strategy O UR STRATEGY Execution of our strategic direction 2015-2018: Disciplined Value Creation Our “Disciplined Value Creation” strategy for the years 2015-2018 focused on strengthening our core business in ingredients for food and biochemicals (Ingredient Solutions, formerly known as Biobased Ingredients), while leveraging our technology to build new business platforms (Innovation Platforms, formerly known as Biobased Innovations). This has resulted in a strong foundation for the future. Over the past three years we have made strides in strengthening the core and increasing the coherence of our company, while developing into a healthy, profitable business which creates value in a disciplined way. Over this strategic period we successfully completed our productivity improvement program Streamline, yielding significant savings and margin improvement. With selective investments and new product introductions, we have laid a new foundation for sustainable growth in our food business. For example, we made investments in our lactic acid derivatives technologies, expanded the MaxPro acid powder facility, extended our emulsifier product line with non-PHO solutions and PGME, and added clean-label vinegar products to our meat preservation portfolio. With the creation of the joint venture with Total we have partnered up with a global leader in polymers to accelerate market uptake and de-risked our PLA platform significantly, while securing our leading market position and growth potential in lactic acid for years to come. Financial performance Disciplined Value Creation 2015-2018 In 2017 we continued to make good progress in executing our strategy, delivering on all our 2015-2018 targets, except for organic sales growth in Ingredient Solutions. This was mostly caused by the Bakery segment where sales growth was negative due to challenges in executing our channel strategy and product rationalization. Growth in the Meat and Biochemicals segments was encouraging. Despite input cost headwinds we maintained a strong EBITDA margin and ROCE. We accelerated our efforts in Innovation Platforms with the establishment of the Total Corbion PLA joint venture, and the acquisition of an algae ingredients platform. Target 2014 2018 2017 Ingredient Solutions Organic sales growth 2-4% 0.9%* EBITDA margin improvement >18% (by 2018) 19.9% Streamline savings € 20M € 20M ROCE >15% 26.0% Innovation Platforms*** max. EBITDA loss p.a. € -14M €-5.9M Total company Capex recurring p.a. € 55M € 54M** Improve FCF € -7M (2014) € 24.2M (2017) Increase gearing (Net debt/EBITDA) -0.1x (2014) 1.0x (2017) * CAGR 2014 2017 ** Average 2014 2017 *** Excluding TerraVia CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our strategy 13 Strategy update 2018-2021: Creating Sustainable Growth The world around us Our updated strategy addresses the global megatrends of population growth, food security, changing values, climate change, and resource scarcity. With our more than 100 years of experience and knowledge in creating innovative solutions for our customers we are well positioned to help address the impact of these trends. This will not only safeguard our commercial future, it will also benefit society at large. The demographic changes, including a growing middle class and an aging population, translate into a highly individualized and more demanding consumer population with increased awareness of food safety and transparency. Offering conscious consumer choices drives several of our innovation programs, such as clean-label alternatives and antimicrobial solutions. The increased awareness of climate change and resource depletion and the willingness to address those, create a need for our sustainable solutions. To create a future with sufficient resources for a growing population, the world needs to adopt circular systems, where material flows are recovered and re-used. Corbion’s biobased products are inherently circular and critical enablers of the circular economy, as they replenish resources that cannot be re-circulated sustainably. A sustainable bioeconomy can only be realized if we consider the full value chain, from raw material sourcing to manufacturing, use, and end of life. Our biobased resources depend on agriculture, which is one of the largest contributors to both environmental and social impacts. Farming of sugarcane and oil palm has been linked to a number of serious issues including forced and child labor, hazardous labor conditions, conflict over land rights, loss of biodiversity, and deforestation. Implementation of sustainable agriculture is the only way to maintain economic performance while halting the damage to the environment and farming communities. With this in mind we have updated our sustainability framework and goals to guide us in the development of new processes and products. The advancements in technology and, more specifically, biotechnology are key drivers for the development of our new platforms as well as new enablers in our continuous improvement programs in R&D and operations where big data and manufacturing intelligence contribute to more efficiency, better insight, and even improved safety performance. In executing our strategy we continue to be guided by our company compass which articulates our vision for the future and the role that Corbion envisions to play. Strategic initiatives Our ambition is to be the leading innovator in offering conscious choices for our customers through sustainable ingredient solutions uniquely tailored to create customer value. In order to reach our ambition Corbion has identified several initiatives to realize additional growth, on top of continuation of our current business. Ingredient Solutions In our Food business we see a trend of customers reducing their in-house R&D capabilities. At the same time they are expected to meet swift changes in demand that require adaptation of product formulations and their innovation rates to go up. This creates opportunities for Corbion to enhance our value as a supplier and to partner beyond the mere supply of ingredients. We can thus become a provider of solutions and demonstrate our capabilities to our customers keeping them competitive in the markets they operate in (solutions model). In Bakery, we will expand the market penetration of our already strong business in North America, by focusing on the fast growing segments of sweet goods, tortillas and foodservice. Additionally we will leverage our bakery knowledge and expertise and expand geographically this business first by going into Latin America. 14 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our strategy In Meat, we aim to extend our current position as a leader in preservation to a wider range of solutions to increase our relevance to our customers in that industry. We will do this by gradually extending our toolbox with broader antimicrobial and antioxidant solutions and later focusing more on the overall taste and texture of the finished product. This will be done organically, potentially accelerated by acquisitions that enhance the product portfolio, formulation know how, and manufacturing assets with a first expansion in North America. We will continue to selectively focus on other segments of the food industry where we have unique products and/or capabilities, such as acid sanding (confectionery), antimicrobial expertise (salad dressings), and fortification knowledge (beverages). In Biochemicals, we will continue to support industries with our lactic acid and lactic acid derivatives, specifically when we clearly can bring unique products and functionalities to the finished products. We will continue to deliver growth with ongoing projects in Medical Biomaterials, including enforced materials through Fiberlive and controlled drug release through our Medincell joint venture, boosted by new innovations such as the resorbable polymer applications. Innovation Platforms Corbion’s portfolio comprises various initiatives that are expected to make a meaningful contribution to our sales levels in the near future. Examples include PLA (through our joint venture with Total) and our Algae Ingredients platform that offers a range of oils and fats, of which an essential omega-3 oil is being commercialized under the name of AlgaPrime DHA in a joint venture with Bunge. In addition, our strategic innovation portfolio will continue to focus on programs to develop and commercialize biobased organic acids, such as FDCA and succinic acid, the development of gypsum-free lactic acid, and the use of alternative feedstocks in our processes. Research and development In our strategy for 2018-2021 the projected R&D spend is at 4% of net sales (an increase from our current 3% level). Corbion’s R&D will adapt to accommodate the solution model. Application development will be stepped up with an increased focus on market needs, co-development with customers, and sales support with the aim of bringing agility and speed to market launches of solutions. A Technology Transfer Group will be created, combining departments from R&D, Innovation Platforms, and Operations to improve technology transfer from R&D to Operations. The Algae Ingredients platform complements our technology, product, and manufacturing platforms and provides an exciting expansion in our innovation pipeline. Investments over strategy period With an established leading global position in lactic acid and lactic acid derivatives, it is key to keep our differentiating position. To secure this position, we will make continued investments in our (gypsum-free) lactic acid technology and in technologies to enhance our feedstock flexibility and to be ready for the future availability of next generations of feedstocks, such as secondgeneration sugars from agricultural residues. Next to that, the projects in Innovation Platforms such as PLA and Algae Ingredients will require further investments. In Ingredient Solutions we will strengthen our workforce capabilities to enable strategic initiatives, such as the development of the solution model in Food, and continue to deliver on our Medical Biomaterials project in Biochemicals. The strategy period also includes a major investment in a new ERP platform. This investment, together with executing various Excellence Programs, is considered to be essential in increasing the success rate of achieving our strategic objectives. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our strategy 15 How Corbion creates value Our strategy is aimed at creating value for all stakeholders by growing our business in sustainable ingredient solutions and maximize our contribution to zero hunger and responsible production and consumption (SDG2 and 12). The scheme below summarizes Corbion’s value creation process and business model. It describes how we create value from financial, manufacturing, intellectual, human, social and relationship, and natural capital, in line with the approach proposed by the International Integrated Reporting Council. Value creation process Input Corbion’s value engine Output Outcome Impact Financial capital Production of • Solutions for safe, healthy, and Sustainable lactic acid and Value Creation Responsive affordable food marketderivatives, driven emulsifiers, • Solutions for shelf-life extension innovation Manufacturing capital and functional • Biobased solutions for a circular economy blends, polymers, • Safe alternatives for chemicals of concern and algae ingredients. • Commercialization of innovations Intellectual capital • Economic growth in countries and Engaged employees markets where we operate guided by our compass • Shareholder value Human capital Technology Application expertise and expertise and Social and state-of-the-art formulation relationship capital manufacturing development Natural capital Financial capital Corbion uses funds from shareholders and banks to create sustainable growth, delivering value for shareholders and economic growth in the countries and markets where we operate. Manufacturing capital We have a global supply chain with manufacturing facilities in the US, Thailand, Brazil, the Netherlands, and Spain. We have a global footprint in lactic acid and lactic acid derivatives and a strong presence in North America in emulsifiers and functional blends. Intellectual capital Corbion’s innovation is driven by customer and industry insights. Using our scientific expertise, we apply these insights to create value by commercialization of our innovative solutions. Human capital Our value engine is powered by our employees, who are guided by our purpose, vision, mission, and values – as laid down in Corbion’s compass. We are committed to providing a safe and healthy work environment, opportunities for personal growth, and an international-marketcompetitive remuneration framework. Our sustainable ingredient solutions aim to improve the quality of life for people today and for future generations. Social and relationship capital To maintain our social license to operate, good relations with stakeholders are essential, ranging from customers, suppliers, and investors to employees, local communities and authorities. We engage with our stakeholders to understand their expectations and to get feedback on our performance. 16 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our strategy Natural capital We use carbohydrates, fats and oils, other raw materials, and energy as inputs to our value engine. Our products enable the transition to a circular economy and help our customers reduce their environmental impact. To create an overall positive impact on natural capital, we focus on responsible sourcing of our key agricultural raw materials and we have committed to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions in line with climate science to limit global warming to no more than 2 degrees Celcius. Stakeholder engagement As part of our strategy update process, we have conducted a stakeholder survey including interviews, to identify topics of concern and set priorities (see Sustainability statements for more details). The materiality matrix visualizes the results of this assessment, by plotting the relevant social, environmental, governance, and economic issues as a function of their importance to stakeholders (vertical axis) and Corbion’s strategy (horizontal axis).The picture below shows the upper-right section of Corbion’s materiality matrix, highlighting the nine material themes which have a high impact on our strategy and are considered important by the majority of our stakeholders. Materiality matrix high Importance to stakeholders Sustainable Product supply environmental chain impact Innovation Renewable raw Resource efficiency materials Occupational Safe, health & safety Product quality affordable & Transparency & performance healthy food medium high Importance to Corbion strategy high Responsible sourcing High materiality Responsible operations Sustainable ingredient solutions medium Medium materiality All themes Low materiality low medium high Sustainability framework Based on these material themes we have updated our sustainability framework, including our key initiatives, ambitions, and targets. Our updated sustainability framework highlights that Corbion creates solutions to improve the lives of people and reduce the impact on our planet, and that we do this in a responsible way. We aligned our strategy to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and aim to maximize our contribution to Zero hunger (SDG2) and Responsible production and consumption (SDG12). SDG2 or Zero hunger is about food security, improved nutrition, and sustainable agriculture. SDG12 or Responsible production and consumption is about the circular economy and also includes food waste reduction as sub-target. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our strategy 17 Sustainability is about the long term health of the business and requires long term thinking. To drive change, breakthrough innovation is required and this can be stimulated by defining visionary goals. We have therefore added 2030 targets to drive this change and improve our positioning as sustainability leader. Our key sustainability initiatives are responsible sourcing, responsible operations, and sustainable ingredient solutions. Innovation, transparency, and stakeholder engagement are critical enablers ensuring that we make visible progress on our key initiatives and that these initiatives continue to be aligned with stakeholder expectations. Last but not least, engaged employees are essential to make it happen. Sustainability framework Ambitions Responsible sourcing ible sourcing ncy ons Create a sustainable supply chain for Corbion’s sp Inno are Re agricultural raw materials. vat sp ion an Tr Responsible operations o p e ra t i o n s S u s t ain a ble Engaged employees Create a zero incident and zero waste Corbion. i ble in g ns re ie po Sustainable ingredient solutions d nt s so Re l u ti o Create solutions based on renewable resources ns to improve the quality of life for people today and for future generations. St ake h ol d er engagement 2030 Targets1) Responsible sourcing 100% of key agricultural raw materials responsibly sourced 2) 3) Reduce carbon footprint of raw materials and transport in line with the Paris agreement 4) Responsible operations Total Recordable Injury Rate < 0.25 5) Zero waste to landfill 100% renewable electricity Reduce carbon footprint for Corbion’s operations in line with the Paris agreement 4) Sustainable ingredient solutions 100% of products with a sustainability value proposition covered by Life Cycle assessment (LCA) and/or social impact assessment 1) Targets based on current manufacturing footprint; to be reviewed in case of acquisitions / major changes 2) % are defined by quantity 3) Responsibly sourced = supplier committed to Corbion’s responsible-sourcing code or certified to relevant crop scheme such as RSPO and Bonsucro 4) Corbion has joined the Science Based Targets initiative, and committed to setting carbon footprint targets for our supply chain and own operations aligned with climate science. We will disclose the actual 2030 targets after approval by the Science Based Targets initiative. 5) Total recordable injury rate includes contractors 18 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our strategy Guidance for 2018-2021: Creating Sustainable Growth The new strategy aims to deliver higher organic sales growth of between 3 and 6 percent annually. Key financial targets Net sales growth EBITDA Ingredient solutions 2-4% > 19% margin Approaching Innovation Platforms 10-30% break-even by 2021 3-6% by Total Corbion • Ingredient Solutions: Net sales growth of 2-4% annually (1-3% in Food, 3-10% in Biochemicals), while maintaining EBITDA margin >19% and ROCE > 20% annually throughout the period. Recurring capital expenditure is expected to be on average € 40 million annually. • Innovation Platforms: To better reflect the underlying performance, in addition to reporting IFRS figures, disclosure of proportionately consolidated joint venture figures will be provided for net sales and EBITDA. Net sales growth (including proportionately consolidated joint ventures) 10-30% annually. EBITDA (including proportionately consolidated joint ventures) approaching break-even in 2021, while the maximum loss is not expected to exceed € -35 million annually for the years 2018 and 2019. Recurring capital expenditure (including proportionate share in joint venture capex) of € 20-30 million annually. • Corbion continues to target a net debt/EBITDA ratio of 1.5x over the investment cycle, well below our covenants limit of 3.5x in 2018. • Progressive regular dividend policy: Ambition to pay out annually a stable to gradually increasing absolute dividend amount per share. • We aim to create a positive impact by growing our business in sustainable ingredient solutions and maximize our contribution to zero hunger and responsible production and consumption (SDG2 and 12). CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our strategy 19 What are the Sustainable Development Goals? The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a set of 17 global goals that define the 2030 development agenda of the United Nations. They are a global call to action to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure all people enjoy peace and prosperity. The SDGs challenge companies to align their goals with the international community, which holds enormous potential for positive change. During our strategy update we have assessed our impact on the SDGs to determine where to focus. Based on this, we selected SDG2 (Zero hunger) and SDG12 (Responsible production and consumption) as the ones where Corbion given its footprint, nature of its business, and environment we operate in, can create maximum impact. Why are SDG2 and SDG12 relevant for Corbion? SDG2 or Zero hunger is about food security, improved nutrition, and sustainable agriculture. We contribute to this goal with our food ingredient solutions for shelf-life extension, food safety, and healthier food. Sustainable agriculture is relevant because we rely on agriculture for the production of our renewable raw materials. Our solutions for Agrochemicals also contribute to SDG2. SDG12 or Responsible production and consumption is about the circular economy and also includes food waste reduction as a sub-target. Our biobased chemicals and materials play a key role in the transition to a circular economy. Our focus on zero waste and energy efficiency in our manufacturing plants, and our gypsum-free technology also contribute to this goal. End hunger Reduce, re-use, and recycle Food security Circular economy Improved nutrition Reduce food waste Sustainable agriculture Minimize environmental impact of chemicals SDG2 targets relevant to Corbion SDG12 targets relevant to Corbion • End hunger and ensure access by all people • Achieve the sustainable management and to safe, nutritious, and sufficient food all efficient use of natural resources (12.2) year round (2.1) • Halve per capita global food waste at the retail • End all forms of malnutrition (2.2) and consumer levels and reduce food losses • Double the agricultural productivity and along production and supply chains (12.3) incomes of small-scale food producers (2.3) • Achieve the environmentally sound • Ensure sustainable food production systems management of chemicals, and significantly and implement resilient agricultural reduce their release to air, water, and soil (12.4) practices (2.4) • Substantially reduce waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling, and reuse (12.5) How Corbion contributes How Corbion contributes • Extended shelf-life solutions • Biobased solutions for a circular economy • Food safety solutions • Solutions to reduce food waste • Solutions for healthier food • Safe alternatives for chemicals of concern • Solutions for affordable food • Responsible sourcing • Responsible sourcing • By-product valorization • Solutions for sustainable crop protection • Development gypsum-free technology • Development alternative feedstock technology • Development alternative feedstock technology • Algae-derived alternatives for palm and soy • Reduce carbon footprint in line with Paris agreement • Solutions for aquaculture 20 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our strategy We create new ingredients for consumers. Teresa Chan, Mark Brooks, Janice Wee, Natasha Tia, Bill Creeks, and Jill Kauffman Johnson. Keep creating At Corbion we’re creating a better future together CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our strategy 21 A real game changer in the oil category... poised to become a staple within consumers’ pantries The team • Teresa Chan, Regulatory • Mark Brooks, Commercial Team Lead • Janice Wee, Scientist • Natasha Tia, Brand • Bill Creeks, Logistics • Jill Kauffman Johnson, Sustainability The project Our algae scientific platform allowed us to imagine – what if we could make a truly healthy oil for consumers? Consumer product companies are striving to reduce saturated fats in food formulations as consumers are learning more about the importance of “good” fats in our diets. So, our scientists worked with the algae so it would produce a higher ratio of mono unsaturated fat and less saturated fats. The scientists were successful in producing an oil that had the highest level of mono unsaturated fat of any oil on the market. When replacing saturated fats, mono unsaturated fats are the good fats that can help maintain heart health and healthy blood pressure, as well as helping to maintain healthy blood sugar levels. The challenge Algae oil was a new food ingredient to consumers, and brand managers were wary of incorporating a new ingredient in their consumer food products. We wanted to bring the algae oil to life – to put it on store shelves, in consumers’ hands and let them see it (no it isn’t green) and taste it. Our belief was that when brand managers saw the positive consumer response to algae oil, it would remove a key barrier for them and create an incentive to include algae oil in their products. So we had to change people’s interpretation of what algae oil would be, and how it would taste. So far the response has been good, but there is still so much room to grow. The outcome Algae oil can now be used as a cooking oil or incorporated into food products to provide better taste, better fat profile, and better shelf life in some cases. We took the bold move to launch a consumer branded product, Thrive® Algae Oil, to help demonstrate to target customer brand managers that consumers will embrace algae oil in their food products. Since our launch in the fall of 2015, we have seen exceptional consumer response in the Western United States. The experience To make Thrive® Algae Oil, we start with algae one of nature’s first foods and an original source of oils and good fats. Unlike algae typically found in the sea, our algae were originally sourced from the sap of a chestnut tree. We then looked to nature for the best traits from oil producing plants, like safflower and olive. We add these plant traits to our algae to help make an even better oil that’s higher in mono unsaturated and lower in saturated fat. Our algae are grown in fermenters, just like the kind used for making wine and beer. The algae naturally convert renewable plant sugars to oil in just a few days. Finally, using the same method as coconut and seed oils, we expeller press the algae to release the oil. The result is an oil with the highest level of good fats and low levels of saturated fats. The future Thrive® Algae Oil is a game changer in the oil category and is poised to become a staple within consumers’ pantries. We know there is still a long way to go but we are confident that someday it will be in the home of almost everyone for everyday cooking. Since joining Corbion we see so many different opportunities in where we can grow and we’re excited to be part of a business that already has over 100 years of experience in food ingredients. We’re sure this will help grow our profile. 22 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance O UR PERFO R MAN CE We want to improve the quality of life for people today and future generations. We do this by developing attractive and profitable solutions with our customers, and engaging with our stakeholders. We measure and report on our financial and sustainability performance. Financial performance Key figures Millions of euros 2017 2016 Net sales 891.7 911.3 Operating result 122.3 126.9 EBITDA excluding one-off items 164.1 170.1 Result after taxes 84.6 103.6 Earnings per share in euros 1) 1.46 1.74 Diluted earnings per share in euros 1) 1.44 1.72 Key data per ordinary share Number of issued ordinary shares 59,242,792 57,862,037 Number of ordinary shares with dividend rights 58,620,564 57,365,098 Weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares 58,097,383 58,433,493 Price as at 31 December 27.00 25.43 Highest price in calendar year 29.39 25.65 Lowest price in calendar year 23.15 17.92 Market capitalization as at 31 December 2) 1,583 1,459 Other key data Cash flow from operating activities 117.7 122.6 Cash flow from operating activities per ordinary share, in euros 1) 2.03 2.06 Free cash flow 3) 24.2 72.1 Depreciation/amortization fixed assets 45.2 49.5 Capital expenditure on (in)tangible fixed assets 49.4 51.0 Number of issued financing preference shares 2,279,781 Equity per share in euros 4) 8.35 8.36 Regular dividend in euro per ordinary share (reporting year) 0.56 0.56 Additional dividend in euro per ordinary share (reporting year) 0.44 Ratios ROCE % 5) 17.4 20.6 EBITDA margin % 6) 18.4 18.7 Result after taxes/net sales % 9.5 11.4 Number of employees at closing date (FTE) 1,794 1,684 Net debt position/EBITDA 7) 1.0 0.6 Interest cover 8) 24.4 23.0 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance 23 Millions of euros 2017 2016 Statement of financial position Non-current assets 498.1 466.6 Current assets excluding cash and cash equivalents 294.6 315.6 Non-interest-bearing current liabilities 129.4 147.1 Net debt position 9) 162.2 98.0 Provisions 23.5 38.6 Equity 489.3 498.5 Capital employed 10) 635.0 596.5 Average capital employed 10) 617.1 576.8 Balance sheet total : equity 1:0.6 1:0.6 Net debt position : equity 1:3 1:5.1 Current assets : current liabilities 1:0.6 1:0.5 1) Per ordinary share in euros after deduction of dividend on financing preference shares. 2) Market capitalization is calculated as number of ordinary shares with dividend rights x share price at 31 December. 3) Free cash flow comprises cash flow from operating activities and cash flow from investment activities. 4) Equity per share is equity divided by the number of shares with dividend rights. 5) Return on capital employed (ROCE) is defined by Corbion as continued EBIT excluding one-off items, including results from joint ventures and associates, divided by the average capital employed x 100. 6) EBITDA margin % is EBITDA excluding one-off items divided by net sales x 100. 7) EBITDA is Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, Amortization and impairment of (in)tangible fixed assets, excluding oneoff items,increased by cash dividend of joint ventures received and annualization effect of newly acquired subsidaries 8) Interest cover is EBITDA as defined in Note 7 divided by net interest income and charges. 9) Net debt position comprises interest-bearing debts less cash and cash equivalents, including third-party guarantees which are required to be included under the debt covenants. 10) Capital employed and average capital employed are based on balance sheet book values. 24 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance Results Net sales Net sales in 2017 decreased by 2.2% to € 891.7 million (2016: € 911.3 million) mostly due to a volume decrease (-1.9%) and a negative currency impact (-1.3%), partly compensated by positive price/mix effect (1.5%). Furthermore, there was a small negative impact related to the divestment of the Breddo-Likwifier activities, effective as of 9 December 2016. Organic sales growth of -0.2% in the Ingredient Solutions business unit was mostly driven by a weak volume performance in Bakery, which was partly offset by growth in Meat and Biochemicals. Organic sales growth for the Biochemicals business segment was 5.8%, due to organic growth in all markets except for Animal Health. The increase in Innovation Platforms volumes mostly reflects higher lactic acid volumes sold to the Total Corbion PLA joint venture. The negative price/mix is largely the result of the inception of the Total Corbion PLA joint venture, effective 2 March 2017. From that date, lactic acid sales rather than lactide/PLA sales are reported under Innovation Platforms. The acquisition effect in Innovation Platforms is due to the acquisition of the TerraVia assets on 29 September 2017. Net sales 2017 Ingredient Solutions EMEA 2% Innovation Platforms Asia 19% Latin America North America 14% 61% 6% 98% By business unit By region Chemicals 15% Animal health Pharma/medical 42% Biochemicals Home, industrial, institutional, and 34% 26% personal care 9% Biochemicals 74% Bakery Meat 26% Foods Food 47% Ingredient Solutions 27% Food Source: Company data CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance 25 Full year 2017 compared to full year 2016 Total Acquigrowth at sitions/ Total constant (Divestgrowth Currency currency ments) Organic Price/Mix Volume Ingredient Solutions -2.2% -1.3% -0.9% -0.7% -0.2% 1.7% -1.9% • Food -4.3% -1.3% -3.0% -1.0% -2.0% 1.7% -3.7% • Biochemicals 4.5% -1.3% 5.8% 0.0% 5.8% 1.1% 4.7% Innovation Platforms -0.9% 0.8% -1.7% 8.8% -10.5% -4.2% 3.6% Total -2.2% -1.3% -0.9% -0.5% -0.4% 1.5% -1.9% Raw materials Compared to 2016, carbohydrates made up a bigger percentage of our overall raw material spend 2017 due to increased sugar prices. The price of soy bean oil was more or less flat versus 2016. The decrease in percentage in other raw materials is mainly caused by lower vitamin and enzyme prices. Raw materials breakdown 35 Carbohydrates 30 Fats and oils 27% 25 Other raw materials 20 15 11% 63% 10 5 0 As % of total raw materials spend As % of total net sales Source: Company data EBITDA EBITDA for the full year 2017 excluding one-off items decreased by 3.5% to € 164.1 million, mostly due to negative volume growth and the acquisition of the TerraVia assets. Currencies positively impacted EBITDA by € 0.9 million. Ingredient Solutions EBITDA excluding one-off items decreased by 2.0% driven by lower volumes and higher raw material costs offset by positive price/mix effects. The EBITDA loss in Innovation Platforms increased to € -/8.8 million (2016: € -/6.4 million). The € 2.4 million higher loss was mostly due to the acquisition of the TerraVia assets. 26 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance EBITDA € million 2017 2016 EBITDA excluding one-off items Ingredient Solutions 172.9 176.5 • Food 121.3 127.8 • Biochemicals 51.6 48.7 Innovation Platforms (8.8) (6.4) Total EBITDA excluding one-off items 164.1 170.1 One-off items 6.4 (3.2) Total EBITDA 170.5 166.9 Depreciation/amortization/ (reversal of) impairment (in)tangibles (48.2) (40.0) Total operating result 122.3 126.9 EBITDA margin excluding one-off items Ingredient Solutions 19.9% 19.8% • Food 18.7% 18.9% • Biochemicals 23.2% 22.9% Innovation Platforms -40.9% -29.5% Total EBITDA margin excluding one-off items 18.4% 18.7% Total EBITDA excluding one-off items and acquisitions, at constant currencies 166.1 170.1 Ingredient Solutions € million 2017 2016 Net sales 870.2 889.6 Organic growth -0.2% -1.1% EBITDA 170.6 173.3 EBITDA excluding one-off items 172.9 176.5 EBITDA margin excluding one-off items 19.9% 19.8% ROCE 26.0% 28.2% Average capital employed 522.9 487.0 Net sales in Ingredient Solutions, which encompasses Food and Biochemicals, decreased organically by 0.2% in 2017, mostly driven by lower volumes in the Food business segment. This was below the guidance range. The EBITDA margin excluding one-off items in 2017 increased slightly from 19.8% to 19.9%. Even though both Food and Biochemicals saw margins negatively affected by higher input costs, this was more than offset through portfolio mix improvements in both segments. Business segment Food € million 2017 2016 Net sales 647.7 676.6 Organic growth -2.0% -1.9% EBITDA 119.5 125.1 EBITDA excluding one-off items 121.3 127.8 EBITDA margin excluding one-off items 18.7% 18.9% CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance 27 Net sales in business segment Food decreased organically by 2.0% in 2017, which was below the guidance range. In 2017 we saw Bakery sales decline as we experienced challenges in executing our Bakery channel strategy, and losses in frozen dough. We accelerated the overhaul of the commercial organization in Bakery and we have taken measures to improve customer service levels. As a consequence, volume losses in Bakery were less pronounced in the second half of the year than in the first. Furthermore, several growth initiatives are gaining traction, such as PGME emulsifiers for the sweet goods market, and Ultra Fresh extended freshness solutions. The performance in Meat was strong. In the US, the portfolio mix shift towards natural preservation solutions continues to support top-line growth and margin improvements. Meat sales growth outside the US was mainly driven by Latin America. In other markets (Beverages, Confectionery, Dairy), overall sales decreased slightly, mostly because of some losses in lower value added lactic acid contracts. The EBITDA margin decreased slightly from 18.9% to 18.7% as a balance of mix improvements and higher input costs. Business segment Biochemicals € million 2017 2016 Net sales 222.5 213.0 Organic growth 5.8% 1.8% EBITDA 51.1 48.2 EBITDA excluding one-off items 51.6 48.7 EBITDA margin excluding one-off items 23.2% 22.9% Net sales in the Biochemicals business segment increased organically by 5.8% in 2017, which was in the guidance range. Sales growth was seen in all markets during 2017, except for Animal Health. The strongest performing markets were Pharma/Medical, Electronics, and Agrochemicals. The Biochemicals EBITDA margin for 2017 increased from 22.9% to 23.2%, mainly due to a higher-margin portfolio mix, more than compensating for higher input costs. Central costs Central costs have been redistributed between business segments Food and Biochemicals from the fourth quarter of 2017 onwards, and will no longer be reported as a separate cost item. Historical data has been adjusted to reflect this change. Innovation Platforms € million 2017 2016 Net sales 21.5 21.7 Organic growth -10.5% -3.2% EBITDA (0.1) (6.4) EBITDA excluding one-off items (8.8) (6.4) EBITDA margin excluding one-off items -40.9% -29.5% Average capital employed 94.2 89.8 28 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance The slight decrease in Innovation Platforms sales mostly reflects higher volumes sold to the Total Corbion PLA joint venture and a negative price/mix, largely the result of the inception of the Total Corbion PLA joint venture, effective 2 March 2017. From that date, lactic acid sales rather than lactide/PLA sales are reported under Innovation Platforms. A one-off gain of € 4.7 million is related to the sale of the subsidiary Total Corbion PLA (Thailand) Limited to the joint venture Total Corbion PLA bv. The TerraVia acquisition has been included from the start of the fourth quarter. The fourth quarter loss on EBITDA excluding one-off items was € 2.9 million (excluding SB Oils joint venture losses). The integration of the TerraVia assets and staff has been progressing very well. Going forward, the TerraVia brand name will be replaced by Corbion Algae Ingredients. The Peoria plant has been reopened in February 2018. This will allow us to scale up promising products such as Thrive® (high oleic cooking oil), and AlgaVia® protein and lipids, but will also significantly add to the fixed costs of Innovation Platforms. A one-off gain of € 4.0 million was related to the acquisition of the TerraVia assets. Depreciation, amortization, and impairment Depreciation, amortization, and impairment of fixed assets excluding one-off items amounted to € 45.2 million compared to € 49.8 million in 2016. Operating result Operating result decreased by 3.6% to € 122.3 million in 2017 (2016: € 126.9 million). One-off items In 2017, a positive total of € 5.3 million in one-off items was recorded on result-after-tax level, consisting of the following components: • One-off gain of € 4.7 million related to the sale of the subsidiary Total Corbion PLA (Thailand) Limited to the joint venture Total Corbion PLA bv • One-off gain of € 4.0 million related to the acquisition of TerraVia • One-off loss of € 2.4 million related to our succinic acid development • One-off loss of € 2.0 million due to (restructuring) provisions made because of the strategy update • One-off loss of € 0.9 million related to the closure of our former Kansas Avenue blending plant • Positive tax effects on the above of € 1.9 million Financial income and charges Net financial charges increased by € 5.8 million to € 13.2 million, mainly caused by increased loan levels, foreign exchange rate effects on long-term loans, and a one-off gain in the first half of 2016 related to a partial reversal of an impairment of a loan for beet growers following the divestment of CSM Sugar in 2007. Taxes The tax charge on our operations in 2017 amounted to € 13.1 million compared to a charge of € 14.3 million in 2016. In 2017, the relatively low effective tax rate is mainly caused by the US Tax Reform; the net deferred tax liability position in the US decreased because of the reduction of the federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% as per 1 January 2018. Excluding one-off items and excluding the effect of the US Tax Reform the normalized effective tax rate would have been 23.1%. Going forward, a normalized effective tax of approximately 25% is expected. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance 29 Statement of financial position Capital employed increased, compared to year-end 2016, by € 38.5 million to € 635.0 million. The movements were: € million Capital expenditure on (in)tangible fixed assets 49.4 Depreciation / amortization / impairment of (in)tangible fixed assets -48.2 Change in operating working capital 12.3 Change in provisions, other working capital and financial assets/ accruals 21.9 Movements related to joint ventures and acquisition of TerraVia assets 44.7 Taxes 7.6 Exchange rate differences -47.8 Other -1.4 Major capital expenditure projects in 2017 are investments in our US PGME emulsifiers plant, expansion of vinegar powder production, and investments in the PLA plant. Operating working capital increased by € 12.0 million. This increase is the balance of an operational increase of € 12.3 million and currency effects of € -0.3 million. Shareholders’ equity decreased by € 9.2 million to € 489.3 million. The movements were: • The positive result after taxes of € 84.6 million. • A decrease of € 60.5 million related to the dividend for financial year 2016 • A decrease of € 25.0 million related to the share buyback program • Negative exchange rate differences of € 24.9 million due to the translation of equity denominated in currencies other than the euro • Negative movement of € 2.3 million in the hedge reserve • Positive movement of € 13.0 million due to re-measurement of defined benefit arrangements • Net share based remuneration costs of € 3.2 million charged to result • Positive tax effects € 2.7 million At the year-end 2017 the ratio between balance sheet total and equity was 1:0.6 (2016 yearend: 1:0.6). Cash flow/Financing Cash flow from operating activities decreased compared to year-end 2016 by € 4.9 million to € 117.7 million. This is the balance of the lower operational cash flow before movements in working capital of € 4.4 million, a negative impact of the movement in working capital and provisions of € 6.2 million, and lower taxes and interest paid of € 5.7 million. The cash flow required for investment activities increased by € 43.0 million to € 93.5 million compared to 2016. Main cash outflows are related to capital expenditures (€ 45.5 million), loans provided to our joint ventures (€ 38.2 million), and the acquisition of the Terravia assets (€ 17.6 million). The net debt position at year-end 2017 was € 162.2 million, an increase of € 64.2 million compared to year-end 2016, mainly due to dividend payment, the share buyback program, capital expenditures, loans/guarantees provided to our joint ventures, the acquisition of the TerraVia assets, and the increase in working capital compared to year-end 2016, partly compensated by the positive cash flow from operating activities before working capital and provisions. 30 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance At the year-end 2017, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA was 1.0x (year-end 2016: 0.6x). The interest cover for 2017 was 24.4x (2016: 23.0x). We continue to stay well within the limits of our financing covenants. Reservation and dividend policy Corbion’s reservation policy is aimed at creating and retaining sufficient financial capacity and flexibility to realize our strategic objectives while maintaining healthy balance sheet ratios. Corbion intends to add the profit (or charge the loss) to the company reserves after deduction of the proposed dividend on ordinary shares. Events potentially impacting our financing requirements such as acquisitions, divestments, reorganizations, or other strategic considerations can lead to adjustments in the reservation amount and the reservation policy. As regards Corbion’s dividend policy, the amount and structure of dividend on ordinary shares that the company will pay to its shareholders depend on the financial results of the company, the market environment, the outlook, and other relevant factors. The current dividend policy is the ambition to pay out annually a stable to gradually increasing absolute dividend amount per share (progressive regular dividend policy). Periodically Corbion will review its net debt position in relation to the investment plans, and decide upon potential additional distributions. Dividend proposal A proposal to distribute a regular dividend in cash of € 0.56 per ordinary share (2016: € 0.56) will be submitted for approval to the annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 25 May 2018. This represents 41% of our net profit excluding one-off items. The dividend will be charged to the Corbion reserves. Outlook 2018 Does not incorporate impact potential acquisition remaining 49.9% in SB Oils joint venture. Ingredient Solutions For 2018 we confirm our Capital Markets Day guidance for Food and Biochemicals for both sales growth and margins. Food is expected to return to the guidance range as some of last year’s Bakery customer losses should start to fade as the year progresses. Innovation Platforms The second half of 2018 should see the start-up of the Total Corbion PLA plant in Thailand. The Peoria pilot plant, part of the acquired TerraVia assets, has recently resumed operations, which will significantly raise the fixed cost level for Innovation Platforms. The EBITDA loss including proportionately consolidated joint ventures is not expected to exceed € -35 million in the year, but is subject to uncertainty regarding sales ramp-up. Input costs Last year’s decrease in sugar prices should start to positively impact our results towards the latter part of the first half of 2018. However, prices of several auxiliary chemicals and vitamins have been on the rise, negating the sugar benefits. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance 31 Sustainability performance Responsible sourcing Ambition Create a sustainable supply chain for Corbion’s key agricultural raw materials (sugarcane, corn, soy, wheat, palm oil) Achievements in 2017 • Continued implementation of our security-of-supply assessment and mitigation plans for all high-risk raw materials • Continued implementation of our supplier code and cane sugar code • Developed tools to verify adherence to the cane sugar code • Publication of a white paper on the sustainability of the Thai sugarcane sector • Bonsucro certification of our lactic acid plants in Thailand and Brazil • Launch of the Bonsucro Buyer Accelerator Group, a joint initiative by buyer members of Bonsucro who are seeking to accelerate the pace and impact of improvement in sustainable sugarcane production and supply • Defined 2020 roadmap for RSPO certification of palm oil and primary oleochemicals derived from palm oil • Supplier visits to evaluate progress on sustainability at Corbion’s main suppliers of soyand corn-derived raw materials in the US KPI 2020 Target1) 2017 2016 % of raw materials assessed on security of supply 2) ü 100% 100% 100% % of raw materials covered by generic supplier code2) ü >90% 99% 98% % of cane sugar responsibly sourced2) 3) ü 100% 96% 80% % of palm oil and primary oleochemicals responsibly sourced 2) 3) 4) 100% 24% % of corn-based dextrose responsibly sourced2)3) 95% % of soy bean oil and primary oleochemicals responsibly sourced2) 3) 75% % of wheat-based raw materials responsibly sourced 2) 3) 50% 1) Targets based on current manufacturing footprint; to be reviewed in case of acquisitions / major changes. 2) % are defined by quantity. 3) Responsibly sourced = supplier committed to Corbion’s responsible-sourcing code or certified to relevant crop scheme such as RSPO and Bonsucro. 4) Primary oleochemicals as defined by RSPO, including glycerin. ü Reviewed by external auditor. A significant part of the environmental and social impact in our value chain is upstream of our own operations. To safeguard an overall positive environmental and social impact of our sustainable ingredient solutions, we need to ensure our raw materials are sourced responsibly. Our responsible sourcing strategy focuses on our agricultural raw materials. A sustainable agricultural supply chain is essential for the communities in which we operate, as well as for our business. We focus on sugarcane, soy, corn, wheat, and palm oil, which represent some 90% of our agricultural-derived raw materials by quantity. Farming of sugarcane and oil palm has been linked to a number of serious social and environmental sustainability risks. These include forced and child labor, hazardous labor conditions, conflict over land rights, loss of biodiversity, and deforestation. Implementation of sustainable agriculture is the only way to maintain economic performance while halting the damage to the environment and farming communities. For soy, corn, and wheat, which we source from the US, the main areas of improvement are related to land use (biodiversity and soil health), water, greenhouse gas emissions, and farmer livelihoods. 32 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance Corbion is not directly involved in the growing, harvesting ,and processing of these crops. We therefore focus our efforts on our tier-1 suppliers that source directly from farmers, requiring them to take responsibility for addressing social and environmental issues at farm level. Our approach focuses on continuous improvement towards the implementation of the relevant sustainability standard for each of these raw materials. We use a combination of tools including crop schemes such as Bonsucro and RSPO, Field to Market, Sedex, self-assessments, and third-party verification against Corbion’s requirements where a relevant verification system is not available or in case of high sustainability risks. Our responsible sourcing commitment also includes the commitment to set a carbon footprint target for raw-material-related emissions. Reducing agriculture’s carbon footprint is central to limiting climate change, as the global food system, from fertilizer manufacture to food storage and packaging, is responsible for up to one-third of all human-caused greenhouse-gas emissions. At the same time, climate change is expected to have a negative impact on agricultural productivity due to increases in extreme weather events – including extreme heat and drought as well as more variable rainfall patterns. Farmer Processor(s) Corbion Conversion into • Growing • Extraction food ingredients • Harvesting • Processing and biochemicals Security of supply Our security-of-supply assessment evaluates raw materials on three pillars: procurement, quality and food safety, and sustainability. For each pillar, several criteria are rated to estimate the risk of supply issues. The business impact of a supply issue is taken into account to determine the overall score. The risk assessment results in a high, medium, or low score for each pillar per raw material. In 2017, we have updated the assessment. This involved a review and update of the underlying data where necessary and the inclusion of new raw materials. For new high-risk raw materials, mitigation plans have been developed and are being implemented. For all of the high-risk raw materials identified in 2016, actions have been taken to mitigate the risk. Mitigation actions range from the recruitment of new suppliers to supplier visits to perform a more detailed risk assessment. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance 33 Supplier code Our supplier code defines Corbion’s expectations in respect of our suppliers meeting our responsible sourcing commitment. The code includes principles and criteria for business ethics, human rights and labor conditions, and environmental practices. The code includes core principles from the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the eight fundamental conventions defined by the ILO, including freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor, the effective abolition of child labor, and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We require our suppliers to sign our supplier code for confirmation. Possible non-compliances with the codes will be investigated and discussed with the supplier. If deemed necessary, the supplier is expected to implement a corrective action plan to effectively and promptly resolve the issue, with an agreed timeline. If the issue persists, Corbion may ultimately decide to terminate the relationship with the supplier in question. In 2018, we will review and update our supplier code to ensure that it continues to be aligned with stakeholder expectations. Cane sugar Our cane sugar code is an extension of our supplier code with additional principles and criteria in respect of land rights, good agricultural practices, and biodiversity. It is based on the definitions for sustainable sugarcane and derived products as set out by Bonsucro. In 2017 we continued to implement this code and the majority of our cane sugar suppliers have now committed to Corbion’s cane sugar sourcing requirements. We are implementing verification procedures to verify that our suppliers meet these requirements. For this we use a combination of tools, such as self-assessments, third-party verification, and Bonsucro certification. To promote sustainable development for the Thai sugarcane industry, we have supported a white paper on the sustainability of the Thai sugarcane sector to identify key opportunities for driving the sustainability agenda forward using the Bonsucro standard as a reference framework. This study is now used to define next steps on the ground. 34 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance Responsible operations Ambition Create a zero incident and zero waste Corbion Achievements in 2017 • Prepared Property Risk Manual • Renewed focus on hazard and operability studies (HAZOPs) resulting in updates in all sites • Developed 10 Corbion Safety Rules based on main Corbion risks and prepared roll-out process for 2018 • Increase of capital expenditure related to safety • Implemented new valorization option for gypsum at our lactic acid plant in the US, resulting in a significant reduction of the quantity of landfilled by-products compared to 2016 • Corbion joined RE100 to demonstrate our commitment to renewable electricity • Started implementation of our renewable electricity roadmap by purchasing renewable electricity in Gorinchem (50%), Totowa (75%), and Tucker (75%) • Installation of solar panels at our site in Gorinchem, the Netherlands • Corbion joined the Science Based Targets initiative to develop emission reduction targets in line with climate science • Extended recycling programs at various Corbion sites. At our site in Blair, the increased focus on recycling resulted in a tripling of the amount of recycled waste • >50% reduction in water consumption at our Totowa site due to optimized scheduling, resulting in a reduced use of water for cleaning • Corbion Thailand received the “CSR-DIW (Continuous) 2017” award from the Department of Industrial Works, Ministry of Industry in Thailand • Community and employee engagement activities across the Corbion sites, ranging from World Environment Day celebrations to educational events at schools and volunteering KPI 2020 Target1) 2017 2016 Total Recordable Injury Rate < 0.55 0.9 1.3 Renewable electricity ü 50% 30% 20%2) Landfill of by-products ü 0 0.85 kT 31 kT GHG emissions3) 92 kT CO2 equiv 94 kT CO2 equiv Scope I (total/specific) ü 0.20 T CO2 equiv/T 0.21 T CO2 equiv/T2) 86 kT CO2 equiv 93 kT CO2 equiv Scope II (total/specific)4) ü 0.19 T CO2 equiv/T 0.21 T CO22 equiv/T Scope III (total) ü 691 kT CO2 equiv 711 kT CO2 equiv2) 1) Targets based on current manufacturing footprint; to be reviewed in case of acquisitions / major changes. 2) 2016 data restated due to data quality improvements. 3) We report our emissions in carbon equivalents from cradle to gate in accordance with the Green House Gas Protocol. This includes scope I emissions from direct production (for natural gas), scope II emissions from purchased energy (for electricity and purchased steam), and scope III emissions related to purchased goods and services, fuel and energy-related activities, upstream transportation, business travel, and employee commuting. Biogenic emissions (mainly related to the consumption of biogas and to waste water treatment) are reported in the Sustainability statements. 4) In 2017, we report our scope II emissions using the market-based method for the first time. For comparability, the scope II emissions for 2016 have been re-calculated according this method. ü Reviewed by external auditor. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance 35 Environment, Health, and Safety Corbion aims to create a safe and healthy workspace with the goal of having zero incidents because we believe no job is so important that it cannot be done safely and without adverse environmental impact. We therefore operate with the greatest care for safety, health, and the environment for our employees and the communities we engage with. Our activities are supported by a management system that includes policies, procedures, training, and feedback, which ascertain that we comply with laws and regulations applicable to our operations and act in accordance with our own corporate standards and codes. Corbion leadership and employees are committed to achieving a “zero incident culture.” Corbion fosters an open and transparent culture by encouraging all employees to report all near misses, events et cetera in order to continuously improve our safety and environmental performance. In 2017 we established an EHS framework which clarifies the specific responsibilities of the local sites versus the global EHS platform. We helped the local sites to prioritize improvement efforts based on risk. EHS framework Global EHS policy Global responsibility Local responsibility Infrastructure, equipment & maintenance Corbion safety rules Hazard triggers EHS Management systems, procedures & compliance Do’s Don’ts Behavior-based initiatives & training Best practices Training Reporting rs ie rr Ba INCIDENT Auditing Hardware EHS Systems People Global EHS platform We deploy Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) management systems, such as ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 at all our sites. All sites also have behavior based safety programs in place. In 2017, no fatalities occurred, as in previous years. Despite our efforts, we recorded 3 LTI (Lost Time Incidents, including contractors). Our TRIR (Total Recordable Injury Rate) is 0.9 for the full year of 2017. Our employee absentee rate was 1.8% overall compared to 2.0% in 2016. Zero waste Our “zero waste” ambition focuses on the reduction of waste by valorizing all our by-products by 2020 and eliminating landfill completely by 2030. In this way, we maximize the value that we generate from the resources we consume. This ambition contributes to the shift from a linear economy, based on a “take-make-dispose” system to a circular economy that is waste-free and regenerative by design. In our lactic acid production process we generate significant quantities 36 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance of valuable by-products, such as gypsum. Per ton of lactic acid, almost 2 tons of by-product are produced. The majority of these by-products are valorized, but occasionally they do end up in landfill. We try to avoid this by developing new outlets and by implementing our gypsumfree production process in future lactic acid plants. In 2017 we achieved a major milestone by implementing a new valorization option for gypsum at our lactic acid plant in the US. A customer in the cement industry started using our gypsum instead of mined, virgin gypsum. This gives us an additional outlet for this by-product next to its use in agriculture as soil conditioner and resulted in a significant reduction of the quantity of landfilled by-products compared to 2016. Renewable electricity To demonstrate our commitment to renewables and to support the transition to renewable electricity, Corbion joined RE100. RE100 is a collaborative, global initiative uniting more than 100 influential businesses committed to 100% renewable electricity, working to massively increase demand for and delivery of renewable energy. In 2017 we increased our coverage by purchasing renewable electricity for our manufacturing sites in Gorinchem (50%), Totowa (75%), and Tucker (75%). Our sites in Brazil and Spain are already fully powered by renewable electricity. Greenhouse gas emissions Responsible operations also implies doing our part to prevent dangerous climate change by limiting global warming to well below 2 degrees Celsius, as specified in the Paris agreement. We have therefore joined the Science Based Targets initiative, and committed to setting carbon footprint targets for our own operations aligned with climate science. This will provide a clearly defined roadmap to future-proof and responsible growth. We firmly believe that taking our responsibility will be good for the environment and good for our business. Energy conservation and increasing renewable energy will not only drive emission reductions, it will also decrease costs and help create innovative solutions that allow our customers to reduce their emissions as well. The first part of this journey is already clear: we have developed a roadmap to transition to 50% renewable electricity by 2020 and we aim to be fully powered by renewable electricity in 2030. In 2018, we will work on the development of the targets and a reduction roadmap to achieve them, involving specialists across Corbion. To encourage development of low-carbon technologies, we started reviewing the financial impact of GHG emissions through internal carbon pricing in our long-term R&D projects. Our scope I and II emissions include the direct and indirect GHG emissions resulting from the energy consumption at Corbion’s sites. In 2017, our scope I emissions decreased by 2.3% compared to 2016, due to improvements in energy efficiency. Our scope II emissions decreased by 5.3%, due to the increased use of renewable electricity. Our scope III emissions include indirect emissions occurring in our value chain that are not included in scope II (emissions from purchased goods and services, transport, fuel and energy related activities, business travel, and employee commuting). The majority of our scope III emissions are related to purchased goods. In 2017, Corbion’s scope III emissions decreased by 3% compared to 2016, mainly due to an increased material efficiency. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance 37 Greenhouse gas emissions in Corbion’s value chain Scope II Scope I INDIRECT DIRECT 11% Scope III Scope III INDIRECT 10% INDIRECT 55% purchased goods 10% natural and services gas transportation purchased and distribution electricity, steam, heating, and cooling capital goods for own use investments leased asets processing of sold products 2% fuel and energyemployee related activities franchises commuting 1% use of sold transportation products business and distribution travel leased assets 11% waste generated end-of-life treatment in operations 1% of sold products Upstream Downstream Sustainable ingredient solutions Ambition Create solutions based on renewable resources to improve the quality of life for people today and for future generations. Achievements in 2017 • Continued assessment of our innovation projects on material sustainability themes throughout the innovation funnel • Finalized peer-reviewed Life Cycle Assessment update for the PLA production process in Thailand • All products manufactured in Thailand covered by LCA • Participated in the RIVM1) research project Safe and Sustainable Bioeconomy with a case study on Sanilac, a lactic-acid-based product for home care; the results of this research will be published in 2018 • Life Cycle Assessment Research of the end-of-life options for different applications of bioplastics packaging • Assessed Corbion product portfolio against relevant sub-targets for SDG2 and 12 • Joined The Roundtable for Product Social Metrics, the leading, cross-sector initiative to give guidance on how to measure social impacts of products and services, in a way that is recognized for its high quality, credibility, and business viability 1) Netherlands National Institute for Public Health and the Environment. 38 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance KPI 2020 Target1) 2017 2016 % innovation projects assessed on sustainability ü 100% 84% 67% % biobased raw materials 2) ü 98% 97% % of products sold covered by LCA2) 50% 14% 1) Targets based on current manufacturing footprint; to be reviewed in case of acquisitions / major changes. 2) By quantity, products manufactured at Corbion production sites. ü Reviewed by external auditor. We aim to maximize our contribution to Zero hunger (SDG2) and Responsible production and consumption (SDG12) by growing our business in sustainable ingredient solutions. Our food ingredients help keeping food fresh and safe from production until consumption, which reduces food waste and helps to make food accessible and affordable. We also offer solutions for healthier food, such as our non-PHO emulsifier portfolio and our algae oils. Our biochemicals and bioplastics support the transition to a circular economy by offering an alternative for fossil-based resources, with reduced greenhouse gas emissions, toxicity, and waste generation. Plastic packaging currently is an iconic example of the linear economy, with 80-120 billion US dollar in material value loss annually, after a short first use. Increased recycling, combined with the use of biobased plastics to decouple plastics from fossil feedstocks, is critical to achieve the new plastics economy proposed by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation. Sustainability assessment of innovation projects To ensure alignment of our innovation projects with our sustainability ambitions, we assess new product and process development projects against the relevant material themes in our sustainability strategy. The assessment is integrated in our innovation stage gate process and provides guidance to the project team on sustainability-related matters. This warrants that sustainability is an integrated part of the product and process design and that potential issues can be tackled at an early stage. The assessment is also used to identify sustainability benefits that can be included in the value proposition of the new product. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance 39 Sustainability assessment at different stages of the innovation funnel Discovery Gate 1 Topics assessed Scoping Stage 1 Occupational health & safety Scoping Gate 2 Gate 2 Concept development Resource-efficiency Stage 2 Sustainable supply chain Level of detail & accuracy Concept development Possibility to influence Gate 3 Gate 3 Design & Develop Product environmental impact Stage 3 Renewable raw materials Design & Develop Gate 4 Gate 4 Test & Validate Update and validate, cradle-toStage 4 grave LCA (selected projects) Test & Validate Gate 5 Gate 5 Launch Revise & update Stage 5 Launch € Post-launch review Life Cycle Assessment Corbion uses Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) as a tool to understand the environmental impacts of a product from the extraction of resources to their use and end of life. To enable our customers to make conscious choices, we will perform cradle-to-gate LCAs for 50% of our products by 2020. Using this data, we can work side by side with customers to support them on the improvement of their environmental footprint and on the substantiation of their sustainability claims. In 2017 we finalized the LCA for our lactic acid production process in Thailand and the subsequent conversion of this lactic acid into PLA by Total Corbion PLA*. This LCA has been peer reviewed according to ISO 1404/44 standards. We are currently writing a paper describing the learnings from this study, for publication. Based on this study, we have derived LCAs for all products produced in Thailand. Quality We are committed to delivering high-quality solutions that safely meet our customer expectations and fulfilling our customer promise through quality and manufacturing systems and processes. On a local level we operate in compliance with local regulations and legislation, while ensuring certifications are in place to meet customer and industry-adopted standards and requirements, such as ISO 9001, GFSI (BRC, FSCC22000), GMP+, GMP Pharma, FDA Pharma, Halal, Kosher, nonGMO, Organic, and most recently FSMA. In addition we host customer audits predominantly from our international pharmaceutical customers and large food clients. These, and our selfassessment audits performed by our global Quality platform, ensure that we continue to improve our operational standards for quality and food safety. In 2017 we maintained all certifications, continued our implementation of EQMS on the sites, and focused on customer complaint reduction. * Environmental footprint of lactic acid and lactide from Thailand, Corbion 2017 LCA approach for Corbion’s product portfolio: lactic acid derivative plants, Corbion 2017 40 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance We create a firsttime-right culture! Warehouse team Corbion North America. Keep creating At Corbion we’re creating a better future together CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our performance 41 Our warehouse team at Totowa is now truly in the mix… The team • Rudy Nandkumar, Material Handler • Walter Klus, Pre-scaler • Martin Marcelo, Kitter • Steve Brady, Warehouse Team Lead The task Our role here in the warehouse is to make and supply sets of food ingredients ready to be blended into a pre-mix by the production team. This in turn becomes a key ingredient for our bakery customers in making delicious food! Of course, it isn’t quite that simple. It’s an extremely fast-moving, 24-hour operation. In fact you could call what we do “Advanced Warehousing.” Every day we receive a work schedule calling for around 160 sets of ingredients. So, we get our “game face” on, and we attack it! Our colleagues in production area rely on us, and of course so too do our customers. The challenge To serve the internal customer (production), we store 650-plus different ingredients in our warehouse, controlling food allergens to assure food safety at all times. While this is going on, we “kit” 950-plus different sets of ingredients on a yearly basis. Each one is tailored to a different type of finished goods. We start by picking and stacking full packs of ingredients into a “kit” in a pre-defined order; and this is then followed by pre-scaled ingredients that require less than a full pack. It’s a very precise and labor-intensive job. During all these steps we keep track of where each ingredient is located so we can trace it back at any given moment. The outcome From here we’re then responsible for distributing or “staging” these kits of ingredients just-in-time to one of the over 20 work centers that blend the pre-mix from them. In every case our operators go through a checklist: Are all ingredients in the kit? Are the quantities right? Only when they are totally happy is the kit sent onto its next destination. The experience It’s generally a hive of activity; we’re on our feet all day and we spend a lot of time interacting with one another so we’re a close team. We learn from each other, but also from customers. They often visit the facility to conduct audits and we take great pride in showing them around, answering their questions, and demonstrating the various procedures and processes we follow in order to produce the ingredients for their products. The future Recently, we improved our process to make it both safer and more efficient, by creating sets of ingredients with greater value for the production team. We are now ready for the future. We’re an ambitious team, we want to grow and get better every day, and we welcome the responsibility and challenges that come our way. There is a fantastic energy here right now at Totowa. Bring it on! 42 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance O UR GOV E RN AN CE Board of Management and Executive Committee Mr. Tjerk de Ruiter CEO / Chairman Board of Management and Executive Committee Tjerk de Ruiter was appointed Chief Executive Officer at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in May 2014. His current term of office runs from 2014 – 2018. At the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in May 2017, he was re-appointed for two years as of May 2018. Before joining Corbion, Tjerk de Ruiter was CEO and President of LS9, Inc, CEO of the Genencor division of Danisco and a member of the Danisco Executive Committee, and COO Cultures, Specialities and Flavours at Danisco. Prior to that, he held several management positions at Quest International. He is Non-Executive Director at Nu-Tek Food Science, US. Tjerk de Ruiter holds both the Dutch and US nationality and was born in 1959. Mr. Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot CFO / Member Board of Management and Executive Committee Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot was appointed Chief Financial Officer at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in May 2014. His current term of office runs from 2014 – 2018. The re-appointment for a second term of office for four years is on the agenda of the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in May 2018. Before becoming CFO, Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot was SVP Finance at Corbion and he served for seven years as CFO of Purac, a division of CSM. Prior to joining Corbion, he was divisional finance director for chemicals in the European region at Van Ommeren and, after the merger with Pakhoed, at Vopak. Prior to that, he held several technical and finance roles at Unilever. Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot holds the Dutch nationality and was born in 1963. 12-01-1 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance 43 Mrs. Jacqueline van Lemmen EVP Operations / Member Executive Committee Jacqueline van Lemmen is Executive Vice President Operations since April 2017 and responsible for Corbion’s global operations. Before joining Corbion, Jacqueline van Lemmen was VP Operations for DSM Biobased Products and Services after holding the same position for DSM Food Specialties. Before that she held several mostly manufacturing-related positions in different countries for DSM. She started her career at ICI. Jacqueline van Lemmen holds the Dutch nationality and was born in 1961. Mr. Marc den Hartog EVP Innovation Platforms / Member Executive Committee Marc den Hartog is Executive Vice President Innovation Platforms since April 2017 and responsible for the business unit Innovation Platforms. From January 2015 until May 2017, Marc den Hartog was EVP Operations at Corbion. Before that, he was SVP Strategic Portfolio Management at Corbion and VP Asia Pacific within CSM’s Bakery division. Prior to that, he held several positions in sales, marketing, and supply chain at Unilever and IOI Group Oils & Fats division Loders Croklaan. Marc den Hartog holds the Dutch nationality and was born in 1972. 44 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance Mr. Johan van der Hel EVP Human Resources / Member Executive Committee Johan van der Hel is Executive Vice President Human Resources since January 2015 and globally responsible for Human Resources. Before joining Corbion, Johan van der Hel served as Group Director HR at VION Food Group. Before that, he held several international HR leadership positions at DSM. Johan van der Hel holds the Dutch nationality and was born in 1964. Mr. Andy Muller EVP Ingredient Solutions / Member Executive Committee Andy Muller is Executive Vice President Ingredient Solutions since January 2015 and responsible for the business unit Ingredient Solutions. Before joining Corbion, Andy Muller served as SVP Global Sales, Innovation and Marketing at DuPont. Before that, he held several other positions in marketing and sales within Sensient and DuPont Nutrition & Health, formerly Danisco. Andy Muller holds both the Argentinian and US nationality and was born in 1965. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance 45 Mr. Marcel Wubbolts CTO / Member Executive Committee Marcel Wubbolts is Chief Technology Officer since November 2016 and responsible for Corbion’s global science and innovation portfolio. Before joining Corbion, Marcel Wubbolts served as Chief Technology Officer at DSM. Before that, he held several other positions at DSM. He started his career at the Institute of Biotechnology at the ETH in Zürich. Marcel Wubbolts holds the Dutch nationality and was born in 1963. 46 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance Supervisory Board Mr. Mathieu Vrijsen Chairman / Chairman Appointment and Governance Committee Mathieu Vrijsen was appointed at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in May 2013. His current term of office runs from 2017 – 2021. He is a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Science and Technology Committee. Mathieu Vrijsen served as Senior Vice President Global Operations and Engineering at DuPont. Prior to that, he held various positions at DuPont. Currently, he serves as Chairman of Broadview Holding and as Chairman of Casco Phil, Belgium. Mathieu Vrijsen holds the Dutch nationality and was born in 1947. Mr. Rudy Markham Vice-Chairman / Chairman Remuneration Committee Rudy Markham was appointed at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in May 2010. His current term of office runs from 2014 – 2018. He is a member of the Appointment and Governance Committee. Rudy Markham served as Executive Director and Chief Finance Officer at Unilever. Currently, he serves as Non-Executive Director of United Parcel Services, US, as Non-Executive Director of Astra Zeneca, UK, and as Director of Leverhulme Trust, UK. Rudy Markham holds the British nationality and was born in 1946. Mrs. Liz Doherty Member Supervisory Board Liz Doherty was appointed at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in May 2015. Her current term of office runs from 2015 – 2019. She is a member of the Audit Committee. Liz Doherty served as CFO and Executive Director at Reckit Benckiser, UK and prior to that as CFO and Executive Director at Brambles, Australia. Currently, she serves as Non-Executive Director of Dunelm, UK, as Non-Executive Director of Novartis, Switzerland, and as NonExecutive Director and Audit Chair for the UK Ministry of Justice. Furthermore, she is an Advisory Director to Agrolimen SA, subsidiaries GB Foods and Affinity Petcare, UK. Liz Doherty holds the British nationality and was born in 1957. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance 47 Mr. Jack de Kreij Member Supervisory Board / Chairman Audit Committee Jack de Kreij was appointed at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in May 2011. His current term of office runs from 2015 – 2019. Jack de Kreij serves as Vice-Chairman Executive Board and Chief Financial Officer of Royal Vopak (until 1 February 2018). Currently, he serves as Supervisory Board member of TomTom. Jack de Kreij holds the Dutch nationality and was born in 1959. Mr. Steen Riisgaard Chairman / Chairman Science and Technology Committee Steen Riisgaard was appointed at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in May 2014. His current term of office runs from 2014 – 2018. He is a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Appointment and Governance Committee. Steen Riisgaard served as President & CEO of Novozymes. Currently, he serves as Chairman of Alk-Abello, Denmark, as Member of Århus University, Denmark, as Chairman of Cowi Holding, Denmark, as Vice-Chairman of Novo Nordisk Foundation, Denmark, as Member of Novo, Denmark, as ViceChairman of Villum Foundation, Denmark, as Chairman of WWF, Denmark, as Chairman of Xellia, Denmark and as Member of the Board of VKR Holding, Denmark. Steen Riisgaard holds the Danish nationality and was born in 1951. 48 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance Corporate governance We have designed our corporate governance structure to best support our business, meet the needs of our stakeholders, and comply with laws and regulations. This section adresses an overview of our corporate governance structure and includes information required under the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, as amended and published on 8 December 2016 (the “Code”), the Decree Additional Requirements for Management Reports, the Decree Article 10 EU Takeover Directive, and the Decree Disclosure Non-financial Information. Structure Corbion nv (the “company” or “Corbion”) is a Dutch public limited company with its registered office in Amsterdam. It acts as the (indirect) holding company for the Dutch and foreign operating companies of the company. The company’s shares are listed on Euronext Amsterdam. Corbion is an international holding company as described by Section 153, Subsection 3 under b, of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The “large company” regime therefore does not apply to the company. Corbion’s corporate governance framework is based on the requirements of the Dutch Civil Code, the Code, the company’s Articles of Association, applicable securities laws, and the rules and regulations of Euronext Amsterdam. The company is organized in a so-called two-tier system, comprising a Board of Management, solely composed of executive directors, and a Supervisory Board, solely comprised of nonexecutive directors. The Supervisory Board supervises the Board of Management and Executive Committee (which includes the Board of Management) and ensures that external experience and knowledge is embedded in the company’s conduct. The two boards are independent of each other and are accountable to the general meeting of shareholders of the company (the “General Meeting of Shareholders”). Board of Management/Executive Committee General The Board of Management (Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer) is entrusted with the management of the company. Certain key officers have been appointed to manage the company together with the Board of Management. The members of the Board of Management and these key officers together constitute the Executive Committee. For the purpose of this Corporate governance section, where the Executive Committee is mentioned this also includes the Board of Management unless the context requires otherwise. The Executive Committee has been operational since 1 January 2015. With the set-up of this enhanced leadership team, Corbion is well positioned to drive a common agenda across the business, to set clear priorities, and to enhance the execution of its strategy. Members of the Supervisory Board regularly met with the members of the Executive Committee during 2017. The Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee held a full-day strategy session in 2017. Members of the Executive Committee (not being members of the Board of Management) were invited to give presentations on their area of responsibility to the Supervisory Board and its committees. Under the chairmanship of the CEO, the members of the Executive Committee share responsibility for developing the strategic plan for the company aimed at delivering longterm value creation, aligning and prioritizing (strategic) initiatives, determining the risk profile, and implementing strategic and operational policies. The Board of Management has ultimate responsibility for the company’s management and the external reporting and is answerable to shareholders of the company at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders. In performing its CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance 49 duties, the Executive Committee is guided by the interests of the company and its affiliated enterprise, taking into consideration the interests of the company’s stakeholders. For a more detailed description of the responsibilities of the Board of Management and the Executive Committee, please refer to the Rules of the Board of Management/Executive Committee which are available on Corbion’s website. Composition and appointment The Board of Management consists of two or more members which number is to be determined by the Supervisory Board. The CEO determines the number of members of the Executive Committee. The composition of the Executive Committee and brief resumes of its members are available under the section Corporate governance/Board of Management/Executive Committee of the Annual Report. The members of the Board of Management are appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders on the basis of nominations by the Supervisory Board. The Corbion Articles of Association state that the General Meeting of Shareholders can overrule any such nomination by an absolute majority of the votes cast, provided the said majority represents at least one-third of the issued capital. No second meeting will be convened if there is no quorum, as a second meeting is not required by law. The Supervisory Board is authorized at all times to suspend a member of the Board of Management. The General Meeting of Shareholders may decide to suspend or dismiss a member of the Board of Management by an absolute majority of the votes cast, provided the said majority represents at least one-third of the issued capital. This quorum requirement does not apply if the proposal for suspension or dismissal is submitted by the Supervisory Board. No second meeting will be convened if there is no quorum, as a second meeting is not required by law. Each member of the Board of Management is appointed for a maximum period of four years with the possibility of re-appointment for consecutive four year terms in accordance with the Code. The other members of the Executive Committee are appointed, suspended, and dismissed by the CEO, subject to consultation with the Supervisory Board. Remuneration The remuneration for the individual members of the Board of Management is determined by the Supervisory Board on the proposal of the Remuneration Committee of the Supervisory Board, and must be consistent with the policy thereon as adopted by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The current remuneration policy applicable to the Board of Management was adopted by the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in 2015, and is published on Corbion’s website. A full and detailed description of the composition of the remuneration for the individual members of the Board of Management is included in the section Remuneration report of the Annual Report. The amount for the remuneration of other individual members of the Executive Committee shall be determined by the CEO, subject to consultation with the Supervisory Board. Conflict of interest Members of the Executive Committee must report any (potential) conflict of interest to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board shall decide whether a conflict of interest exists. The member of the Executive Committee who has a (potential) conflict of interest shall not participate in discussions and decision-making on a subject or transaction in relation to which the member has a conflict of interest with the company. Decisions to enter into transactions under which members of the Executive Committee have conflicts of interest that are of material significance to the company and/or to the relevant member(s) of the Executive Committee, require the approval of the Supervisory Board. In accordance with best practice 50 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance provision 2.7.4 of the Code, the company reports that in 2017 there were no transactions in which there was a conflict of interest with members of the Executive Committee that are of material significance and that required approval of the Supervisory Board. Supervisory Board General The Supervisory Board, acting in the interests of the company and its affiliated enterprise and taking into account the relevant interest of the company’s stakeholders, supervises and advises the Board of Management and Executive Committee in performing their management tasks. From among its members, the Supervisory Board has appointed an Audit Committee, an Appointment and Governance Committee, a Remuneration Committee, and a Science and Technology Committee. Corbion’s Articles of Association require the approval of the Supervisory Board for certain major resolutions proposed to be taken by the Board of Management, including: issuance of shares, repurchase of shares, reduction of the issued share capital, amendment of the Articles of Association, and significant changes in the identity or the nature of the company or its enterprise. For a more detailed description of the responsibilities of the Supervisory Board and its committees, please refer to the Rules of the Supervisory Board and the Charters of its committees which are available on Corbion’s website. Composition and appointment The Supervisory Board consists of three or more members to be determined by the Supervisory Board. The composition of the Supervisory Board and brief resumes of its members are available under the section Corporate governance/Supervisory Board of the Annual Report. The members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders on the basis of nominations by the Supervisory Board. The Corbion Articles of Association state that the General Meeting of Shareholders can overrule any such nomination by an absolute majority of the votes cast, provided the said majority represents at least one-third of the issued capital. No second meeting will be convened if there is no quorum, as a second meeting is not required by law. The Supervisory Board is authorized at all times to suspend a member of the Supervisory Board. The General Meeting of Shareholders may decide to suspend or dismiss a member of the Supervisory Board by an absolute majority of the votes cast, provided the said majority represents at least one-third of the issued capital. This quorum requirement does not apply if the proposal for suspension or dismissal is submitted by the Supervisory Board. No second meeting will be convened if there is no quorum, as a second meeting is not required by law. Each member of the Supervisory Board is appointed for a maximum period of four years with the possibility of re-appointment for consecutive terms in accordance with the Code. The members of the Supervisory Board retire periodically in accordance with a schedule of resignation, which is available on Corbion’s website. Conflict of interest Members of the Supervisory Board must report any (potential) conflict of interest to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board (and the Chairman to the Vice-Chairman). The Supervisory Board shall decide whether a conflict of interest exists. The member of the Supervisory Board who has a (potential) conflict of interest shall not participate in discussions and decision-making on a subject or transaction in relation to which the member has a conflict of interest with the CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance 51 company. Decisions to enter into transactions under which members of the Supervisory Board have conflicts of interest that are of material significance to the company and/or to the relevant member(s) of the Supervisory Board, require the approval of the Supervisory Board. In accordance with best practice provision 2.7.4 of the Code, the company reports that in 2017 there were no transactions in which there was a conflict of interest with members of the Supervisory Board that are of material significance and that required approval of the Supervisory Board. In accordance with best practice provision 2.7.5 of the Code, the company reports that no transactions between the company and legal or natural persons who hold at least 10% of the shares in the company occurred in 2017. Diversity / Values and Code of Business Conduct Diversity Corbion has adopted a diversity policy for the Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee in 2017. This policy – given the business environment in which Corbion operates – contains longerterm objectives for gender diversity and geographical diversity, the latter to reflect the majority of our business being in the Americas. The gender diversity targets for the Supervisory Board are that at least one member should be female if the board consists of five members and that at least two members should be female if the board consists of six members. The first target applies as the current board has five members; Corbion complies with this target as Liz Doherty is a member of the Supervisory Board. The geographical diversity target for the Supervisory Board is that at least one member of the Supervisory Board has (had) relevant Americas experience and/or exposure. Corbion complies with this target as Mathieu Vrijsen qualifies as such. The gender diversity target for the Executive Committee is that at least two members should be female if the committee consists of six or seven members. Corbion has one female member of the Executive Committee, Jacqueline van Lemmen, and does not comply yet with this target. In 2017, one position became vacant and that position has been filled by a female person. The geographical diversity target for the Executive Committee is that at least two members of the Executive Committee have (had) relevant Americas experience and/or exposure. Corbion complies with this target as Tjerk de Ruiter and Andy Muller qualify as such. When positions in the Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee become vacant or new positions are added, the company’s diversity policy will be applied when selecting persons for appointment as member of the Supervisory Board or the Executive Committee. Values and Code of Business Conduct The Corbion values Passion, Performance, and Partnership together with the related Corbion behaviors guide and underpin the business strategy of Corbion. They are incorporated in the relevant engagement and performance management policies and form the basis of our global training and development initiatives. Information about the effectiveness of, and compliance with, the Corbion Code of Business Conduct is available under the section Risk management/Business Conduct program of the Annual Report. 52 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance Shares and shareholders rights General Meetings of Shareholders The annual General Meeting of Shareholders will be held within six months of the close of the financial year. Extraordinary General Meetings of Shareholders will be held as often as the Board of Management and Supervisory Board deem necessary. An Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders will also be held if one or more shareholders who collectively represent at least ten percent of the issued capital submit a written request to this effect to the Board of Management or the Supervisory Board enclosing a detailed list of agenda items. If neither the Board of Management nor the Supervisory Board – which have equal powers in this matter – respond in such a way that this Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders can be convened within six weeks of the request, the applicants are at liberty to convene the meeting themselves and appoint a chairman. Meetings are convened by public notice or via Corbion’s website and registered shareholders are notified by letter, at least forty-two days prior to the (Extraordinary) General Meeting of Shareholders. If requests are received from shareholders who individually or collectively represent at least one percent of the issued capital to place items on the General Meeting of Shareholders agenda, these will be honored provided they are submitted to Corbion at least forty-five days prior to the date of the meeting. Pursuant to Dutch law, the record date for the exercise of voting rights and rights relating to General Meetings of Shareholders is set as the 28th day prior to the day of the meeting. Shareholders registered on such date are entitled to attend the meeting and to exercise the other shareholder rights (in the meeting in question) notwithstanding subsequent sale of their shares thereafter. This date will be published in advance of every General Meeting of Shareholders. Main powers of the General Meeting of Shareholders The main powers of the General Meeting of Shareholders relate to: • the appointment, suspension, and dismissal of members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board; • approval of the remuneration policy for the Board of Management; • approval of the remuneration for the Supervisory Board; • the adoption of the annual Financial Statements and approval of dividends; • discharge from liability of the members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board; • issuance of shares or rights to shares, restriction or exclusion of pre-emptive rights of shareholders, and repurchase or cancellation of shares; • the appointment of the external auditor; • amendments to the Articles of Association; • approval of decisions of the Board of Management that would entail a significant change in the identity or character of Corbion or its business. Voting rights Shareholders have voting rights in proportion to the number of shares held and there are no restrictions on the voting rights on the company’s shares. Each share is entitled to one vote. Subject to certain exceptions provided by Dutch law or the Corbion Articles of Association (as outlined below), decisions at the General Meeting of Shareholders will be taken by an absolute majority of the votes cast without a requirement for a quorum. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance 53 According to the company’s Articles of Association, the following decisions of the General Meeting of Shareholders require a larger majority or a quorum: • Unless proposed by all members of the Supervisory Board or Board of Management, any resolution to amend the Articles of Association or to wind up the company, shall require a majority of at least three-quarters of the votes cast provided at least two-thirds of the issued capital is represented. • Any resolution to restrict or exclude the pre-emption right in respect of ordinary shares or to designate the Board of Management, shall require a majority of at least two-thirds of the votes cast if less than half of the issued capital is represented at the meeting. • Any resolution to make a binding nomination for the appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board or Board of Management non-binding, shall require an absolute majority of the votes cast, if that majority represents more than one-third of the issued capital. If a nomination has been made non-binding, the General Meeting of Shareholders may only appoint a person other than the nominees by a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the votes cast, if that majority represents more than one-third of the issued capital. • Any resolution to suspend or dismiss a member of the Supervisory Board or Board of Management, shall require an absolute majority of the votes cast, if that majority represents more than one-third of the issued capital. • Unless proposed by all members of the Supervisory Board or Board of Management, any resolution to amend the Articles of Association or to wind up the company, shall require a majority of at least three-quarters of the votes cast provided at least two-thirds of the issued capital is represented. Amendment of the Articles of Association Decisions to amend the Articles of Association of the company may only be taken at a General Meeting of Shareholders in which at least two-thirds of the issued capital is represented and by a majority of at least three-quarters of the votes cast, unless the proposal has been submitted by all members of the Board of Management in office with the collective approval of all members of the Supervisory Board in office, in which case the decision may be taken by an absolute majority of votes, regardless of the represented capital. Issuance and repurchase of shares At the 2017 annual General Meeting of Shareholders it was resolved to authorize the Board of Management, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, to issue shares or grant rights to acquire shares in the company as well as to restrict or exclude the pre-emption right accruing to shareholders up to and including 15 November 2018. This authorization is limited to a maximum of 10% of the number of shares issued as of 15 May 2017 plus 10% of the number of shares issued as of 15 May 2017 in the event of mergers, acquisitions, and/or strategic alliances. Furthermore, at the 2017 annual General Meeting of Shareholders it was resolved to authorize the Board of Management, subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board, to acquire shares in the company within the limits of the Articles of Association and within a certain price range up to and including 15 November 2018. This authorization is limited to a maximum of 10% of the number of shares issued as of 15 May 2017. The € 25 million share buyback program that commenced on 18 April 2017 was completed on 15 September 2017. Under this program a total of 993,670 ordinary shares have been repurchased at a volume-weighted average price of € 26.77 per share, for a total consideration of € 25,000,568. 646,262 of the repurchased shares have been cancelled before the end of 2017, the remainder will be kept as treasury shares to cater to future LTIP vesting. External auditor An independent audit firm is appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The auditor is responsible for auditing the Financial Statements of Corbion. On 12 May 2016, the General Meeting of Shareholders appointed KPMG Accountants N.V. as external auditor for the company for the financial year 2017. 54 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance Capital structure As at 31 December 2017 59,242,792 ordinary shares of € 0.25 each had been issued, including 622,228 ordinary shares held by Corbion. The ordinary shares are listed on Euronext Amsterdam. No restrictions apply to the transfer of shares. Corbion’s financing preference shareholder has elected to convert all of its financing preference shares into ordinary shares per 26 June 2017. After this conversion, there are no more financing preference shares outstanding. Substantial shareholdings Pursuant to the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act (Wet op het financieel toezicht), the following notifications of capital interest in Corbion as at 31 December 2017 were reported: Capital interest Voting interest 1. NN Group N.V. 14.99% 2. ASR Nederland N.V. 5.27% 3. J.O. Hambro Capital Management Limited 5.03% 4. RWC European Focus Master Inc. 5.01% 5. Norges Bank 4.78% 6. Lansdowne Partners Limited 3.12% 7. PrimeStone Capital LLP 3.03% 8. BNP Paribas Investment Partners SA 3.03% 3.22% 9. Kabouter Management LLC 3.02% 10. T. Row Price Associates Inc. 3.02% NB: As at 31 December 2017 Corbion nv had a capital interest of 1.05%. Compliance with the Code Corbion is committed to embedding the Code principles within the company, thereby abiding by the core concepts of good business practices, integrity, openness, and transparent and well-supervised management. Important changes in the corporate governance structure are presented to the General Meeting of Shareholders for discussion. With the exception of the deviations outlined in the paragraphs below, Corbion endorses and adheres to the principles and best practices of the Code. With respect to best practice provision 3.1.2 vi of the Code, Corbion applies share ownership requirements instead of holding restrictions. The Supervisory Board believes that a mandatory share ownership leads to a more sustainable build-up and alignment of the interests of the members of the Board of Management and the shareholders. As long as a member of the Board of Management does not comply with the share ownership requirements, vested shares received under share plans will be kept in a restricted account and cannot be traded. Corbion departs furthermore with regard to the possible financing of income tax on vested shares under the share plan by allowing selling part of the vested shares in deviation of the share ownership requirements. With respect to cancelling the binding nature of a nomination or dismissal (best practice provision 4.3.3), Corbion deviates as follows. The members of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management are appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders on the basis of nominations by the Supervisory Board. The Corbion Articles of Association state that the General Meeting of Shareholders can overrule any such nomination by an absolute majority of the votes cast, provided the said majority represents at least one-third of the issued capital. In contrast with the Code, no second meeting will be convened if there is no quorum, as a second meeting is not required by law. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance 55 The General Meeting of Shareholders may decide to suspend or dismiss a member of the Board of Management or the Supervisory Board by an absolute majority of the votes cast, provided the said majority represents at least one third of the issued capital. This quorum requirement does not apply if the proposal for suspension or dismissal is submitted by the Supervisory Board. In contrast with the Code, no second meeting will be convened if there is no quorum, as a second meeting is not required by law. Decree Additional Requirements for Management Reports/Corporate Governance Statement Section 2a of the Decree Additional Requirements for Management Reports (Vaststellingsbesluit nadere voorschriften inhoud bestuursverslag) requires companies to publish a statement concerning their approach to corporate governance and compliance with the Code. The information required to be included in this corporate governance statement as described in Sections 3, 3a, and 3b of this decree is included in this Corporate governance section. The information on the company’s risk management and control frameworks relating to the financial reporting process, as required by Section 3a sub a of this decree, can be found in the Risk management section. The full text of the Code applicable to the company in 2017 can be viewed at: www.mccg.nl. Decree Article 10 EU Takeover Directive The information required by the Decree Article 10 EU Takeover Directive (Besluit artikel 10 overnamerichtlijn), to the extent applicable to the company, is included in this Corporate governance section and the notes referred to in this section, as well as the paragraph below. The contractual conditions of most of the company’s important financing agreements and notes issued (potentially) entitle the banks and noteholders respectively to claim early repayment of the amounts borrowed by the company in the situation of a change of control over the company (as defined in the respective agreement). With respect to agreements entered into with members of the Board of Management that provide for payment upon termination of their employment following a public bid, please refer to the description of the remuneration policy on Corbion’s website. 56 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance Decree Disclosure Non-financial Information Section 2 Subsection 1 of the Decree Disclosure Non-financial Information (Besluit bekendmaking niet-financiële informatie) requires companies to publish a statement concerning non-financial information. The information required to be included in the management report as described in Section 3 of this decree, which is incorporated and repeated here by reference, can be found in the following sections of the Annual Report: • A description of the business model of the company can be found in the section Corbion at a glance. • A description of the company’s non-financial key performance indicators relevant to the company’s activities can be found in the sections Our strategy/Sustainability framework, Our performance/Sustainability performance, and Sustainability statements . • A description of the company’s policy including the applied security measures regarding environmental matters as well as the mains risks related thereto and how the company manages these risks can be found in the section Our performance/Sustainability performance. • A description of the company’s policy including the applied security measures regarding social and employee matters as well as the mains risks related thereto and how the company manages these risks can be found in the section Sustainability statements/Human capital. • A description of the company’s policy including the applied security measures regarding respect to human rights as well as the mains risks related thereto and how the company manages these risks can be found in the section Sustainability statements/Human rights. • A description of the company’s policy including the applied security measures regarding anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters as well as the main risks related thereto and how the company manages these risks can be found in the section Risk management/Anti-bribery and anti-corruption. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance 57 Risk management Framework Our approach to risk management With worldwide operations in various markets and jurisdictions, Corbion needs to ensure timely identification and effective management of all significant risks inherent to the execution of its strategy and realization of its objectives. Corbion has an enterprise-wide risk management program (ERM) in place to preserve its reputation, assets, competitive edge, and profits. ERM is the process of systematically identifying, analyzing, evaluating, and addressing risks that may impact the achievement of a company’s objectives. Our approach to risk management aims to achieve a reasonable level of assurance, in line with the Enterprise Risk Management framework of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO – ERM). Our approach aims to embed risk awareness and risk management at all levels of Corbion to ensure that risk decisions are taken and evaluated consciously and properly. Our risk management approach covers strategic/market, operational, and financial/compliance risks, which can be illustrated as follows. Corbion Control Environment Strategic / Market Operational Financial / Compliance Business Control Framework Financial Control Framework Enterprise Risk Management workshops and follow-up action plans Business cycle Closing and First controls reporting line of defense Other functional controls, e.g. business units, R&D, HR, Operations, Legal, regional sales Entity-level controls IT general controls Second EHS & Quality platforms Financial Control Department line of defense Other functional areas, i.e. S&OP – Pricing Business Conduct/Legal Third line of Internal Audit Department defense Information & Communication 58 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance Governance Corbion has defined a governance model that identifies clear reporting and accountability structures in line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code. The Executive Committee is responsible for: • identifying and analyzing the risks associated with Corbion’s strategy and activities; • establishing the risk appetite, as well as ensuring that mitigating measures are being put in place; • the design, implementation, and operation of Corbion’s internal risk management and control systems; and • monitoring the operation of the internal risk management and control systems and assessing the design and effectiveness thereof. The Board of Management discusses the effectiveness of the design and operation of the internal risk management and control systems with the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board annually. Identifying risks We identify risks by combining a top-down and bottom-up approach. As an integral part of the strategy review, the Executive Committee annually assesses the strategic/market risks. A control framework is used where key management activities, covering operational and financial/compliance risks, per area of responsibility are identified via a bottom-up approach. Derived from this control framework, several key management activities are selected by the Executive Committee as to where increased focus will be applied in 2018 to further strengthen our risk management framework. This is discussed with the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board. Internal risk management and control systems Our internal risk management and control systems framework is not limited to the elements outlined below as these are a summary of controls implemented at local and corporate levels. We apply entity-wide controls, a business control framework, a financial control framework, and audits. Entity-wide controls General Our entity-wide controls include different departmental control frameworks, several risk mitigating committees, policies that address significant business control and risk management practices, controls to monitor results of operations, self-assessment programs, our Code of Business Conduct, our whistleblower hotline, activities of the internal audit function, oversight by the Executive Committee, and reporting to and discussions with the Audit Committee. A thorough assessment of selected risks is performed at several Executive Committee and Audit Committee meetings during the year. Letters of Representation Every six months, managing directors and finance directors of each reporting entity or, where applicable, other senior staff, provide a Letter of Representation to the Board of Management. This letter represents compliance with financial reporting and internal controls. Middle and senior management are required to give annually a statement that in the past year they have conducted business in accordance with Corbion’s Code of Business Conduct and underlying Corbion policies. Business control framework Business planning, budgeting, and management review Based on Corbion’s strategy and plans, targets are set for the annual budget. After determining these budgets, the targets are rolled out to the responsibility areas (business units, operations, CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance 59 etc.) within Corbion. Quarterly updated estimates are made based on a forecast until the end of the year. Forecasts are specifically discussed between responsibility area leaders and the Executive Committee during quarterly business review meetings. The Executive Committee monitors business performance on a monthly and quarterly basis using a defined set of key performance indicators and reviews of actual results versus budgets, quarterly estimates, and the previous year. Local entities are visited frequently. Operational management meets at least once a month to discuss their business activities and related risks, the actual performance versus budget, and other significant matters in their respective areas. Business Conduct program Guided by the principles of the UN Global Compact and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, our Code of Business Conduct (which is available in seven languages) describes principles with respect to personal and business conduct, asset protection, employment standards, and environmental protection and sets out the expected standard of behavior of all Corbion employees. This Code serves as an umbrella for underlying policies which cover in more detail areas such as competition law, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, economic sanctions, and insider trading. Corbion has a network of regional Business Conduct Coordinators who support embedding of the Code of Business Conduct and the underlying policies in the local operations. Besides this, they function as a local point of contact for management and staff. All Corbion employees need to follow annually a mandatory training (either through e-learning or class room training) with respect to the Code of Business Conduct. In addition, selected groups of employees need to follow every two years mandatory e-learning trainings with respect to anti-corruption and competition law. A breach of the Code of Business Conduct can lead to disciplinary actions, including termination of employment. Under the Corbion Speak Up Policy, Corbion employees are able to report (potential) violations of the Code of Business Conduct to their manager or a Business Conduct Coordinator. Next to that, the Corbion Speak Up Line, which is available 24/7 and operated by an independent service provider, allows employees to report issues anonymously. In 2017, 7 complaints with respect to the Code of Business Conduct were reported. Appropriate measures have been taken by management. Anti-bribery and anti-corruption For Corbion as a listed company operating worldwide, compliance with anti-bribery and anticorruption laws is key, given the consequences of non-compliance therewith. Our policy with respect to anti-bribery and anti-corruption is laid down in our Gifts, Entertainment, and Third Party Payments Policy (which is available in seven languages). This policy covers (i) prohibition of offering, authorizing, or accepting bribes, (ii) rules for how to deal with giving and receiving gifts and entertainment, and (iii) rules for how to deal with third-party payments (agents and distributors, facilitation payments, sponsorships, political contributions). At Corbion, we are committed to maintaining good relations with our customers, suppliers, and other business partners. In this context we acknowledge the business custom of exchanging small gifts and invitations to dinners or social activities in order to initiate, develop, or sustain good business relations. All Corbion colleagues should however ensure that the gifts and entertainment that we offer or receive are not, or could not be perceived as, a bribe. All Corbion colleagues as well as our agents, distributors, and other representatives are prohibited from offering, authorizing, or accepting bribes of any kind. Any gifts and entertainment must be for legitimate business purposes, of a reasonable value, and appropriate to the business relationship, and be given or accepted at an appropriate time. If the nominal value of a gift exceeds a certain threshold prior approval of the employee’s manager is required. Prior management approval is always required for entertainment (with the exception of business meals) and travel and overnight accommodation. 60 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance Corbion has a procedure in place for engaging with agents and distributors. This means that due diligence questionnaires need to be filled out which are being assessed by the Legal Department. Furthermore, higher management approval is required. The agent and distributor should sign an agency or distribution agreement and accept the Corbion anti-corruption/bribery clauses contained therein. In 2017 we have initiated a corruption compliance risk assessment in the countries that score high on the Corruption Perception Index and where Corbion has a presence, being Russia, Mexico, and China. As part of that assessment, we are reviewing the relationship with the local authorities and screening the agents and distributors that we use in these countries as well as the parties that help us communicate with the local authorities (if any). The outcome of the policies and procedures described above was that no material findings were observed. Legal and regulatory review Local management is responsible for compliance with laws and regulations. The Legal Department is consulted by local management on an ongoing basis. Every six months, local management reports the main open legal issues with a potential gross exposure of each exceeding € 100,000 to Corporate Legal and Corporate Finance. Information technology governance An information technology general control (ITGC) framework is in place which ensures the proper management of IT governance in general, projects and programs, computer operations, and access management. We have professionalized the management of projects and strengthened the IT Project Management Office. From an IT security perspective, the Information Security Board (including senior management) sets the IT security roadmap. Risk-reducing initiatives in the past year included amongst others a company-wide security awareness program, multifactor authentication, penetration tests, yearly disaster recovery plan testing of selected systems, and implementation of a security policy. Furthermore, we are implementing a Security Operating Center and strengthening the network segregation. In case of data security incidents, the data breach committee is notified to ensure proper action and communication with authorities. Financial control framework General As Corbion operates worldwide, it is committed to maintaining high-quality, reliable financial reporting, and a good control environment. All reporting entities assess operational effectiveness of their financial closing and reporting processes, at mid-year and end-of-year, confirming compliance with the relevant guidelines and IFRS. Together with the Letters of Representation, this ensures the integrity of our financial reporting. During 2017 self-testing was expanded to also include tax governance and treasury internal controls. During 2017 our main legal entities performed quarterly assessments of the effectiveness of their key financial process controls. Improvement recommendations based on audit findings are followed up by local management, the status of which is being monitored regularly by the Executive Committee. Tax principles Corbion considers paying taxes an important part of our corporate social responsibility. Based on this, and derived from our Code of Business Conduct as part of our corporate governance structure, we have adopted the following tax principles. These tax principles deal with all different types of taxes which we are obliged to report and pay in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including taxes on profits, value added taxes, wage taxes, duties, and various other taxes. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance 61 Business rationale/transfer pricing Corbion’s tax strategy follows from and is aligned with the business strategy and objectives. Consequently, we aim to pay the appropriate amount of tax depending on where value is created in each of the jurisdictions we operate in, following the normal course of commercial activity, and in accordance with domestic and international rules and standards. All our intercompany transfer pricing and policies are based on the “arm’s length principle.” Relationship with tax authorities We seek to develop mutually respectful relationships with the various national tax authorities based on trust and transparency. To accomplish this we aim for an open and constructive dialog with the various tax authorities on the basis of disclosure of all relevant facts and circumstances. In the Netherlands we concluded a so-called tax covenant (“horizontal monitoring”) with the Dutch tax authorities. Such covenant entails that the tax authorities can rely on Corbion to provide upfront disclosure of all relevant information, while it allows Corbion to get upfront confirmation of applicable tax treatment. Tax governance Within the governance framework, the conduct of the group’s tax affairs and the management of tax risks are delegated to the group’s tax department with support and assistance from the group and local finance departments. The Audit Committee supervises the activities of the Board of Management with respect to the tax governance framework. Compliance We aim to act in accordance with all applicable laws at all times in which we are guided by the relevant local and international standards. Compliance is monitored within a global tax control framework. Corbion complies with its statutory obligations and aims to file all required taxrelevant information with the appropriate tax authorities in a timely, transparent, and complete manner. Tax-related disclosures are made in accordance with the relevant domestic regulations, as well as applicable reporting requirements under IFRS. Insurance Insurance is an integral part of our risk management approach as it is an instrument to manage the financial consequences of risks. The choice to obtain external insurance cover depends on the cost efficiency of the instrument. The coverage of insurances is monitored and benchmarked regularly. Audit Internal audit Internal audit supports the organization in accomplishing its objectives by providing a systematic, disciplined approach for the evaluation and improvement of the effectiveness of our internal control and governance processes. The Internal Audit Charter is approved by the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee, and the Supervisory Board. The objective of internal audit is to provide a broad range of audit services designed to assist the Executive Committee in controlling the business operations. Internal audit evaluates risks and assesses that the controls in place are adequate to mitigate the risks identified by management, identifying best practices, and recommending improvement opportunities to management. The audit plan is prepared, discussed, and agreed with relevant stakeholders. The plan has a rolling character so changes in priorities may be applied and the audit plan is updated and discussed quarterly at the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee. A summary of all audit reports and the follow-up of open internal audit items are reported to and discussed with the Executive Committee and Audit Committee on a regular basis. 62 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance External audit Our external financial audit engagement ensures that our financial statements give a true and fair view of our financial position as at 31 December 2017 and of our result and our cash flows for the year then ended. In 2017 the external auditor reviewed the sustainability indicators marked with “ü”. A review is aimed at obtaining a limited level of assurance. Risk assessment and key risk areas Risk assessment The Executive Committee has carried out an assessment of the design and effectiveness of the internal risk management and control systems, covering strategic/market, operational, and financial/compliance risks. Elements that were taken into account were amongst others reports from the internal audit function and the external auditor, findings reported under our entitywide controls, business control framework, and financial control framework, matters reported by the Legal Department, and reports received under our Speak Up Policy. The outcome of this assessment was that no major failings in the internal risk management and control systems were observed in the reporting year, and that no significant changes have been made to these systems. Corbion is continuously strengthening its internal risk management and control systems by various improvement initiatives; no major improvements have been identified for 2018. This has been discussed with the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board. Risk appetite Our risk appetite is the amount of risk we are willing to accept to achieve our strategic goals. This requires adequate understanding and awareness of potential risks and their magnitude within the company. The level of risk appetite is set by the Executive Committee, but for areas that are close to or exceeding our risk appetite, involvement of both senior management and the Executive Committee is required. Our risk appetite can be summarized as follows. Risk category Risk appetite Strategic/market risk Moderate to high: balancing risks and rewards to achieve our growth, innovation, and sustainability objectives Operational risk Low: safety-related issues Moderate: other areas with a focus on improving operational and functional excellence Financial/compliance risk Low: full compliance with legal and regulatory reporting (including financial reporting) The impact on EBITDA in millions of euros of a 1% change in net sales, costs, profit, and currency changes is reflected as follows. Approx. EBITDA impact Change (millions of euros) Net sales +1% / -1% +/4.4 Gross profit +1% / -1% +/3.1 Operating costs (= selling expenses + R&D +1% / -1% +/1.4 costs + G&A expenses) USD +1% / -1% +/1.3 YEN +1% / -1% +/0.2 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance 63 Key risk areas Below a summary is provided of the main risks that may exceed the levels of risk appetite defined. For each risk the potential impact as well as a summary of mitigation measures taken to address them are highlighted. There may be other risks currently unknown to Corbion, or currently believed not to be material, which could ultimately have a major impact on Corbion’s business, objectives, revenues, income, assets, liquidity, or capital resources. Corbion specific risks Risk event Cause and potential impact Mitigation actions Strategic/market risks Underperforming joint ventures in Innovation A number of our key initiatives in Innovation Dedicated management made available to Platforms Platforms are executed via jointly controlled manage the JV partnerships at JV manageentities with different joint venture partners. ment board level. JV partners may not always be fully aligned Close interaction with JV partners (e.g.Total, in their strategic interest and/or priorities in Bunge, BASF) to align interests of JV partoperating these JVs, potentially leading to ners as much as possible and to provide suboptimal compromises. clear and shared guidance/priority setting for the JV management. Adjust investment pace to be aligned with commercial development/potential. Raw material and energy price volatility Failure to manage the price volatility risk of The inclusion of price formulas in contracts, and availability raw materials, chemicals, and energy that frequent monitoring of key materials and cannot be passed on to customers due to energy impact. Overall raw material risks inadequate commodity positioning or lack of are mitigated by actively taking longer-term contractual enforcement. This may result in contract positions where necessary, by adversely impacted gross margins. sourcing from different locations/key raw materials, and in the longer run, by considering alternative or second-generation feedstocks. Our global procurement organization, with dedicated finance support, has developed adequate measures to secure contractpositions and obtain financial instruments to minimize or delay exposure to cost fluctuations due to changing raw material prices that might impact our margins negatively. These measures include early warnings of possible impact on our organization and our customers. Furthermore, we have implemented a multiple-supplier sourcing policy for our most critical raw materials. Loss of large customers The loss of a large customer could have a Intimate customer relationships based on disproportionate impact on the profitability a profound knowledge of our customers’ of the company. We have a large and needs and those of their end consumers; diversified customer base in which the five continuous new product development, largest customers account for approximately where possible jointly with our customers; 14% of our sales. and excellent service and cost levels should limit the risk of large customers leaving. Our strategy is very much focused on improving these fundamental customer relationship aspects, including required substantial investments. 64 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance Operational risks Safety incidents Inherent health and safety hazards in our Safety is an integral part of new design operations and insufficient awareness of and change in product formulations and unsafe plant conditions can lead to injuries production processes. A new policy focused or casualties and a potentially, temporary on safety core beliefs followed by participlant shutdown. pative workshops has been rolled out and a program focused on life changing safety rules, supported by e-learning and awareness campaigns will be rolled out in 2018. Corbion fosters an open and transparent culture by encouraging all employees to report, amongst others, all near misses and events in order to continuously improve our safety and environmental performance. Business interruption An external hazardous event (floods, riots, Business continuity and crisis management fires etc.) or internal disruption (e.g. availabilplans including contingency sourcing are ity of critical spare parts, global supply chain in place with ongoing evaluation, based complexity etc.) may result in a significant amongst other things on high credible inciperiod of plant shutdown or disruption and dent identifications for each site. Furtherhence in non-(timely)-delivery of our prodmore, appropriate customer and supplier ucts to internal and/or external customers, agreements are in place to limit exposure ultimately leading to adverse financial and whilst leveraging supplies. Finally, residual reputational consequences. risks are adequately insured including assets and business continuity risks. Confidential information Failure to protect sensitive information Controls are continuously improved and adequately due to limited physical penetration tests (to check quality protective measures, inadequate user improvement) are performed frequently. behavior, or potential cyber-attacks may Non-disclosure agreements with third result in loss of valuable or sensitive parties are in place. information such as trade secrets or intellectual property. Financial/compliance risks Liability claim for poor product quality Deficiencies in the operating effectiveness Liabilities to customers are contractually of the quality assurance measurements capped as much as possible in line with may lead to a severe liability claim. Corbion policy whilst residual risk is partially covered through liability insurance. A strong Product Quality Assurance program (including audits by customers) is in place. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance 65 Generic risks Risk event Cause and potential impact Mitigation actions Volatility in currency exchange rates Failure to manage volatility in the exchange Hedging policy to limit the impact of rates of a number of currencies versus the volatility in foreign exchange rates is in euro, especially the US dollar, can have a place. Hedging the impact of the foreign significant impact on our financial results. currency translation risk is partly and indirectly effectuated through matching with liabilities denominated in foreign currency. Our external debt is partly denominated in US dollars, which partly offsets the equity translation exposure we have against the US dollar. The exposure to transaction risks is partly hedged by offsetting the long/short foreign currency positions through a system of gradually selling and/or buying these currencies to mitigate the impact of sudden volatility in these currencies. Cybersecurity A breach of our IT security might lead to We have implemented an IT governance possible loss of information. structure including a dedicated corporate information security officer (CISO) and an information security governance board (ISB). The IT general control (ITGC) framework has been updated including amended IT policies. On a frequent basis we perform penetration tests, helping us to identify and correct potential IT security weaknesses. The outcome of these tests supports us to further strengthen our IT security levels. In addition we reduce our risk exposure by continuously raising IT security awareness with our people (e.g. through e-learning, communications). Also, we are reinforcing the security framework by increased focus on and more frequent application of patching, by multi-factor authentication, and by implementing a Security Operating Center Non-compliance with applicable tax laws Failure to timely detect and anticipate An adequate quarterly reporting system is changes in a wide variety of tax laws or in place, we hold regular tax meetings, and in the application thereof could adversely review tax compliance of our operating affect our ﬁnancial results. companies. Our global tax control framework warrants compliance. Transfer pricing policy and documentation are in place as well. We seek the advice of external tax experts in compliance matters. Legislative and regulatory environment Failure to comply with (changing) laws and Global legal and regulatory compliance regulations in the markets we operate in. programs are in place, including related Lack of insight into and/or awareness of awareness trainings, and we monitor, relevant laws and regulations and their review, and report on changes in laws and requirements may result in suspension of regulations. We seek the advice of external activities, reputational damage, and experts in compliance matters. exposure to criminal and financial lawsuits. Non-compliance with International Financial Not informing our shareholders and other Corporate accounting policies are Reporting Standards (IFRS) stakeholders in conformity with IFRS might maintained and made available via the lead to a lack of trust, reputation damage, Corbion intranet. Our global control framea declining share price, and, possibly, legal work includes financial reporting controls claims. that warrant compliance with IFRS. External best-in-class expert advice is used if/where necessary. 66 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance Risk management and responsibility statement Risk management statement Corbion’s risk management and internal control systems are designed to identify in a timely manner the risks inherent to our strategic, operational, reporting and compliance objectives and to determine appropriate risk responses as described above. Risk management and actions taken in the year under review were reported to and discussed by the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board. Internal representations received from management, regular management reviews, evaluations of the design and implementation of our risk management and internal control systems, and business and Audit Committee reviews are an integral part of Corbion’s risk management approach. It should be noted that the above does not imply that these systems and procedures provide absolute certainty as to the realization of strategic, operational, reporting, and compliance objectives, nor that they can prevent all misstatements, inaccuracies, errors, fraud, and noncompliance with laws and regulations. On the basis thereof, and as explained in the section Risk management of the Annual Report, the Board of Management, with reference to best practice provision 1.4.3 of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, states that to the best of its knowledge: • the Annual Report provides sufficient insight into material failings in the effectiveness of the internal risk management and control systems; • the aforementioned systems provide reasonable assurance that the financial reporting does not contain any material inaccuracies; • based on the current state of affairs, it is justified that the financial reporting is prepared on a going concern basis; and • the Annual Report states those material risks and uncertainties that are relevant to the expectation of the company’s continuity for the period of twelve months after the preparation of the Annual Report. Responsibility statement With reference to Section 25c Subsection 2 sub c of Chapter 5 of the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act (Wet op het financieel toezicht), the Board of Management states that to the best of its knowledge: • the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, and earnings of Corbion and its group companies included in the Financial Statements; and • the Annual Report gives a true and fair view of the position of Corbion as at the balance sheet date, the developments during the financial year of Corbion and its group companies included in the Financial Statements, and a description of principal risks that Corbion faces. Amsterdam, the Netherlands, 6 March 2018 Board of Management Tjerk de Ruiter, Chief Executive Officer Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot, Chief Financial Officer CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance 67 We create safer working conditions. STOP team Corbion Spain Keep creating At Corbion we’re creating a safe, healthy and environmentally friendly workplace 68 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our governance The STOP program at Montmeló is changing safety behavior The team • Ester Esgueva EHS Manager • Jordi Herrando Filling Operator • Bartolo López Maintenance Operator • Pedro Moreno Lactic Operator • Guzman Nachon Plant Technologist • Jesús Valor Derivatives Operator The project For over a year and a half, we’ve been running a behavior-based safety program with a difference called STOP. The big “difference” is that the representatives, running and implementing this program on the factory floor are not managers or safety professionals…but people working in the plant every day in a hands-on and highly visible way. Their job is to work with colleagues to provide a “two-way street” where operators feel comfortable raising questions and issues that could improve safety. All STOP successes are then shared with the team. The challenge Even though our plant safety record has improved year-on-year, we got to a point two years ago where simply “following the rules” wasn’t enough. Instead of telling people what to do we wanted to create an environment where our people felt comfortable and motivated to take more ownership of their own safety. We wanted to create a mindset where, when our colleagues look at themselves in the mirror every morning, they see the person who is most responsible for being safe at work for them and their colleagues. The outcome A good example of the changes we’ve made comes in how we handle hot and corrosive liquids. Our STOP team met to discuss this, and then asked the opinion of the operators who actually handle the operations, lock the valves and pumps, and handle the risk. The result is that now we have a safer process that everyone is more comfortable with. Another big issue we’ve addressed is what happens when visitors come to the facility? Our STOP representatives take the initiative to talk to them, explain our approach, and ensure that they feel comfortable when inside the plant. The experience In the past we told people about safety. Now they tell us! The STOP program has tapped into the most basic human need – which is to care for each other and make a difference. After a while, safety becomes automatically ingrained in the way everyone behaves. You would never get into your car and start driving without fastening the seatbelt and that principle now applies to how we think about safety in the plant. Of course this program has also helped strengthen the bond between operators, supervisors, and managers in the facility. We all understand each other far better these days. The future How do we keep this momentum going? Well, we are Mediterranean people of course, so we believe in making work (and safety) an enjoyable experience. For example, every year we celebrate International Safety Day with various fun activities, but with a very serious underlying message: We must remain vigilant because there is always something we can do to protect ourselves and our colleagues better! CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Report of the Supervisory Board 69 RE PO RT OF TH E SUPE RVISO RY B OAR D The Supervisory Board supervises and advises the Board of Management and Executive Committee in performing their management tasks and setting the direction of the business of Corbion. In performing its duties, the Supervisory Board is guided by the interests of the company and its stakeholders. The Rules of the Supervisory Board are available on Corbion’s website. Overview 2017 During the Capital Markets Day held on 9 November 2017, Corbion announced its updated strategy, “Creating Sustainable Growth.” Since 2014 we have made great strides in strengthening Corbion, building one coherent company, and creating value in a disciplined way. We are now ready for the next phase of increased organic top-line growth and continued value creation for our stakeholders. We aim to be the leading innovator for sustainable ingredient solutions by offering conscious choices to our customers, uniquely tailored to create customer value. On 29 September 2017 Corbion announced the completion of the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of TerraVia Holdings. As a result, its broad and diverse platform centered on fermentation-based innovative food and specialty ingredients derived from microalgae, has become part of Corbion and this acquisition is expected to bring high value creation potential. Tjerk de Ruiter, CEO, has been reappointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders in 2017 for an additional period of two years (May 2018 May 2020). Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot, CFO, has been nominated by the Supervisory Board for reappointment by the General Meeting of Shareholders in 2018 for a new term (May 2018 May 2022). The Supervisory Board is pleased that it was able to secure continuity of leadership that will guide the company through the next stages of development to further capture the full potential of Corbion’s strategy. The Supervisory Board is furthermore pleased that Jacqueline van Lemmen joined Corbion as EVP Operations as per 1 April 2017. In this capacity, she is a member of Corbion’s Executive Committee and responsible for Corbion’s global operations organization. From a financial perspective, 2017 was a satisfactory year, where management handled adverse input cost market conditions, whilst at the same time executing our Disciplined Value Creation, with delivery of strong EBITDA, EBITDA margin and ROCE. On 15 September 2017 Corbion successfully completed its € 25 million share buyback program that commenced on 18 April 2017. The Supervisory Board would like to thank the Executive Committee and all Corbion employees around the world for their dedication, loyalty, and hard work in 2017. Composition of the Supervisory Board Members of the Supervisory Board are: Mathieu Vrijsen (Chairman), Rudy Markham (ViceChairman), Liz Doherty, Jack de Kreij, and Steen Riisgaard. Brief resumes of the members of the 70 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Report of the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board are available under the section Corporate Governance/Supervisory Board of the Annual Report. The profile and diversity policy of the Supervisory Board are available on Corbion’s website. Mathieu Vrijsen was re-appointed as member and Chairman of the Supervisory Board at the annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 15 May 2017. In the opinion of the Supervisory Board, the independence requirements referred to in best practice provisions 2.1.7 to 2.1.9 inclusive of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code have been fulfilled. Meetings of the Supervisory Board During the reporting year the Supervisory Board held six regular meetings and two conferencecall meetings. The Board of Management attended these meetings. One of the meetings was a full-day strategy session with the Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee. The Supervisory Board also met regularly in the absence of the Board of Management to discuss, amongst others, developments in the financial results, and the composition and functioning of the Supervisory Board and Board of Management. Members of the Supervisory Board regularly met with the members of the Executive Committee, business leaders, and members of corporate staff. The external auditor attended the meeting of 3 March 2017, at which the 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements were recommended for adoption by the annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board regularly met with the CEO either in person or by phone, for bilateral discussions about the progress of the company on a variety of matters. Attendance at the in-person meetings held in 2017 was almost 100%; Rudy Markham attended one meeting partly by phone. Attendance at the conference-call meetings was almost 100%; in one instance Jack de Kreij and Rudy Markham were not able to attend and they spoke separately to members of the Board of Management. Also in this intensive and important year for Corbion, all members of the Supervisory Board were able to make themselves sufficiently available to give adequate attention to the needs of Corbion. Activities of the Supervisory Board The discussions at the Supervisory Board meetings covered frequently recurring topics, such as reports of its committees, strategy, developments in financial results, business developments, quarterly interim management statements, acquisitions and divestments, key investments, annual budget, internal risk management and control systems, succession planning of the Supervisory Board and Board of Management, remuneration for the members of the Board of Management, corporate governance, investor relations, culture and values, the Financial Statements, and the Annual Report. In addition, the Supervisory Board discussed the acquisition of the assets of TerraVia, the implementation of the revised Dutch Corporate Governance Code, the re-appointment of Tjerk de Ruiter as CEO and the proposed re-appointment of Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot as CFO. The Supervisory Board has been closely involved in the updated long-term strategy presented at the Capital Markets Day in November 2017. The draft strategy update and the principal risks associated with it have been discussed in several meetings and during a full-day strategy session with the Executive Committee. Constructive discussions were held with the Executive CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Report of the Supervisory Board 71 Committee and the Supervisory Board played an active role in challenging and testing the ideas of the Executive Committee. The Supervisory Board and the Executive Committee visited Corbion’s plant in Thailand and met with local management and other colleagues. They also had a meeting with representatives of the joint venture Total Corbion PLA who updated them on the progress of the construction of the new PLA plant. Evaluation The Supervisory Board conducted a self-evaluation of the functioning of the Supervisory Board, its committees, and that of its members, as well as an evaluation of the functioning of the Board of Management and its members, supported by an independent external specialist. This was done by means of in-depth structured interviews with all members of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management. A report of the evaluation, including observations and recommendations, was discussed by the Supervisory Board. General observations are in line with previous years indicating an open and constructive interaction between members of the Supervisory Board focused on the business at hand. The Supervisory Board feels sufficiently involved by the Board of Management, and is positive about the interaction and dynamics while the committees function as expected. Topics for the 2018 agenda are geared at initiating the planning process for succession of the CEO in 2020, defining the adequate level of involvement in and supervision of the joint venture Total Corbion PLA, the post-acquisition and integration of TerraVia (Algae Ingredients), and monitoring the top-line growth improvement and strategic options for the company. The Board of Management also conducted a self-evaluation of the functioning of the Board of Management and that of its members, supported by an independent external specialist. This was done by means of in-depth structured interviews with all members of the Board of Management. General observations are that the members of the Board of Management are positive about their overall performance, that the size and composition of the Executive Committee are appropriate, and that there is a right balance between distance and involvement with the Supervisory Board. The process of re-appointment of both the CEO and CFO is perceived to be effective. Topics for the 2018 agenda are fully in line with the agenda of the Supervisory Board and geared at executing the new strategy “Creating Sustainable Growth,” supporting the succession process of the CEO in 2020, the further integration and commercialization of the TerraVia acquisition, forging ahead with the joint venture Total Corbion PLA, and the implementation of the new ERP system. Committees of the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board has appointed from among its members an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee, an Appointment and Governance Committee, and a Science and Technology Committee. The committees’ role is to prepare the decision-making of the Supervisory Board. The Charters of the committees are available on Corbion’s website. Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee are Jack de Kreij (Chairman) and Liz Doherty. In 2017 the Audit Committee met five times in the presence of the external auditor, the CFO, the VP Group Finance, and the Senior Director Internal Audit. Other heads of departments (e.g. Treasury, Tax, Legal, and IT) were invited when the Audit Committee deemed it necessary and appropriate. 72 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Report of the Supervisory Board The Audit Committee also held private individual meetings with respectively the CFO, the Senior Director Internal Audit, and the external auditor. The attendance rate at the meetings held in 2017 was 100%. The agenda at the Audit Committee meetings covered, amongst other subjects, annual and halfyear figures, interim management statements, accounting matters, IFRS changes, sustainability reporting, internal risk management and control systems, tax matters (including tax control framework), financing, treasury and insurance, pensions, IT (including cybersecurity), status of legal claims and litigations, status of the Business Conduct program, notifications received under the whistleblower procedure, internal audit plan, the management letter, and reports of the internal and external auditors. The Audit Committee closely monitors the independence of the external auditor. It evaluates the performance of the external auditor on a yearly basis and where appropriate recommends to the Supervisory Board the replacement of the external auditor. Furthermore, the Audit Committee submits a proposal to the Supervisory Board with respect to the fees for all audit services to be performed by the external auditor as requested by the Board of Management. Appointment and Governance Committee The Appointment and Governance Committee (previously the Nomination Committee) consists of Mathieu Vrijsen (Chairman), Rudy Markham, and Steen Riisgaard. The Appointment and Governance Committee met five times in 2017 in the presence of the EVP Human Resources and the Company Secretary. The CEO was invited to join certain parts of these meetings. The attendance rate at the meetings held in 2017 was 100%. The Appointment and Governance Committee discussed amongst other subjects, the size and composition of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management, the succession plan for the Supervisory Board and members of the Board of Management and the Executive Committee, the performance of the Board of Management and its members, talent management, succession planning for senior management, people strategy, culture and values, the profile of the Supervisory Board, and the diversity policy for the Supervisory Board and Executive Committee, as well as governance matters. Furthermore, the reappointment of the CEO and the nomination for reappointment of the CFO were extensively discussed as well as the implementation of the revised Dutch Corporate Governance Code. Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists of Rudy Markham (Chairman), Mathieu Vrijsen, and Steen Riisgaard. The Remuneration Committee met five times in 2017 in the presence of the EVP Human Resources and the Company Secretary. The CEO was invited to join certain parts of these meetings. The attendance rate at the meetings held in 2017 was 100%. The Remuneration Committee discussed, amongst other subjects, the remuneration report, the remuneration for the members of the Board of Management, the level of achievement of the 2016 Short-Term Incentive Plan (STIP) targets for the members of the Board of Management, the progress of the STIP 2017 targets and the targets of the running Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) programs, and the target setting for the STIP 2018 and the LTIP 2017-2020. A benchmark study was conducted to assess the current pay-levels of the Board of Management and Executive Committee. Furthermore, the members of the Board of Management gave a view on their own remuneration and the remuneration levels of the Executive Committee were reviewed. Science and Technology Committee The Science and Technology Committee consists of Steen Riisgaard (Chairman) and Mathieu Vrijsen. The Science and Technology Committee met four times in 2017 in the presence of the CTO, other members of the Executive Committee and members of the R&D leadership team. The attendance rate at the meetings held in 2017 was 100%. The agenda at these meetings covered, amongst other subjects, new technologies, food and biochemical applications, medical biomaterials, and external technology trends. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Report of the Supervisory Board 73 Financial Statements 2017 The Financial Statements prepared by the Board of Management for the financial year 2017 have been audited by KPMG Accountants N.V. The auditor’s findings on the Financial Statements have been discussed with the Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board has accepted the Financial Statements and recommends that they be adopted by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The members of the Supervisory Board have signed the Financial Statements pursuant to their statutory obligation under Section 101 Subsection 2 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Amsterdam, the Netherlands, 6 March 2018 Supervisory Board Mathieu Vrijsen, Chairman Rudy Markham, Vice-Chairman Liz Doherty Jack de Kreij Steen Riisgaard 74 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Remuneration report RE MUNERAT IO N RE P O RT Remuneration policy and its implementation in 2017 To ensure Corbion’s development as a successful sustainable ingredient solutions company, the objective of the remuneration policy for the Board of Management is to create international competitive remuneration packages and employment conditions, which align the interests of the Board of Management with the strategic direction and horizon of the company, with a strong emphasis on performance-related pay and long-term value creation. The policy is in place since 2015 and was approved by the annual General Meeting of Shareholders in that same year. The full remuneration policy is available on Corbion’s website. This section describes how the remuneration policy has been implemented in 2017. General The implementation of the remuneration policy contributes to long-term value creation, because the long-term incentive for the Board of Management is aimed at longer-term value creation in line with stakeholder interests, measured over a performance period of three calendar years. To ensure that short-term performance also leads to sustainable long-term value creation, the short-term and long-term incentive performance metrics are aligned. Remuneration reference levels The total compensation levels (base salary, short-term incentive, long-term incentive) and pay mix are based on a combined reference group of comparable European biotechnology companies and Dutch general industry companies (AMX and smaller AEX). Every two years a reference check is performed to independently benchmark the total compensation levels with market levels; this was done for the first time in 2017. The reference check took into account the current trends in the executive remuneration practice, the internal (offsetting Board of Management salaries against extrapolated company salary grades) and external relativities against the company reference group. Based on this benchmark no major changes in remuneration levels and policies (pay mix, incentive design) are proposed. Some outcomes of the benchmark are: • CEO: base salary and total compensation are aligned with the salary scales of Corbion in the US and total compensation is aligned with the European reference market. The special incentive brings the overall compensation for the CEO in line with US CEO market levels. • CFO: base salary and total compensation are aligned with the salary scales of Corbion in the Netherlands, albeit slightly below the European reference market. The latter is due to the lower benefits allowance not yet aligned with the higher pension premiums needed to compensate for the lower returns on pension capital. • Sustainability as a performance metric is becoming more common for larger listed companies as one of the metrics in short-term incentive programs. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Remuneration report 75 Internal pay ratios In the implementation of the remuneration policy, scenario analyses have been taken into consideration. In terms of the pay ratios within the company, Corbion has calculated the pay ratio of the Board of Management to the average Corbion employee. For reasons of transparency, the company took all disclosed and paid compensation, including base salary, short-term incentive, long-term incentive, benefits, and for the CEO the special share award. For the CEO, the ratio to the average employee is 42.4, for the CFO it is 14.9. While these numbers are relatively modest in comparison to industry peers, (considering the impact of the special share award of the CEO), the Supervisory Board felt that additional consideration of the internal compensation structure was required. An external expert validated the relativities between each reporting layer of Corbion, including the Board of Management, Executive Committee, senior management, and other employees per grade. This analysis showed a consistent and structured build-up of salary levels across the organization, confirming the relatively modest ratio as disclosed. Base salary Members of the Board of Management are entitled to a base salary. Based on median market data the base salary for the CEO will be set between € 500,000 and € 600,000. For the CFO base pay is set between € 300,000 and € 400,000. The individual pay of the Board members will be determined by the Supervisory Board within the boundaries of the aforementioned ranges (from time to time). There are no automatic annual increases in the base salary levels. As per 1 April 2017, the annual base salary for Tjerk de Ruiter (CEO) amounts to € 575,000 and for Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot (CFO) € 358,750. Short-Term Incentive Plan (STIP) Members of the Board of Management are eligible for a short-term incentive. The STIP rewards operational execution and is aimed at strengthening and growing the Corbion business. It is determined by two financial targets: EBITDA and earnings per share (EPS) (both as defined in the policy). EBITDA will account for 70% of the total STIP; the remaining 30% will be determined by EPS. A range of 30% around each performance target (or such lower percentage as determined by the Supervisory Board) is set annually to determine the actual payout. The STIP payout at target level is set at 50% of base salary for the CEO, and 40% for the CFO. For 2017, the Supervisory Board applied the range of 30% for actual payout as follows: the threshold level was set at 85% and the maximum level at 115% for each target. An actual payout level of 88.6% has been achieved for the EBITDA target and 119.3% for EPS in the reporting year. This has led to a total payout of 97.8% of the at-target STIP for both Tjerk de Ruiter and Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot. The Supervisory Board has decided to use its discretionary authority in accordance with the remuneration policy to grant an additional 5% cash pay-out over 2017 based on the successful acquisition of the TerraVia (Algae Ingredients) business and the establishment of the PLA joint venture with Total. Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) The long-term incentive for the Board of Management is aimed at longer-term value creation in line with stakeholder interests, measured over a performance period of three calendar years. To ensure that short-term performance also leads to sustainable long-term value creation, the LTIP measurement is fully aligned with the STIP: EBITDA and EPS account for 60% respectively 20% of 76 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Remuneration report the LTIP. In addition, 20% of the LTIP is determined by relative Total Shareholder Return (TSR) as compared to a specific TSR peer group. The CEO is entitled to a conditional share grant value of 100% of base salary. The CFO is entitled to a conditional share grant value of 80% of base salary. Meeting the performance target(s) will result in an LTIP payout at target level. A range of 50% around the performance target(s) (or such lower percentage as determined by the Supervisory Board) is set for the EBITDA and EPS performance to determine the actual payout. For TSR performance, threshold payout is set at meeting the eighth position in the peer group. Based on independent analysis by a leading bank in the Netherlands the TSR performance of Corbion versus the TSR peer group will be assessed after the three-year performance period. The LTIP shares conditionally granted in 2014 to Tjerk de Ruiter and Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot have vested in 2017, as Corbion ranked second in the peer group (the TSR performance for the 2014 LTIP series was based on the previous peer group). As a result, 175% of the conditionally granted shares have vested in accordance with the then applicable LTIP criteria. The number of vested shares received by Tjerk de Ruiter is 33,430 representing a value of € 917,326 at the time of vesting. The number of vested shares received by Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot is 17,247 representing a value of € 473,237 at the time of vesting. The Board members did use the option of selling shares to finance the income tax due on the vested shares. The number of performance shares conditionally granted to Tjerk de Ruiter in 2017 (possible vesting in 2020) is 23,585 representing a value of € 575,000 at the time of the grant. The number of performance shares conditionally granted to Eddy van Rhede van der Kloot in 2017 (possible vesting in 2020) amounts to 11,772 representing a value of € 287,000 at the time of the grant. Benefits allowance As a consequence of the use of executive assignment agreements, the company does not provide benefits such as pension (individual retirement), medical or life insurance, or a company car to Board members. That is why each Board member is provided with a benefits allowance. This is a fixed annual amount of € 200,000 for a CEO with an international background and € 100,000 for the CFO, to cover the cost of these expenses. Corbion does not grant loans to members of the Board of Management. Other compensation Tjerk de Ruiter is entitled to a one-off time-restricted performance share award equivalent to a target value of € 2 million in Corbion shares to vest over three years, as of 1 January 2015 (this award was granted in 2014 and amended in 2015 by the General Meeting of Shareholders). The award bridges part of the compensation gap between the United States and the Netherlands. The award encourages delivering a growing, increasingly profitable, and sustainable business portfolio. The award will vest only if a minimum target (EBITDA growth, as defined in the share award) is achieved each year. If performance falls below target, no shares will vest. For at-target or above-target performance, the target number of shares (representing a value of one-third of the aggregate amount of € 2 million) will vest. The Supervisory Board has set long-term innovation milestones which allow for an additional vesting of up to 25% of the total number of shares. The award is subject to the general share-ownership requirement of two times the annual base salary; as long as Tjerk de Ruiter does not comply with this share-ownership requirement, vested shares under this share award will be kept in a restricted account and cannot be traded. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Remuneration report 77 For 2017, the minimum annual target was achieved leading to the vesting of 39,897 shares to Tjerk de Ruiter in 2018. As the three-year performance period has lapsed, the Supervisory Board has agreed to an additional vesting of 23,938 shares to Tjerk de Ruiter in 2018 on the basis of the long-term innovation milestones. Remuneration for the Board of Management The total annual remuneration for the Board of Management in 2017 amounted to € 4.2 million including STIP over 2017 (2016: € 2.6 million). The table below shows the amounts which the respective Board member (i) received/was entitled to in 2017 (base salary, STIP, benefits allowance, relocation costs) and (ii) received/was entitled to in 2017 by way of vesting (LTIP, special share award). Special ReBase Benefits share location Thousands of euros Year salary STIP LTIP allowance award costs Total T. de Ruiter 2017 569 310 917 200 1,095 3,091 2016 544 344 200 889 1,977 E.E. van Rhede van der Kloot 2017 357 158 473 100 1,088 2016 350 175 100 625 Total 2017 926 468 1,390 300 1,095 4,179 2016 894 519 300 889 2,602 Remuneration for the Supervisory Board Total remuneration for members of the Supervisory Board in 2017 amounted to € 0.3 million (2016: € 0.3 million). Every member of the Supervisory Board receives an annual base fee of € 45,000; the ViceChairman receives € 50,000 and the Chairman € 60,000. For membership of the Audit Committee an additional fee of € 10,000 applies, and for the Chairman € 15,000. Members of the Appointment and Governance Committee, Remuneration Committee, or Science and Technology Committee receive an additional € 5,000 in fee; the fee for the Chairman of these committees amounts to € 7,500. In addition, members received reimbursement of expenses. 78 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Remuneration report Breakdown remuneration Supervisory Board IAS 24.17 Short-term category employee benefits* Total Commitee Year Base fee fee M.F.J.P Vrijsen, Chairman (Chairman Appointment and Governance Committee / member Remuneration Committee / member Science and Technology Committee) 2017 60 18 78 2016 60 18 78 R.H.P. Markham, Vice-Chairman (Chairman Remuneration Committee / member Appointment and Governance Committee) 2017 50 13 63 2016 50 13 63 M.E. Doherty (member Audit Committee) 2017 45 10 55 2016 45 10 55 J.P. de Kreij (Chairman Audit Committee, member until May 2016) 2017 45 15 60 2016 45 15 60 R. Pieterse (Chairman Audit Committee, resigned per May 2016) 2017 2016 17 4 21 S. Riisgaard (Chairman Science and Technology Committee, member Remuneration Committee / member Appointment and Governance Committee 2017 45 18 63 2016 45 18 63 Total* 2017 245 74 319 Total* 2016 262 78 340 * Excluding expenses company Corbion does not grant loans to the members of the Supervisory Board. None of the members of the Supervisory Board has shares in the company or any option rights relating thereto (as at 6 March 2018). Remuneration for former members of the Board of Management Gerard Hoetmer (CEO) and Koos Kramer (CFO) stepped down as members of the Board of Management on 12 May 2014. The LTIP shares conditionally granted in 2014 to Gerard Hoetmer and Koos Kramer have vested in 2017, as Corbion ranked second in the peer group (the TSR performance for the 2014 LTIP series was based on the previous peer group). As a result, 175% of the conditionally granted shares have vested in accordance with the then applicable LTIPcriteria. The number of vested shares received by Gerard Hoetmer is 40,504 representing a value of € 1,111,422 at the time of vesting. The number of vested shares received by Koos Kramer is 25,487 representing a value of € 699,363 at the time of vesting. The former Board members did not use the option of selling any shares to finance the income tax due on the vested shares. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Remuneration report 79 Breakdown remuneration former members of the Board of Management The table below shows the amounts which the respective former Board member (i) received/was entitled to over 2017 (base salary, STIP, pension benefits, relocation costs, notice period) and (ii) received/was entitled to in 2017 by way of vesting (LTIP, commitment award), or received in 2017 by way of contractual severance (other termination benefits). Other RetermiBase Benefits Pension location Notice nation Thousands of euros Year salary STIP LTIP allowance benefits costs period benefits Other Total G.H. Hoetmer 2017 1,111 1,111 N.J.M. Kramer 2017 699 699 Total 2017 1,810 1,810 We create zero waste through awareness of sustainability. Volunteer Environmental Team Corbion Spain Keep creating At Corbion we’re creating a future where nothing is wasted CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Remuneration report 81 Ramping up recycling at Montmeló The team • Mayte Agudo, Management Assistant • Marçal Gotanegra, Maintenance Manager • Marti Corominas, Maintenance Department • Sandra Lopez, Human Resources Manager • Ester Esgueva, EHS Manager • Elisabet Ramos, Financial Controller • Montserrat Fernández, ESH Officer • Josep Sevilla, IT Regional Support Technical • Xabi García, Plant Utilities & Project Engineer Engineer The project For the past 18 months we’ve been running a zero waste program at our Montmeló plant. This program is not solely focused on how we tackle this issue inside the factory, but we have also given our people the resources and tools to reduce waste and adopt recycling in their own homes and villages! We created a Volunteers Environmental Team managed by nine people from completely different functions and job roles. This in turn has given us a fantastic new perspective on how to change our behavior and also ensure that everyone feels able to contribute to reducing waste, no matter what their job title! The challenge Corbion Montmeló has been especially engaged with the local community activities such as cleaning up the local river (collecting plastic etc.). We wanted to strengthen this further and bring this topic to everyday sustainability of all our employees at work and at home. It began almost by accident when we were discussing the topic over lunch. What could we do to really help our colleagues change their behavior on waste? Our answer was to give every employee – and importantly, our contractors, too – three different colored recycling boxes to take home with them and use. To publicize the initiative we set up a Zero Waste Corner where colleagues can come and discuss the project, read literature, receive a little training, and generally get involved. Very importantly, we situated it in a place that noone could ignore – directly outside our staff canteen! The outcome Our people have taken these recycling boxes home and used them. This has now started to become a habit, where we no longer even think about it. From here we start to see this great behavior crossing into the working environment. Suddenly, we are wasting less plastic and paper in the day-to-day running of the office; we are more conscious of the water that we use; and of course we are recycling various materials whenever we can! It’s a little difficult to provide hard statistics but there is no doubt that as a community at Montmeló we are now being less wasteful. The experience Asking people to change their behavior overnight can be difficult – especially for those who have lived and worked in a particular way for a long time. The emphasis on our zero waste initiative has been, “let’s tackle the small things, one by one” – because they all add up to make a big difference. What is most pleasing is that many different people are having their voices heard and really enjoying this program. The communication is two-way, and we’ve already had several great suggestions from our people – and that is the best way to ensure it really sticks. The future The bottom line for our team here is that acting responsibly and preserving our resources gives us a huge advantage in terms of increasing our efficiency in the future, for example by reducing the amount of energy the plant uses. At Corbion we are, after all, very proud to be a biobased company and it’s important that sustainability should be part of our daily lives, not just part of our daily jobs. Ultimately we are all working towards a circular economy culture! 82 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability statements SUSTAINABI L ITY STATE M E N TS Materiality and stakeholder engagement The foundation of our updated sustainability strategy is the materiality matrix, which we use to set priorities and ensure that we take a focused approach. A materiality analysis is about the identification of key issues that are important to our stakeholders and our strategy. The materiality matrix visualizes the results of this analysis, by plotting the relevant social, environmental, governance, and economic issues as a function of their importance to stakeholders (vertical axis) and Corbion’s strategy (horizontal axis). In 2017 we updated our materiality matrix using an in-depth methodology (see Figure 1). We updated the issues in the evaluation based on stakeholder feedback, benchmarking within our industry, and a media search. To determine the relevance of these issues to our stakeholders, we conducted a quantitative survey combined with qualitative interviews with representatives of each stakeholder group (see Figure 2) to understand their expectations. Generally, our stakeholders really appreciated this opportunity to share their views and recommendations. We will continue this dialog to keep our assessment up to date and to signal emerging issues in time. Combined with our internal assessment of the importance of the issues to our strategy and the impact of Corbion’s activities on the issue, this resulted in the identification of nine material themes. These nine themes have a high impact on our strategy and are considered important by the majority of our stakeholders. Compared to our previous materiality assessment, three additional material themes are identified: 1. Safe, affordable, and healthy food 2. Occupational health and safety 3. Product quality and performance These themes have been included in our updated Sustainability framework and we have used the input from stakeholders to update our ambitions and targets for our sustainability initiatives. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability statements 83 Materiality matrix The image below shows the upper-right section of Corbion’s materiality matrix, highlighting the nine material themes. high Importance to stakeholders Sustainable Product supply environmental chain impact Innovation Renewable raw Resource efficiency materials Occupational Safe, health & safety Product quality affordable & Transparency & performance healthy food medium high Importance to Corbion strategy high Responsible sourcing High materiality Responsible operations Sustainable ingredient solutions medium Medium materiality All themes Low materiality low medium high The materiality determination process (Fig.1) 1 Long and short list of themes: we have compiled a long list of relevant sustainability themes based on GRI indicators, benchmarking, and stakeholder input. This list was consolidated into a short list of 28 themes. 2 Determining importance to the Corbion strategy: the importance of each theme to the Corbion strategy was determined through discussions with the Executive Committee. 3 Stakeholder dialogs: the importance of each theme to our stakeholders was determined on the basis of a stakeholder survey and interviews. 4 Stakeholder weighting: the stakeholder input was weighted according to the impact that Corbion has on each stakeholder group and the impact that each stakeholder group has on Corbion. 5 Calculating materiality matrix: the resulting internal and external scores were plotted in a matrix and discussed with the Executive Committee to select the material themes. 84 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability statements Key stakeholder groups (Fig. 2) Our key stakeholders have been identified on the basis of two questions: 1. On which stakeholders does Corbion have a significant impact? 2. Which stakeholders have a significant impact on Corbion? (Alphabetical order) • Business partners • Multi-stakeholder initiatives • Customers • NGOs • Employees • Potential future employees • Governments • Shareholders • Industry associations • Supervisory Board • Knowledge institutes • Suppliers Overview of the priority themes per stakeholder group (Fig. 3) Each of the material themes is considered a priority by at least two stakeholders. Some stakeholders also indicated some specific topics that are relevant to them, but not considered material overall. Multi-stakeholder Initiative Business partner Future employees Industry association Knowledge institute Supervisory Board Customer Employees Government Shareholder Supplier NGO Sustainable supply chain • • • • • • • • • • • Renewable raw materials • • • • • • Resource efficiency • • • • • • Innovation • • • • • • Product environmental impact • • • • • • Safe, affordable, and healthy food; prevent food waste • • • • Transparency • • • • Occupational health and safety • • • Product quality and performance • • Alternatives for chemicals of concern • • • Next generation feedstocks • • • Human rights • Talent attraction, development, and retention • Economic performance • Renewable energy • Partnerships • Community engagement • CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability statements 85 Material themes, definition, link tot sustainability strategy Overview of the material themes, definitions, the link with Corbion’s sustainability framework and strategy, and the location in the report where more information can be found. Link with sustainability Material theme Definition Boundaries framework Location in report Sustainable supply Responsible sourcing of raw materials, takCorbion's supply Responsible Responsible sourcing chain ing into account business ethics, human chain sourcing Sustainability statements rights, labor conditions, the environment, agricultural practices, land rights, land use, and biodiversity. Occupational health Provide a safe and healthy working Corbion's own Responsible Responsible operations and safety environment for all employees, contracoperations operations Sustainability statements tors, and visitors. Resource efficiency Efficient use of raw materials, energy, and Corbion's own Responsible Responsible operations water in Corbion’s facilities. Reduce, re-use, operations operations Sustainability statements and recycle waste. Reduce Corbion’s own carbon footprint. Product Impact of Corbion’s products on the ecoCorbion's own Sustainable Sustainable ingredient solutions environmental logical footprint for end users. operations and ingredient Sustainability statements impact supply chain solutions (cradle to gate) Renewable The use of renewable raw materials inCorbion's Sustainable Sustainable ingredient solutions resources stead of finite fossil resources. supply chain ingredient Sustainability statements Corbion’s contribution to the transition to solutions a circular economy with a reduced dependency on fossil fuels. Safe, affordable, Contribution of Corbion’s food ingredients Corbion's value Sustainable Sustainable ingredient solutions and healthy food; to safe, affordable and healthy food and to chain ingredient Sustainability statements prevent food waste the prevention of food waste. solutions Product quality Deliver products that consistently meet Corbion's value Sustainable Sustainable ingredient solutions and performance specifications and deliver the expected chain ingredient Sustainability statements performance. solutions Transparency Transparency on raw material sourcing, Corbion's value Transparency Sustainability statements product environmental impact, sustainabilchain (qualitatively reported) ity performance, and clear labeling of food ingredients. Innovation Development and commercialization of Corbion's value Innovation Strategy section new products, product applications, and chain Sustainability statements processes. (qualitatively reported) 86 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability statements Our ambitions and what we achieved in 2017 Ambition Critical success factors Achievements in 2017 Responsible sourcing • Sustainability criteria embedded in our • Continued implementation of our securisecurity-of-supply assessment ty-of-supply assessment and mitigation Create a sustainable supply chain for • Generic supplier code that states manplans for all raw materials categorized as Corbion’s main agricultural raw materials datory requirements on, amongst others, high risk (sugarcane, corn, soy, wheat, palm oil) business ethics, human rights, labor • Continued implementation of our supplier conditions, and the environment code and cane sugar code • Specific policies for our priority raw ma• Developed tools to verify adherence to terials focusing on continuous improvethe cane sugar code ment towards the implementation of the • Publication of a white paper on the susrelevant sustainability standard for each tainability of the Thai sugarcane sector of these raw materials • Bonsucro certification for our lactic acid • Participate in relevant multi-stakeholder plants in Thailand and Brazil initiatives • Launch of the Bonsucro Buyer Accelerator • Collaborate with strategic suppliers to Group, a joint initiative by buyer members reduce our scope III carbon footprint of Bonsucro who are seeking to accelerate the pace and impact of improvement in sustainable sugarcane production and supply • Defined 2020 roadmap for RSPO certification of palm oil and primary oleochemicals derived from palm oil • Supplier visits to evaluate progress on sustainability at Corbion’s main suppliers of soyand corn-derived raw materials in the US Responsible operations • Record all incidents and implement • Reduced Total Recordable Injury Rate for corrective and preventive measures all employees (including contractors) Create a zero incident and zero waste • OHSAS 18001 certification of all our from 1.3 to 0.9 (reduction of >30%) Corbion manufacturing sites • Prepared Property Risk Manual • Valorize by-products • Renewed focus on hazardous operations • Waste reduction programs resulting in updates at all sites • Design out waste for new manufacturing • Developed 10 Corbion Safety Rules based processes on main Corbion risks and prepared • Continue to reduce our energy and water roll-out process for 2018 consumption • Increase of capital expenditure related to • Transition to renewable electricity safety • Reduce our carbon footprint in line with • Implemented new valorization option for Paris agreement gypsum at our lactic acid plant in the US, resulting in a significant reduction of the quantity of landfilled by-products compared to 2016 • Joined RE100 to demonstrate our commitment to renewable electricity • Started implementation of our renewable electricity roadmap by purchasing renewable electricity in Gorinchem (50%), Totowa (75%) and Tucker (75%) • Installation of solar panels at our site in Gorinchem, the Netherlands • Joined the Science Based Targets initiative to develop emissions reduction targets in line with climate science • Extended recycling programs at various Corbion sites. At our site in Blair, the increased focus on recycling resulted in a tripling of the amount of recycled waste • >50% reduction in water consumption at our Totowa site due to optimized scheduling, resulting in a reduced use of water for cleaning. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability statements 87 Ambition Critical success factors Achievements in 2017 Responsible operations • Corbion Thailand received the “CSR-DIW (Continuous) 2017” award from the Department of Industrial Works, Ministry of Industry in Thailand • Community and employee engagement activities across the Corbion sites, ranging from World Environment Day celebrations to educational events at schools and volunteering Sustainable ingredient solutions • Sustainability assessment integrated in • Continued assessment of our innovation our innovation stage-gate process projects on sustainability throughout the Create solutions based on renewable • Quantify the impacts on people and/or innovation funnel resources to improve the quality of life for planet for products with a sustainability • Finalized peer-reviewed LCA-update for people today and for future generations value proposition (Life Cycle Assessment/ the PLA production process in Thailand social impact assessment) • All products manufactured in Thailand • Be transparent about the people and/or covered by LCA planet impact of products with a • Participated in the RIVM research project sustainability value proposition Safe and Sustainable Bioeconomy with a • Insight to customers on SDG2+12 impact case study on Sanilac, a lactic-acid-based of our products product for home care; the results of this research will be published in 2018 • LCA for end-of-life options for different applications of bioplastics packaging • Assessed Corbion product portfolio against relevant sub-targets for SDG2 and 12 • Joined The Roundtable for Product Social Metrics, the leading cross-sector initiative to give guidance on how to measure social impacts of products and services, in a way that is recognized for its high quality, credibility, and business viability 88 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability statements Ambition Critical success factors Achievements in 2017 Transparency • Global policies on quality, safety, the envi• Continued participation in CDP Climate ronment, and social aspects change and Supply chain questionnaire Provide our stakeholders with enhanced • Supplier code and specific raw material we scored a C in both assessments, implytransparency in our sustainability perforcodes provide transparency on the criteria ing recognition of “Knowledge of impacts mance that Corbion applies for the sourcing of on, and of, climate change issues,” which raw materials is the average compared to our sector • Participation in CDP, Ecovadis, and other • Continued participation in the Ecovadis relevant stakeholder questionnaires and sustainability assessment we were again reporting initiatives granted a Silver Recognition Level by • Reporting and assurance of sustainability Ecovadis KPIs in Annual Report • Continued participation in Sedex for all • Life cycle and/or social assessment for manufacturing sites products with a sustainability value propo• Continued participation in the Transparensition cy Benchmark we ranked #72 with a 159 • Insight to stakeholders on SDG2+12 score, a significant improvement versus impact of our products our 146 score achieved in 2016 • Continued participation in the Sustainability charter of the American Cleaning Institute • Continued participation in the Responsible Care program in the Netherlands • Annual Communication of Progress to RSPO • First year with external verification of sustainability KPIs Innovation • Commercial excellence program to further • Implemented robust pipeline management professionalize the way we engage with (via CRM, monthly reviews, and discussions Innovate to strengthen and grow our position customers in Industry teams) in Food and Biochemicals, and to leverage our • Operational excellence program to drive • Implemented new global pricing organizalactic acid molecule and technology into new continuous improvement across Corbion tion and tools, new pricing monitoring and business platforms • R&D excellence program to continuously reviewing improve the effectiveness and efficien• Ongoing sales training and skills effort; cy of our science and to stay on top of implementation of web-support-portal emerging technologies to identify risks • Improved focus on insights and value and opportunities propositions to drive our innovation efforts • Further improvement of demand forecasting, S&OP, and account management • Launched the Corbion Integrated Continuous Improvement (CiCi) program based on the TRACC system with specific focus on getting sustainable results from for instance Stable OPS and Braincube (big data analysis tool) • Launched a Science and Technology Council composed of twelve senior R&D experts from various areas and disciplines to advice running projects all across the company • Digital science project in R&D to implement electronic notebooks and to enable the use of big data to accelerate our R&D pathway CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability statements 89 Sustainability governance The Executive Committee has overall responsibility for sustainability and decides on the strategy and targets. We have developed a sustainability dashboard with qualitative and quantitative indicators, which is used to monitor our progress in the strategic sustainability initiatives. The dashboard is reviewed in the Quarterly Business Review Operations and is discussed with the Executive Committee at least twice a year. The Corporate Director of Sustainability reports to the CTO and chairs a team of representatives from different business functions and technical experts focusing on sustainability and Life Cycle Assessment. Accountability for managing sustainability initiatives and delivering against targets lies with the relevant businesses and functions. This responsibility is anchored in business targets and personal targets at various levels in the organization. Reporting policy Our sustainability reporting is prepared in accordance with the core option of the GRI G4 Guidelines. As required by these guidelines, the selection of topics is based on a materiality assessment (see Materiality and stakeholder engagement). The environmental and social results for the material topics in this report include all entities that belong to the scope of the Consolidated financial statements. The scope of the environmental data includes Corbion’s manufacturing sites. Offices and R&D laboratories are not included, except for our R&D laboratories and offices located at our Gorinchem and Totowa manufacturing sites and our US headquarters in Lenexa. Our joint ventures Total Corbion PLA and Succinity are also excluded. Please refer for our reporting approach to acquisitions and divestments to the section Accounting principles in the notes to the Consolidated financial statements. The sustainability reporting follows the same principles. Data is collected from various reporting systems. For each KPI, data reporters and data reviewers are defined, either at site level or at corporate level. The data reporter is responsible for the annual reporting of the data via the central reporting systems and for document retention and record-keeping related to this data. The data reviewer (from Finance) is responsible for the validation of the reported data. Site-specific data is consolidated and reviewed at corporate level by Finance and the Sustainability team. The review includes a comparison to data from previous years and a review of changes that could have impacted the results, such as improvement projects. In case of uncertainties, data estimation may be required, which is validated during review. We strive to continuously improve the data collection process and the reliability of the data. Significant changes that impact comparability including changes in measurement methods are explained in footnotes. Due to the strategy update in 2017, our sustainability policy has been updated and several additional KPIs have been defined. The KPIs related to responsible sourcing, responsible operations, and sustainable ingredient solutions have been reviewed by external auditors (marked by “ü”). Note that the new KPIs defined as a result of Corbion’s strategy update have not been reviewed. 90 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability statements Natural capital Our environmental policies and the principal environmental risks for our business operations and value chain are described in the sections on Responsible sourcing and Responsible operations. Our resource-efficiency KPIs measure the performance of all of our operations on energy usage, water consumption, waste and by-product generation, and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Category Unit 2017 2016 Production volume ü kT 456 4441) Energy ü Electricity (renewable) GJx10^3 150 102 Electricity (non-renewable) GJx10^3 349 408 Natural gas and purchased steam (non-renewable and renewable) GJx10^3 2,132 2,094 Biogas (renewable) GJx10^3 20 69 Total GJx10^3 2,650 2,6721) Energy intensity ü Total, specific GJ/T 5.81 6.021) GHG emissions 2) ü Scope I kT CO2 equiv 92 94 Scope II (market based)3) kT CO2 equiv 86 93 Scope II (location based) kT CO2 equiv 92 90 Scope III kT CO2 equiv 691 7111) Biogenic emissions4) kT CO2 equiv 4.7 Scope I, specific T CO2 equiv /T 0.20 0.211) Scope II, specific (market based) 3) T CO2 equiv /T 0.19 0.21 Scope II, specific (location based) T CO2 equiv /T 0.20 0.201) Scope III, specific T CO2 equiv /T 1.5 1.6 Water consumption5) ü Total m3x10^3 3,455 3,164 Total, specific m3/T 7.58 7.121) Waste (total6)) ü Recycled kT 19.2 18.51) Incinerated kT 0.25 0.321) Landfilled kT 1.3 2.0 Total kT 20.7 20.8 Waste (hazardous) ü Recycled kT 0.40 0.481) Incinerated kT 0.08 0.19 Landfilled kT 0.09 0.051) Total kT 0.57 0.711) By-products 7) ü Recycled kT 373 3571 Incinerated kT 3.2 2.9 Landfilled kT 0.85 31 Total kT 377 3911) 1) Restated due to data quality improvement. 2) We report our emissions in carbon equivalents from cradle to gate in accordance with the Green House Gas Protocol. This includes scope I emissions from direct production (for natural gas), scope II emissions from purchased energy (for electricity and purchased steam), and scope III emissions related to purchased goods and services, fuel and energy-related activities, upstream and downstream transportation, business travel, and employee commuting. 3) In 2017, we report our scope II emissions using the market-based method for the first time. For comparability, the scope II emissions for 2016 have been re-calculated according this method. 4) Biogenic emissions are mainly related to the consumption of biogas and to waste water treatment. 5) Sum of the water withdrawn from rivers, aquifers, rainwater reservoirs, municipal water supplies, including purchased steam. 6) Sum of hazardous and non-hazardous waste. Waste means any substance or object arising from our routine operations which we discard or intend to discard, or we are required to discard. 7) Valuable by-products generated in the production of lactic acid. ü Reviewed by external auditor CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability statements 91 Human capital Employee engagement Corbion is fully committed to investing in its employees. At Corbion we strive to create an effective organization with engaged, diverse, and inclusive teams where our employees can unleash their passion, pride, and talent to create sustainable growth today and well into the future. We do this by supporting our people in the best ways possible guided by the following principles, and underpinned by our Corbion behaviors: • Attract, develop, and retain our employees based on the talent and leadership required for current and future positions • Encourage and support opportunities for further business and personal growth, and offer challenging career opportunities • Reward performance based on an international-market-competitive remuneration framework • Provide an inclusive environment and culture which leads to an increasingly engaged and diverse workforce In 2017, the Corbion HR Information System (CHRIS) for personnel data, performance management, and reward was introduced. We continued our global review and succession planning of our talent, with the aim of establishing a stronger succession pipeline by ensuring quality and timely succession of critical positions. In addition we rolled out several global training initiatives in the areas of sales (Sales Effectiveness Training) and leadership (Corbion Leadership Development Programs). The four key Corbion behaviors (set clear direction, make the difference, focus on customers, and deliver through teamwork) have been integrated in our performance management system and leadership development programs to fully support the implementation and realization of our “Creating Sustainable Growth” strategy. Achieving an optimal level of engagement of all employees and the creation of a culture focused on continuous performance and innovation are key success factors. An annual cycle has been launched comprising an engagement survey (response rate of 96%), communication of results, and impact planning to enhance the implementation of the improvement areas. We also embarked on a diversity and inclusion (D&I) initiative, by establishing the Corbion D&I Policy as well as longer-term objectives and insights to guide us in achieving our desired culture of engagement and inclusion. Human rights We support the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the key conventions of the International Labor Organization, the OECD guidelines, and we are a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. We integrate these principles into our policies and our business activities. Our Code of Business Conduct covers amongst others child and forced labor, discrimination, and freedom of association. All of our sites are assessed through Sedex and regularly audited (4-Pillar Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit). Through our supplier code and our cane sugar code, we expect our suppliers to respect human rights in their operations. See Responsible sourcing for more information on these codes and on their governance. 92 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability statements Workforce profile FTE of % of FTE of % of employees workforce employees workforce 2017 2017 2016 2016 Total workforce 1,794 1,684 By region Asia 218 12% 231 14% EMEA 605 34% 600 36% Latin America 135 8% 124 7% North America 836 46% 729 43% By unit Business units 546 30% 501 30% Ingredients Solutions 470 86% 462 92% Innovation Platforms 76 14% 39 8% R&D 86 5% 81 5% Operations 982 55% 934 55% Support functions 180 10% 168 10% By gender Number of employees Female 472 26% 444 26% Male 1,348 74% 1,298 74% By employment contract Number of employees Full time 1,680 92% 1,580 93% Part time 140 8% 128 7% We expect the number of FTEs to slightly grow in 2018, mainly due to the resources we need to support the full implementation of our Creating Sustainable Growth strategy and the further build-up of our Algae Ingredients business. Labor practices Collective bargaining agreements # of employees % of workforce Total employees with agreements 722 40 The majority of our workforce have no collective bargaining agreements. There are various alternatives to encourage employee involvement across our global company, from employee bodies in Thailand to works’ councils in Europe, ensuring high-level employee-management interaction and responsible labor practices. In addition, our Code of Business Conduct reflects our strong commitment to responsible labor practices. All Corbion employees are paid a living wage. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability statements 93 GRI Index General standard disclosures Indicator Description Location in report G4-1 CEO statement on sustainability Sustainability statements G4-3 Name Corbion G4-4 Brands, products, services Corbion at a glance G4-5 Location of HQ Amsterdam G4-6 Countries Corbion at a glance G4-7 Ownership Corbion at a glance, Our governance G4-8 Markets served Corbion at a glance G4-9 Employees, operations, sales Corbion at a glance, Company highlights G4-10 Employee breakdown Sustainability statements G4-11 Collective bargaining Sustainability statements G4-12 Describe supply chain Responsible sourcing G4-13 Changes in reporting period Financial statements G4-14 Precautionary approach Risk management G4-15 Charters and principles UN Global Compact G4-16 Membership organizations www.corbion.com/about-corbion/sustainability G4-17 Entities Group structure G4-18 Process on defining content and aspects Sustainability statements G4-19 List of aspects Sustainability statements G4-20 Boundary per aspect within company Sustainability statements G4-21 Boundary per aspect outside of company Sustainability statements G4-22 Restatements Sustainability statements G4-23 Significant changes in boundary Sustainability statements G4-24 List of stakeholder groups Sustainability statements G4-25 Basis for identification of stakeholders Sustainability statements G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement Sustainability statements G4-27 Topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement Sustainability statements G4-28 Reporting period Jan 1st Dec 31st 2017 G4-29 Date of last report 20 March 2018 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Point of contact communications@corbion.com G4-32 GRI content index Sustainability statements G4-33 Policy on external assurance Sustainability statements G4-34 Governance structure Sustainability statements, Our governance G4-56 Values, principles, and standards Our governance 94 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability statements Specific standard disclosures Indicator Description Location in report Material topic – Resource efficiency DMA Responsible operations Sustainability statements Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Sustainability statements G4-EN5 Energy intensity Sustainability statements Emissions G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions (scope I) Sustainability statements G4-EN16 Energy indirect GHG emissions (scope II) Sustainability statements G4-EN17 Other indirect GHG emissions (scope III) Sustainability statements G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity Sustainability statements Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Sustainability statements G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed Sustainability statements hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention I, II, III and VIII and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Material topic Occupational health and safety DMA Responsible operations Sustainability statements Labor practices and decent work G4-LA6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Responsible operations number of work-related fatalities, by region and gender Material topic Product quality and performance DMA Responsible operations Sustainable ingredient solutions Customer health and safety G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts There were no incidents of non-compliance in of products and services 2017 Material topics which Corbion reports according to own indicators Material topic Sustainable supply chain DMA Responsible sourcing Own • Raw materials assessed on security of supply Responsible sourcing indicators • Raw materials covered by generic supplier code • Responsibly sourced cane sugar • Responsibly sourced palm oil and primary oleochemicals • Responsibly sourced corn-based dextrose • Responsibly sourced soy bean oil and primary oleochemicals • Responsibly sourced wheat-based raw materials Material topic Resource efficiency DMA Responsible operations Own • Renewable electricity Responsible operations indicators • Total weight of by-products of lactic acid production Sustainability statements • Total weight of by-products disposed, by disposal method • Water consumption CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability statements 95 Indicator Description Location in report Material topic Product environmental impact DMA Responsible operations Own indicators • Innovation projects assessed on sustainability Sustainable ingredient solutions • Products covered by Life Cycle Assessment Material topic – Innovation DMA Sustainability statements Own indicators Qualitative description only Sustainability statements Material topic – Safe, affordable, and healthy food DMA Sustainability statements Own indicators Qualitative description only Sustainability statements Material topic – Transparency DMA Sustainability statements Own indicators Qualitative description only Sustainability statements Material topic – Renewable raw materials DMA Sustainable ingredient solutions Own indicators Biobased raw materials Sustainable ingredient solutions Compliance DMA Responsible operations Sustainable ingredient solutions Our governance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary We received a $4,500 fine from the NJ sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Department of Environmental Protection stemming from a violation on hazardous waste labelling. G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary We received a $5,400 fine from OSHA from an sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations incident in Grandview in 2016 resulting in a severe injury. G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and There were no fines for non-compliance with regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services in 2017. 96 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability statements UN Global Compact “Corbion is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. We are committed to aligning our operations and strategies with these ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. We will continue to support the principles and communicate our progress in terms of practical actions and outcomes.” Tjerk de Ruiter, CEO, Corbion. Topic Principle Reference Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the proOur governance tection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Responsible sourcing Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human Responsible operations rights abuses. Sustainability statements Corbion Code of Business Conduct Corbion Supplier Code, Corbion Cane Sugar Code Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom Our governance of association and the effective recognition of the Responsible sourcing right to collective bargaining; Responsible operations Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced Sustainability statements and compulsory labor; Corbion Code of Business Conduct Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Corbion Supplier Code Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect Corbion Cane Sugar Code of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Our governance approach to environmental challenges; Responsible sourcing Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater Responsible operations environmental responsibility; and Sustainability statements Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of Corbion Code of Business Conduct environmentally-friendly technologies. Corbion Supplier Code Corbion Cane Sugar Code, Our strategy Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption Our governance, in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corbion Code of Business Conduct Corbion Supplier Code Corbion Cane Sugar Code CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability statements 97 We create an organized office. Karen Meijer, Kirsten Schellhorn, Ellen Sterk, Marion Paans, and Rosemarie den Dekker. Keep creating At Corbion we’re creating a better future together 98 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability statements There’s a lot more to Office Management than meets the eye… The team • Rosemarie den Dekker, Management Assistant, R&D • Karen Meijer, Management Assistant, Biochemicals & Strategic Marketing • Kirsten Schellhorn, Management Assistant, Food & HR • Ellen Sterk, Management Assistant, Site/Plant Management & Operations Gorinchem/Worldwide • Marion Paans, Management Assistant, Total Corbion PLA The task When it comes to keeping our office in Gorinchem running smoothly there’s never a dull moment. We manage calendars for our executives, we organize meeting rooms, lunches, travel, stationery, business gifts, cards, time registration, event planning…We’re a very close-knit team and we have to be, because if one of us isn’t around, we rely on the others to step up, take over, and get the job done. The challenge The fun part of this job is also its greatest challenge: multi-tasking and juggling many things at once. When all is going well (which it usually is!) our team is like a family of ducks, swimming calmly along the surface, yet paddling like crazy under the water! Working in Office Management you really have to be very service-focused and detail oriented. And of course you need to be well organized with a good working knowledge of the company and its people. Perhaps most importantly you need to understand people. We are one Corbion; but dealing with scientists can be quite different from dealing with engineers, or sales and marketing professionals, or indeed visitors from different companies and countries. Whoever it may be, we always try and do the job with a smile on our face. It really does make a difference. The outcome Naturally, we take great pleasure in a job well done. For example, there was recently a big event at Gorinchem that included 50 food customers. The day before the meeting our entire team was filling goodie bags, and on the day itself we were running around organizing everything from safety materials and parking spots to a nice venue for drinks afterwards. When you see events go very well, and our colleagues being so appreciative, well it makes it all worthwhile. At the end of the day we are one big team. The experience We learn a lot from each other’s experiences. We can also flag potential obstacles and problems to each other. There’s no doubt that the experience of physically working together in the same room is a huge plus – because our teammates then become our friends. But it also makes us more efficient in the service we provide: When you’ve been doing this job a while you tend to develop an intuition for people and situations, which often comes in handy. The future As a group we’ve only been physically together for three months now, so you could say we’re still in takeoff mode! If anyone in our business has a message, question, or request, they can always come to our department. Even if we don’t know the right answer ourselves you can be sure we’ll know a person who does… or at least try to figure it out! CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability statements 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Keep creating 100 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 contents CO N TENTS Consolidated financial statements Company financial statements Consolidated income statement . . . . . . . . . . . . 101 Company statement of financial position . . . . . . 151 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.102 Company income statement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 152 Consolidated statement of financial position. . . . 103 Consolidated statement of changes in equity . . . . 104 Notes to the company financial statements Consolidated statement of cash flows. . . . . . . . 105 30. Financial fixed assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 153 31. Deferred tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 154 Notes to the consolidated financial 32. Receivables. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 154 statements 33. Cash and cash equivalents. . . . . . . . . . . . . 154 11. Accounting information. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106 34. Equity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 154 12. Accounting principles. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106 35. Other non-current liabilities. . . . . . . . . . . . . 155 13. Consolidated income statement 36. Interest-bearing current liabilities . . . . . . . . . 155 before one-off items . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117 37. Non-interest-bearing current liabilities. . . . . . 155 14. Segment information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118 38. Provisions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 155 15. Payroll and social insurance . . . . . . . . . . . . 120 39. Off-balance sheet commitments. . . . . . . . . 155 16. Depreciation/amortization of (in)tangible 40. Personnel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 156 fixed assets. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120 41. Audit fees. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 156 17. Financial income and charges . . . . . . . . . . . 120 18. Taxes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120 19. Earnings per ordinary share . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121 10. Property, plant, and equipment. . . . . . . . . . 122 11. Intangible fixed assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 123 12. Investments in joint ventures and associates . . 125 13. Other non-current financial assets. . . . . . . . 125 14. Inventories . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125 15. Receivables. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125 16. Cash and cash equivalents. . . . . . . . . . . . . 126 17. Disposal group held for sale . . . . . . . . . . . . 127 18. Equity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127 19. Provisions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130 20. Long-term employee benefits. . . . . . . . . . . . 130 21. Deferred tax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134 22. Non-current liabilities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 136 23. Interest-bearing current liabilities . . . . . . . . . 137 24. Acquisitions and disposals. . . . . . . . . . . . . 137 25. Financial risk management and financial instruments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 138 26. Related party transactions. . . . . . . . . . . . . 144 27. Share-based compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . 147 28. Off-balance sheet commitments. . . . . . . . . 150 29. Events after balance sheet date . . . . . . . . . 150 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 consolidated financial statements 101 CO NSOLIDAT E D F IN ANC IAL STATE ME N TS Consolidated income statement Millions of euros Note 2017 2016 Net sales 4 891.7 911.3 Costs of raw materials and consumables -428.0 -446.4 Production costs -139.4 -132.4 Warehousing and distribution costs -48.9 -47.4 Cost of sales -616.3 -626.2 Gross profit 275.4 285.1 Selling expenses -60.7 -63.1 Research and development costs -35.3 -34.3 General and administrative expenses -67.7 -63.3 Other proceeds 10.6 2.5 Operating result 122.3 126.9 Financial income 7 4.6 1.1 Financial charges 7 -17.8 -8.5 Results from joint ventures and associates 12 -11.4 -1.6 Result before taxes 97.7 117.9 Income tax expense 8 -13.1 -14.3 Result after taxes 84.6 103.6 Result attributable to non-controlling interests Result attributable to equity holders of Corbion nv 84.6 103.6 Per ordinary share in euros 9 Basic earnings 1.46 1.74 Diluted earnings 1.44 1.72 102 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Millions of euros Note 2017 2016 Result after taxes 84.6 103.6 Other comprehensive results to be recycled to the income statement Foreign operations – foreign currency translation differences 18 -43.2 20.6 Net investment hedge – net movement 18 18.3 -5.0 Hedge reserve 18 -2.3 -2.4 Taxes relating to other comprehensive results to be recycled to the income statement 18 3.2 3.1 Total other comprehensive results to be recycled to the income statement -24.0 16.3 Other comprehensive results not to be recycled to the income statement Remeasurement defined benefit arrangements 20 13.0 -9.8 Taxes relating to other comprehensive results not to be recycled to the income statement -0.5 0.9 Total other comprehensive results not to be recycled to the income statement 12.5 -8.9 Total comprehensive result after taxes 73.1 111.0 Comprehensive result attributable to non-controlling interests Comprehensive result attributable to equity holders of Corbion nv 73.1 111.0 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 consolidated financial statements 103 Consolidated statement of financial position As at As at Before profit appropriation, millions of euros Note 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Assets Property, plant, and equipment 10 280.0 297.2 Intangible fixed assets 11 130.3 138.2 Investments in joint ventures and associates 12 26.2 5.0 Long-term employee benefits 20 2.5 Other non-current financial assets 13 36.4 0.8 Deferred tax assets 21 22.7 25.4 Total non-current assets 498.1 466.6 Inventories 14 128.3 137.7 Trade receivables 15 109.5 111.7 Other receivables 15 46.1 12.1 Income tax receivables 10.7 6.2 Cash and cash equivalents 16 38.1 60.8 Assets held for sale 17 47.9 Total current assets 332.7 376.4 Total assets 830.8 843.0 Equity and liabilities Equity 18 489.3 498.5 Long-term employee benefits 20 7.7 21.1 Deferred tax liabilities 21 12.1 13.7 Non-current liabilities 22 121.8 133.1 Total non-current liabilities 141.6 167.9 Interest-bearing current liabilities 23 66.8 25.7 Trade payables 76.6 76.2 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 49.5 62.1 Provisions 19 3.7 3.8 Income tax payables 3.3 7.1 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 17 1.7 Total current liabilities 199.9 176.6 Total equity and liabilities 830.8 843.0 104 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 consolidated financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity Share premium Other Retained Before profit appropriation, millions of euros Note Share capital reserve reserves earnings Total As at 1 January 2016 15.6 58.7 68.0 345.5 487.8 Result after taxes 2016 103.6 103.6 Other comprehensive result after taxes 2016 16.3 -8.9 7.4 Total comprehensive result after taxes 2016 16.3 94.7 111.0 Cash dividend 18 -52.5 -52.5 Acquired company shares 18 -50.0 -50.0 Share-based remuneration transfers 27 -1.4 1.4 Share-based remuneration charged to result 27 2.2 2.2 Withdrawal shares 18 -0.6 -2.9 3.5 Transfers to/from Other reserves 18 1.5 -1.5 Total transactions with shareholders -0.6 -2.9 2.3 -99.1 -100.3 As at 31 December 2016 15.0 55.8 86.6 341.1 498.5 Result after taxes 2017 84.6 84.6 Other comprehensive result after taxes 2017 -24.0 12.5 -11.5 Total comprehensive result after taxes 2017 -24.0 97.1 73.1 Cash dividend 18 -60.5 -60.5 Acquired company shares 18 -25.0 -25.0 Share-based remuneration transfers 27 -2.0 2.0 Share-based remuneration charged to result 27 3.2 3.2 Withdrawal shares 18 -0.2 -0.6 0.8 Transfers to/from Other reserves 18 0.5 -0.5 Total transactions with shareholders -0.2 -0.6 1.7 -83.2 -82.3 As at 31 December 2017 14.8 55.2 64.3 355.0 489.3 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 consolidated financial statements 105 Consolidated statement of cash flows Millions of euros Note 2017 2016 Cash flow from operating activities Result after taxes 84.6 103.6 Adjusted for: • Depreciation/amortization of fixed assets 6 45.2 49.5 • Reversal of impairment on property, plant, and equipment 10 -13.4 • Impairment of fixed assets 10/11 3.0 3.9 • Result from divestments of fixed assets 0.7 1.6 • Result from purchase/sale of group companies and activities -10.6 -2.5 • Share-based remuneration 3.2 2.2 • Interest income 7 -0.7 • Interest expense 7 7.1 7.4 • Exchange rate differences 7 8.6 0.1 • Recycling of exchange rate differences from translation reserve 7 -1.2 • Fluctuations in fair value of derivatives 7 -2.7 • Interest (income) expense on defined benefit pension plans net 7 1.4 0.3 • Reversal of impairment of financial asset 7 -1.1 • Other financial income and charges 7 0.7 0.7 • Results from joint ventures and associates 12 11.4 1.6 • Taxes 8 13.1 14.3 Cash flow from operating activities before movements in working capital and provisions 163.8 168.2 Movement in provisions -1.6 -3.7 Movements in operating working capital: • Trade receivables -8.3 -10.8 • Inventories -8.1 -5.7 • Trade payables 4.1 5.7 Movements in other working capital -7.8 -1.0 Cash flow from business operations 142.1 152.7 Interest paid -7.2 -7.3 Tax paid on profit -17.2 -22.8 Cash flow from operating activities 117.7 122.6 Cash flow from investment activities Acquisition of group companies 24 -17.6 Sale of group companies 24 2.6 5.1 Investment joint ventures and associates 12 -5.2 -0.2 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 0.7 Investment other financial assets -38.2 Repayment other financial assets 9.7 Capital expenditure on (in)tangible fixed assets -45.5 -55.5 Divestment of (in)tangible fixed assets 0.1 Cash flow from investment activities -93.5 -50.5 Cash flow from financing activities Proceeds from interest-bearing debts 67.0 Repayment of interest-bearing debts -23.6 -0.2 Acquisition of company shares 18 -25.0 -50.0 Paid-out dividend -60.5 -52.5 Cash flow from financing activities -42.1 -102.7 Net cash flow -17.9 -30.6 Effects of exchange rate differences on cash and cash equivalents -5.5 Decrease cash and cash equivalents -23.4 -30.6 Cash and cash equivalents at start of financial year 61.5 92.1 Cash and cash equivalents at close of financial year 16 38.1 61.5 106 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements N OTES TO T HE CO N S O L IDATED F IN AN C IAL STATE M E N TS 1. Accounting information General Corbion is the global market leader in lactic acid and lactic acid derivatives, and a leading company in emulsifiers, functional enzyme blends, minerals, vitamins, and algae ingredients. The company delivers high-performance sustainable ingredient solutions made from renewable resources and applied in global markets such as food, home & personal care, animal nutrition, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, and bioplastics. Its products add differentiating functionality to a wide variety of consumer products worldwide. Corbion is based in Amsterdam, the Netherlands and listed on Euronext Amsterdam. The consolidated financial statements drawn up by the Board of Management have been approved by the Supervisory Board on 6 March 2018. They will be presented to the annual General Meeting of Shareholders for adoption on 25 May 2018. The Supervisory Board will give a preliminary recommendation regarding the consolidated financial statements to the annual General Meeting of Shareholders. Reported amounts Unless stated otherwise all amounts in the financial statements are reported in millions of euros. Exchange rates of main currencies in euros Average Average exchange rate exchange rate Exchange rate Exchange rate 2017 2016 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 US dollar 1.13 1.11 1.20 1.05 Japanese yen 126.72 120.18 135.01 123.40 Brazilian real 3.61 3.86 3.97 3.43 Thai baht 38.29 39.04 39.12 37.73 2. Accounting principles Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Corbion nv have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) adopted by the European Union. New and amended standards adopted by the group In 2017, Corbion applied all the new and amended standards and interpretations published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC), if and insofar as these applied to Corbion and were effective as at 1 January 2017. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 107 The main effective changes applied by Corbion at 1 January 2017 are: Annual improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 Cycle Corbion applied the amendments to IFRSs included in the Annual improvements to IFRSs 20142016 Cycle for the first time in the reporting year. The application of the amendments had no impact on the disclosures or amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative Corbion has applied these amendments for the first time in the current year. The amendments require an entity to provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities. A reconciliation between the opening and closing balances of liabilities arising from financing activities is provided in Note 25. Consistent with the transition provisions of the amendments, Corbion has not disclosed comparative information for the prior period. Accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted None of the new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations not yet effective, have been applied by Corbion. The main effective changes after 1 January 2018 are: IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 9, issued in July 2015, replaces most of the guidance in IAS 39. IFRS 9 will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Corbion assessed the impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and concluded that the standard will not have significant impact. IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much, and when revenue is recognized. It replaces existing revenue recognition guidance, including IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts, and IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes. IFRS 15 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Corbion assessed the impact of this standard on its consolidated financial statements and concluded that the standard will not have significant impact. IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16, published in January 2016, establishes a revised framework for determining whether a lease is recognized on the (consolidated) statement of financial position. It replaces existing guidance on leases, including IAS 17. IFRS 16 is effective on or after 1 January 2019. Corbion is currently assessing the impact on its consolidated financial statements resulting from the application of IFRS 16. Corbion anticipates that the application of all other new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations currently known for future periods will have no significant impact on its financial statements. Consolidation The consolidation includes the financial data of Corbion nv and its group companies (together “Corbion”). All inter-company receivables, debts, and transactions have been eliminated. Group companies are companies in which Corbion nv exercises control. The results of acquisitions and divestments are recognized from the moment that control is obtained or transferred. Control is achieved when Corbion: • has power over the investee; • is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and • has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. 108 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Corbion reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed before. When Corbion loses control over a group company, it derecognizes the assets and liabilities of the group company, and any related non-controlling interests and other components of equity. Any resulting gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss. Any interest retained in the former group company is measured at fair value when control is lost. Foreign currency The consolidated financial statements are in euros. The euro is Corbion nv’s functional and presentation currency. The functional currency is the currency of the primary environment where the group company operates and may therefore differ from one company to another. Transactions in other than the functional currency are translated at the exchange rates that apply on the transaction date. Any monetary assets and liabilities resulting from such transactions are translated at the exchange rates on the balance sheet date. Any exchange rate differences are recognized in the income statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges and net investment hedges. The assets and liabilities of consolidated foreign group companies and the long-term foreigncurrency loans, which have been taken out to finance these subsidiaries, are converted into euros on the balance sheet date, taking taxes into account. The subsequent currency translation differences are incorporated in the translation reserve in equity. The results of the foreign group companies are translated into euros on the basis of average exchange rates. The difference between net profit on the basis of average exchange rates and net profit on the basis of the exchange rates as at the balance sheet date is incorporated in the translation reserve in equity. The same applies to exchange rate differences arising from borrowings and other financial instruments if they hedge the currency risk related to net investments. If a foreign operation is divested or scaled down the associated cumulative currency translation differences are recognized as result in the income statement. Property, plant, and equipment Land, buildings, machinery and equipment, and other operating assets are valued at the acquisition price or the cost of production, subject to straight-line depreciation calculated over the estimated economic life and the estimated residual value. The cost of production includes the cost of materials and direct labor and an attributable part of the indirect costs. Land is not depreciated. Grants are deducted from the acquisition price or the production costs of the assets to which the grant relates. Subsequent expenditure is capitalized only if it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to Corbion. Depreciation methods, useful lives, and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate. Intangible fixed assets Goodwill Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any) over the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is valued at cost less impairment. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually – or more often if there are indications for impairment. Impairment is the amount by which the book value of the goodwill of a cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, being the higher of (a) value in use and (b) fair value less cost to sell. The value in use is the present value of the cash flows which the unit is expected to generate. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. If impairment is incurred, the impairment CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 109 is charged to the income statement. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. When an entity or activity is sold or closed down the goodwill allocated to the entity or activity is included in the calculations for the result of the sale. Customer base The customer base comprises the part of the paid acquisition sum which, upon acquisition, is allocated to the value of the acquired customer base. It is valued at fair value as at the acquisition date and amortized using a straight-line method over the estimated economic life. Amortization charges arising from the customer base are recognized in selling expenses. Brands and licenses Brands and licenses comprise the part of the paid acquisition sum which is allocated to the value of the acquired trademarks and product licenses. Brands and licenses are valued at fair value as at the acquisition date and are subject to straight-line amortization calculated over the estimated economic life. Amortization charges arising from brands and licenses are recognized in selling expenses. Research and development costs Research and development costs comprise the part of the paid acquisition sum which is allocated to the value of the acquired research and development costs. These costs are valued at fair value as at the acquisition date. Own research costs are not capitalized, but charged to the income statement. Own development costs are capitalized if the appropriate criteria are met. Research and development costs are valued at cost and amortized using a straightline method over the estimated economic life. Amortization charges arising from research and development costs are recognized in research and development costs. Other intangible fixed assets Other intangible fixed assets consist primarily of capitalized or acquired third-party software and licenses. Other intangible fixed assets are valued at historical cost if capitalized or at fair value if acquired and amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated economic life. Software and licenses amortization charges are recognized in general and administrative expenses. Emission rights are not recognized in the statement of financial position as cost is zero. Impairment of non-current assets other than goodwill At each reporting date an assessment is made whether there is any indication that non-current assets may be impaired. If indicators of impairment exist, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated. If it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which it belongs is estimated. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less cost to sell and the asset’s value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. An impairment loss is recognized in the income statement to the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. In subsequent years, an assessment is made whether indications exist that impairment losses previously recognized for non-current assets other than goodwill may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of that asset is recalculated and, if required, its carrying amount is increased to the revised recoverable amount. The increase is recognized in operating income as an impairment reversal. An impairment reversal is recognized only if it arises from a change in the assumptions that were used to calculate the recoverable amount. The increase in an asset’s carrying amount due to an impairment reversal is limited to the depreciated amount that would have been recognized had the original impairment not occurred. 110 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Investments in joint arrangements and associates Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations each investor has rather than the legal structure of the joint arrangement. Joint operations arise where Corbion has rights to the assets and obligations relating to the arrangement and therefore accounts for its share of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Joint ventures arise where Corbion has rights to the net assets of the arrangement and therefore equity accounts for its interest. Associates are entities over which Corbion has significant influence but not control, generally involving a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity but is not control or joint control over those policies. Associates are accounted for using the equity method. Under the equity method, investments in joint ventures and associates are measured initially at cost and subsequently adjusted for post-acquisition changes in Corbion’s share of the net assets of the investment (net of any accumulated impairment in the value of individual investments). Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial figures of joint ventures and associates for group reporting purposes to ensure consistency with the accounting policies of Corbion. Unrealized gains on transactions between Corbion and its joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of Corbion’s stake in these investments. Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the assets transferred. Deferred taxes Deferred taxes concern tax loss carry forward and liabilities and assets arising from temporary differences between the tax bases and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements of (in-)tangible fixed assets, inventories, and provisions. Deferred taxes are determined using tax rates that have been enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax is realized or the deferred tax liability is settled. Deferred tax assets are recognized if and insofar that it is likely that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary difference and tax loss carry forward can be utilized. Tax assets and liabilities are netted when there is a legal right and the intention to offset. Deferred tax assets and liabilities with the same term and relating to the same fiscal unities are offset against each other. Inventories Inventories of raw materials, consumables, technical materials, and packaging are stated at the lower of cost (first in, first out) and net realizable value. Inventories of work in progress and finished products are stated at the lower of production cost and net realizable value. Total cost of production includes payroll costs and materials and an attributable part of the indirect production costs. Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are recognized when Corbion becomes a party to the contractual provisions of a financial instrument. Financial assets are derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets expire, or if the company transfers the financial asset to another party and does not retain control of substantially all risks and rewards of the asset. Financial liabilities are derecognized when Corbion’s obligations specified in the contract expire or are discharged or canceled. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 111 At initial recognition, management classifies the company’s financial assets as either (i) at fair value through profit or loss, (ii) loans and receivables, (iii) held to maturity, or (iv) available for sale, depending on the underlying purpose of the acquired financial assets. Financial assets are initially recognized at fair value. For instruments not classified as at fair value through profit or loss, any directly attributable transaction costs are initially recognized as part of the asset value. Directly attributable transaction costs related to financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are expensed when incurred. The fair value of quoted investments is based on current bid prices. If the market for a financial asset is not active, or if the financial asset represents an unlisted security, Corbion establishes fair value using valuation techniques. These include the use of recent arm’s-length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, and discounted cash flow analysis, making maximum use of market inputs. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets are measured as described below. At each balance sheet date, Corbion assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. Investments at fair value through profit or loss Investments at fair value through profit or loss are investments held for trading or designated as such by Corbion. A financial asset is classified as held for trading if it is acquired principally for the purpose of selling it in the short term. Derivatives are classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges. Financial instruments held for trading are measured at fair value and changes therein are recognized in the income statement. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. They are included in current assets, except for loans and receivables with maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. Held-to-maturity financial assets Held-to-maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and a fixed maturity that the company intends to hold to maturity. They are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. They are included in current assets, except for held-to-maturity financial assets with maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date. Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category of financial assets or not classified in any of the other categories. They are measured at fair value based on quoted market prices with changes therein recognized directly in equity until the investment is derecognized or determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recorded in equity is transferred to the income statement. Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are carried at cost. Available-for-sale financial assets are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months after the balance sheet date. Derivative financial instruments and hedge activities Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, and commodity price risk. Derivative financial instruments are recognized at fair value. The gain or loss on the remeasurement to fair value is immediately recognized in the income statement. However, where derivative financial instruments qualify for hedge accounting, recognition depends on the nature of the item being hedged. 112 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Fair value hedge Fair value hedges hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or an unrecognized firm commitment. Changes in the fair value of a hedging derivative are recognized in the income statement. Changes in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the risk hedged are recorded as part of the carrying value of the hedged item and are also recognized in the income statement. Cash flow hedge Cash flow hedges hedge possible fluctuations in cash flows which can be attributed to a certain currency, interest rate, or commodity price risk associated with a recognized asset or liability, or a highly probable expected future transaction. The effective part of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments which are designated and classified as cash flow hedge is recognized in equity. Gains or losses from the non-effective part are directly recognized in the income statement. If a hedging instrument expires, is sold, or if the instrument can no longer be qualified as a hedging instrument, the cumulative gains and losses remain in equity until the expected future transaction is recognized in the income statement. If the expected future transaction is no longer probable the cumulative result is transferred immediately from equity to the income statement. Net investment hedge Hedges for net investments in foreign operations are handled in a similar way as cash flow hedges. Gains or losses from the hedging instrument which can be attributed to the effective part of the hedge are recognized in equity; any gains or losses which cannot be attributed to the effective part are directly recognized as financial income and charges in the income statement. Cumulative gains and losses in equity are recognized in the income statement as soon as the foreign operation is partly divested or sold. Upon entering into a transaction the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged position, the risk management aims, and the starting points for entering into various hedging transactions are documented. Corbion also documents its estimate as to whether the derivative financial instrument offsets the movements in the fair values or cash flows of the hedged positions effectively. The documentation process starts at the time of entering into such a contract and is updated continuously. Receivables Receivables are valued on the basis of the amortized cost using the effective interest rate method less provisions deemed necessary for non-collectability. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in bank, cash in hand, current deposits, money market funds, and highly liquid treasury bonds with original maturities of no more than three months. Bank overdrafts are presented as current interest-bearing liabilities. Equity Ordinary shares and financing preference shares are classified as equity. Financing preference shares are classified as equity since distributions to holders are at the discretion of Corbion. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share options are recognized as an equity deduction, net of tax. The price paid for repurchased shares (treasury shares) is deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled or reissued. Dividend to be distributed to the holders of ordinary shares is recognized as a liability upon approval of the profit appropriation by the annual General Meeting of Shareholders. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 113 Corbion runs share plans for the Board of Management and Senior Management. The fair value of the right to shares on the date of allocation is recognized in the income statement as payroll costs over the vesting period of the awards with a corresponding increase in equity. Pension and other post-employment benefits Pension and early-retirement schemes A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate pension plan or insurance company and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are recognized as an expense when employees have rendered service entitling them to the contributions. For defined benefit retirement benefit plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each annual reporting period. Remeasurements, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of changes to the asset ceiling (if applicable), and the return on plan assets (excluding interest), are reflected immediately in the statement of financial position with a charge or credit recognized in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. Remeasurement recognized in other comprehensive income is reflected immediately in retained earnings and will not be reclassified to profit or loss. Past-service costs are recognized in profit or loss in the period of a plan amendment. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset. Defined benefit costs are categorized as follows: • Service cost (including current-service cost, past-service cost, as well as gains and losses on curtailments and settlements) • Net interest expense or income • Remeasurements The first two components of defined benefit costs are presented in profit or loss. Curtailment gains and losses are accounted for as past-service costs. The retirement benefit obligation in the consolidated statement of financial position represents the actual deficit or surplus in the defined benefit plans. Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions to the plans. A liability for a termination benefit is recognized at the earlier of when the entity can no longer withdraw the offer of the termination benefit and when the entity recognizes any related restructuring costs. Corbion accounts for its multi-employer defined benefit plan as if it were a defined contribution plan for the following reasons: • Corbion is affiliated to an industrywide pension fund and uses the pension scheme in common with other participating companies. • Under the regulations of the pension plan, the only obligation these participating companies have towards the pension fund is to pay the annual premium liability. Participating companies are under no obligation whatsoever to pay off any deficits the pension plan may incur. Nor have they any claim to any potential surpluses. Other long-term employee benefit commitments The other long-term employee commitments relate mainly to anniversary commitments, past-service commitments, conditional incentive plans, and health insurance. These provisions are recognized on the basis of estimates that are consistent with the estimates used for the defined benefit obligations. However, all actuarial gains and losses are recognized in the income statement immediately. 114 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Provisions Provisions relate to a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, the amount of which is uncertain but can be estimated reliably and of which it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources is required to settle the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flow at a pre-tax rate that reflects the current market assessments of time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. A provision for reorganization is recognized after Corbion has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan and the restructuring has either commenced or been announced publicly. A provision for a legal claim is recognized if a reliable estimate can be made of the expected outcome of the claim, measuring the claim as a weighting of all possible outcomes against their probabilities. A provision for an onerous contract is recognized when the expected benefits to be derived from the contract are lower than the unavoidable costs of fulfilling its terms and conditions. Liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently at amortized cost using the effective interest method. Upon sale or settlement of interest-bearing liabilities any profits or losses are directly recognized in the income statement. Leases Lease agreements in which the lessor transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of the ownership of an asset to the lessee are classified as financial leases. All assets and liabilities of a financial lease are capitalized at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease agreements that do not qualify as a financial lease are classified as operational leases. Payments made are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. Segment reporting An operating segment is a component that engages in business activities from which it earns revenues and incurs expenses. All operating segments are reviewed regularly by the Board of Management to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segments and assess its performance for which discrete financial information is available. Net sales Net sales comprises the proceeds of goods delivered to third parties less discounts and valueadded tax. Net sale of goods is recognized when Corbion has transferred the actual risks and rewards of ownership of the goods to the buyer, when the amount of the proceeds can be reliably measured, and when it is likely that the economic benefits of the sale will flow to Corbion. Costs of raw materials and consumables Costs of raw materials and consumables relate to the cost of consumption of raw materials, consumables, and packaging materials. Costs of raw materials and consumables are recognized in the income statement when the risks and rewards of ownership of the goods sold have been transferred to a party outside the group. These costs include the purchase price of all raw material and all directly attributable costs. Production costs Production costs are the costs relating to production operations. Warehousing and distribution costs Warehousing and distribution costs relate to the costs of warehousing and transport, including transport insurance. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 115 Selling expenses Selling expenses relate to the costs of marketing and sales. General and administrative expenses General and administrative expenses relate to the costs of administration, management, and IT. Financial income and charges Financial income comprises interest income on cash and cash equivalents and interest income on loans to other parties. Interest income is recognized in the period to which it relates, using the effective interest method. Financial charges comprise interest expenses and exchange differences on borrowings, finance lease expenses, impairments of available-for-sale assets, and other financial expenses. All borrowing costs are recognized in the income statement using the effective interest method. Taxes Tax on the result is calculated on the basis of the result before taxes, taking account of untaxed profit elements, nonand part-deductible costs, and fiscal facilities. The prevailing nominal tax rates are applied. Non-recoverable withholding taxes on foreign dividends are taken into account. Taxes in the income statement for the year comprise current and deferred taxes. Taxes are recognized in the income statement unless they relate to items directly recognized in equity. Current tax is the expected tax rate payable on the taxable income for the year, using statutory tax rates at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years. Discontinued operations and non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. For this to be the case, the asset (or disposal group) must be available for immediate sale in its present condition and the sale must be highly probable. A discontinued operation is a component that either has been disposed of, or that is classified as held for sale, and: (i) represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations, or (ii) is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations. Discontinued operations are stated on the basis of the lower of carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell. Discontinued operations are presented separately in the income statement and cash flow statement. Fixed assets related to discontinued operations will no longer be depreciated and amortized after the classification as held for sale. Cash flow statement The consolidated cash flow statement is drawn up using the indirect method. The items in the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of the financial position have been adjusted for changes that do not impact cash inflow and outflow in the reporting year. Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the average foreign exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case cash flows are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions. Working capital consists of inventories and receivables minus non-interest-bearing current liabilities, excluding payable dividend, interest, and income tax. The interest-bearing debts consist of non-current and current liabilities. Critical accounting estimates and judgments Corbion makes use of accounting estimates and judgments. Described below are the estimates and judgments as at the balance sheet date that carry a substantial risk of a material adjustment to the book value of assets and liabilities in the next financial year. 116 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Acquisitions Corbion has a process in place to identify all assets and liabilities acquired, including intangible fixed assets. The judgments made in identifying all acquired assets, determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact the results of operations. Estimated fair values are based on information available around the acquisition date and on expectations and assumptions of anticipated discounted cash flows that have been assessed as reasonable by Corbion. Goodwill impairment Every year, Corbion tests the goodwill based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and the value-in-use method. The value-in-use is calculated on the basis of estimates and judgments of the expected cash flows which are discounted on a WACC basis. For a description of the main estimates, valuation assumptions, and a sensitivity analysis of the applied assumptions see Note 11. Valuation and impairment testing (in)tangible fixed assets (In)tangible fixed assets are tested for sustained impairment if there is an indication of possible impairment. A key factor is the recoverable amount which is calculated on the basis of estimates and assumptions of anticipated discounted cash flows, on the one hand, and an estimate of the fair value less cost to sell, on the other. Pension and early-retirement schemes Actuarial calculations are used to determine provisions for group personnel arrangements and net receivables or obligations from group pension plans. These calculations use assumptions in respect of future developments in salary, mortality, staff turnover, return on investments et cetera. Changes to these estimates and assumptions can lead to actuarial gains and losses which are recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. For more information on the applied assumptions see Note 20. Taxes Corbion is subject to various tax systems across the world. Estimates and judgments are used to determine the tax items in the financial statements. Interpretation differences in tax liabilities are also taken into account. For more information on taxes see Note 21. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 117 3. Consolidated income statement before one-off items The consolidated income statement for financial years 2017 and 2016 before one-off items (non-IFRS financial measures) can be presented as follows. 2017 2016 Before Before one-off One-off one-off One-off items items Total items items Total Net sales 891.7 891.7 911.3 911.3 Costs of raw materials and consumables -428.0 -428.0 -444.1 -2.3 -446.4 Production costs -138.5 -0.9 -139.4 -142.4 10.0 -132.4 Warehousing and distribution costs -48.9 -48.9 -47.4 -47.4 Gross profit 276.3 -0.9 275.4 277.4 7.7 285.1 Selling expenses -60.3 -0.4 -60.7 -63.1 -63.1 Research and development costs -32.7 -2.6 -35.3 -31.3 -3.0 -34.3 General and administrative expenses -64.4 -3.3 -67.7 -62.7 -0.6 -63.3 Other proceeds 10.6 10.6 2.5 2.5 Operating result 118.9 3.4 122.3 120.3 6.6 126.9 Less: depreciation/amortization/impairment (in)tangible fixed assets 45.2 3.0 48.2 49.8 -9.8 40.0 EBITDA 164.1 6.4 170.5 170.1 -3.2 166.9 Depreciation/amortization/impairment (in)tangible fixed assets -45.2 -3.0 -48.2 -49.8 9.8 -40.0 Operating result 118.9 3.4 122.3 120.3 6.6 126.9 Financial income 4.6 4.6 1.1 1.1 Financial charges -17.8 -17.8 -8.5 -8.5 Results from joint ventures and associates -11.4 -11.4 -1.6 -1.6 Result before taxes 94.3 3.4 97.7 110.2 7.7 117.9 Taxes -15.0 1.9 -13.1 -16.0 1.7 -14.3 Result after taxes 79.3 5.3 84.6 94.2 9.4 103.6 One-off items relate to material non-recurring items in the income statement that are exceptional by nature and are not related to the normal course of business. These exceptional items include amongst others write-down of inventories to net realizable value, reversals of write-downs, impairments, reversals of impairments, additions to and releases from provisions for restructuring and reorganization, results on assets sold, gains on the sale of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, and any other provision being formed or released. The company considers events exceptional (one-off) when the aggregate amount of the events per line item of the income statement exceeds a threshold of € 0.5 million. One-off items may occur up to and including result after taxes. In 2016, a total of € 9.4 million in one-off items was recorded: 1. Reversal of a previously recorded impairment of € 13.4 million for the lactide plant in Thailand as a result of the intended sale to the joint venture Total Corbion PLA bv. 2. One-off costs of € 4.9 million incurred related to the closure of the Kansas Avenue powder blending plant. 3. An impairment of € 3.0 million related to our Succinic acid development as a result of an envisaged change in the production process. 4. One-off net gains of € 2.2 million related to the sale of our Breddo-Likwifier business. 5. One-off costs of € 0.6 million incurred related to a restructuring at our Spanish plant. 6. An impairment of € 0.6 million related to basic engineering for the lactide plant in Thailand. 7. Net one-off costs of € 0.4 million related to an increase of the excessive levy provision for a former board member. 8. One-off insurance gains of € 0.5 million related to the Grandview incident in March 2015. 118 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 9. A one-off gain of € 1.1 million related to a partial reversal of impairment of a loan for beet growers following the sale of CSM Sugar in 2007. 10. Positive tax effects on the above items of € 1.7 million. In 2017, a total of € 5.3 million in one-off items was recorded: 1. One-off gain of € 4.7 million related the sale of the subsidiary Total Corbion PLA (Thailand) Limited to the joint venture Total Corbion PLA bv. 2. Net one-off gain of € 4.0 million related to the acquisition of TerraVia. 3. One-off loss of € 2.4 million related to our succinic acid development. 4. One-off loss of € 2.0 million due to (restructuring) provisions made because of the strategy update 5. One-off loss of € 0.9 million related to the closure of our former Kansas Avenue powder blending plant. 6. Positive tax effects on the above of € 1.9 million. 4. Segment information For its strategic decision-making process Corbion distinguishes between Ingredient Solutions and Innovation Platforms. For IFRS segmentation purposes Ingredient Solutions has been segmented into two further businesses, Food and Biochemicals. In the Food segment, we are a global food solutions supplier for leading food manufacturers. We strive to be the leader in keeping food tasty, fresh, and safe from date of production to day of consumption. With our proven food solutions we enable our customers to make conscious choices, we work side by side to empower them to grow and create affordable food (in the meat, beverage, bakery, confectionery, and dairy markets) that people love and can safely enjoy with their friends and family, just as we enjoy with ours. In the Biochemicals segment, the inherent safety, sustainability, and performance of our products is what sets us aparts supported by our continuous drive to find better solutions and new opportunities for our customers We lead the way in sustainable practices through the use of renewable feedstocks and our rich heritage in lactic acid. This forms the foundation for our biochemical applications in everything from (agro)chemicals, to resin adhesives, electronic components, pharmaceuticals, home and personal care products, and animal health & nutrition. We are constantly exploring opportunities to bring the benefits of our products and solutions to our customers applications. Our Innovation Platforms business unit creates new business platforms by applying disruptive technology that is built on decades of experience in fermentation and industrial scale manufacturing – to create real long-term value. Collaborating with like-minded partners allows our customers to make conscious choices, so they can create better, more sustainable products, based on renewable resources. Our 50/50 joint venture with Total for the production and marketing of poly lactic acid polymers (Total Corbion PLA) is functionally part of this business unit. Innovation Platforms also comprises our Algae Ingredients business (including the SB Oils joint venture) and the succinic acid joint venture with BASF (Succinity). Also included in this business unit are our longer-term development programs such as FDCA, a biobased building block with unique properties in (bio-) polymers that and as such a potential replacement for purified terephthalic acid (PTA), our gypsum-free lactic acid process, and use of alternative feedstocks (lignocellulosic biomass, agricultural residues, waste) to make lactic acid. Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 119 Segment information by business area Ingredient Innovation Corbion total Food Biochemicals Solutions1) Platforms operations 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Income statement information Net sales 647.7 676.6 222.5 213.0 870.2 889.6 21.5 21.7 891.7 911.3 Operating result 95.1 99.2 38.0 35.1 133.1 134.3 -10.8 -7.4 122.3 126.9 One-off items included in operating result 2.3 2.7 0.5 0.5 2.8 3.2 -6.2 -9.8 -3.4 -6.6 Operating result excluding one-off items 97.4 101.9 38.5 35.6 135.9 137.5 -17.0 -17.2 118.9 120.3 Alternative non-IFRS performance measures EBITDA excluding one-off items 121.3 127.8 51.6 48.7 172.9 176.5 -8.8 -6.4 164.1 170.1 One-off items included in EBITDA -1.8 -2.7 -0.5 -0.5 -2.3 -3.2 8.7 6.4 -3.2 EBITDA 119.5 125.1 51.1 48.2 170.6 173.3 -0.1 -6.4 170.5 166.9 Ratios alternative non-IFRS performance measures EBITDA margin % 18.4 18.5 23.0 22.6 19.6 19.5 -0.5 -29.5 19.1 18.3 EBITDA margin % excluding one-off items 18.7 18.9 23.2 22.9 19.9 19.8 -40.9 -29.5 18.4 18.7 1) Includes Food and Biochemicals segments Corbion generates almost all of its revenues from the sale of goods. Information on the use of alternative non-IFRS performance measures In the above table and elsewhere in the financial statements a number of non-IFRS performance measures are presented. Management is of the opinion that these so-called alternative performance measures might be useful for the readers of these financial statements. Corbion management uses these performance measures to make financial, operational, and strategic decisions and evaluate performance of the segments. The alternative performance measures can be calculated as follows: • EBITDA is the operating result before depreciation, amortization, and impairment of (in) tangible fixed assets. • EBITDA margin is EBITDA divided by net sales x 100. Segment information by geographical region Net sales Non-current assets Millions of euros 2017 2016 2017 2016 The Netherlands 98.5 102.4 151.9 147.1 Rest of Europe 68.3 65.8 20.3 26.1 North America 551.7 576.4 185.8 197.9 Other countries 173.2 166.7 78.5 70.1 Corbion total operations 891.7 911.3 436.5 441.2 The above information is based on the geographical location of the assets. Non-current assets exclude those relating to financial instruments, deferred tax assets, and post-employment benefit assets. 120 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5. Payroll and social insurance 2017 2016 Payroll 123.4 118.4 Pension expenses – defined benefit pension plans 0.5 0.4 Pension expenses – defined contribution pension plans 8.0 9.1 Other social insurance 12.7 12.2 Share-based remuneration 3.2 2.2 Total 147.8 142.3 6. Depreciation/amortization of (in)tangible fixed assets 2017 2016 Depreciation of property, plant, and equipment 39.4 42.4 Amortization of intangible fixed assets 5.8 7.1 Total 45.2 49.5 7. Financial income and charges 2017 2016 Interest income -0.7 Interest charges 7.1 7.4 Exchange rate differences 8.6 0.1 Recycling of exchange rate differences from translation reserve -1.2 Interest expense on defined benefit pension plans net 1.4 0.3 Reversal of impairment of financial asset -1.1 Fluctuations in fair value of derivatives -2.7 Other 0.7 0.7 Total 13.2 7.4 8. Taxes 2017 2016 Current tax 16.0 20.7 Current tax (previous year adjustments) -7.9 -2.7 Deferred tax 5.0 -3.7 Tax charge (income) 13.1 14.3 Reconciliation of result before taxes and tax charge 2017 2016 Result before taxes 97.7 117.9 Applicable tax charge at average statutory tax rate 30.3 35.8 Income not subject to tax -11.0 -11.3 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 5.0 1.8 Effect of the reversal of tax assets -1.8 -8.0 Additions/releases of tax provision -0.8 Changes in tax rates -6.8 Other effects -2.6 -3.2 Tax charge (income) 13.1 14.3 Average tax rate on operations 13.4% 12.1% CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 121 The average statutory tax rate is the average of the statutory tax rates in the countries where Corbion operates, weighted on the basis of the result before taxes in each of these countries. The realization of deferred tax assets depends on the expected future profitability. Deferred tax assets are not recognized if it is not probable that a tax benefit can be realized. The tax rate is reduced by investment deductions and other benefits from preferential tax regimes as well as positive results from participations which are exempt under the participation exemption. The tax rate is increased by non-deductible costs and negative results from participations which are not deductible under the participation exemption. The change in tax rates is caused by the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in the US and the effect of the reduction of the federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% as per 1 January 2018. Other effects include adjustments in respect of current year events and reflects the effects of changes to relevant regulations, facts, or other factors compared to those used in establishing the current tax position or deferred tax balance in previous years. Breakdown of the tax charge recognized in equity 2017 2016 Tax liability due to loan-related exchange rate differences -2.6 -2.5 Tax liability due to hedge results of financial instruments -0.5 -0.6 Tax charge due to remeasurement of defined benefit obligation 0.4 -0.9 Tax charge (income) recognized in equity -2.7 -4.0 9. Earnings per ordinary share Earnings per ordinary share are calculated by dividing the profit available for holders of ordinary shares by the weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares in Corbion nv. Diluted earnings per ordinary share are calculated by dividing the profit available for holders of ordinary shares by the weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares in Corbion nv adjusted for the effects of potential exercise of share rights by the Board of Management and Senior Management. 2017 2016 Result before taxes 84.6 103.6 Minus: dividend financing preference shares 2.1 Profit available for holders of ordinary shares (A) 84.6 101.5 Weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares (B) 58.1 58.4 Plus: ordinary shares related to share rights 0.6 0.6 Weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares after dilution (C) 58.7 59.0 Per ordinary share in euros Basic earnings (A/B) 1.46 1.74 Diluted earnings (A/C) 1.44 1.72 122 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 10. Property, plant, and equipment Machinery and Other fixed Under Land Buildings equipment assets construction Total 1 January 2016 Acquisition prices 17.0 177.2 571.5 34.9 54.9 855.5 Cumulative depreciation -76.5 -438.6 -25.5 -7.5 -548.1 Book value 17.0 100.7 132.9 9.4 47.4 307.4 Movements Capital expenditure 0.3 0.6 41.5 42.4 Divestments -0.1 -1.4 0.1 -0.1 -1.5 Exchange rate differences 0.6 3.5 5.3 0.1 1.6 11.1 Sale of group companies -0.1 -0.1 -0.2 Depreciation -6.9 -31.9 -3.6 -42.4 Impairment -0.6 -0.3 -0.9 Impairment reversal 4.6 8.8 13.4 Other 0.6 0.4 44.2 7.1 -48.6 3.7 Reclassification as assets held for sale -8.8 -19.5 -0.1 -7.4 -35.8 Net movement in book value 1.2 -7.4 5.1 4.2 -13.3 -10.2 31 December 2016 Acquisition prices 18.2 173.2 591.2 45.5 34.5 862.6 Cumulative depreciation -79.9 -453.2 -31.9 -0.4 -565.4 Book value 18.2 93.3 138.0 13.6 34.1 297.2 Movements Capital expenditure 0.2 0.5 40.0 40.7 Divestments -0.7 -0.7 Exchange rate differences -1.1 -5.9 -9.6 -0.4 -3.1 -20.1 Acquisition of group companies 0.3 1.9 0.7 2.9 Depreciation -7.2 -28.2 -4.0 -39.4 Impairment -0.6 -0.6 Other 4.8 34.5 5.5 -44.8 Net movement in book value -0.8 -7.7 -2.4 1.6 -7.9 -17.2 31 December 2017 Acquisition prices 17.4 159.8 570.6 51.1 26.2 825.1 Cumulative depreciation -74.2 -435.0 -35.9 -545.1 Book value 17.4 85.6 135.6 15.2 26.2 280.0 Depreciation rates 2.5 4% 6.7-12.5% 20-50% The property, plant, and equipment item includes fixed assets with a book value of € 0.4 million (31 December 2016: € 0.2 million) which are financed through a finance lease. In 2016, the following impairments were recorded: • An impairment of € 0.6 million related to basic engineering for the lactide plant in Thailand. • An impairment of € 0.3 million due to obsolete equipment in the US. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 123 Further, a previously recorded impairment for the lactide plant in Thailand was reversed for the amount of € 13.4 million as a result of the intended sale to the joint venture Total Corbion PLA bv. In 2017, the following impairment was recorded: • An impairment of € 0.6 million related to our former Kansas Avenue powder blending plant. The Other category relates to transfer of assets from intangible fixed assets and inventory to property, plant, and equipment. It also relates to transfers from Under construction to other categories within property, plant, and equipment. 11. Intangible fixed assets Research and Other Customer Brands and development intangible Goodwill base licenses costs fixed assets Total 1 January 2016 Acquisition prices 67.7 23.2 34.4 41.8 30.2 197.3 Cumulative amortization -3.5 -12.9 -6.3 -12.4 -23.6 -58.7 Book value 64.2 10.3 28.1 29.4 6.6 138.6 Movements Capital expenditure 6.0 2.6 8.6 Divestments -0.2 -0.2 Exchange rate differences 2.0 0.2 0.1 0.1 2.4 Amortization -2.4 -1.2 -1.5 -2.0 -7.1 Impairment -3.0 -3.0 Other -1.1 -1.1 Net movement in book value 2.0 -2.2 -1.1 1.5 -0.6 -0.4 31 December 2016 Acquisition prices 69.8 23.7 34.7 47.9 30.7 206.8 Cumulative amortization -3.6 -15.6 -7.7 -17.0 -24.7 -68.6 Book value 66.2 8.1 27.0 30.9 6.0 138.2 Movements Capital expenditure 1.6 4.2 5.8 Acquisition of group companies 2.6 0.2 2.8 Exchange rate differences -7.4 -0.4 -0.5 -8.3 Amortization -2.1 -0.5 -1.3 -1.9 -5.8 Impairment -2.4 -2.4 Net movement in book value -7.4 -2.5 -1.0 0.5 2.5 -7.9 31 December 2017 Acquisition prices 61.7 17.5 33.5 52.1 34.8 199.6 Cumulative amortization -2.9 -11.9 -7.5 -20.7 -26.3 -69.3 Book value 58.8 5.6 26.0 31.4 8.5 130.3 Amortization rates 7 20% 5 10% 5 33.3% 33.3% 124 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Goodwill impairment test Goodwill is allocated to Corbion’s cash generating units identified as the operating segments. The Food and Biochemicals operating segments represent the levels to which company goodwill is allocated for the purposes of impairment testing. The Innovation Platforms unit does not contain any goodwill. Key reasons for this approach are: • It represents a non-arbitrary, reasonable, and consistent basis for the allocation of goodwill. • The allocation is in line with the expected synergies at the time of an acquisition with benefits for more than one entity. • The allocation represents the lowest level where goodwill is monitored by the Board of Management, while not being larger than the operating segments. Breakdown of the book value of the goodwill by segment As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Food 56.6 64.0 Biochemicals 2.2 2.2 Total operations 58.8 66.2 The recoverable amount of both segments is determined using a value-in-use method. The main assumptions used are derived from the financial and business plans for 2018 which have been approved by the Board of Management. From 2019 onwards a stable growth of 1% is taken into account in combination with a relatively constant cost structure. The future cash flows are discounted on the basis of the WACC before tax. Overview of the WACC used As at 31-12-2017 As at 31-12-2016 pre-tax post-tax pre-tax post-tax Food 9.1% 6.9% 8.8% 6.8% Biochemicals 9.4% 7.2% 9.0% 7.1% In addition, sensitivity analyses have been carried out in respect of the assumptions using: • A terminal value growth of 0%. • A discount rate of +1%. Both assumptions applicable at the same time would not lead to any impairment. Given the above assumptions and the outcome of analyses, the Board of Management has concluded that the value in use of both segments is not lower than the book value of the segments including goodwill. Impairment testing other intangible fixed assets In 2016, an impairment of € 3.0 million was recorded related to our succinic acid development as a result of an envisaged change in the production process. In 2017, an impairment of € 2.4 million was recorded related to our succinic acid development. The Other movement relates to transfers of assets from intangible fixed assets to property, plant, and equipment. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 125 12. Investments in joint ventures and associates 2017 2016 Joint ventures Associates Joint ventures Associates Carrying amount of interests 26.2 4.5 0.5 Share of total profit and loss -11.0 -0.4 -0.3 -1.3 13. Other non-current financial assets Long-term receivables As at 1 January 2016 1.5 Investment -0.3 Reclassification -0.4 As at 31 December 2016 0.8 Contingent receivable as result of sale Total Corbion PLA (Thailand) Limited 5.1 Loans granted to joint venture Total Corbion PLA bv 31.3 Reclassification -0.8 As at 31 December 2017 36.4 The book value of the long-term receivables does not significantly deviate from the fair value. 14. Inventories As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Raw materials, consumables, technical materials, and packaging 29.2 37.4 Work in progress 9.5 10.7 Finished product 93.8 92.6 Impairment provision -4.2 -3.0 Total 128.3 137.7 15. Receivables As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Trade receivables 111.2 113.5 Impairment provision -1.7 -1.8 Total trade receivables 109.5 111.7 Other receivables 36.8 4.7 Derivatives 3.2 3.0 Prepayments and accrued income 6.1 4.4 Total other receivables 46.1 12.1 Total receivables 155.6 123.8 126 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements The other receivables contains a receivable of € 24.1 million related to the sale of Total Corbion PLA (Thailand) Limited, expected to be received in 2018. Further, the account contains a receivable of € 4.7 million on the joint venture SB Oils. The remaining term of receivables is less than one year. The face value of the receivables (excluding derivatives) does not significantly deviate from the fair value. The credit risk associated with trade receivables is managed by local finance managers. Periodically, each entity reports the expired credit terms and movements in the provisions for trade receivables to the Board of Management. The maximum credit risk in respect of trade receivables is € 111.2 million (2016: € 113.5 million). Trade receivables are not interest-bearing and generally have an average term of credit of 30-90 days. The impairment provision is based on expired terms of credit and defined individually. The trade receivables item includes an amount of € 18.0 million in receivables with expired terms of credit which are expected to be received and are therefore not provided for. Breakdown of expired credit terms (including impairment provision) Total < 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days > 90 days Food 13.1 10.1 1.6 0.2 1.2 Biochemicals 4.5 3.5 0.5 0.1 0.4 Innovation Platforms 0.4 0.3 0.1 Total 18.0 13.9 2.2 0.3 1.6 Movements in trade receivables impairment provision 2017 2016 As at 1 January -1.8 -2.5 Additions/releases -0.7 -0.4 Use 0.6 1.2 Exchange rate differences 0.2 -0.1 As at 31 December -1.7 -1.8 The additions/releases of the trade receivables impairment provision are recognized as selling expenses. 16. Cash and cash equivalents As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Cash and bank balances 38.1 60.8 Short-term deposits Total 38.1 60.8 The amount of cash included in the cash flow statement includes the cash included in assets held for sale as reconciled below. As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Cash and bank balances 38.1 60.8 Cash included in assets classified as held for sale 0.7 Total 38.1 61.5 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 127 17. Disposal group held for sale As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Property, plant, and equipment 35.8 Inventories 1.2 Trade and other receivables 10.2 Cash and bank balances 0.7 Total assets held for sale 47.9 Trade and other payables 1.7 Liabilities held for sale 1.7 2017 2016 Foreign operations – foreign currency translation differences 1.4 Cumulative income included in OCI relating to the disposal group 1.4 The disposal group in 2016 relates to the sale of the subsidiary Total Corbion PLA (Thailand) Limited (formerly known as Expalkan (Thailand) Limited) to the joint venture Total Corbion PLA bv which was established on 2 March 2017. 18. Equity Share capital As at 31 December 2017, the authorized share capital totaled € 50 million, consisting of 182 million ordinary shares with a nominal value of € 0.25 each. Corbion’s financing preference shareholder has elected to convert financing preference shares into ordinary shares per 26 June 2017. The shareholder was holder of 2,279,781 financing preference shares (series FPA, FPB, and FPC) in the share capital. At the request of the holder of the financing preference shares, and in accordance with article 4 of the Articles of Association of Corbion, 2,027,017 financing preference shares have been converted into ordinary shares which have been admitted for listing on Euronext Amsterdam. The remaining 252,764 financing preference shares have been transferred to Corbion at no cost. Corbion cancelled these financing preference shares in 2017. After this conversion and cancellation, there are no more financing preference shares outstanding. Movements in number of issued shares Total financingOrdinary preference shares FPA FPB FPC shares As at 1 January 2017 57,862,037 754,709 754,709 770,363 2,279,781 Conversion of financing preference shares into ordinary shares 2,027,017 -754,709 -754,709 -517,599 -2,027,017 Withdrawn shares -646,262 -252,764 -252,764 As at 31 December 2017 59,242,792 128 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Movements in number of shares with dividend rights Total financingOrdinary preference shares FPA FPB FPC shares As at 1 January 2017 57,365,098 754,709 754,709 770,363 2,279,781 Conversion of financing preference shares into ordinary shares 2,027,017 -754,709 -754,709 -517,599 -2,027,017 Acquired shares -933,670 -252,764 -252,764 Share-based remuneration 162,119 As at 31 December 2017 58,620,564 Movements in treasury stock ordinary shares Nominal amount Number (in euros) As at 1 January 2017 496,939 124,235 Acquired shares 933,670 233,418 Share-based remuneration -162,119 Withdrawn shares -646,262 -161,566 As at 31 December 2017 622,228 196,087 As at 31 December 2017, Corbion had a treasury stock of 622,228 ordinary shares at its disposal with a nominal value of € 0.25 each (representing 1.05% of the total share capital issued). Treasury stock shares have no dividend rights. Acquired shares During the reporting year the company acquired a total of 933,670 ordinary shares with a nominal value of € 0.25 each at a total acquisition price of € 25.0 million. Further, the company acquired 252,764 preference shares as a result of the conversion of financing preference shares discussed above. The costs of € 25.0 million arising from the acquired shares during the reporting year, have been charged to the reserves. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 129 Other reserves Movements in legal reserves Translation Hedge Development Share plan reserve reserve costs reserve Total As at 1 January 2016 32.4 2.6 29.4 3.6 68.0 • Net investment hedge Exchange rate differences foreign currency loan -5.0 -5.0 Tax effect 1.3 1.3 • Translation difference foreign group companies 20.6 20.6 Tax effect 1.2 1.2 • Cash flow hedge Fluctuations in fair value derivatives -2.4 -2.4 Tax effect 0.6 0.6 • Share-based remuneration charged to result 2.2 2.2 • Share-based remuneration transfers -1.4 -1.4 • Movement in capitalization of development costs 1.5 1.5 As at 31 December 2016 50.5 0.8 30.9 4.4 86.6 • Net investment hedge Exchange rate differences foreign currency loan 18.3 18.3 Tax effect -4.6 -4.6 • Translation difference foreign group companies -43.2 -43.3 Tax effect 7.2 7.2 • Cash flow hedge Fluctuations in fair value derivatives -2.3 -2.3 Tax effect 0.6 0.6 • Share-based remuneration charged to result 3.2 3.3 • Share-based remuneration transfers -2.0 -2.0 • Movement in capitalization of development costs 0.5 0.5 As at 31 December 2017 28.2 -0.9 31.4 5.6 64.3 In specific circumstances legal reserves must be created in accordance with Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The legal reserves comprise the translation reserve, hedge reserve, and development costs reserve. In case a legal reserve has a negative value no payments can be made from the retained earnings up to the level of the negative value(s). The positive legal reserves as at 31 December 2017 amount to € 59.6 million. A reserve for non-transferable profits is not applicable as Corbion has no restrictions to transfer profits from its operations in the different countries. Nature and purpose of reserves Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well as the effective portion of any foreign currency differences arising from hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation. 130 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Hedge reserve The hedge reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of hedging instruments used in cash flow hedges pending subsequent recognition in profit or loss as the hedged cash flows or items affect profit or loss. Development cost reserve The development cost reserve comprises a statutory reserve for capitalized development expenditure in accordance with the Dutch Civil Code. Share plan reserve The share plan reserve comprises all movements in equity-settled share-based remuneration plans. 19. Provisions As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Reorganization and restructuring 1.7 2.1 Other 2.0 1.7 Total 3.7 3.8 Movements in provisions Reorganization and restructuring Other Total As at 1 January 2017 2.1 1.7 3.8 Addition charged to result 1.7 1.0 2.7 Release credited to result -0.2 -0.4 -0.6 Withdrawal for intended purpose -1.8 -0.3 -2.1 Exchange rate differences -0.1 -0.1 As at 31 December 2017 1.7 2.0 3.7 Reorganization and restructuring This provision relates mainly to a restructuring provision as a result of the strategy update in 2017. Other The other provisions relate mainly to loss-making contracts, legal disputes, and other litigation risks. 20. Long-term employee benefits As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Net defined benefit asset -2.5 Net defined benefit liability 6.2 18.1 Other long-term employee benefit commitments 1.5 3.0 Total 5.2 21.1 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 131 Net defined benefit assets and liabilities Net defined benefit assets and liabilities relate to post-employment defined benefit arrangements. Other long-term employee benefit commitments Other long-term employee benefit commitments relate mainly to anniversary commitments, conditional incentive plans, and health insurance. Main characteristics of the defined benefit plans Corbion sponsors defined benefit pension plans in the US and the UK. Both plans are closed schemes and based on final pay. Further, Corbion sponsors a legal severance payment plan in Thailand. All plans have been established in accordance with the legal requirements of the countries involved. The defined benefit plans are administered by a separate fund that is legally separated from the entity. The board of the pension fund is composed of an equal number of representatives from both employers and (former) employees. The plans typically expose the group to actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk, and longevity risk. • Investment risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using a discount rate determined by reference to high-quality corporate bond yields; if the return on plan assets is below this rate, it will create a plan deficit. Currently the plans have a relatively balanced investment in mainly equity securities and debt instruments. • Interest risk A decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the plan liability; however, this will be partly offset by an increase in the return on the plan’s debt investments. • Longevity risk The present value of the defined benefit liability is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality of plan participants both during and after their employment. An increase in the life expectancy of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability. The defined benefit obligation as per year-end consisted for the vast majority of the UK plan and is summarized below: • The Normal Retirement Age is 65; however, Section 1 members are able to take their benefits in respect of pre 1 October 2003 service unreduced from age 60. • Pensions in deferment increase in line with statutory revaluation with the exception of pre 1 October 2003 benefits for Section 1 members, which have an underpin linked to the level of pension increases in payment (which are linked to RPI). • Pensions in payment increase in line with RPI capped at 5% for benefits in respect of pre 1 January 2006 service and RPI capped at 2.5% for benefits in respect of post 31 December 2005 service. The UK pension scheme is in a deficit situation. For this scheme a recovery plan has been agreed in 2013 under which Corbion will contribute additional funding payments of GBP 1.1 million per year (commencing in 2013) with an increase of 5% per year payable until 2028 or until the scheme is no longer in a deficit situation. 132 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements The strategic investment policy of the scheme can be summarized as follows: • A strategic asset mix comprising 50% in return-seeking assets and 50% in matching (bondtype) assets. • The return-seeking asset portfolio comprises a mix of equity investments and diversified growth funds. • Interest rate and inflation risk is managed through the use of liability-driven investments and corporate bonds of an appropriate duration. • Currency risk is managed by implementing a 50% currency hedge on the global equity holding. The average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2017 is 25 years. Breakdown of the amounts recognized in respect of defined benefit pension plans in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income 2017 2016 Current service costs 0.5 0.4 Net interest expense 0.5 0.3 Past-service costs 0.9 Total pension costs recognized in income statement 1.9 0.7 Remeasurements net defined benefit liability • Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in interest income) -5.0 -15.6 • Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions -0.4 • Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions -8.1 25.9 • Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from experience adjustments 0.5 -0.5 Total pension costs recognized in other comprehensive income -13.0 9.8 Total -11.1 10.5 The amounts recognized in the statement of financial position As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Present value of defined benefit obligations 86.7 99.2 Fair value of plan assets 83.0 81.1 Funded status 3.7 18.1 Restrictions on assets recognized Net liability 3.7 18.1 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 Movements in defined benefit obligation 2017 2016 As at 1 January 99.2 83.4 Current service costs 0.5 0.4 Interest charges 2.7 2.9 Pension payments -4.9 -2.8 Remeasurement (gains)/losses • Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions -0.4 • Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions -8.1 25.9 • Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from experience adjustments 0.5 -0.5 Exchange rate differences -4.9 -10.1 Reclassification 2.1 As at 31 December 86.7 99.2 Movements in fair value of plan assets 2017 2016 As at 1 January 81.1 72.8 Interest income 2.2 2.6 Pension payments -4.9 -2.8 Contributions from the employer 2.3 2.2 Remeasurement gains/(losses) • Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in interest income) 5.0 15.6 Settlements 1.2 Exchange rate differences -3.9 -9.3 As at 31 December 83.0 81.1 The actual return on plan assets was € 7.2 million positive (2016: € 18.2 million positive). The investment strategy is based on the composition of the obligations of the pension schemes. Based on Asset Liability Management models analyses have been performed on a regular basis to define the investment portfolio. At year-end the asset allocation was as follows. Asset categories of plan assets As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Quoted equity securities 27.4 20.9 Unquoted equity securities 0.3 Quoted debt securities 5.0 10.3 Other 50.3 49.9 Total assets 83.0 81.1 The main weighted average actuarial assumptions 2017 2016 Discount rate 3.0% 2.8% Salary growth rate Pension growth rate 3.1% 3.3% 134 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumption Change in Increase in Decrease in assumption assumption assumption Discount rate 0.50% (9.7) 11.5 Salary growth rate 0.50% Pension growth rate 0.50% 6.8 (6.1) The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. To calculate the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method is applied (calculation of the present value of the defined benefit obligation using the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) which is also used to calculate the pension liability recognized within the consolidated statement of financial position. The expected contributions to the defined benefit pension plans in the coming year amount to € 2.4 million. 21. Deferred tax Breakdown of deferred tax assets and liabilities 2017 2016 Deferred tax liabilities 13.7 11.5 Deferred tax assets -25.4 -15.9 As at 1 January -11.7 -4.4 Tax charge in income statement 5.0 -3.7 Translation differences foreign group companies -1.1 0.4 Acquisition/sale of group companies -0.1 Tax charge movements in equity -2.7 -4.0 As at 31 December -10.6 -11.7 Deferred tax liabilities 12.1 13.7 Deferred tax assets -22.7 -25.4 As at 31 December -10.6 -11.7 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 135 Breakdown of deferred tax assets and liabilities by type As at 31-12-2017 As at 31-12-2016 Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax assets liabilities assets liabilities Property, plant, and equipment -6.5 10.6 -6.4 9.7 Intangible fixed assets -3.2 10.1 -6.8 13.5 Current assets/liabilities -3.3 3.3 -2.4 1.6 Tax loss carry forward -18.4 -15.3 Provisions -3.3 -6.6 0.8 Financial instruments 0.1 Other 0.2 -34.7 24.1 -37.5 25.8 Netting 12.0 -12.0 12.1 -12.1 Total -22.7 12.1 -25.4 13.7 The short-term part of deferred tax assets, after write-down and netting with the short-term part of deferred tax liabilities, amounts to € 3.1 million (2016: € 6.7 million). Breakdown of deferred taxes due to tax loss carry forward As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Total tax loss carry forward 134.2 133.5 Tax loss carry forward not qualified as deferred tax asset -60.7 -72.3 Tax loss carry forward qualified as deferred tax asset 73.5 61.2 Average tax rate 25.0% 25.0% Deferred tax asset 18.4 15.3 Expiry date of tax losses carry forward not qualified as deferred tax asset As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Less than 1 year Within 5 years 3.0 6.8 Between 5 and 10 years 10 years or longer No expiry date 57.7 65.5 Tax loss carry forward not qualified as deferred tax asset 60.7 72.3 136 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Breakdown of the tax charge arising from deferred tax assets and liabilities in the income statement by type As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Property, plant, and equipment 7.4 -2.5 Intangible fixed assets 0.8 1.7 Current assets/liabilities 3.7 -0.7 Tax loss carry forward -2.7 -6.8 Provisions -0.5 2.4 Exchange rate differences loans 2.6 2.5 Financial instruments 0.5 Rate changes -6.8 Other -0.3 Total 5.0 -3.7 22. Non-current liabilities Effective interest % Average term in years As at As at As at As at As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Private placement 116.4 132.4 4.19 4.19 7.4 8.4 Financial lease commitments 0.2 0.1 3.82 3.62 3.3 5.3 Other debts 0.4 0.6 0.00 1.8 2.8 Contingent consideration 4.8 1.5 Total 121.8 133.1 Weighted average 4.19 4.19 7.4 8.4 The weighted average term has been calculated on the basis of the remaining terms of the individual loans. Repayments on the above amounts are due within five years (€ 12.9 million) and after five years (€ 108.9 million). Fair value of the main long-term loans Balance sheet Fair value Balance sheet Fair value value as at as at value as at as at 31-12-2017 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 31-12-2016 Private placement 116.4 116.5 132.4 132.7 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 137 23. Interest-bearing current liabilities Effective interest % As at As at As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Owed to credit institutions 66.7 0.85 Private placement 25.7 4.01 Financial lease commitments 0.1 3.86 Total 66.8 25.7 Weighted average 0.86 4.01 24. Acquisitions and disposals Acquisition On 28 September 2017 Corbion completed the acquisition of substantially all assets of TerraVia Holdings (“TerraVia”). TerraVia has a broad and diverse platform centered on innovative food and specialty ingredients derived from microalgae. TerraVia brings Corbion a versatile microalgaebased platform which will enable Corbion to expand into the field of producing specialty lipids and proteins, structured fats, and tailored oils. As part of the acquisition of substantially all assets of TerraVia, Corbion also acquired the non-controlling 50.1% stake in SB Oils JV. Preliminary acquisition figures TerraVia Inc. Property, plant, and equipment 2.9 Intangible fixed assets 2.8 Financial fixed assets 19.9 Inventories 0.6 Receivables 0.3 Deferred tax assets 1.2 Cash and cash equivalents Deferred tax liabilities -1.1 Other payables -3.1 Identifiable assets minus liabilities 23.5 Payment in cash -17.6 Total consideration -17.6 Gain on bargain purchase 5.9 The gain on bargain purchase has been reported in the “other proceeds” line item of the consolidated income statement and can be explained by the fact that TerraVia filed for bankruptcy and the seller acted under compulsion. The table below shows the pro-forma result of Corbion if the acquisition had been made as at 1 January 2017. Pro forma adjustment fullPro forma Corbion year effect Corbion Net sales 891.7 5.7 897.4 Result after taxes 84.6 -17.7 66.9 For the three-month period ended 31 December 2017, the acquisition contributed € 1.9 million in revenue and € 1.6 million in loss to Corbion’s results, including a gain on bargain purchase of € 5.9 million. The pro forma calculation in the table above is based on an extrapolation of the three-month period excluding one-off items. 138 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Disposal On 2 March 2017, Corbion sold its subsidiary Total Corbion PLA (Thailand) Limited (formerly known as Expalkan (Thailand) Limited) to the joint venture Total Corbion PLA bv. Divestment figures Total Corbion PLA (Thailand) Ltd. Consideration transferred Payment in cash 7.4 Contingent consideration 33.5 Total consideration 40.9 Property, plant, and equipment 39.1 Inventories 9.6 Receivables 10.2 Cash and cash equivalents 4.8 Total sold assets 63.7 Interest-bearing current liabilities 21.0 Trade payables 6.5 Total sold liabilities 27.5 Gross result from divestment 4.7 Consideration received in cash and cash equivalents 7.4 Less: Cash and cash equivalent balances disposed of -4.8 Total consideration received 2.6 25. Financial risk management and financial instruments Risk management framework Corbion’s activities are exposed to a variety of financial risks including currency, interest, commodity, liquidity, capital, and credit risk. The treasury department identifies and manages these risks. Treasury operates within a framework of policies and procedures which have been approved by the Board of Management. The treasury policy may change on an annual basis in light of market circumstances and market volatility. Corbion uses derivatives solely for the purpose of hedging exposure mainly to the commodity, currency, and interest rate risks arising from the company’s sources of finance and business. Corbion has a Treasury and a Commodity Risk Management Committee meeting periodically to review treasury and commodity activities and compliance with both policies. Currency risk Corbion is active on the international market, which means that it is exposed to risks arising from currency fluctuations, particularly in the US dollar, Brazilian real, Japanese yen, and Thai baht. Foreign currency exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognized assets and liabilities, and net investments in foreign operations. Translation risk Corbion is subject to foreign exchange rate movements in connection with the translation of its foreign subsidiaries’ income, assets, and liabilities into euros in the consolidated financial statements. To protect the value of future foreign cash flows, Corbion partially mitigates the foreign exchange exposure by applying natural hedging, meaning capital employed in foreign CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 139 operations is financed using the country’s currency in order to avoid fluctuations due to translation effects. US dollar translation effects on the operating result are partially hedged by the interest paid on the US dollar loan. Currency fluctuations particularly in the US dollar can have a material effect on Corbion’s income statement. Corbion has policies in place that material currency translation exposures are hedged above specific limits as defined for each currency. Breakdown of the unhedged translation risk for each currency As at As at Millions of euros 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Currency • US dollar 152.8 151.4 • Brazilian real 19.9 19.4 • Thai baht 72.7 71.0 Transaction risk The currency transaction risk arises in the course of ordinary business activities. Corbion’s exposure to exchange rate movements in commercial operations is mainly related to EUR/ USD, THB/YEN, and EUR/YEN. Corbion uses forward currency contracts and currency swaps in order to hedge risks arising from purchase and sales deals and/or commitments from current purchase and sales contracts. Transactions that are highly probable are hedged and included in cash flow hedge accounting. Other reasonably probable transactions are partially hedged. For practical reasons a specific limit is defined for each currency. Hedge accounting is being applied to these contracts, so any unrealized fluctuations in the fair value are deferred in the hedge reserve of equity until the underlying hedged transaction is recognized in the result. All forward currency contracts expire within a year. Sensitivity analysis of financial instruments to exchange rate changes A 10% weakening of the euro against the Japanese yen would decrease equity by € 1.1 million, while the net result would not be significantly impacted. Interest rate risk Corbion’s interest rate risk arises primarily from its debt. Corbion has an interest rate policy aimed at reducing volatility in its interest expense and maintaining a target percentage of its debt in fixed rate instruments. Currently Corbion’s interest rate exposure has been fully fixed (4.19% on average) for all of Corbion’s long-term debt (€ 117.0 million) for a period of on average 7.4 years. Sensitivity analysis to changes in market interest rate Assuming the same mix of variable and fixed interest rate instruments, an interest rate increase by 50 basis points versus the rates on 31 December 2017 with all other variables held constant, would result in an increase of € 0 in the net result and of € 0 in equity. Commodity risk Corbion uses commodity derivative contracts to reduce the risk of price fluctuations in the main commodities used, being gas and sugar. Corbion entered into commodity derivative contracts to hedge the variable price risk of the main commodities used. The fair value of these contracts was a liability of € 1.2 million as at 31 December 2017 (31 December 2016: asset of € 2.2 million). Hedge accounting is applied for the major part of these commodity derivative contracts. Further analysis can be found in the section on Hedge transactions. The majority of the commodity derivative contracts expire within a year. 140 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Sensitivity analysis If the purchase price of the involved commodities would increase by 10%, profit & loss would be impacted by € 0.1 million. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk of Corbion not being able to obtain sufficient financial means to meet its obligations in time. The company actively manages liquidity risk by maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents and the availability to committed borrowing capacity. Corbion manages cash flow based on cash flow analysis for the next 12 months. The committed credit facilities at Corbion’s long-term disposal amounted to € 300 million as at 31 December 2017. Corbion also has a private placement of $ 140 million with American institutional investors. To provide insight into the liquidity risk the table below shows the contractual terms of the financial obligations (converted at balance sheet date), including interest paid. The table below analyzes Corbion’s financial obligations which will be settled on a net basis, according to relevant expiration dates, based on the remaining period from the balance sheet date to the contractual expiration date. The amounts shown are contractual non-discounted cash flows. Effective Less than Between More than interest % 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years Total As at 31 December 2017 Private placement 4.19 4.9 35.4 112.9 153.2 Owed to credit institutions 0.85 67.1 67.1 Financial lease commitments 3.83 0.1 0.2 0.3 Contingent liability 5.0 5.0 Other debts 0.2 0.2 0.4 Trade payables 76.6 76.6 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 49.5 49.5 Total 198.4 40.8 112.9 352.1 As at 31 December 2016 Private placement 4.19 32.2 40.9 133.4 206.5 Financial lease commitments 3.62 0.1 0.1 Other debts 0.2 0.4 0.6 Trade payables 76.2 76.2 Other non-interest-bearing current liabilities 62.1 62.1 Total 170.7 41.4 133.4 345.5 Credit risk management Credit risk consists of the losses that would be recognized if a customer or a counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations. In respect of disbursed loans, other receivables, and cash and cash equivalents the maximum credit risk equals the book value (see Notes 13, 15, and 16). In respect of derivatives it equals the fair value. Given the credit rating that it requires of its partners Corbion has no reason to assume that they will not honor their contractual obligations. Based on today’s insights, the actual credit risk is limited. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 141 Capital risk management Corbion manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Corbion group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximizing return to stakeholders through the optimization of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of Corbion consists of net debt (interest-bearing debts as detailed in Notes 22 and 23 offset by cash and cash equivalents as detailed in Note 16). 2017 2016 Private placement 116.4 158.1 Revolving credit facility 66.7 Financial lease commitments 0.3 0.1 Other debts 0.4 0.6 Guarantees part of net debt covenants 16.5 Total financial liabilities part of net debt 200.3 158.8 Cash and cash equivalents -38.1 -60.8 Net debt 162.2 98.0 Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities Financial Private Revoling lease placement credit facility commitments Other debts Total As at 1 January 2017 158.1 0.1 0.6 158.8 Financing cash flows 67.0 67.0 Repayments -23.4 -0.2 -23.6 New financial lease commitments 0.2 0.2 Exchange rate differences -18.3 -18.3 Other -0.3 16.5 16.2 As at 31 December 2017 116.4 66.7 0.3 16.9 200.3 The Corbion Treasury Committee reviews the capital structure of Corbion on a quarterly basis. As part of this review, the committee considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital. The main covenants for the credit facility and the US private placement are: • The ratio of net debt position divided by EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, Amortization, and impairment of (in)tangible fixed assets, excluding one-off items, increased by cash dividend of joint ventures received and annualization effect of newly acquired subsidaries) may not exceed the factor 3.5 (2016: 3.5). • A minimum interest cover (EBITDA divided by net interest income and charges) of 3.5 (2016: 3.5). These external conditions were met in 2017 as well as in 2016. Corbion targets a net debt/EBITDA ratio of 1.5x over the investment cycle. Ratios at year-end 2017 2016 Net debt position/EBITDA 1.0 0.6 Interest cover 24.4 23.0 142 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Financial instruments Valuation of financial instruments Corbion measures fair values using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in making the measurements: • Level 1: Fair value measurements based on quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. • Level 2: Fair value measurements based on inputs other than level 1 quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). • Level 3: Fair value measurements based on valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). Breakdown valuation of financial instruments 31 December 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Derivatives • Foreign exchange contracts 3.2 3.2 • Commodity swaps/collars -1.2 -1.2 Total 2.0 2.0 Breakdown fair values financial instruments Balance sheet 31 December 2017 value Fair value Financial fixed assets • Loans, receivables, and other 36.4 36.4 Receivables • Trade receivables 109.5 109.5 • Other receivables 36.8 36.8 • Prepayments and accrued income 6.1 6.1 Cash • Cash other 38.1 38.1 Interest-bearing liabilities • Private placement (net investment hedge) -116.4 -116.5 • Owed to credit institutions -66.7 -66.7 • Financial lease commitments -0.3 -0.3 • Other debts -0.4 -0.4 Non-interest-bearing liabilities • Trade payables -76.6 -76.6 • Other payables -54.3 -54.3 Derivatives • Foreign exchange contracts 3.2 3.2 • Commodity swaps/collars -1.2 -1.2 Total -85.8 -85.9 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 143 Fair values are determined as follows: • The fair value of financial fixed assets does not significantly deviate from the book value. • The fair value of receivables equals the book value because of their short-term character. • Cash and cash equivalents are measured at nominal value which, given the short-term and risk-free character, corresponds to the fair value. • Market quotations are used to determine the fair value of debt owed to private parties, credit institutions, and other debts. As there are no market quotations for most of the loans the fair value of shortand long-term loans is determined by discounting the future cash flows at the yield curve applicable as at 31 December. • Given the short-term character, the fair value of non-interest-bearing liabilities equals the book value. • Currency and interest derivatives are measured on the basis of the present value of future cash flows over the remaining term of the contracts, using the bank interest rate (such as Euribor) as at the reporting date for the remaining term of the contracts. The present value in foreign currencies is converted using the exchange rate applicable as at the reporting date • Commodity derivatives are measured on the basis of the present value of future cash flows, using market quotations or own variable market price estimations of the involved commodity as at the reporting date. Derivatives Hedge transactions The amount of € 0.9 million in hedge reserve (see Note 18) relates to the hedging of risks arising from future purchase and sales deals and/or commitments from current purchase and sales contracts amounting to € 29.2 million. The amount of € 28.2 million in translation reserve (see Note 18) relates to currency fluctuations in respect of the net investments in foreign operations less the currency fluctuations of the corresponding net investment hedges. In case of divestment of a net investment in a foreign operation, the corresponding net impact of the currency fluctuations is moved from the translation reserve to the income statement. In the past year no cash flow hedges were terminated due to changes to the expected future transaction. No ineffective parts were recorded in respect of the net investment hedge and cash flow hedge. 144 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Fair values, maturity, and the qualification of derivative financial instruments for accounting purposes are presented in the table below. Short < 1 year Long > 1 year As at 31-12-2017 As at 31-12-2016 As at 31-12-2017 As at 31-12-2016 Derivatives receivables used as hedge instrument in cash flow hedge relations Foreign exchange contracts 3.2 0.8 Commodity swaps 0.4 Derivatives liabilities used as hedge instrument in cash flow hedge relations Commodity swaps -1.1 Derivatives receivables used as hedge instrument in fair value hedge relations Commodity swaps 1.6 Total derivatives in hedge relations 2.1 2.8 Derivatives receivables not used in a hedge relation with value change through income statement Commodity swaps 0.2 Derivatives liabilities not used in a hedge relation with value change through income statement Commodity swaps -0.1 Total derivatives through income statement -0.1 0.2 Total derivatives 2.0 3.0 26. Related party transactions Remuneration policy Board of Management For more information on the remuneration policy see the Remuneration report. For more information on share-based payments see Note 27, Share-based compensation. The number of conditionally granted shares per member of the (former) Board of Management is as follows. “At target” Maximum number number outstanding outstanding Granted in as at 31/12/17 as at 31/12/17 Year of vesting T. de Ruiter 2014 59,846 59,846 2018 2015 9,974 9,974 2018 2015 32,051 48,077 2018 2016 27,404 41,106 2019 2017 23,585 35,378 2020 E.E. van Rhede van der Kloot 2015 17,094 25,641 2018 2016 13,951 20,927 2019 2017 11,772 17,658 2020 Total as at 31 December 2017 195,677 258,607 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 145 The movements in the number of shares conditionally granted to (former) members of the Board of Management are as follows. Maximum number Maximum Maximum number outstanding number outstanding as at granted Vested Expired as at 31/12/2016 in 2017 2017 2017 31/12/2017 T. de Ruiter 232,330 35,378 73,327 194,381 E.E. van Rhede van der Kloot 63,814 17,658 17,246 64,226 G.J. Hoetmer 40,504 40,504 N.J.M. Kramer 25,487 25,487 Total 362,135 53,036 156,564 258,607 Breakdown remuneration (former) Board of Management SharePost Other based employlongTermiShort-term employee payment term nation IAS 24.17 category benefits ments benefits benefits benefits Total ExcesTermiBase sive Pension Other nation Thousands of euros 2017 salary1) STIP levy2) LTIP benefits benefits benefits T. de Ruiter 778 310 1,185 2,273 E.E. van Rhede van der Kloot 466 158 365 989 Total Board of Management 1,244 468 1,550 3,262 G.J. Hoetmer 118 118 Total former Board of Management 118 118 Total remuneration (former) Board of Management 1,244 468 118 1,550 3,380 SharePost Other based employlongTermiShort-term employee payment term nation IAS 24.17 category benefits ments benefits benefits benefits Total ExcesTermiBase sive Pension Other nation Thousands of euros 2016 salary1) STIP levy2) LTIP benefits benefits benefits T. de Ruiter 753 344 1,183 2,280 E.E. van Rhede van der Kloot 459 175 262 896 Total Board of Management 1,212 519 1,445 3,176 G.J. Hoetmer 264 264 N.J.M. Kramer (11) (11) Total former Board of Management 264 (11) 253 Total remuneration (former) Board of Management 1,212 519 264 1,445 (11) 3,429 The tables above show the costs based on the applicable IFRS standard and do not necessarily reflect the actual amounts paid. 1) Base salary also includes social security contributions and compensation, mainly allowances for expenses. 2) The excessive levy is payable by the employer for termination benefits above certain thresholds. 146 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Compensation of key management personnel The table below specifies the remuneration of the Executive Committee (ExCo), comprising the Board of Management members as listed above and the additional ExCo members who are not part of the Board of Management. Thousands of euros 2017 2016 Short-term employee benefits 3,777 3,269 Share-based payments 2,104 1,977 Post-employment benefits 81 37 Other long-term benefits Termination benefits Breakdown remuneration Supervisory Board SharePost Other based employlongTermiIAS 24.17 Short-term employee payment term nation category benefits 1) ments benefits benefits benefits Total TermiCommittee Pension Other nation Thousands of euros year Base fee fee LTIP benefits benefits benefits M. Vrijsen, Chairman (Chairman Appointment & Governance 2017 60 18 78 Committee / member Remuneration Committee / member Science and Technology Committee) 2016 60 18 78 R.H.P. Markham, Vice-Chairman 2017 50 13 63 (Chairman Remuneration Committee / member Appointment and Governance Committee) 2016 50 13 63 M.E. Doherty (member Audit 2017 45 10 55 Committee) 2016 45 10 55 J.P. de Kreij (Chairman Audit 2017 45 15 60 Committee, member until May 2016) 2016 45 15 60 R. Pieterse (Chairman Audit 2017 Committee, resigned per May 2016) 2016 17 4 21 S. Riisgaard (Chairman Science and Technology Committee, member 2017 45 18 63 Remuneration Committee / member Appointment and Governance Committee) 2016 45 18 63 Total 2017 245 74 319 Total 2016 262 78 340 1) Excluding expenses No loans or advance payments or any guarantees to that effect have been made or issued to the members of the Supervisory Board. None of the members of the Supervisory Board has shares in the company or any option rights relating thereto. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 147 Other related party transactions Transaction values for the year ended Balance outstanding at year ended 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sale of goods and services Joint ventures 18.3 1.4 3.2 1.1 Purchase of goods Joint ventures 3.6 Others Joint ventures • Sale of Total Corbion PLA (Thailand) Limited (see Note 24) 40.9 29.2 • Loan and related interest 36.0 27. Share-based compensation Share-based remuneration arrangements: Board of Management A share plan is in place for the Board of Management. The (former) members of the Board of Management have a total of 258,607 unvested share rights in the company as at 31 December 2017 (2016: 362,135). The nominal amount of the shares which are claimable under unvested share rights equals € 64,652 as per that date. 2014 program Each year members of the Board of Management are entitled to a conditional grant of Corbion shares. There are two target levels for this incentive. One applies to the CEO and one to the CFO. The CEO is entitled to a conditional share grant value of 60% of his base salary. The CFO is entitled to a conditional share grant value of 50% of his base salary. The total number of conditionally granted shares is determined by dividing the “at target” amount applicable for the respective Board member (as a percentage of base salary) by the (undiscounted) fair value average stock price over the month prior to the date of grant (April of any year). The performance criterion for the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) is Total Shareholder Return (TSR) over a three-year performance period. According to the plan rules, after vesting and share delivery, the Board members are required to keep the shares in a blocked account for another two years. The total lock-up period therefore is five years. For further details refer to the remuneration policy and the Remuneration report. 2015 program A revised program was introduced in 2015, as part of the new remuneration policy agreed by the annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 22 May 2015, aimed at longer-term value creation in line with shareholders’ interests, measured over a performance period of three calendar years. To ensure that short-term performance also leads to sustainable long-term value creation, the LTIP measurement is fully aligned with the Short-Term Incentive Plan (STIP): 60% of the LTIP is determinded by EBITDA and 20% of the LTIP by Earnings Per Share (EPS). In addition, 20% of the LTIP depends on relative TSR as compared to a specific TSR peer group. Each year members of the Board of Management are entitled to a conditional grant of Corbion shares. There are two target levels for this incentive: one applies to the CEO and one to the CFO. The CEO is entitled to a conditional share grant value of 100% of his base salary. The CFO is entitled to a conditional share grant value of 80% of the base salary. The total number of conditionally granted shares is determined by dividing the “at target” amount applicable for the respective Board member (as a percentage of base salary) by the share price. The share price is defined as the average closing price of the Corbion share during the last full calendar quarter preceding the conditional grant of shares. 148 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements At the beginning of the performance period, targets for the LTIP are set by the Supervisory Board for the three-year performance period as follows: 1. A target based on EBITDA, a threshold (minimum) and a range around the performance target to determine the actual payout for 60% of the LTIP. 2. A target based on EPS, a threshold (minimum) and a range around the performance target to determine the actual payout for 20% of the LTIP. 3. The TSR performance is benchmarked against the TSR performance of Corbion’s TSR peer group and the relative ranking determines the actual payout for another 20% of the LTIP. Meeting the performance target(s) results in an LTIP payout at target level. A range of 50% around the performance target(s) (or lower as determined by the Supervisory Board) is set for the EBITDA and EPS performance to determine the actual payout. There is no payout below the low end of the range and no additional upside above the top end of the range. For the TSR performance, threshold payout is set at meeting the eighth position in the peer group (consisting of sixteen companies). Target payout is achieved at the fourth and fifth position in the peer group and maximum payout is achieved at reaching the first and second position in the peer group. One-off time-restricted performance share award CEO At the time of his appointment in 2014, Mr. De Ruiter was granted a one-off time-restricted performance share award equivalent to a target value of € 2 million in Corbion shares to vest over four years. This award bridges part of the compensation gap between the United States and the Netherlands. The award encourages delivering a growing, increasingly profitable, and sustainable business portfolio. The value of one conditional share is equal to the average share price of five days preceding the annual General Meeting of Shareholders, no discounts are applied. The award vests in four equal parts per year, only if a minimum Corbion growth rate is achieved each year. Delivering predetermined long-term (4-year) innovation milestones allows for an additional vesting of up to 25% of the total number of shares in year 4. This means that the actual number of shares that vest, will range between 0% and 125% of the grant value. The value of the vested shares depends on the performance delivered and the share price development. In 2015, the plan was partially adjusted to be fully aligned with the updated strategy and consequently with the new remuneration policy. The performance period has been aligned with the regular long-term incentive plan, starting on 1 January 2015 and ending on 31 December 2017. Further, EBITDA growth has been introduced as annual performance metric (instead of sales growth) to be set at the beginning of each year by the Supervisory Board. Movements in number of unvested shares of the (former) Board of Management (at maximum) Total as at Allocated Vested and Total as at Year of allocation 31-12-2016 in 2017 expired in 2017 31-12-2017 2014 206,437 146,590 59,847 2015 93,665 9,974 83,691 2016 62,033 62,033 2017 53,036 53,036 Total 362,135 53,036 156,564 258,607 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 149 Valuation model and input variables The fair value of the non-market-based components of the above-mentioned performancerelated shares allocated in 2017 was € 27.21 per share (2016: € 21.66). The fair value of the market-based components of the above-mentioned performance-related shares allocated in 2017 was € 32.07 per share (2016: € 25.33). The fair value of the market-based components is estimated by using the Black & Scholes model and the assumptions set forth below. 2017 2016 Risk-free interest rate 0.00% 0.00% Expected dividend gains Expected volatility in share price 26% 25% Term 3 years 3 years Share-based remuneration arrangements: Senior management An equity-settled plan similar to the 2015 program for the Board of Management exists for senior management. Movements in number of unvested shares of senior management Total as at Allocated Vested and Total as at Year of allocation 31-12-2016 in 2017 expired in 2017 31-12-2017 2015 124,313 3,177 121,136 2016 118,119 4,961 113,158 2017 131,295 7,198 124,097 Total 242,432 131,295 15,336 358,391 Certain members of management receive a package of Corbion shares worth 9.5% of fixed salary (commitment award). The acquired shares shall be held in a separate blocked account until the end of their employment at Corbion. Movements in number of blocked commitment award shares Total as at Allocated Released Total as at 31-12-2016 in 2017 in 2017 31-12-2017 Total 6,019 6,019 150 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 28. Off-balance sheet commitments Financial commitments As at 31 December 2017 the nominal value of future commitments from operational lease contracts for property, plant, and equipment was € 36.2 million (2016: € 22.1 million), € 9.6 million of which expires within one year, € 24.4 million between 1 and 5 years, and € 2.2 million after 5 years. Capital commitments The capital expenditure commitments not yet incurred amounted to € 3.4 million for (in)tangible assets as at 31 December 2017 (2016: € 28.9 million). Contingent commitments Guarantees Third-party guarantees amounted to € 19.7 million as at 31 December 2017 (2016: € 3.4 million). No significant future losses are expected from these guarantees. 29. Events after balance sheet date On 14 February 2018, Corbion announced it is in discussions with Bunge Limited (“Bunge”) regarding the potential acquisition by Corbion of Bunge’s stake in the SB Renewable Oils joint venture. Corbion and Bunge are 50.1%/49.9% partners in SB Renewable Oils, a joint venture that operates a facility in Brazil, specializing in the production of algae ingredients, such as Omega 3 rich oil, for aquaculture and animal feed. While the discussions are constructive, it is uncertain if and when they will lead to an agreement. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 company financial statements 151 COM PAN Y F IN ANC IAL STATE ME N TS Company statement of financial position As at As at Before profit appropriation, millions of euros Note 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Assets Financial fixed assets 30 630.3 567.6 Deferred tax assets 31 17.3 14.1 Total non-current assets 647.6 581.7 Receivables 32 41.6 89.7 Tax assets 1.1 0.4 Cash and cash equivalents 33 3.4 17.4 Total current assets 46.1 107.5 Total assets 693.7 689.2 Equity and liabilities Ordinary share capital 14.8 15.0 Share premium reserve 55.2 55.8 Translation reserve 28.2 50.5 Hedge reserve -0.9 0.8 Development costs reserve 31.4 30.9 Share plan reserve 5.6 4.4 Retained earnings 355.0 341.1 Equity 34 489.3 498.5 Deferred tax liabilities 31 0.6 Non-current liabilities 35 116.4 132.4 Total non-current liabilities 117.0 132.4 Interest-bearing current liabilities 36 84.2 52.9 Non-interest-bearing current liabilities 37 2.7 4.2 Provisions 38 0.5 1.2 Total current liabilities 87.4 58.3 Total equity and liabilities 693.7 689.2 152 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 company financial statements Company income statement Millions of euros 2017 2016 General and administrative expenses -2.7 -2.1 Operating result -2.7 -2.1 Financial income 11.6 14.3 Financial charges -12.0 -9.0 Results from subsidiaries and associates 87.0 104.6 Result before taxes 83.9 107.8 Taxes 0.7 -4.2 Result after taxes 84.6 103.6 Social security included in the income statement is rounded to zero for 2017 as well as 2016. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the company financial statements 153 N OTE S TO THE COM PAN Y F IN ANC IAL STATE ME N TS General The separate financial statements of Corbion nv (“the company”) are drawn up in accordance with the principles referred to in Part 9, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. A list has been filed at the Amsterdam Trade Register setting out the data on the group companies as required under Sections 2:379 and 2:414 of the Dutch Civil Code. Basis of preparation By using the option in Section 2:362 (8) of the Dutch Civil Code the same accounting principles (including the principles for recognizing financial instruments as equity or debt) have been applied in the separate financial statements and the consolidated financial statements. Participating interests in group companies Participating interests in group companies are accounted for in the company financial statements according to the equity method. Refer to the basis of consolidation accounting policy in the consolidated financial statements. Result of participating interests The share in the result of participating interests comprises the share of the company in the result of these participating interests. Results on transactions involving the transfer of assets and liabilities between the company and its participating interests, on the one hand, and between participating interests, on the other, are eliminated to the extent that they can be considered as not realized. 30. Financial fixed assets As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Participations in group companies 396.9 275.3 Loans to group companies 233.4 291.0 Joint ventures and associates 0.5 Other 0.8 Total 630.3 567.6 The balance of participations in group companies and loans to group companies is positive in all participations of Corbion nv. Amounts owed to or by group companies are long-term. 154 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the company financial statements 2017 2016 Movements in participations in group companies As at 1 January 275.3 198.3 Paid-in capital 96.4 1.7 Result group companies 87.6 105.9 Dividend group companies -61.2 -30.6 Exchange rate differences -13.6 9.9 Other 12.4 -9.9 As at 31 December 396.9 275.3 Movements in loans to group companies As at 1 January 291.0 270.6 Exchange rate differences -29.6 14.2 Disbursements 38.4 349.5 Repayments -66.4 -343.3 As at 31 December 233.4 291.0 31. Deferred tax As at 31-12-2017 As at 31-12-2016 Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax assets liabilities assets liabilities Tax loss carry forward -17.3 -13.9 Provisions 0.6 -0.2 Total -17.3 0.6 -14.1 32. Receivables As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Owed by group companies 34.9 86.7 Other receivables 2.0 3.0 Joint ventures and associates 4.7 Total 41.6 89.7 33. Cash and cash equivalents The cash and cash equivalents were available and payable without notice in 2017. 34. Equity See Consolidated statement of changes in equity and Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. For an overview of the legal reserves see Note 18. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the company financial statements 155 35. Other non-current liabilities As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Owed to credit institutions 116.4 132.4 Total 116.4 132.4 See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements. 36. Interest-bearing current liabilities As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Owed to credit institutions 66.5 25.6 Owed to group companies 17.7 27.3 Total 84.2 52.9 37. Non-interest-bearing current liabilities As at As at 31-12-2017 31-12-2016 Taxes and social insurance premiums 0.1 Other debts and accruals and deferred income 2.7 4.1 Total 2.7 4.2 38. Provisions Movements in provisions Reorganization and restructuring Other Total As at 1 January 2017 0.8 0.4 1.2 Addition charged to result 0.1 0.1 0.2 Withdrawal for intended purpose -0.9 -0.9 As at 31 December 2017 0.5 0.5 39. Off-balance sheet commitments Contingent liabilities Under Section 2:403 of the Dutch Civil Code the company accepts liability for the debts incurred by Dutch group companies. The relevant declarations have been filed for perusal at the office of the relevant trade register. Fiscal unity Corbion nv and a number of subsidiaries in the Netherlands are part of fiscal unities for purposes of corporate income tax and value added tax. The companies which are part of a fiscal unity are jointly and severally liable for their liabilities. 156 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the company financial statements 40. Personnel On average, two employees were employed by Corbion nv working in the Netherlands during 2017 (2016: two employees). For more information on remuneration see Note 26. 41. Audit fees Total fees charged by the auditor can be specified as follows. KPMG Accountants nv KPMG Total Total Thousands of euros 2017 Other 2017 2017 2016 Audit of the financial statements 532 131 663 647 Audit-related services* 50 50 Non-audit services 8 Total 582 131 713 655 *) Relates to assurance report on sustainability Amsterdam, the Netherlands, 6 March 2018 Supervisory Board Board of Management M.F.J.P. Vrijsen, Chairman T. de Ruiter, CEO R.H.P. Markham, Vice-Chairman E.E. van Rhede van der Kloot, CFO M.E. Doherty J.P. de Kreij S. Riisgaard CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Notes to the company financial statements 157 158 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Other information OT HE R IN FOR MATI O N Group structure As at 31 December 2017 Proportion of ordinary shares Name Nature of business held by the group (%) Principal subsidiaries Argentina Purac Argentina S.A. Operating company 100 Brazil Purac Sínteses Indústria e Comércio Ltda. Operating company 100 China Corbion Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Operating company 100 India Corbion India PL Operating company 100 Japan Corbion Japan K.K. Operating company 100 Mexico Purac Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. Operating company 100 The Netherlands Corbion Group Holdings bv Holding company 100 Corbion Group Netherlands bv Holding company 100 Corbion PLA Holding bv Holding company 100 Corbion SB Oils Holding bv Holding company 100 Expalkan V bv Holding company 100 Purac Biochem bv Operating company 100 Bird Engineering bv Operating company 100 Poland Purac Polska Sp. z o.o. Operating company 100 Singapore Purac Asia Pacific PTE Ltd. Operating company 100 Spain Purac Bioquímica S.A. Operating company 100 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Other information 159 Proportion of ordinary shares Name Nature of business held by the group (%) Switzerland Corbion Group Holdings GmbH Holding company 100 Corbion Group Subholdings AG Holding company 100 Thailand Purac (Thailand) Limited Operating company 100 United Kingdom Expalkan II Closed Scheme Ltd. * Pension funding company 100 US Corbion America Holdings Inc. Holding company 100 Corbion America Subholdings Inc. Holding company 100 Caravan Ingredients Inc. Operating company 100 Corbion Biotech, Inc. Operating company 100 Purac America Inc. Operating company 100 Joint ventures Germany Succinity GmbH, Düsseldorf Operating company 50 The Netherlands Solazyme Bunge Renewable Oils. Holding company 50.1 CM Biomaterials bv, Gorinchem Operating company 50 Total Corbion PLA bv, Gorinchem Operating company 50 Bioprocess Pilot Facility bv, Delft Operating company 31.1 Icos Cleantech Early Stage Fund II bv, Badhoevedorp Operating company 23.3 Dutch Technology Fund I bv, Badhoevedorp Operating company 11.1 * Expalkan II Closed Scheme Ltd. (registration number 08559472) is exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 by virtue of Section 479A. Independent auditor’s report To: the General Shareholders Meeting and the Supervisory Board of Corbion N.V. Report on the audit of the financial statements 2017 included in the annual report Our opinion In our opinion: — the accompanying consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Corbion N.V. as at 31 December 2017 and of its result and its cash flows for the year then ended, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (EU-IFRS) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; — the accompanying company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Corbion N.V. as at 31 December 2017 and of its result for the year then ended in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. What we have audited We have audited the financial statements 2017 of Corbion N.V. (“the company”), based in Amsterdam. The financial statements include the consolidated financial statements and the company financial statements. The consolidated financial statements comprise: 1 the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2017; 2 the following consolidated statements for 2017: the income statement, the statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows; and 3 the notes comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The company financial statements comprise: 1 the company balance sheet as at 31 December 2017; 2 the company income statement for 2017; and 3 the notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory information. Basis for our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ section of our report. We are independent of Corbion N.V. in accordance with the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audits of public-interest entities, the Wet toezicht accountantsorganisaties (Wta, Audit firms supervision act), the Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics). We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Audit approach Summary MATERIALITY Materiality of EUR 4.7 million 5% of normalized result before tax GROUP AUDIT COVERAGE 90% of net sales 96% of total assets KEY AUDIT MATTERS Valuation capitalized licenses and development costs Business combination TerraVia UNQUALIFIED OPINION KPMG Accountants N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263683, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent companies affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ('KPMG International'), a Swiss entity. Materiality Based on our professional judgement we determined the materiality for the financial statements as a whole at EUR 4.7 million (2016: EUR 5.5 million). The materiality is determined with reference to the normalized result before tax, of which it represents 5% (2016: 5%). We consider the normalized result before tax as the most appropriate benchmark given the fact that Corbion N.V. is a profit-oriented entity. We have also taken into account misstatements and/or possible misstatements that in our opinion are material for the users of the financial statements for qualitative reasons. We agreed with the Audit Committee that misstatements in excess of EUR 235,000 (2016: EUR 275,000) which are identified during the audit, would be reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that in our view must be reported on qualitative grounds. Scope of the group audit Corbion N.V. is at the head of a group of components. The financial information of this group is included in the consolidated financial statements of Corbion N.V. Our group audit mainly focused on significant group entities. The Group operates through a number of legal entities. These entities form reporting components which are primarily based on geography (countries). Because we are ultimately responsible for the auditor’s report, we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for entities reporting for group audit purposes. Decisive were the size and/or the risk profile of the entities or operations. On this basis, we selected 8 entities (2016: 6 entities) to perform audits for group reporting purposes on a complete set of financial information as well as 2 entities (2016: 1 entity) to perform audit procedures for group reporting purposes on specific items of financial information. We performed audit procedures ourselves at group level in respect of areas such as the annual goodwill impairment tests, other (in)tangible asset impairments, accounting for associates and joint ventures, valuation of deferred tax assets, acquisitions and treasury. The group audit team provided detailed instructions to all component auditors who were part of the group audit, covering the significant audit areas, including the relevant risks of material misstatement, and set out the information required to be reported back to the group audit team. The group audit team visited entity locations in the United States of America. During these visits and telephone conferences, the audit approach, the findings and observations reported to the group audit team were discussed in more detail. Also file reviews were performed for the entities in the United States of America and in Brazil. This resulted in an audit coverage of 90% (2016: 91%) of total net sales and 96% (2016: 85%) of total assets. For the remaining entities, we performed amongst others analytical procedures at (business) group level to validate our assessment that there are no significant risks of material misstatement within these entities. By performing the procedures mentioned above at group components, together with additional procedures at group level, we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate KPMG Accountants N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263683, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent companies affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ('KPMG International'), a Swiss entity. audit evidence about the group’s financial information to provide an opinion about the consolidated financial statements. Our procedures as described above can be summarized as follows: Total net sales 83% Audit of the complete 7% Audit of specific 10% Central procedures remaining set of financial information items entities Total assets 93% Audit of the complete 3% Audit of specific 4% Central procedures remaining set of financial information items entities Our key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the Audit Committee. The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Valuation capitalized licenses and development costs Description The valuation of the capitalized intangible fixed assets, related to licenses and development cost, are significant to our audit due to their size and judgement involved in the assessment of the recoverability of those items. We refer to note 11 Intangible fixed assets in the consolidated financial statements. Our response Our audit procedures included an evaluation of the company’s policies and procedures for evaluating the presence of potential impairments, challenging management’s main assumptions and the robustness of forecasts. We evaluated key assumptions amongst others through discussions with management and market developments, historical analysis and cooperation agreements with third parties. We critically assessed and tested valuation methodologies, the weighted average cost of capital and other data used, such as market KPMG Accountants N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263683, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent companies affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ('KPMG International'), a Swiss entity. expectations and projected cash flows. Further, as part of our audit procedures, we included valuation experts in our team to analyse and evaluate the reasonability of the applied methodology, the mathematical accuracy of the model and the key assumptions used by the company by performing sensitivity analyses and sanity checks. We have evaluated whether adequate disclosure of impairments was made in accordance with IAS 36. Our observation Based on our procedures performed we considered management’s key assumptions to be within a reasonable range and that disclosure in the financial statements of the capitalized licenses and development cost meets the requirements of IAS 36. Business combination TerraVia Description On 28 September 2017, the Company acquired substantially all assets of TerraVia Holdings, Inc. (“TerraVia”) for USD 20 million in an auction process, after the bankruptcy filing of TerraVia. The Company recognised identifiable assets and liabilities acquired at fair value in accordance with IFRS 3. The measurement of the assets acquired at fair value is inherently judgemental. In particular, judgement was required in determining the fair value of the 50.1% stake in the joint venture ‘Solazyme Bunge Renewable Oils Coop. UA’. Due to the size and judgement involved in the fair value assessment the accounting for the TerraVia acquisition is significant to our audit. Our response We evaluated key assumptions, amongst others through discussions with management and market developments, historical analysis and the outcome of the auction process. We, amongst others, critically assessed and tested methodologies, the discount rate and other data used, such as market expectations and projected cash flows. Further, as part of our audit procedures, we included valuation experts in our team to analyse and evaluated the identification of intangible assets, the reasonability of the valuation approach, the mathematical accuracy of the valuation models, the reasonability of the key assumptions used by the company and assessed the reasonability of the overall outcome of the purchase price allocation. In addition to above procedure we specifically assessed the principles of the valuation model for the 50.1% stake in the joint venture ‘Solazyme Bunge Renewable Oils Coop. UA’ as the stake in the joint venture was the most significant asset acquired in this acquisition. As part of this we have assessed the results of the work of the valuation expert engaged by the company as part our audit. We have evaluated whether the disclosure was made in accordance with IFRS 3. Our observation Based on our procedures performed and in the light of the current situation that Corbion aims to acquire the remaining 49.9% of Solazyme Bunge Renewable Oils Coop. UA, we determined management’s key assumptions used in the purchase price allocation of the TerraVia acquisition to be within a reasonable range and that disclosure in the financial statements of the business combination meets the requirements of IFRS 3. KPMG Accountants N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263683, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent companies affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ('KPMG International'), a Swiss entity. Report on the other information included in the annual report In addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon, the annual report contains other information that consists of: — Corbion at a glance; — Message from the CEO; — Company highlights; — Report of the Board of Management; — Report of the Supervisory Board; — Sustainability statements; — Other information, as included on page 158 until 172. Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude that the other information: — is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain material misstatements; — contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through our audit of the financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains material misstatements. By performing these procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of the procedures performed is substantially less than the scope of those performed in our audit of the financial statements. The Board of Management is responsible for the preparation of the other information, including the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Engagement We were re-engaged by the General Shareholders Meeting as auditor of Corbion N.V. on 12 May 2016 for the audit for the year 2017 and have operated as statutory auditor since the financial year 2016. No prohibited non-audit services We have not provided prohibited non-audit services as referred to in Article 5(1) of the EU Regulation on specific requirements regarding statutory audits of public-interest entities. Description of responsibilities regarding the financial statements Responsibilities of Board of Management and the Supervisory Board for the financial statements The Board of Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil KPMG Accountants N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263683, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent companies affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ('KPMG International'), a Swiss entity. Code. Furthermore, the Board of Management is responsible for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Board of Management is responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned, the Board of Management should prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Management either intends to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Board of Management should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the company’s financial reporting process. Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objective is to plan and perform the audit engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for our opinion. Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not detect all material errors and fraud during our audit. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located at the website of de ‘Koninklijke Nederlandse Beroepsorganisatie van Accountants’ (NBA, Royal Netherlands Institute of Chartered Accountants) at: http://www.nba.nl/ENG_oob_01 This description forms part of our independent auditor's report. Utrecht, 6 March 2018 KPMG Accountants N.V. J.G.R. Wilmink RA KPMG Accountants N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263683, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent companies affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ('KPMG International'), a Swiss entity. Assurance report of the independent auditor To: the readers of the Corbion Annual Report Our conclusion We have reviewed the sustainability indicators marked with ‘’ (hereafter: the sustainability indicators) for the year 2017 of Corbion N.V. (hereafter ‘the company’) based in Amsterdam. A review is aimed at obtaining a limited level of assurance. Based on our procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability indicators are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the applied reporting criteria as disclosed in the section ‘Reporting policy’ on page 89 of the Corbion Annual Report. The sustainability indicators are included in pages 4 96 of the Annual Report. Basis for our conclusion We have performed our review on the sustainability indicators in accordance with Dutch law, including Dutch Standard 3000A ’Assurance-opdrachten anders dan opdrachten tot controle of beoordeling van historische financiële informatie (attest-opdrachten)’ (assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information (attestation engagements)). This review engagement is aimed at obtaining limited assurance. Our responsibilities under this standard are further described in the ‘Our responsibilities for the review of the sustainability indicators’ section of our report. We are independent of Corbion N.V. in accordance with the ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten’ (ViO, Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, a regulation with respect to independence) and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore, we have complied with the ‘Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA, Dutch Code of Ethics). We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements which are identified during the review and which in our view must be reported on quantitative or qualitative grounds, would be reported to them. Scope of the group review Corbion N.V. is at the head of a group of entities. The information of the components within this group is included in the sustainability indicators of the company. Our group review mainly focused on significant group components. The Group operates through a number of legal entities. These entities form reporting components for the sustainability indicators which are primarily based on production locations. Significant group components are defined as components that largely contribute to the indicators in scope. We have:  performed review procedures ourselves at the production locations in the Netherlands and Spain; and  performed remote interviews and review procedures for a number of the production locations in the USA and the production location in Thailand. By performing the procedures mentioned above at group entities, together with additional procedures at group level, we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance evidence about the group’s sustainability indicators to provide a conclusion about the sustainability indicators. Unreviewed corresponding information The sustainability indicators for the period 2016 have not been reviewed. Consequently, the corresponding sustainability indicators for the period 2016 in this annual report are not reviewed. Consistency of the information included in other parts of the annual report In addition to the sustainability indicators and our assurance report thereon, the annual report contains other information. Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude that the other information included in other parts of the annual report is consistent with the sustainability indicators and does not contain material misstatements. We have read the other parts of the annual report. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through our review of the sustainability indicators, we have considered whether the information included in other parts of the annual report contains material misstatements. The scope of the procedures performed is substantially less than the scope of those performed in our review of the sustainability indicators. Responsibilities of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board for the sustainability indicators The Board of Management of Corbion is responsible for the preparation of the sustainability indicators in accordance with the applied reporting criteria as disclosed in the section ‘Reporting policy’ on page 89 of the annual report, including the identification of stakeholders and the definition of material matters. The choices made by the Board of Management regarding the scope of the annual report and the reporting policy are summarized in chapter ‘Sustainability Statements’ of the annual report. The Board of Management is also responsible for such internal control as the Board of Management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the sustainability indicators that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing Corbion’s reporting process. Our responsibilities for the review of the sustainability indicators Our responsibility is to plan and perform the assurance engagement in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance evidence for our conclusion. KPMG Accountants N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263683, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent companies affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ('KPMG International'), a Swiss entity. Procedures performed in an assurance engagement to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed to determine the plausibility of information and are less extensive than a reasonable assurance engagement. The level of assurance obtained in assurance engagements is therefore substantially less than the level of assurance obtained in an audit engagement. Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of users taken on the basis of the sustainability indicators. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our review procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our conclusion. We apply the ‘Nadere voorschriften kwaliteitssystemen’ (Regulations on quality management systems) and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional scepticism throughout the review, in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3000A, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Our review engagement included, among others, the following procedures:  Performing an analysis of the external environment and obtaining an understanding of relevant social themes and issues, and the characteristics of the organization;  Identifying areas of the sustainability indicators where material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error, are likely to arise, designing and performing assurance procedures responsive to those areas, and obtaining assurance evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion;  Developing an understanding of internal control relevant to the assurance engagement in order to design assurance procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing a conclusion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control;  Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting criteria used and their consistent application, including the evaluation of the results of the stakeholders’ dialogue and the reasonableness of estimates made by management and related disclosures in the sustainability indicators;  Evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the sustainability indicators, including the disclosures; and evaluating whether the sustainability indicators represent the underlying transactions and events free from material misstatement;  Interviewing management and relevant staff at corporate level responsible for the sustainability strategy and policy;  Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the information for, carrying out internal control procedures on and consolidating the data in the sustainability indicators;  Visits to production sites in the Netherlands and Spain aimed at, on a local level, to validate source data and to evaluate the design and implementation of internal control and validation procedures;  Reviewing relevant internal and external documentation, on a limited test basis, in order to determine the reliability of the sustainability indicators;  An analytical review of data and trends. We communicate with the Audit Committee regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the review and significant findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during our review. Utrecht, 6 March 2018 KPMG Accountants N.V. J.G.R. Wilmink RA KPMG Accountants N.V., registered with the trade register in the Netherlands under number 33263683, is a member firm of the KPMG network of independent companies affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative ('KPMG International'), a Swiss entity. 170 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Other information Five years in figures Millions of euros 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Continuing operations* Net sales 892 911 918 770 744 Operating result 122 127 109 13 38 EBITDA excluding one-off items 164 170 150 110 100 Result after taxes 85 104 80 -18 5 Earnings per ordinary share in euros 1) 1.46 1.74 1.29 -0.34 0.03 Diluted earnings per ordinary share in euros 1) 1.44 1.72 1.28 -0.33 0.03 Cash flow from operating activities 118 123 110 67 34 Cash flow from operating activities per ordinary share, in euros 1)** 2.03 2.06 1.79 1.04 0.44 Depreciation/amortization fixed assets 45 50 46 44 41 Capital expenditure on fixed assets 49 51 68 63 76 EBITDA margin % 2) 18.4 18.7 16.4 14.2 13.4 Result after taxes/net sales % 9.5 11.4 8.7 -2.4 0.7 Number of employees at closing date 1,794 1,684 1,673 1,860 1,885 Total operations Statement of financial position Non-current assets 498 467 470 433 436 Current assets 295 316 246 239 206 Non-interest-bearing current liabilities 129 147 135 130 134 Net debt position 3) 162 98 62 -6 -29 Provisions 24 39 31 40 32 Equity 489 499 488 509 505 Key data per ordinary share Number of issued ordinary shares 59,242,792 57,862,037 59,904,209 62,041,761 71,939,942 Number of ordinary shares with dividend rights 58,620,564 57,365,098 59,420,763 61,557,106 61,176,915 Weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares ** 58,097,383 58,433,493 60,380,489 61,759,190 70,479,684 Price as at 31 December 27.00 25.43 22.32 13.82 15.40 Highest price in calendar year 29.39 25.65 22.91 17.27 18.60 Lowest price in calendar year 23.15 17.92 12.7 10.56 14.41 Market capitalization as at 31 December 1,583 1,459 1,326 851 942 Earnings in euros ** 1.46 1.74 1.29 -0.34 -0.01 Diluted earnings in euros ** 1.44 1.72 1.28 -0.33 -0.01 Other key data Cash flow from operating activities 118 123 110 67 10 Depreciation/amortization fixed assets 45 50 46 44 41 Capital expenditure on (in)tangible fixed assets 49 51 68 63 76 Number of employees at closing date *** 1,794 1,684 1,673 1,860 1,885 Number of issued financing preference shares 2,279,781 2,403,781 2,574,281 2,983,794 Equity per share in euros 4) 8.35 8.36 7.89 7.93 7.87 Regular dividend in euro per ordinary share (reporting year) 0.56 0.56 0.43 0.21 0.15 Additional dividend in euro per ordinary share (reporting year) 0.44 0.42 0.81 0.70 Ratios Net debt position/EBITDA 5) 1.0 0.6 0.4 -0.1 -0.2 Interest cover 6) 24.4 23.0 25.5 23.8 13.6 Balance sheet total: equity 1:0.6 1:0.6 1:0.6 1:0.6 1:0.7 Net debt position: equity 1:3 1:5.1 1:7.9 1:-87.7 1:-17.2 Current assets: current liabilities 1:0.6 1:0.5 1:0.4 1:0.6 1:0.4 * The previous years have not been restated for discontinued operations later on. ** Only the preceding year has been restated for stock dividend. *** Starting 2015 number of employees based on FTE, before 2015 based on headcount. 1) Per ordinary share in euros after deduction of dividend on financing preference shares. 2) EBITDA margin % is EBITDA divided by net sales x 100. 3) Net debt position comprises interest-bearing debts less cash and cash equivalents, including third party guarantees which are required to be included under the debt covenants. 4) Equity per share is equity divided by the number of shares with dividend rights. 5) EBITDA is Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation, Amortization and impairment of (in)tangible fixed assets, excluding one-off items,increased by cash dividend of joint ventures received and annualization effect of newly acquired subsidaries. 6) Interest cover is EBITDA as defined in Note 5 divided by net interest income and charges. CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Other information 171 Investor relations Dividend According to the Corbion Articles of Association, the Board of Management shall decide subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board which part of the profit is to be reserved. The remaining profit shall be at the disposal of the General Meeting of Shareholders. The General Meeting of Shareholders may decide upon a proposal by the Board of Management with the approval of the Supervisory Board to pay dividends to shareholders from the distributable equity. In terms of dividend policy, Corbion’s ambition is to pay out annually a stable to gradually increasing absolute dividend amount per share (progressive regular dividend policy). For 2017, the dividend proposal is a regular dividend in cash of € 0.56 per ordinary share (2016: € 0.56). Proposed appropriation of profit Millions of euros 2017 2016 Result after taxes 84.6 103.6 Available for dividend payment to holders of financing preference shares 2.1 Proposed addition to the reserves 51.8 44.1 Available for cash dividend to holders of ordinary shares 32.8 57.4 Regular cash dividend of € 0.56 (2016: € 0.56) per ordinary share with a nominal value of € 0.25 32.8 32.1 No additional cash dividend in 2017 (2016: € 0.44) per ordinary share with a nominal value of € 0.25 25.3 Information on the Corbion share 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Number of ordinary shares with dividend rights x 1,000 as at 31 December 58,621 57,365 59,421 61,557 61,177 Market capitalization in millions of euros as at 31 December 1,583 1,459 1,326 851 942 Highest share price 29.39 25.65 22.91 17.27 18.60 Lowest share price 23.15 17.92 12.70 10.56 14.41 Share price as at 31 December 27.00 25.43 22.32 13.82 15.40 Average daily turnover of shares 170,440 142,677 196,700 141,134 243,793 Trends in share price 200 Movement in price of Corbion shares from 180 2 January 2013 to 160 29 December 2017 (per share of € 0.25) 140 2 January 2013 = 100) 120 100 Midkap index (2 January 2013 = 100) 80 60 40 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 172 CORBION ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Other information Financial calendar* 26 April 2018 Publication of the interim management statement first quarter 2018 25 May 2018 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 29 May 2018 Ex date 30 May 2018 Record date 5 June 2018 Dividend payable for 2017 8 August 2018 Publication of half-year figures 2018 2 November 2018 Publication of the interim management statement third quarter 2018 13 May 2019 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders * subject to change Contact information The Investor Relations and Media sections of the company’s website www.corbion.com contains up-to-date financial information about Corbion. For more information, please contact: Analysts and investors Jeroen van Harten, Director Investor Relations +31 (0)20 590 6293, +31(0)6 2157 7086 Press Tanno Massar, Director Corporate Communications +31 (0)20 590 6325, +31 (0)6 1158 9121 Concept and design Publication date Cascade-visuele comunicatie March 2018
