Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 2 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Contents 04 Ι. Message from the CEO 40 VI. EMPLOYEES 1. Human Resources and Employment 2. Health and Safety 42 44 06 ΙΙ. Overview 3. Equality and Diversity 4. Training and Development 5. Achievements 2016 and Objectives 2017 47 49 51 08 ΙΙΙ. Attica Group 1. The Passenger Shipping Industry 2. About Attica Group 9 10 52 VII. PASSENGERS 1. Safety and Security 2. Responsible Communication 54 57 3. Quality and Satisfaction 59 16 ΙV. MANAGEMENT 1. Corporate Governance 18 4. Achievements 2016 and Objectives 2017 63 2. Corporate Responsibility 3. Materiality and Stakeholders 4. Achievements 2016 and Objectives 2017 22 24 29 64 VIII. ENVIRONMENT 1. Air Quality and Energy 2. Raw Materials and Solid Waste 66 70 3. Water and Liquid Waste 73 . Achievements 2016 and Objectives 2017 75 30 V. SOCIETY 1. Economic Growth 2. Society Support 32 33 76 IX. Summary 1. About this Report 76 3. Responsible Procurement 37 2. Summary Data 77 4. Achievements 2016 and Objectives 2017 39 3. Global Compact, Sustainable Development 84 Goals, ISO26000 and GRI Tables 4. Glossary 91 5. Feedback Form 92 ATTICA GROUP 3 Ι. Message from the CEO 4 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Dear Reader, The year 2016 was one of the best years in terms of In order to go a step further through our 8th Corporate service provision by the passenger shipping industry. Responsibility Report, we are the first passenger shipping However, while transportation volume remained at 2015 company worldwide to develop a Report in accordance levels, passenger shipping companies continue to face with the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability certain challenges and register considerable financial Reporting Standards. Within this Report, we focus more on losses, due to the 2009-2014 period. the issues we have a significant impact on our Stakeholders and present our actions, goals and achievements during With 21 years of continuous presence in our seas, we 2016. Indicatively, we: are the passenger shipping industry leader in the Eastern Distributed over €335.3 million in economic value to our Mediterranean Sea, while 2016 marked our dynamic Stakeholders. entrance in the Morocco Spain route. Our objective is to Have communicated Codes of professional behavior to continuously develop and support our industry’s growth 100% of our employees. and our country’s economic activity through our operations, Employ 100% of our employees with full time a particularly important issue in the current period, due employment contracts. to the unique challenges which arise at national and Reduced our total water consumption by 3%. international level. For this reason, we recognize the need to actively participate and further disseminate responsible As a closing mark, I would like to thank all our office business practices in five areas of Corporate Responsibility: and marine employees and our partners who greatly Management, Society, Employees, Passengers and contributed to our responsible operation in a challenging Environment, for which we commit to: year, as well as strengthen our commitment to continue Adopt responsible policies and practices and to our efforts related to Corporate Responsibility, which is one harmoniously cooperate with our Stakeholders, in order of our Group’s six values. to create mutual long-term value. Combine our business success with our country’s Have a pleasant reading, and partners’ development, as well as support local communities affected by our operations, in order to Spyridon Paschalis Chief Executive Officer Attica Group contribute to improving the quality of life and prosperity of our society in general. Cultivate a workplace focused on respect, equality, safety and merit, as well as offer training opportunities to our employees, in order to facilitate their personal and professional development. Safeguard the health and safety of our passengers and offer them the best possible travel experience, in order to meet their needs and expectations during their journey. Integrate sustainable development in our operations and apply environmentally friendlier business practices, in order to reduce, where feasible, our environmental impacts. ATTICA GROUP 5 ΙΙ. Overview ATTICA GROUP We handled 3,191,491 reservations 21 years of continuous presence in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea in our Seas (with 52,895 more on the Morocco Spain route), through our central reservation systems We operate 13 modern vessels in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea (with 2 more on the Morocco Spain route) MANAGEMENT We have communicated Codes We informed 8 Management Executives of professional behavior to 100% on legislative competition issues of our employees No bribery incidents related We were subject to 41 external to our employees occurred Management System audits, with no recorded non-compliance incident We increased by 9% the number of GRI No violation cases concerning our indicators and by 8% the number of main principles and rules of professional quantitative indicators we make reference behavior occurred to within the Report We informed 100% of office employees on our anti-corruption policies and procedures SOCIETY We distributed over €335.3 million in We collected 324 blood units through economic value: over €60.5 million to our voluntary blood donation programs employees (for salaries, benefits and in the last four years insurance payments), €48.6 million for taxes (including VAT and port taxes), €60.9 million to providers of capital (for interest We welcomed 866 young people and return payments), €14.9 million to from schools and universities visiting agents (for commissions), €145.1 million our facilities to suppliers (for purchases of goods and services), €1.3 million to society (for We supported the development of 232 discount tickets, implemented programs, students in Merchant Navy’s Officer sponsorships and donations) and €4 million and Coast Guard academies for investments We increased the percentage of We allocated 100% of sponsorships procurement expenditure to local and donations to local communities suppliers to 90.4% We increased the percentage of rural suppliers by 42.3% 6 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 EMPLOYEES 82.8% of our employees (80% of marine We employ100% of our employees employees) received their annual leave, with full time employment contracts as initially planned We conducted internal trainings on Health 100% of employees in Director/Manager and Safety issues to 100% of marine positions are of local nationality employees No complaints or grievances regarding The entry level wage of office employees our marine employees’ living conditions is higher than the minimum wage were filed by 19.5% No complaints or grievances regarding our We covered 50% of permanent job employees’ labour conditions were filed openings in offices by internal candidates PASSENGERS We conducted internal trainings on We trained 33.3% of Marketing Departpassenger safety procedures to 100% ment employees on responsible communiof marine employees cation issues The overall performance of our vessels We sent 68,954 SMS messages in the Domestic and Adriatic Sea lines to our passengers increased by 1% and 2% respectively We dispatched 2,317 notifications We were subject to 59 inspections from to serve passengers with particular local authorities for food hygiene and requirements to our vessels, out of which safety, with no recorded non-compliance 228 for passengers with reduced mobility incidents and 13 for passengers with sensitivity to allergens We maintain 4 corporate websites, with over 2.5 million unique visitors annually We increased the members in our loyalty and handle 5 mobile applications with over and reward program by 38% 89,000 downloads ENVIRONMENT We used 43% recycled paper for printing We produced 4,380 KWh of electricity and copying at our offices and vessels We use refrigerant materials that do not We transported from Islands free-ofaffect the ozone layer (such as R134a, charge over 78 tonnes of materials R404a, R410) in 100% of refrigerators for recycling and freezers onboard our vessels We informed our passengers on We reduced our total water consumption Corporate Responsibility issues, such by 3% as environmental protection ATTICA GROUP 7 ΙΙΙ. Attica Group The leader in passenger and freight units maritime transportation in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea and the fastest growing company in the Morocco Spain route WE ARE... WE OFFER... We serve over 40 destinations in Greece and Italy, 21 years of presence in our seas through our Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries brands, which are known for their high level of service, as well as the Morocco Spain route, through our new Africa Morocco Links (AML) brand. 4 million passengers annually in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea (and 187 thousand in the Morocco Spain route) 601,000 private vehicles annually in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea (and 42 thousand in the Morocco-Spain route) 290,430 freight units annually in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea (and 3.8 thousand in the Morocco-Spain route) 13 modern vessels in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea (and 2 more in the Morocco-Spain route) 1.2 million miles annually (55 times around the Earth) 1,342 employees 8 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 1. The Passenger Shipping Industry About the Industry At the same time, the Adriatic Sea market shows signs of stabilization, after a prolonged shrinking period and intense Passenger shipping is one of the most important industries competition among companies routing to Italy, due to: in the Greek economy, as the use of passenger and carVessels with foreign flags, which operate at lower costs passenger vessels is required to connect islands with the compared to vessels with the Greek flag, as a result of mainland, as well as to connect Greece with Italy. Based on various legislative and administrative arrangements. a 2014 study conducted by the Foundation for Economic Seasonal operation of vessels by smaller companies, mainly and Industrial Research (IOBE), the domestic lines sector due to lower fuel costs. contributes €11.8 billion or 6.5% of the Greek GDP and employs approximately 260,000 employees or 7.2% of the The industry demonstrates intense seasonality regarding total workforce in Greece. The sector includes 27 passenger transportation of passengers and private vehicles, as there is shipping companies with 91 vessels, which: higher transportation volume during July to September and Connect almost daily 95 islands, out of which 69 have no reduced transportation volume during November to February. other connection option such as airports. On the other hand, there is lower seasonality regarding Conduct 40,000 journeys and annually transport over transportation of freight units, as their transportation volume 15.7 million passengers (out of which 65% are tourists, is equally distributed throughout the year. Nonetheless, with 35% or 3.6 million of these being foreigners) and domestic passenger shipping companies maintain adequate 2.7 million vehicles or 36 million passengers and 9.2 and consistent shipping services throughout the year, in million vehicles, including ferries. cooperation with local authorities and the relevant Ministry. Transport 8 million tonnes of cargo and food products which cover almost all needs of islands. Seasonality of Passengers and Vehicles Transportation It must be noted that the Greek domestic lines transportation 3 volume represents 19.2% of total maritime transportation 4 volume and is by far the highest in Europe, despite the fact January 7 that Greece accounts just for 2.2% of the total European 3 population. February 3 6 Contribution of the Greek Domestic Lines sector 5 to the EU Domestic Lines transportation volume March 4 7 6 Germany Others 6 7.6% 4.8% April 10 Denmark Italy 10.5% 9 17.5% May 8 9 Estonia 10 3.5% June 8 Spain Greece 10 5.4% 19.2% 17 July 16 Croatia 59% 11 6% 59% 21 Finland Sweden 40% 25 4.7% 7.5% August 10 France 11 United Kingdom 6.6% 10 6.7% September 9 7 October 6 8 The Greek Domestic Lines sector contributes 4 6.5% to the Greek GDP, employs 260,000 employees, November 5 connects daily 95 islands and accounts 7 for 19.2% of the total European maritime 4 transportation volume December 5 6 Passengers (%) Private vehicles (%) Source: Hellenic Statistical Authority Freight units (%) ATTICA GROUP 9 Coastline Greece has the 11th largest coastline worldwide (13,676 km), just behind China with a coastline of 14,500 km. The country’s extensive coastline is attributed to its unique geographical relief and morphology, which includes 6,000 islands and islets scattered in the Aegean and Ionian Seas. With over 1,500,000 registered inhabitants in 227 islands, Greek islands are traditionally one of the most popular tourist destinations, both for Greek citizens and foreign visitors, while it is estimated that 60%-65% of the country’s hotel beds are on islands. 2. About Attica Group Who we are Shareholder Structure Shareholder Share Our Group is active in the passenger shipping industry and MIG Shipping S.A. 77.8% operates on the Cyclades, Dodecanese, North-East Aegean Marfin Investment Group 11.6% islands and Crete domestic routes and on the Greece Italy routes, through our subsidiaries and commercial brands Blue Other Shareholders 10.6% Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries respectively. Furthermore, we participate with 49% share in the newly founded AFRICA MOROCCO LINKS (AML), which connects Morocco with Venice continental Europe. The Group is listed on the Athens Stock Exchange, is a member of the international investment holding Ancona company Marfin Investment Group (MIG) and its offices are located in Athens. ITALY Bari 100% GREECE Igoumenitsa Patra GREECE North Aegean Piraeus Adriatic 100% Sea Cyclades Mediterranean Adriatic Sea Dodecanese Crete SPAIN Algeciras 49% Tangier Med MOROCCO 10 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Our culture Vision To strengthen the Group’s leading position and value, through profitable expansion into new markets and activities, as well as provide high quality services which exceed market expectations. Mission Attica Group is an international Shipping Group, which offers high quality shipping services with innovative and aesthetic vessels. The Group's activities generate added value for shareholders and employees, reduce where feasible our environmental footprint and operate for our partners’ and local communities’ benefit. Strategic Development Principles Being customers’ first choice. Offer reliable services and continuously improve our products’ quality. Create solid and long-term relationships with customers, our partners and local communities. Manage responsibly our resources and actively contribute to our Group’s healthy, sustainable and profitable growth. Values Re Corp Quality sp or on at sib e ilit y eg Tra Int ATTICA GROUP pa rit y ns ren cy y ilit Innovation liab Re ATTICA GROUP 11 Our history 1918 Incorporated as General Company of 1918 1992 Commerce and Industry of Greece 1924 Listed on the Athens Stock Exchange 1992 Change of ownership and name to Attica Enterprises S.A. , later renamed to Attica Enterprises Holding S.A. Establishment of subsidiary Attica Maritime S.A. , 1993 later renamed to Superfast Ferries Maritime S.A. Order of the first Superfast ferries in Germany, being the first fast conventional cruise ferries worldwide 1995 Delivery and routing of Superfast I and Superfast II 1995 1998 in the Patra Ancona route, reducing sailing time by up to 40% 1998 Launch of Patra-Igoumenitsa-Bari route Acquisition of Strintzis Lines Shipping S.A. 1999 and rebranded to Blue Star Ferries 2001 Entrance in Baltic Sea market between Germany 2001-2005 and Finland. Sailing time reduced to 22h from 32-34h 2002 Launch of the North Sea route between Scotland and Belgium 2005 Entrance in the the RoRo market with the acquisition and routing of two RoRo vessels between Germany and Finland 2007 Marfin Investment Group (MIG) acquires majority shareholding stake of Attica Group Sale of RoRo vessels and exit from the Baltic 2008 and North Sea market Superfast ANEK Joint Venture for Ancona 2011-2014 and Herakleio routes (2011) expanded to Bari, Venice and Chania (2014) Expanded JV Initial JV Superfast Ferries celebrated 20 years since 2015 its first journey Entrance in Africa Europe market with the 2016 establishment of Africa Morocco Links Relocation of main offices to new address Restructure of Group organizational structure 21 years of continuous presence in our Seas 12 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Our fleet The way we operate Our fleet consists of 13 car-passenger (ro-pax) vessels in We utilize products and services from our suppliers, both for the Eastern Mediterranean Sea (the vessel Diagoras was sold the operation of our offices (materials, equipment, services and to AML in June 2016, in order to cover the Morocco Spain know-how), as well as for our vessels (fuels, materials, foodroute), and 2 more in the Morocco Spain route, out of which stuffs and equipment). At the same time, we closely collaborate 13 are privately-owned and 2 are on bareboat contract. It with port authorities and the local communities in the departure must be noted that: and arrival ports of our vessels. 11 of our 13 privately-owned vessels are tailor-designed by our Group for the specific routes we operate and have been Passengers purchase travel services through our extensive built in first-class European and South Korean shipyards, in sales network, which includes: accordance with the highest shipbuilding standards. The corporate websites www.bluestarferries.com, 13 vessels are registered in the Greek ship registry. www.superfast.com and www.aml.ma, as well as mobile The average age of our vessels in the Eastern Mediterranean applications. Sea is 13.5 years and 31.5 years on the Morocco Spain 33 Premium Sales Agents and 42 Port agents for Blue Star route. Ferries and Superfast Ferries, as well as 14 Premium Sales 6 vessels jointly operate with ANEK LINES’s vessels, within Agents and 2 Port agents for AML. the context of the ANEK S.A. SUPERFAST ENDEKA Two central reservation systems, with over 10,000 on-line (HELLAS) INC. & Co. Joint Venture , specifically for the Crete connected travel agencies. and Adriatic Sea routes. The members of the International Union of Railways (UIC) Following the Diagoras vessel sale to AML, we rerouted our for maritime transportation of passengers from trains (200 vessels in our Domestic routes and chartered one vessel members from 100 countries in 5 continents). during the high season period, in order to meet the existing transportation volumes. Vessel Capacity Superfast Blue Star AML* Total Vessels (number) 4 9 1 14 Passengers (number) 5,518 15,094 1,035 21,647 Beds (number) 2,169 2,804 392 5,365 Garage lane length (meters) 8,840 11,214 634 20,688 * Data do not include the vessel Morocco Star, which was added in December 2016 and did not conduct any journeys, as well as the vessels El. Venizelos and Aylah, which were chartered during the high season in the Morocco-Spain route. Transportation Volume 2013 2014 2015 2016 Difference 2016-15 Eastern Mediterranean Sea Passengers (million) 3.76 4.13 4.5 4.04 -10.2% Private vehicles (thousand) 503.42 537.65 576.76 601.72 +4.3% Freight units (thousand) 258.82 263.96 270.39 290.43 +7.4% Morocco Spain We handled 3,191,491 reservations in the Passengers (million) 187.08 Eastern Mediterranean Sea (with 52,895 more Private vehicles (thousand) 42.05 on the Morocco Spain route), through our Freight units (thousand) 3.82 central reservation systems We operate 13 modern vessels in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea (with 2 more on the Morocco-Spain route) ATTICA GROUP 13 Our Sales Network RUSSIA HOLLAND UNITED KINGDOM POLAND BELGIUM CHECH GERMANY REPUBLIC AUSTRIA FRANCE SWITZERLAND PRISTINE/ BULGARIA KOSOVO F.Y.R.O.M. TURKEY ITALY SPAIN GREECE CYPRUS MOROCCO ISRAEL In order to provide our services in 2016, we used: 10 vessels in the Domestic lines to connect Piraeus with Cyclades, Dodecanese, Crete (Chania and Heraklion) and N.E. Aegean islands. 3 privately-owned vessels in the Adriatic Sea lines MYTILENE (PatraIgoumenitsa-Ancona and Patra-Igoumenitsa-Bari, with an intermediary approach in the port of Corfu during OINOUSSES the summer months), while we also served the PatraPSARA CHIOS Igoumenitsa-Venice route with the vessel Asterion, which is PIRAEUS chartered to ANEK LINES, under the ANEK-Superfast Joint Venture. TINOS MYCONOS 3 vessels in the Morocco-Spain route (Tangier Med PATMOS Algeciras), one of which is privately-owned and two SYROS NAXOS DONOUSA LEIPSOI PAROS KOUFONISIA LEROS chartered for AML. SCHINOUSSA KALIMNOS IRAKLIA IOS AMORGOS KOS ASTYPALAIA NISYROS SYMI SANTORINI TILOS ANAFI RHODES CHANIA KARPATHOS HERAKLION KASTELLORIZO 14 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Our Value Chain Main Offices Materials Equipment Travel Services Services Know-how Information Systems Local Suppliers Passengers Ports Communities Information Travel Systems Services Sales Network Fuels Materials Foodstuffs Equipment ATTICA GROUP 15 IV. Management Incorporate Responsibility into our daily management practices WE ARE... WE FOLLOW... Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact 5 pillars of Corporate Responsibility Work against all forms of corruption, including PRINCIPLE extortion and bribery 10 11 Stakeholder groups WE ACHIEVED... 1st passenger shipping company worldwide to develop a Report in We have communicated Codes of professional behavior to 100% of our employees. accordance with the GRI Standards, No bribery incidents related to our employees occurred. at Core level No violation cases concerning our main principles and rules of professional behavior occurred. 33 the Report quantitative objectives in We informed 100% of office employees on our anticorruption policies and procedures. We informed 8 Management Executives on legislative competition issues. 72 GRI indicators in the Report We were subject to 41 external Management System audits, with no recorded non-compliance incident. We increased by 9% the number of GRI indicators and by 8% the number of quantitative indicators we make reference to within the Report. WE COMMIT TO.... Adopt responsible policies and practices in our operations and to harmoniously cooperate with our Stakeholders, in order to create mutual long-term value. 16 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 WE FOCUS... Raw Materials & Solid Waste Air Quality & Energy Water & Liquid Waste Human Resources & Employment State Environment Safety & Security Equality & Diversity NGOs Passengers ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Quality & Satisfaction EMPLOYMENT PASSENGER Employees Media RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT Responsible Communication CONDITIONS SAFETY Training & Development Sales Network Shareholders Health & Safety SOCIETY SUPPORT Citizens Associations and Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Growth Responsible Procurement Societal Support ATTICA GROUP 17 1. Corporate Governance We operate based on Corporate Governance The Board of Directors is supported by the Audit practices Committee, which is elected from the General Meeting of shareholders and consists of two independent non-executive Attica Group has developed and implements a Corporate members and one executive member, who meet at least Governance Code, in accordance with the applicable quarterly, in order to: legislation and the Hellenic Capital Market Commission’s Oversee compliance with legislation and regulatory directives. Attica Group’s Board of Directors (BoD) is requirements. responsible to decide on all strategic aspects, manage Ensure transparency of corporate operations. corporate issues and approve the Group’s long-term Evaluate the effectiveness of internal control and risk strategy and consists of the following members (data as of management systems. 31/03/2017): Monitor, review and evaluate the process of compiling financial information. Kyriakos Mageiras: President, Executive member Michael Sakellis: Vice-President, Independent, Non-Executive member Spyridon Paschalis: Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Executive member Dependency Relationships for BoD Members Hercules Simitsidellis: Executive member George Efstratiadis: Non-Executive member According to our Corporate Governance Code, we Emmanouil Xanthakis: Independent, Non-Executive member consider that a dependency relationship exists for candidate and actual independent, non-executive BoD members, when the member: Corporate Governance Code Maintains business or other professional relationship According to our Internal Regulation Code, the Corporate with the Group or an affiliated company, which affects Governance Department (whose Director reports directly its business activity, especially in cases of being a to the Board of Directors) is responsible to adhere to, major supplier or customer of the Group. update and implement the Corporate Governance Code. Is BoD President or manager within the Group, or has the above described attributes, or is an executive BoD member in an affiliate company, or has any form of The Board of Directors consists between three to nine employment or paid relationship with the Group or an members, who are elected by the General Meeting of affiliated company. shareholders for two years. Has up to second-degree relationship or is a spouse BoD members elect the President, Vice-President and Chief of an executive BoD member or a manager or a Executive Officer, as well as the Authorized Director, if shareholder who holds the majority share capital of the deemed necessary. Group or an affiliated company. Responsibilities of the President and the Chief Executive Officer are separate. At the moment, there are no consultation processes between Stakeholders and the BoD on sustainability issues. Conflicts of Interests However, it must be noted that there were no critical concerns communicated to the BoD within 2016. According to our Corporate Governance Code, BoD The BoD is responsible for the Chief Executive Officer’s members and any other person with delegated BoD performance evaluation. responsibilities are prohibited to pursue personal The Chief Executive Officer evaluates managers’ interests which conflict with business interests. In case performance on an annual basis. Evaluation criteria such personal interests exist, they shall inform other include achievement of their objectives, their contribution members for actual or potential conflict of interests to cultivate an excellent workplace and their personal while performing their duties. The General Meeting characteristics. of shareholders is responsible to approve any action Remuneration for executive members is associated with of BoD members and managers on their behalf or on the corporate strategy and achievement of pursued behalf of third parties or participate as equal partners objectives, while remuneration for non-executive in companies which pursue objectives similar to those members is associated with their employment time and pursued by our Group. responsibilities, without being directly associated with business performance, in order to encourage freedom of opinion regarding taking increased business risks. 18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 We apply Principles and Codes of Conduct Accepting Gifts Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct: According to the Code of Ethics & Professional We have communicated our Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct, employees and first-degree relatives are Conduct to all office employees via e-mail, which is also strictly prohibited to directly or indirectly engage in placed on their computer desktop. The Code is also part any kind of bribery (such as giving or receiving any gift, of the introductory material provided to all new hired financial incentive, loan, commission, reward or other employees, who sign for its receive and acceptance, and incentive) towards or from any person, as an incentive outlines the principles and rules which govern our business to conduct their tasks in a non-appropriate manner. activities on the following topics: All employees are obliged to report any received gift of Confidentiality Privacy. high value to the Human Resources Department. Professional Behavior: Behavior towards customers, In case of confirmed bribery incident, we immediately Behavior among colleagues. terminate the employment relationship. Professional Appearance. Conflict of interests. Corruption Bribery. Engaging with Other Work Activities. Processes for Meritocracy. No bribery incidents related to our employees Transparency of Activities. occurred Respect for Property and Provided Resources. Group Representation in Media Publications Public Views. Information Security -Insider Information. Report of Illegal Activities and Violations. Corporate Social Responsibility. Reporting Violations It must be noted that: Any employee who becomes aware of any violation All employees with permanent and temporary employment of the Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct (such contracts are obliged to follow the Code of Ethics & as fraud, theft or any other illegal activity), should Professional Conduct. report the incident to his/her manager who informs the We consider non-compliance with its principles as an Human Resources Department or the Internal Audit occupational misconduct and may lead to termination of Department, in cases of fraud or expected financial employment or even legal sanctions. losses. At the same time, marine employees can report All employees can seek advice or guidance on its principles potential violations through the established procedure from the Human Resources Department or their Director, in for submitting complaints. It must be noted that all case they consider that there might be a conflict of interest. employees can contact the competent authorities No such cases have been reported within 2016. directly for any violations, instead of going through the We prohibit any manager-employee personal relationship formal corporate procedures. At the moment, there is no within the same Department. Instead, we recommend that provision for employees to anonymously report violation related employees or with any other personal relationship cases, since all reports have to be submitted by name. are employed in different Departments. Rules of Behavior: We have communicated a booklet to all marine employees, which outlines main rules of professional No violation cases concerning our main principles behavior towards colleagues and customers. and rules of professional behavior occurred We have communicated Codes of professional behavior to 100% of our employees ATTICA GROUP 19 We apply internal control and risk management systems Ensuring Business Continuity and Cybersecurity Internal Control: We apply an internal control system, in In order to ensure our infrastructures and computer order to ensure our efficient operation and provide reliable systems’ uninterrupted operation, we: financial information. The Board of Directors monitors, Operate an Alternative Information Systems and assesses and ensures the adequacy of the internal control Telecommunications Center. system (including financial statements), which includes: Implement a specific on-site and off-site backup policy. The Audit Committee. The Internal Audit Department, which reports directly to Furthermore, we have established cybersecurity the BoD and is supervised by the Audit Committee. The processes to maintain a secure online environment, in Department operates as an independent body and audits which we define our actions to protect office and vessel our functions and procedures, as well as monitor the Internal information systems from risks, such as: Regulation Code’s implementation and enforcement. Computer viruses and malware. The Internal Regulation Code, which defines: Internal attacks. Departments’ structure, their responsibilities and the Important data destruction due to employee relationship with the Group’s management. negligence. Responsibilities of BoD members. External attacks (such as hacking and phishing). Recruitment and performance evaluation process for Attacks to disrupt services when connected to the managers. Internet (Denial of Service DOS). Monitoring of transactions from BoD members, managers and persons with insider information. Public disclosure of significant transactions. Principles for transactions between affiliated companies. Stock Trading Monitoring Procedure According to the relevant legislation, we have compiled a list of people with access to privileged information, which is provided to the Commission upon request. We inform each person in the list for its obligations, as well as potential sanctions in case of information misuse. Risk Management: We categorize potential risks related to financial, social and environmental issues, according to their probability of occurrence and the impact on our operations. Within this context, we update the Risk Registry at least once a year, while the Board of Directors assesses these risks and approves necessary actions to address them. Through this approach, we have identified the following main risks and uncertainties, which are related to our activities: Continuous recession of the Greek economy and the reduction in the available income. Fluctuation of fuel prices. Intense competition in domestic and abroad shipping lines. Seasonality of operations due to tourism. Need to maintain sufficient liquidity. Restrictions imposed by capital controls. Fluctuation of interest rates in bank lending. Changes in exchange rates, especially when purchasing shipping fuels. Loan obligations due to the substantial capital amounts required to purchase vessels. Potential vessel accidents which might occur. 20 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 We contribute to anti-corruption We follow fair competition rules Within the context of our efforts to combat and eradicate We recognize the importance and our responsibility to follow corruption, we have accepted and signed the UN Global fair competition rules and do not adopt anti-competitive Compact’s Call for Action initiative and commit to practices. Within this context: implement policies and practices to effectively tackle We do not make negative comments about our competitors corruption incidents. Furthermore, we: publicly. Have placed our anti-corruption policies and procedures on We do not engage in illegal partnerships or cartel all our office employees’ computer desktop. agreements for price fixing, market sharing or entering new Submit our positions regarding issues of public interest at markets and customer segments. national and international level either individually or through We do not allow our employees to discuss future plans that INTERFERRY (the international shipping association which are not publicly known or salary issues. represents the ferry industry worldwide) and SEEN (the We conduct briefings on legislative competition issues for Greek Shipowners Association for Passenger Ships), in our Management Executives. order to transparently express our views and positions. We informed 8 Management Executives on legislative We informed 100% of office employees competition issues on our anti-corruption policies and procedures Within 2016: There were no complaints or legal actions for antiIt must be noted that within 2016: competitive behavior or anti-trust practices. We made no donations to political parties in Greece. There were no relevant fines or other sanctions imposed by There were no corruption incidents or pending lawsuits the respective authorities. related to corruption or relevant sanctions imposed by Regarding a previous complaint filed to the Hellenic respective authorities. Competition Commission for anti-competitive behavior on There were no legal accusations of corruption filed or behalf of one Group company from an applicant ticket sale pending accusations of corruption or fines imposed. agent, who did not received the respective sale license, we submitted our response to the complaint in writing to the Greek Competition Commission, whose reply has not yet been notified to us. We comply with legislation We closely monitor the regulatory and legal framework related to our activities, in order to apply its relevant provisions. It must be noted that within 2016, there were no written notices regarding compliance issues by respective authorities, while no significant fines (over €20,000) or other sanctions were imposed. ATTICA GROUP 21 2. Corporate Responsibility Global Compact Principles Our Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct reflect our Corporate Responsibility commitment to the 10 Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact, as it includes their acknowledgement Our approach to Corporate Responsibility aims to align and acceptance, in order to further integrate them in the our business operations with the needs of society and way we operate. the environment. Therefore, we design and implement initiatives to prevent potential negative impacts due to our operations and respond to opportunities through European Enterprise Manifesto 2020 interaction with our Stakeholders. Since 2015, we have signed the European Enterprise Manifesto 2020, part of the joint initiative Enterprise We utilize appropriate organizational structures 2020 of the Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR Hellas), the European Business To manage topics related to our responsible operation, we Network for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR have created an organizational structure, as described in Europe) and 42 CSR Networks across Europe. The the figure below. This organizational structure is also used Manifesto promotes cooperation and initiatives in three to collect data, which are used internally to evaluate our strategic areas: performance, and Stakeholders to do the same. Within the Enhance employability and social inclusion. context of revising our organizational structure within 2016, Promote new sustainable production and consumption we created a separate Quality Assurance and Environment methods, as well as improve living conditions. Department. Increase transparency and respect for human rights. Managing Corporate Responsibility Training on Corporate Responsibility Level ATTICA GROUP Following our 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report, we organized a half-day Corporate Responsibility Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer training seminar for the BoD Chairman and members, the Chief Executive Officer, Directors/Managers and Top Management Executives, as well as the Corporate Management Corporate Responsibility Team: Responsibility Team, on the following topics: Legal & Corporate Affairs Definition and importance of Corporate Responsibility. Department Managing Corporate Responsibility in a systematic way. Commercial Department Review of 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report. Human Resources Development of 2016 Corporate Responsibility Department Report, where we conducted a training workshop to discuss areas for improvement and issues that we Marine Operations could potentially add in our Report. Department At Board level, the Chief Executive Officer has the overall responsibility for Corporate Responsibility issues, including principles, policies and objectives. At Management level, the Corporate Responsibility Team is responsible to coordinate our overall Corporate Responsibility strategy. The Team consists of executives from the Legal & Corporate Affairs Department, the Commercial Department, the Human Resources Department and the Marine Operations Department and cooperates with other Departments, in order to diffuse practices related to responsible operation. 22 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 We operate based on Management Systems Our efforts are recognized We use the following certified Management Systems for our We consider the recognition of our efforts related to business operations: Corporate Responsibility as an important moral award, which International Safety Management (ISM) Code. also highlights our commitment to continue our relevant International Vessel and Port Facility Security (ISPS) Code. practices and initiatives. In 2016, we were proud to receive: Maritime Labour Convention (MLC). The True Leader award in ICAP Group's True Leaders ISO 9001 Quality Management System. for the 2nd consecutive year, as among the leading ISO 14001 Environmental Management System. companies in our industry and among the business groups ISO 22000 Food Safety Management System (contractors). with the highest number of employees. HACCP Food Hygiene and Safety Management System (contractors). SAP Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP). We were subject to 41 external Management System audits, with no recorded non-compliance incident We are members in national and international organizations We are members in the following institutions and organizations: INTERFERRY. High Level Ferry Group of the ECSA (European Community A double distinction in Boussias Communications’s Shipowners' Associations). Tourism AWARDS 2016, receiving: Greek Shipowners Association for Passenger Ships (SEEN). The Gold Award in the Supporting local communities / The Vice-President of BoD and the Chief Executive Officer CSR Initiatives First Aid Program , for our First Aid are President of BoD and Vice-President of International program, which is mainly implemented in remote Aegean Routes in the BoD of SEEN. islands and includes First Aid seminars for permanent Hellenic Chamber of Shipping (HCS). The Vice-President residents in collaboration with the Volunteer Crisis Rescue of BoD and the Chief Executive Officer are BoD Members Team (VCRT) and the contribution of local authorities. of HCS. The Silver Award for the corporate identity 20 Years Greek Tourism Confederation (SETE). SUPERFAST FERRIES , for promoting the Superfast Ferries corporate brand’s 20th anniversary to passengers and Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility business partners, as well as national and international (CSR Hellas). Media. Hellenic Marine Environment Protection Association (HELMEPA). Travel Technology Initiative. Sustainable Mobility Group of the International Union of Railways (UIC). EURAIL Group GIE. United Nations’ Global Compact. ATTICA GROUP 23 3. Materiality and Stakeholders We identify Material Topics We have created the following Corporate Responsibility Framework, as a result of an internal analysis and interaction with our Stakeholders, in order to systematically organize and manage Corporate Responsibility issues. Corporate Responsibility Framework Raw Materials & Solid Waste Air Quality & Energy Water & Liquid Waste Human Resources & Employment State Environment Safety & Security Equality & Diversity NGOs Passengers ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Quality & Satisfaction EMPLOYMENT PASSENGER Employees Media RESPONSIBLE Responsible Communication MANAGEMENT CONDITIONS SAFETY Training & Development Sales Network Shareholders Health & Safety SOCIETY SUPPORT Citizens Associations and Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Growth Responsible Procurement Societal Support In each one of the areas of Corporate Responsibility, we focus on Material Topics, identified through a respective Materiality Analysis, during which: We identified potential topics, based on the industry’s regulatory framework, current global conditions and practices and future trends, developing a pool of over 90 topics to be considered. We analyzed the associated risk for each topic, based on: Their potential impact (for our Stakeholders). Their probability of occurrence. We utilized our Stakeholders’ expectations as far as our responsible operation is concerned, where available, taking into consideration Stakeholder engagement input from various sources. We combined the associated risk and Stakeholders’ expectations for each topic. 24 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 The Materiality Analysis was approved by the Corporate Responsibility Team and the Chief Executive Officer, who also approved the Corporate Responsibility Report. Through this Analysis, we have identified the following Material Topics for 2016 (all Topics that were not deemed Material are not referenced in detail): Corporate Responsibility Materiality Analysis High Sea Pollution Passenger Safety Vessel Responsible Buying Accident Impact Vessel Work Conditions Responsible Communication & Sales Anti-competitive Behavior Fuel Spills & Leakages Energy Use CO2 Emissions Risk (impact on Materiality) Effluent Handling at Sea Labor Relations Responsible Buying Products & Services Affordability Supplier Assessment Local Buying for Labor Practices Waste Handling Supplier Human Rights Vessel Health & Safety Products & Services Quality Assessment Equality & Fairness Discharges at Sea Rippling Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Passenger Satisfaction Water Consumption Products & Services Health & Safety Job Security Employee Training In Hazardous Waste Human Rights Material Consumption Effluent Handling at Land SO2, NOX & PM Emissions Community Impact Corporate Volunteering Donation & Sponsoring Sea Biodiversity Environmental Investment Management Society Land Biodiversity & Land Use Training & Development Office Work Conditions Noise Pollution and Air Quality Employees Passengers Environment Refrigerants Use (ODP) Environmental Grievances Environmental Compliance Material Topics of high importance Environmental Training and Material Topics of medium importance Awareness Material Topics of moderate importance Non-Material Topics Low Low Expectation (concern to Stakeholders) High ATTICA GROUP 25 We interact with Stakeholders The way we operate, as well as our decisions, affect a wide range of people, groups and organizations, who comprise our Stakeholders. The following table describes our Stakeholder groups, which influence or are influenced by our operations, the methods we apply to continuously communicate and interact with them, the main topics raised by them, as well as the sections within our Report, where we respond to these topics. Stakeholder Engagement Methods of interaction through Main issues of interest Stakeholder continuous activities (reference in Report) (unless indicated otherwise) DIRECT Job Security (VI-1) Training & Development (VI-4) EMPLOYEES Events / Meetings Vessel Health & Safety (VI-2) Training Vessel Work Conditions (VI-1-4) Negotiations with Employee Unions Equality & Fairness (VI-3) Office Work Conditions (VI-1-4) Employee Training In Human Rights (VI-4, V-2) Passenger Safety (VII-1) General Meeting of Shareholders (annually) Community Impact (V-2) SHAREHOLDERS Websites Corporate Responsibility (IV-2) Meetings Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1) Corporate Governance (IV-1) Passenger Safety (VII-1) Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3) Customer Services Division Products & Services Health & Safety (VII-1) Websites Products & Services Affordability (VII-3) PASSENGERS Satisfaction / Complaints Questionnaires Responsible Communication & Sales (VII-2) Social media Passenger Satisfaction (VII-3) Information leaflets Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1) Environmental Training and Awareness (VIII-1) Events / Meetings Passenger Safety (VII-1) Information systems Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3) SALES NETWORK Travel agents’ online portal Responsible Communication & Sales (VII-2) Websites Passenger Satisfaction (VII-3) Supplier evaluation Responsible Buying (V-3) SUPPLIERS Meetings Local Buying (V-3) Contracts INDIRECT Discussion with representatives at local and national level Passenger Safety (VII-1) STATE Meetings / Presentations Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) (e.g. Ministries, Local Authorities, Participation in organizations and associations Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) Public Services, Port Authorities) Vessel inspections Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1) Formal communication Corporate Governance (IV-1) Participation in associations ASSOCIATIONS & UNIONS Passenger Safety (VII-1) Meetings / Presentations Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3) (e.g. Industry Associations, Hoteliers’ Discussion with representatives at local and national level (Associations) Products & Services Affordability (VII-3) Formal communication 26 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Methods of interaction through Main issues of interest Stakeholder continuous activities (reference in Report) (unless indicated otherwise) INDIRECT Community Impact (V-2) Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) CO2 Emissions (VIII-1) Effluent Handling (VIII-3) Waste Handling (VIII-2) Discharges at Sea (VIII-2, 3) LOCAL COMMUNITIES Meetings / Presentations Hazardous Waste (VIII-3) (e.g. islands) Local events and programs SO2, NOx and PM Emissions (VIII-1) Noise Pollution and Air Quality (VIII-1) Environmental Grievances (VIII-1) Environmental Compliance (VIII-1) Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1) Donation & Sponsoring (V-2) Corporate Volunteering (V-2) Passenger Safety (VII-1) Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3) Energy Use (VIII-1) Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) Websites CO2 Emissions (VIII-1) CITIZENS Social media Environmental Training and Awareness (VIII-1) Material Consumption (VIII-2) Products & Services Affordability (VII-3) Responsible Communication & Sales (VII-2) Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1) Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) Effluent Handling (VIII-3) Waste Handling (VIII-2) Discharges at Sea (VIII-2, 3) Water Consumption (VIII-3) Sea Biodiversity (VIII-3) NON-GOVERNMENTAL Land Biodiversity & Land Use (VIII-3) Collaborations ORGANIZATIONS Noise Pollution and Air Quality (VIII-1) Meetings / Presentations (NGOs) Refrigerants Use (ODP) (VIII-1) Environmental Grievances (VIII-1) Environmental Compliance (VIII-1) Vessel Health & Safety (VI-2) Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1) Vessel Work Conditions (VI-1-4) Equality & Fairness (VI-3) Office Work Conditions (VI-1-4) Passenger Safety (VII-1) Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3) Community Impact (V-2) Press releases Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) Press conferences Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) MEDIA Websites Products & Services Affordability (VII-3) Responsible Communication & Sales (VII-2) Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1) Donation & Sponsoring (V-2) ATTICA GROUP 27 State NGOs Le ve l of Co nt ro l Environment Employees Local Sales Citizens CommuniNetwork Passengers ties Shareholders Suppliers Associations Media and Unions 28 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 We focus on quantitative data and results Quantitative Data within the Corporate Responsibility Report We focus to continuously include and publish more quantitative indicators and objectives, in order to respond to 200 our Stakeholders’ requirement for greater transparency and 2016 58 their need to be able to evaluate our performance. 14 33 185 56 2015 10 We increased by 9% the number of GRI 24 indicators and by 8% the number of quantitative indicators we make reference 115 to within the Report 35 2014 0 0 85 37 2013 Quantitative indicators (number) 11 Fully covered GRI indicators (number) 0 Partially covered GRI indicators (number) Objectives (number) 4. Achievements 2016 and Objectives 2017 We committed Progress We aim By To restructure the Group’s Management and 100% Organizational structure. To create a Quality Assurance and Environment 100% Department. To train the Corporate Responsibility Team 100% in Report development. To conduct a Stakeholder Engagement process To conduct a Stakeholder Engagement on issues related to Corporate Responsibility 25% process on issues related to Corporate 2018 (by 2018). Responsibility. To include Corporate Responsibility Team’s To include Corporate Responsibility Team’s responsibilities within its members’ formal job 0% responsibilities within its members’ formal job 2017 descriptions (by 2017). descriptions. To conduct trainings or briefings related to To conduct trainings or briefings related the Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct 0% 2017 to the Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct. (by 2017). To develop an Anti-Corruption Code. 2017 To include our Corporate Responsibility Report’s quantitative indicators in our SAP 2018 ERP. ATTICA GROUP 29 V. Society We support prosperity of Society WE ARE... WE FOLLOW... Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact €268.61 million turnover Support and respect protection of internationally PRINCIPLE proclaimed human rights 1 €335.3 million economic value distributed Ensure not to be complicit in human rights abuses 2 Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 4 €1.3 million social contribution Abolish effectively child labour 5 Promote greater environmental responsibility 8 44,747 discount tickets WE ACHIEVED... We distributed over €335.3 million in economic value: 68 blood units from volunteer blood donators over €60.5 million to employees (for salaries, benefits and insurance payments), €48.6 million for taxes (including VAT and port taxes), €60.9 million to providers of capital (for interest and return payments), €14.9 million to agents (for commissions), €145.1 million to suppliers (for purchases of goods and services), €1.3 million to society (for discount tickets, implemented programs, sponsorships WE COMMIT TO... and donations) and €4 million for investments. We allocated 100% of sponsorships and donations to local Combine our business success with our country’s communities. and partners’ development, as well as support We collected 324 blood units through our voluntary blood local communities affected by our operations, in donation programs in the last four years. order to contribute to improving the quality of life We welcomed 866 young people from schools and and prosperity of our society in general. universities visiting our facilities. We supported the development of 232 students in Merchant Navy’s Officer and Coast Guard academies. We increased the percentage of procurement expenditure to local suppliers to 90.4%. We increased the percentage of rural suppliers by 42.3%. 30 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 WE FOCUS... Economic Growth Responsible Procurement Societal Support Citizens Associations and Unions Health & Safety Responsible Communication Training & Development Suppliers Local Communities Sales Network SOCIETY SUPPORT Quality & Satisfaction PASSENGER EMPLOYMENT Human Resources & Employment Employees RESPONSIBLE Media MANAGEMENT SAFETY Shareholders CONDITIONS Equality & Diversity Passengers Safety & Security ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT State Environment NGOs Raw Materials & Solid Waste Air Quality & Energy Water & Liquid Waste ATTICA GROUP 31 1. Economic Growth We achieve financial results With over 90 years presence in Greece, we achieve positive Turnover per Market financial results, which are indicatively presented below for the period 2013-2016 (additional financial information 2016 68.1 31.9 can be found in our Annual Financial Reports at www.attica-group.com). 2015 71.4 28.6 Financial Results Domestic routes (%) 2013 2014 2015 2016 Adriatic Sea routes (%) Turnover (total sales with VAT) 260.16 266.66 277.63 268.61 (million €) Operating costs (million €) 219.6 214.06* 183.5* 187.76 Revenue Structure Earnings before interest, taxes, 27.15 42.35 80.7 70.03 depreciation and amortization 5.4% 4% (EBITDA) (million €) 4.8% Profits after taxes (million €) (10.13) 4.27 33.18 20.25 39.5% Corporate taxes (thousand €) 54 148 69 745 10.8% Revenues from passengers Total taxes (including corporate 35.22* 38.36* 45.95* 48.68 Revenues from freight units taxes, VAT and port taxes) Revenues from private vehicles (million €) Revenues from compensation Payments to providers 65.21 93.47* 23.45 60.94 for public services and grants of capital (million €) from EU programs Revenues from onboard sales Payments to suppliers (million €) 147.71* 144.41* 116.23* 145.1 Other revenues 35.5% Cost of employees 58.09 55.42* 58.7 60.59 (including salaries, benefits and insurance payments) (million €) Commissions to agents (million €) 18.33 16.09 15.67 14.91 We contribute to economic growth Investments (million €) 0.42 37.73 1.15 4.06 Our business operations ensure we return significant *Data have been restated. economic value back to our Stakeholders, mostly through purchases (towards our suppliers), commissions (towards our agents), salaries, benefits and insurance payments (towards The deviations in turnover and financial results compared our employees), taxes (towards the State) and investments, to last year can primarily be attributed to the refugee flows while we transport food products and materials to islands, impact in the Northeast Aegean and Dodecanese islands, as in order to develop local economies and tourism. well as the increasing competition in the Domestic market. It must be noted that during 2016, the total financial Economic Value Distribution compensation received from the Greek State and grants from the European Union amounted to €13.48 million, compared to €16.47 million in 2015, due to: Taxes** Capital Providers €48.6 million €60.9 million Public service contracts awarded, as Blue Star Ferries participated in open public tenders by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy to operate shipping routes which connect islands with the mainland. Participation of Blue Star Ferries in refugee transportation Agents Distributed Suppliers programs operated by the Hellenic Republic. €14.9 million Econonic Value €145.1 million Our Group’s participation in the program Poseidon Med II, €335.3 million which is funded by the European Union. Employees* Investments Society*** €60.5 million €4 million €1.3 million * The amount refers to gross salaries, benefits and insurance payments. ** The amount refers to total taxes, including VAT and port taxes. *** The amount refers to value of discount tickets, implemented programs, sponsorships and donations. 32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 We help our sales network develop The current challenging economic situation makes every effort to create direct and indirect job positions particularly important. Therefore, we contribute to our network’s commercial success by developing their employees’ skills, through: Training on issues, such as: Customer management. Familiarization with new features of existing reservation programs. Familiarization with new reservation programs. Presentations-briefings for new products and services. Sales Network Training 74 2016 1,584 83 We distributed over €335.3 million in economic value: over €60.5 million to employees (for salaries, benefits 2015 and insurance payments), €48.6 million for taxes 1,744 (including VAT and port taxes), €60.9 million to providers of capital (for interest and return payments), Employees trained (number) Training hours (hours) €14.9 million to agents (for commissions), €145.1 million to suppliers (for purchases of goods and services), €1.3 million to society (for discount Besides trainings conducted to the Blue Star Ferries and tickets, implemented programs, sponsorships and Superfast Ferries sales network, we trained 42 employees donations) and €4 million for investments of AML’s sales network, for a total duration of 3,360 training hours. 2. Society Support We support society Social Contribution 2013 2014 2015 2016 Within the context of our societal contribution, we supported Value of discount over 50 charitable and non-charitable organizations in 2016, tickets (€) 1,109,258 1,599,431 2,115,612* 1,296,656 focusing on local communities of islands we serve, through: Value of donations NR 4,641 3,634 3,371 Provision of discount tickets. from passengers to Donations to charitable organizations through collection charitable organizations boxes in our vessels. through collection boxes in vessels (€) Social programs to improve the life of residents in islands. Monetary sponsorships and donations. Value of implemented NR 15,446 11,000 0 social programs (€) Value of sponsorships 30,000 57,635 56,102 98,409 It is estimated that during 2016, we offered over €98,000 and donations (€) to various social groups and sport associations, out of which over €68,000 to charitable organizations, with the following * The increased discount tickets value in 2015 is due to re-calculating the discount tickets provided within the context of ANEK-Superfast Ferries Joint Venture and not indicative examples: according to our corresponding quota. The Pan-Hellenic Association of Adapted Activities ALMA . NR: Not reported The Syros Juvenile Association House. The Holy Diocese of Chios-Psara-Oinousses. The educational and cultural program Agoni Grammi Gonimi . The organization Transparency International. ATTICA GROUP 33 Society Support Provision of Discount Tickets 1,398,436 We offer discount tickets to various NGOs, associations, 2016 44,747 local authorities and communities, in order for them to attend sport, cultural or educational activities outside 2,186,348 their islands or local activities and events. Indicative 2015 examples include: 84,764 The Naxos Festival. 1,677,153 The activities of Syros Anima Festival. 2014 The athletic event Santorini Experience. 85,757 The Syros Triathlon. The cultural Aegean Festival. 1,139,258 The Patmos Film Festival. 2013 50,329 The Rhodes Marathnon. The Ocean Lava Triathlon. Value of societal support activities (€) The Paros Cultural Park. Discount tickets (number) The cultural festival Routes in Marpissa. The Patmos Festival of Sacred Music. Sponsorships and Donations Additionally, within the context of our support to local 0% 18.2% communities, we offered discount tickets to: The Hellenic Society of Oncology’s members who participate in the two-year program Protect your Health to prevent, research, inform and early 20.8% record cancers in the South Aegean Islands, which is implemented in cooperation with the South Cultural Aegean Region. Within the context of the program 61% Sports within 2016, 7 briefing lectures and 641 medical Social Environmental examinations to local residents of Leros, Symi, Patmos, Leipsoi and Rhodes were delivered. The empowerment workshop AELIA’s professional advisors to implement the program EPINISIA EOS , which aims to support local entrepreneurship of existing and prospective professionals. Within the context of the program, we supported activities in 13 islands (Syros, Kalimnos, Leros, Leipsoi, Amorgos, Astypalaia, Donoussa, Iraklia, Koufonisi, Antiparos, Paros and Ios) out of the program’s 24 islands, where the organization: Conducted 14 educational workshops and 63 counseling meetings with 261 participants. Supported 78 existing and prospective professionals through the FORUM EOS service for remote support. Connected 154 existing and prospective professionals to the organization’s professional network, out of whom 78 were benefited from the FORUM EOS service and the remaining 76 were network members. Highlighted critical issues about professional opportunities and career development. It is estimated that during 2016, we offered approximately 44,747 discount tickets for sport, cultural and educational activities and additionally benefitted thousands of citizens who participated or attended those events and activities. 34 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Donations to Charitable Organizations Support to Underprivileged Social Groups As part of our societal contribution, we support various We strive to support various social groups in need, in charitable organizations which: collaboration with NGOs, specialized authorities and Are committed to support children, especially children organizations. Since September 2012, we support the with disabilities. Holy Diocese of Chios-Psara-Oinousses to provide meals Have limited resources. to sensitive social groups, by purchasing required raw materials for food rations. Therefore, we place collection boxes at the Reception desks onboard our vessels with the name of the supported organization indicated, in order to collect Provision of Meals to Underprivileged Citizens donations from passengers. Each month, we gather these donations and deposit them into the organization’s 13,586 bank account. Within this context, we supported the 2016 following charitable organizations in 2016: 19,979 Smile of the Child. Lions Club Rhodes. 15,000 2015 Amnesty International. 22,000 Furthermore, we collaborate with the 2 Blue Tomatoes 16,250 2014 company to sell t-shirts in vessel shops, which feature 23,900 unique and original printed stamps which promote local traditional foods and recipes. The total value of 156 Value of raw materials purchased (€) units sold in vessel shops reached €2,987 and 2 Blue Corresponding food rations (number) Tomatoes offered part of their revenues to support the non-profit organization Desmos (www.desmos.gr) to create sustainable solidarity networks and cultivate social and humanitarian responsibility. We allocated 100% of sponsorships and donations Agoni Grammi Gonimi to local communities To ensure participation of small island residents in educational and cultural events, we supported the Agoni At the same time, we actively participated in efforts to assist Grammi Gonimi program for the 10th consecutive year, refugees: which is the largest educational and cultural program Blue Star Ferries continued to charter a vessel to the Greek of remote Aegean islands. The program featured over government until March 2016 and transported 7,866 10 creative workshops (such as Robotics, Pottery, refugees from the Eastern Aegean islands to the mainland, Puppet Theatre, Jewelry, Kung Fu, Guitar, Piano, Violin, having already transported over 61,000 refugees in 2015. Cinema Workshop and Festival, Creative Writing and We distributed 2,000 packaged light meals to refugees in Comics, Pilates and Hip Hop) in Leipsoi, Koufonisi, Samos and offered over 5,000 bottles of fresh milk, 2,000 Halki, Antiparos, Astypalaia, Naxos, Donousa, Thirasia, bottles of juices, 2,000 cereal bars and 1,500 units of Tilos, Myconos and Schinoussa, with the participation of bottled water to refugees temporarily staying at the port of approximately 263 children and 45 adults, compared to Piraeus. 228 children and 56 adults in 2015. We provided discounts to NGO Metadrasi to transport over 900 unaccompanied minors from Aegean islands to the mainland. We provided discounts to over 25 organizations and institutions to send humanitarian assistance to refugees and host islands such as Doctors of the World / Médecins du Monde, Doctors Without Borders / Médecins Sans Frontières, Lavreotiki Refugee Support Network and Kivotos. ATTICA GROUP 35 We cultivate the importance of volunteer We support professional growth of young contribution people We believe that it is our responsibility to cultivate the We focus on educational contribution and supporting importance of volunteer contribution to our employees, professional growth of young people, as we: in order to integrate the concept of responsibility in their Welcome school and university students to inform them behavior. about career prospects in the shipping industry and employment opportunities in the passenger shipping Employee Participation in Societal Support Activities industry, as well as promote their environmental awareness. Participate in student internship programs of the Merchant 121 Navy’s Officer academies (for Engine and Deck cadets) who 2016 8.9 are required to successfully complete a one-year internship 121 onboard a vessel prior to their graduation, as well as in field journey programs for Coast Guard students (Ensign cadets) 148 to familiarize themselves with their future duties. 2015 11.6 Implement internship programs for university students and 178 graduates to acquire professional experience and develop skills and competencies which advance their personal and 138 professional development. 2014 Participate in employment programs for unemployed 11.5 young people organized by the Manpower Employment 312 Organization (OAED) to train them and acquire professional experience, while provide the opportunity to fill potential job 163 openings. 2013 18.5 234 Supporting Professional Growth Employee volunteers (number) Employee volunteers participation (%) 866 Employee volunteering (hours) 2016 124 Blood Ties 108 Since 2009, we implement a voluntary blood donation program called Blood Ties , in order to respond to 617 2015 needs of remote Greek island residents and to personal 118 emergencies of our employees and their families. Within 2016, we implemented a voluntary blood donation Visiting school and university students (number) Students from Merchant Navy's academies (number) programs at our offices and vessels, in cooperation with Coast Guard students (number) the G. Gennimatas General Hospital, and gathered in total 68 blood units, all of which were utilized for our employees’ and their families’ needs. Voluntary Blood Donation We welcomed 866 young people from schools and universities visiting our facilities 2016 68 We supported the development of 232 students 2015 82 in Merchant Navy’s Officer and Coast Guard academies 2014 69 2013 105 Blood units (number) We collected 324 blood units through our voluntary blood donation programs in the last four years 36 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 We care for the impact of our operations We ensure that our operations do not have significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities. For this reason: We monitor and continuously assess our security system. We conduct security risk assessments when deemed necessary. We trained 85% of office security personnel on our human rights policies and procedures, which accounted for 15% of total training hours, without however yet conducting It must be noted that, within 2016: relevant trainings to marine security personnel. We revised our Risk Analysis and Checklist Process for We outline tasks related to security in job descriptions. Bunkering procedures. We have developed an Emergency Plan, which includes There was one case of dispute with the local community measures to deal with negative impacts (e.g. pollution) and of Leipsoi, regarding our vessel’s non-approach to the regularly train marine employees on such issues. respective port, as it was considered unsafe by the vessel’s We have developed a Crisis Communication Plan , in order Master due to adverse weather conditions. To avoid similar to ensure seamless information flow during emergencies incidents in the port of Leipsoi due to inadequate port and responsible communication to interested parties, infrastructure, we participated and expedited the procedures beyond what is already specified within the ISM crisis and to complete the design study and construct a new port ramp emergencies management Code. and we participate in the study to construct a new port, in collaboration with the Municipality of Leipsoi. No significant fines (over €20,000) regarding the impact of our operations on local communities were imposed. 3. Responsible Procurement We give priority to local suppliers Suppliers and Procurement Expenditure Our suppliers are over 1,200 throughout Greece and abroad, 1,202 with 82% of them being local suppliers. Based on their 2016 986 turnover, we consider 113 of them as major suppliers, out of 90.4 which 93 are local suppliers. For 2016: 1,130 The average supplier payment time remained at 120 days, 2015 924 as in 2015. 100% of payments were made according to the terms in our 71.2 contractual agreements. 2,100 2014 849 28.3 Supplier Categories 1,029 2013 850 3.1% 27.5 19.4% Suppliers (number) 43.4% Local suppliers (number) Procurement expenditure to Local suppliers (%) 6.1% Shipping fuels and lubricants 9.2% Vessel repairs, spare parts and consumables Agency services Port services We increased the percentage of procurement 18.8% General services and products expenditure to local suppliers to 90.4% Insurance services ATTICA GROUP 37 Allocation of Suppliers per Region We inform suppliers with low scores they need to improve their performance, in order to continue our collaboration, 2016 17.7 65.5 16.8 as they will otherwise be rejected, without however any relevant suppliers within 2016. 2015 25.7 62.5 11.8 We immediately re-evaluate a supplier’s performance and proceed with necessary actions in case a supplier provides unsuitable or dangerous products, demonstrates unethical 2014 18.9 79 2.1 behavior or does not fulfill our cooperation agreement. It must be noted that within 2016, we did not discontinue 2013 17.4 78.1 4.5 our collaboration with any supplier as a result of actual or potential compliance issues, such as anti-competitive Abroad (%) Local Urban (%) behaviour, environmental protection, product health and Local Rural (%) safety and labour practices. We select suppliers for materials or services among approved suppliers, based on the performance evaluation We increased the percentage of rural suppliers conducted. It must be noted that we send product samples by 42.3% to a certified laboratory depending on the materials and needs (e.g. we send samples of shipping fuels 6 times per year), in case we cannot determine whether product We responsibly select our suppliers specifications match the ones agreed with the supplier, in order to analyze and verify their specifications. As our suppliers influence our responsible operation, we fully acknowledge our moral obligation to positively influence our supply chain and promote the principles of Corporate Responsible Vessel Buying Responsibility to our suppliers. So far, we have not identified We follow the most recent safety regulations during any suppliers with significant actual or potential negative buying and building of our vessels, without however environmental, labor practices and human rights impacts or ignoring potential future safety regulations, which impacts on society. may affect their operation. At the same time, we focus on vessels’ energy efficiency and strive to implement Furthermore, since March 2016 we evaluate our new innovative technologies. suppliers’ performance with an annual spending of over €10,000. The performance evaluation process utilizes specific criteria in five areas, based on which we approve our suppliers: Quality. Cost. Availability. Service Support Adaptability. Credit Policy. It must be noted that: We started to develop a single Procurement Process, a Code of Conduct for Suppliers and a Policy for our Contractors’ Suppliers. For each tender we require at least three offers, except for direct selection cases, either because they exactly match our technical specifications or only one unique supplier exists. We assess new suppliers’ performance prior to our collaboration, according to available and applicable criteria. Within 2016, we initiated collaboration with 82 new suppliers with over €1,000 procurement spending. We evaluate the exclusive representatives of manufacturing companies based on all above criteria, although there is no option to substitute them, due to their exclusivity. 38 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 4. Achievements 2016 and Objectives 2017 We committed Progress We aim By To consolidate/review the various procurement To establish a single Procurement Process. 25% processes per Department and establish a single 2018 Procurement Process. To develop a Policy for our Contractors’ Suppliers. 25% To develop a Policy for our Contractors’ Suppliers. 2019 To develop a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, 25% To develop a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, 2017 including selection criteria to become a supplier including selection criteria to become a supplier. (by 2017). To increase training hours for sales network 2017 employees by 5%. To support the activities of charitable 2017 organizations and NGOs. To implement at least 2 volunteer activities 2017 with the participation of our employees. ATTICA GROUP 39 VI. Εmployees We establish positive Employment Conditions WE ARE... WE FOLLOW… Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact 1,342 employees Support and respect protection of internationally PRINCIPLE proclaimed human rights 1 11.5% women Ensure not to be complicit in human rights abuses 2 Recognize freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 3 100% of employees with full time employment contracts Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 4 Abolish effectively child labour 5 5,964 training hours Eliminate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation 6 WE ACHIEVED… 591 trained employees We employ 100% of our employees with full time employment contracts. 100% of employees in Director/Manager positions are of local nationality. WE COMMIT TO… No complaints or grievances regarding our marine employees’ living conditions were filed. Cultivate a workplace focused on respect, No complaints or grievances regarding our employees’ equality, safety and merit, as well as offer labour conditions were filed. training opportunities to our employees, in order 82.8% of our employees (80% of marine employees) to facilitate their personal and professional received their annual leave, as initially planned. development. We conducted internal trainings on Health and Safety issues to 100% of marine employees. The entry level wage of office employees is higher than the minimum wage by 19.5%. We covered 50% of permanent job openings in offices by internal candidates. 40 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 WE FOCUS... Training & Development Equality & Diversity Health & Safety Human Resources & Employment Responsible Procurement Raw Materials & Solid Waste Employees Associations and Unions Local Communities EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS State Water & Liquid Waste Societal Support SOCIETY ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBLE NGOs MANAGEMENT SUPPORT IMPACT Environment Shareholders Suppliers Air Quality & Energy Economic Growth Citizens PASSENGER SAFETY Passengers Sales Network Media Safety & Security Responsible Communication Quality & Satisfaction ATTICA GROUP 41 1. Human Resources and Employment We sustain job positions Our business success is directly associated to our employees, Human Resources therefore we strive to create job positions, as well as lessen 1,342 unemployment. Our business activity supports hundreds of indirect job positions throughout our value chain and the 2016 138 passenger shipping industry in general. It must be noted there 145 are seasonal variations in employment numbers onboard our vessels, as the number of marine employees during spring and summer months was higher by 16.2% compared to the 1,296 autumn and winter months (1,151 employees compared to 2015 169 965). 263 1,192 2014 105 Employees (number) Turnover (number) 134 New hires (number) We employ 100% of our employees with full time * Data include marine employees onboard the vessel Diagoras until 01/06/2016. employment contracts ** New hires and turnover for 2016 do not include the cadets in Merchant Navy’s Officer and Coast Guard academies onboard our vessels (who complete their internship under temporary employment contracts), as well as our marine employees’ re-hiring within the same year (for whom a standardized dismissal and re-hiring process is in place). Human Resources* Employment Type Permanent Temporary Full time Part time 351 (26.1%) Employees (number) 991 (339 marine employees) 1,342 0 (20 women) Gender Female Male Employees (number) 155 1,187 Age <30 30-50 >50 Employees (number) 344 814 184 Categories Nationalities Disabilities Foreigners Number 2 0 4 Education Level Public School High School Academic Education Postgraduate Education Employees (number) 1,133 178 31 New Hires** Female Male <30 30-50 >50 Employees (number) 18 127 57 78 10 Turnover** Female Male <30 30-50 >50 Employees (number) 15 123 42 85 11 Turnover** Resignations Redundancies Other Turnover reason (%) 35.5 64.5 0 Employment Tenure <5 years 5-10 years >10 years Employees (number) 297 534 511 Working Place Offices Vessels Employees (number) 191 1,151 Hierarchy Chief Executive Officer/Top Management Directors/Managers Employees Total Employees (number) 22 42 1,278 1,342 * Data for vessels refer to 31/08/2016 (except for the vessel Diagoras, which refer to 01/06/2016); data for offices refer to 31/12/2016. ** New hires and turnover for 2016 do not include the cadets in Merchant Navy’s Officer and Coast Guard academies onboard our vessels (who complete their internship under temporary employment contracts), as well as our marine employees’ re-hiring within the same year (for whom a standardized dismissal and re-hiring process is in place). 42 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 It must be noted that: We handle work-life balance The average age of office and marine employees is 43 and 39 years respectively. Indicating our commitment to support our employees and The average employment tenure for office and marine maintain work-life balance, we: employees is 13.6 and 8 years respectively. Ensure that all employees receive their entitled leaves. The turnover rate of office employees was 3.6% (out of which Record and monitor work hours for all marine employees. 0.5% redundancies and 3.1% due to termination of temporary Have defined rest hours for marine employees. employment contracts) and 11.3% for marine employees (out Ensure timely crew changes, in case it is required. of which 7.6% redundancies and 3.7% resignations). Ensure that all fees provided allow decent livelihood. There was one office employee who left before completing Compensate overtime work and do not force employees 12 months of employment, while the respective turnover to work overtime, under the threat of salary reduction, rate of marine employees was 3.6% (besides the cadets in dismissal or any other sanction. Merchant Navy’s Officer and Coast Guard academies onboard Pay the entire wage to female employees in childbirth and our vessels, who complete their internship under temporary maternity leave without any deduction as a maternity bonus employment contracts). after their return to work, exceeding the relevant legislative The turnover rate of female office employees is equal to male requirements. office employees, while the respective figure for female marine employees compared to male marine employees is higher by Within 2016: 93.6%. 100% of marine employees worked at least once beyond The majority of our employees are from Attica and the the typical work hours and there was no overtime work on percentage of marine employees from islands is 30%. behalf of our office employees. There was one freelance professional working within the Group The average overtime work for marine employees was 1.08 during 2016. hours. All 6 women who received their maternity leave, returned and continued their work within our Group. 11 women were granted reduced working hours due to raising a child. No complaints or grievances regarding our employees’ labour conditions were filed 100% of employees in Director/Manager positions are of local nationality We ensure proper living conditions for marine employees We recognize the importance to establish proper living conditions for our marine employees and their relation with a safe work environment and the crew’s psychology. Therefore, we: Have placed crew cabins above the main deck, in order to reduce noise impact. Ensure proper temperature, ventilation and lighting conditions in accommodation areas. Provide individual cabins to vessel Masters and Officers. Have created and equipped entertainment halls with various recreation means (library, TVs, film projectors, board games) in all vessels, which are accessible by all marine 82.8% of our employees (80% of marine employees) employees. received their annual leave, as initially planned Systematically clean and sanitize accommodation areas. No complaints or grievances regarding our marine employees’ living conditions were filed ATTICA GROUP 43 We transparently inform our employees Regardless of their employment type, we inform all new hired office employees about: Our organizational structure and culture. Our Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct. The Emergency Situations Response Plan for offices. The terms and conditions of the Group Insurance program, which applies to employees with employment contracts after at least 6 months. Main work issues and procedures, such as leaves and absences, training, communication and performance appraisal. Furthermore, it must be noted that: Our employment contracts include documents which describe the way we expect employees to behave (e.g. corporate manuals). Prior to their employment, all employees receive their employment contracts. We have informed all employees at least once regarding Corporate Responsibility issues. We conducted 5 internal communication activities regarding Corporate Responsibility issues to all employees in 2016, compared to 4 in 2015. 2. Health and Safety We ensure Health and Safety onboard our Continuously train our marine employees on Health, Hygiene and Safety issues, such as response to emergency situations vessels and prevention of serious diseases. Provide the necessary personal protective equipment to all Our main commitment is to create a safe work environment for our marine employees. Therefore, we: marine employees and monitor its proper use. Have established Safety Committees in all vessels, which Ensure proper employment conditions, such as temperature, consist of all managers and represent all work areas onboard ventilation, lighting and sanitation. vessels (stewardships). The Committees also discuss Health, Have equipped our vessels with the appropriate equipment Hygiene and Safety issues and notify the Group regarding and conduct audits on alcohol consumption to all marine emtheir findings. ployees. No such accidents of non-compliance have occurred Do not include Health and Safety issues in our employment within 2016. contracts, since respective issues are covered by national Record and monitor accidents and Health and Safety or industry collective agreements and international hygiene, incidents, in order to take corrective actions and eliminate accommodation and safety agreements, which have been respective risks. incorporated in the relevant national legislation, as well as naImmediately replace injured and sick marine employees with tional or industry collective agreements, which are available other employees to cover their position onboard. in our vessels. Record and investigate vessel accidents with no injuries, in Require marine employees to hold competency certificates order to improve our Health and Safety procedures. No such in training areas such as vessel safety, rescue equipment, accidents have occurred within 2016. firefighting and first aid, prior to their employment onboard our vessels, and oblige them to maintain valid certificates. 44 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 We ensure Health and Safety in offices It must be noted that: There are no employees with high incidence or risk of Besides creating a safe work environment for marine disease associated with their work, while there were no employees, we are also committed to ensure Health and occupational diseases among our employees. Safety for our office employees. Within this context, we: There were no complaints or legal actions for health and Comply with the provisions of Law 1568/85 regarding safety issues. employee Health and Safety. There were no relevant fines or other sanctions imposed by Have developed a comprehensive Security Measures Plan. the respective authorities. Have created a Hygiene and Safety Division, which is There were only minor accidents with minor injuries responsible to properly implement security measures. involving our employees within 2016. Maintain an Incident Book and record any accidents and Regarding a previous legal action for a serious marine incidents within workplace, in order to apply measures to employee injury in 2015, the case has been discussed and prevent Health and Safety risks. the decision from the Piraeus First Instance Court is still Have communicated via e-mail and placed on all office pending. employees’ computer desktop specific instructions for There was a marine employee lawsuit with a compensation emergency situations, such as: claim as a result of an alleged accident discussed within Fire. Sabotage. 2016, which is still pending. Earthquake. Arson. Bomb threat. First Aid. Although no employee fatal accidents occurred within 2016, Robbery. Heat wave. we regret to inform that there was one office employee and Hostage situation. Flood. three marine employees losses due to natural causes outside working hours. Have communicated instructions for emergency situations and preventive protection measures. Within this context, we trained 6 employees from the Hygiene and Safety Division on Health and Safety issues, such as emergency situations, First Aid, evacuation procedures and use of personal protective equipment, for a total duration of 105 training hours. Have defined and communicated office evacuation plan with predetermined assembly points, in order to safely evacuate office employees, visitors and external collaborators. Have appointed Fire Safety Team and Emergency Care Team and clearly defined their members’ responsibilities. Have installed loudspeaker system to signal evacuation in emergency situations. Ensure that emergency exits are clear of obstructions and are clearly marked. Have installed anti-slip strips in staircases. Establish favorable employment conditions to support susceptible office employee groups, such as pregnant employees and employees working in night shifts (for whom we ensure additional security measures). Ensure proper employment conditions, such as security, air conditioning, ventilation, lighting and sanitation. Ensure equal access from person with disabilities to our offices, via parking space with ramp, wheelchair and properly designed WC. ATTICA GROUP 45 We conducted internal trainings on Health and Safety issues to 100% of marine employees Health and Safety 2014 2015* 2016 Employees’ fatal accidents (number) 0 0 0 Collaborators’ fatal accidents (number) NR 0 0 Accidents (number) 17 20 19 Men 16 19 19 Women 1 1 0 Accidents with absence <3 days (number) NR 0 0 Accidents with absence >3 days (number) NR 20 19 Absence from work due to accidents (hours) NR 0 0 Average days of absence per injury (days) 51 51 41.9 Injury Rate (rate)** 1.4 1.31 1.07 Men 1.39 1.41 1.2 Women 1.66 0.56 0 Occupational Disease Rate (rate)*** 0 0 0 Men 0 0 0 Women 0 0 0 Lost Days Rate due to injuries or occupational diseases (rate)**** 71.53 67.15 45 Men 70.83 72.23 50.44 Women 85 28.71 0 Absenteeism Rate due to injuries and occupational diseases (rate)***** 470.36 451.10 340.31 Men 465.75 480.41 376.49 Women 558.9 208.93 0 * Health and Safety Rates for 2015 and Absenteeism Rate due to injuries and occupational diseases for 2014 have been restated. ** Injury Rate (IR): Number of injuries x 200,000 work hours / Total work hours. *** Occupational Disease Rate (ODR): Number of occupational diseases x 200,000 work hours / Total work hours. **** Lost Days Rate due to injuries or occupational diseases (LDR): Total work days lost x 200,000 work hours / Total work hours. ***** Absenteeism Rate due to injuries and occupational diseases (AR): Total absent work days x 200,000 work hours / Total work days. NR: Not reported 46 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 3. Equality and Diversity We commit to meritocracy We do not tolerate child, forced Our commitment towards meritocracy follows the principle and compulsory labor to treat all our employees equally, which enables their We respect the internationally recognized principles of human professional development to depend solely on their rights, as described within the Universal Declaration of Human performance and skills. We do not allow any kind of Rights and the ten Principles of the UN Global Compact we discrimination due to race, gender, color, origin, age, have signed. At the same time, we are certified and audited religion, participation in employee unions, disability, sexual according to the Maritime Labour Convention’s respective orientation, political beliefs, pregnancy or marital status principles. Based on these principles, we are committed not to: regarding any work aspect (e.g. salaries). Furthermore, we Employ any person below the legal age work limit. do not allow any comments among employees for all issues Encourage or tolerate any forced and compulsory labor in above, in order to prevent any form of harassment (e.g. any of our premises. sexual). Employ any person through organizations or agencies involved in trafficking or other forms of forced labor. As a result of our focus on the equal treatment of women: The overall percentage of women in office and vessels is In 2016: 52.9% and 4.7% respectively, which is about the same as in There were no significant investment agreements and 2015. contracts with clauses on human rights. The percentage of female office and marine employees in There were no complaints or grievances regarding human Director/Manager positions is 7.1% and 3.6% respectively, rights violation. without any female office and marine employees in Top Management positions. The percentage of female office employees with temporary We respect the right of employees employment contracts compared to male office employees is to participate in unions and strikes lower by 50%. Although there is no employee union within our Group, we It must be noted that no complaints or grievances regarding respect the right of employees to freedom of association and labor practices were filed and no discrimination incidents participate in employee unions, while no operations in which the occurred within 2016. respective rights may be at significant risk have been identified. It must be noted that: Percentage of Women 100% of marine employees participate in employee unions related to their job position and through them to the 11.5 Panhellenic Seamen’s Federation (PNO). Also, one office 2016 4.7 employee is an elected member of the Panhellenic Federation of Shipping and Tourism Employees (PASENT), to which all office employees belong. 12.6 2015 100% of employees are covered by individual agreements, 2.3 based on national or industry collective agreements. The minimum notice period regarding operational changes for 2014 12.4 marine employees is 3 days, with a minimum notice period of 24 hours for Domestic lines and 7 days for Adriatic Sea lines included in employment agreements. We follow, as a Women employees (%) Women in Director/Manager positions (%) minimum, the relevant regulatory requirements regarding operational changes for office employees. All our marine employees’ work was interrupted during the 8 strikes or lock-outs organized by the Panhellenic Seamen’s Federation (PNO) within 2016, due to their opposition to the tax and insurance revisions by the Greek government, with the time lost due to strikes being 23 working days. No office employees participated in any strike or lock-out within 2016. ATTICA GROUP 47 We ensure confidentiality of personal data The ratio of annual total compensation for our highest-paid individual in offices and vessels to the median of annual total We respect the right of employees to safeguard their compensation for all office and marine employees (excluding personal data and we are committed to implement a wide the highest-paid individual) is 8.3 and 4 respectively. range of technical and organizational measures, which nonThe ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensaexhaustively include: tion for our highest-paid individual in offices to the median Have authorized the use of specific surveillance systems percentage increase in annual total compensation for all to monitor crucial access areas to our offices (such as office employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) is staircases, outside perimeter, central cashier and parking 5.1. garage) and vessels according to the respective legislation The ratio of percentage decrease in annual total compensa(such as garages), which include CCTV system with cameras tion for our highest-paid individual in vessels to the median and security cards to monitor access to office areas such percentage decrease in annual total compensation for all as servers and UPS, and we only allow employees from the marine employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) is Hygiene and Security Division to access the surveillance 1.36. footage. Do not monitor any office work areas and we monitor certain vessel work areas for security purposes (such as garages and engine room), without collecting any personal data. Require written consent on behalf of employees, in case required to disclose personal data to any person with preferential relationship (such as doctors or lawyers). Do not withhold personal documents (such as identification cards, passports or any other personal papers). As a result of our practices we did not receive any formal The entry level wage of office employees is higher employee complaints in 2016 regarding privacy issues or than the minimum wage by 19.5% personal data security. We offer competitive salaries We offer additional benefits We strive to maintain our employee salaries and wages above We offer a number of voluntary benefits which cover 99.5% the legal minimum salary and attract highly-skilled workforce, of office employees (employees with permanent employment despite the recession of the Greek economy. At the same contracts and temporary employment contracts of over 6 time, we compensate all employees within the agreed time months), as well as all marine employees. All our office period and we do not deduct salaries due to disciplinary employees are covered by health insurance, for which we offenses or other deductions except those stipulated by law. spent €124,638 in 2016, compared to €114,300 in 2015. It must be noted that in 2016: Additional Benefits The minimum salary was in all cases higher than the defined Marine Office Employees Employees legal basic salary, except for one marine employees’ job position, where the salary is equal to the salary defined in the Expanded life insurance to all employees, their spouses and their children collective agreement. Coverage against disability/incapacitation The average salary for male office employees compared to female office employees is higher by 18%, while the Postgraduate program support average salary for males in office Director/Manager positions Christmas cheques for every child up to 14 years old compared to females in office Director/Manager positions is lower by 20.8%, due to factors such as professional experiAnnual Christmas festive event ence, qualifications and expertise. Provision of free passenger and private vehicle tickets and meals onboard our vessels There are no differences between the average salary for (upon availability) males and females in our vessel crews, as their salary solely Discount for passenger and private depends on their specialization. vehicle tickets for first-degree relatives (upon availability) Discount for certain items from vessel shops 48 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 4. Training and Development We develop our employees The following data summarize the results of our training practices and overall performance. It must be noted that Internal Advancements: Our priority is to support our data do not include internal trainings conducted onboard our employees’ development and cover job openings from vessels. Within 2016: existing employees. As a result of this policy, the percentage We trained at least one time, over 41% of office employees. of permanent job openings in offices covered by internal We conducted training programs on Corporate candidates reached 50% within 2016, compared to 1% in Responsibility issues, with the participation of 15.9% of 2015. employees and 88.8% of Directors/Managers and Top Management Executives, as well as 100% of executive BoD We covered 50% of permanent job openings members. No relevant training programs were conducted to in offices by internal candidates marine employees. We trained 511 marine employees on management issues and all marine employees renewed their competency certificates. Total cost of training programs exceeded €84,600, Job Rotation: We have established a job rotation program compared to €56,822 in 2015. for office employees, in order to keep them motivated and offer the opportunity to acquire additional knowledge and experience, with 5 job rotations taking place within 2016, compared to 2 in 2015. Job Descriptions: In our attempt to ensure individual and organizational effectiveness and maximize employee satisfaction, we have started to record in written job descriptions and responsibilities for all employees. As a result, a detailed job description is available for 60% and 100% of office and marine employees respectively. We train our employees Training Program: To design our annual Training Plan, we consider: Identified training needs. Employee Training Responsibilities and requirements for every job position. Changes in the shipping industry (e.g. legal framework). 43 We deliver a wide range of training programs and seminars for 2016 591 our marine and office employees each year, which indicatively 5,964 include: Marine employees: Safe work practices onboard our vessels. 40 Effective leadership. 2015 393 Mobilization and motivation. Excellent customer service. 1,240 Technical and sales skills. Safety and security issues. 2014 883 Response to pollution incidents. Training programs (number) Fire fighting. Employees trained (number) Cleaning processes. Training hours (number) Office employees: * Training data for 2016 include office employees and marine employees who were Shipping. trained on management issues; they do not include marine employees’ training Finance. to renew or receive new competency certificates (included in the training data for Labor/Insurance issues. 2015) and/or internal trainings conducted on vessels. Management issues (e.g. human resources, internal audit, legal). Customer service. Safety. Corporate Responsibility. ATTICA GROUP 49 Employee Training Averages 2014 2015 2016 Office employees Training per employee (hours) 3.3 5.5 14.5 Training per male employee (hours) 3.9 8.1 17.4 Training per female employee (hours) 2.8 3.2 11.9 Training per employee in Top Management NR NR 12.1 positions (hours) Training per employee in management 3 9 20.7 positions (hours) Training per employee in administrative 3.4 10.8 20.1 positions (hours) Marine employees* Training per employee (hours) 0.2 1.4 2.4 The Performance Appraisal System for office employees Training per male employee (hours) 0.2 1.2 2.36 consists of 5 main areas: Training per female employee (hours) NR 0.2 2.6 1. Performance Criteria. Personal Objectives. Training per employee in Top Management NR NR 3 positions (hours) Performance Standards (one of which is Compliance with Procedures). Training per employee in management 1.3 0.9 5.8 positions (hours) Attributes (Common Attributes and Team Leading Position Training per employee in administrative NR 1.5 NR Attributes). positions (hours) 2. Appraisal Summary. 3. Employee Professional Requirements. * Average training hours for marine employees refer to training on management 4. Training and Development Activities. issues and do not include marine employees’ training to renew or receive new competency certificates (included in the training data for 2015) and/or internal 5. Comments. trainings conducted on vessels. At the same time, we appraise all Officers and marine NR: Not reported employees (including employees whose employment tenure onboard our vessels has expired) four times per year, in order to ensure efficient crew selection and proper vessel manning. The appraisal results are included in a relevant Report We appraise our employees which is forwarded to the Marine Personnel Department and assesses marine employees’ performance, skills and diligence We implement a Performance Appraisal System for our office throughout their service onboard our vessels. and marine employees, with a three-phase Performance Appraisal System for office employees to identify their Performance Appraisal strengths and areas for improvement and improve their overall performance: 0 0 2016 100 STAGE 1 Performance Plan 53 STAGE 2 2015 60 100 Performance Management/ 69 2014 53 Guidance 100 Office employees appraised (%) Office managers appraised (%) STAGE 3 Marine employees appraised (%) Annual Assessment * No performance appraisal for office employees took place within 2016, as the Performance Appraisal System will be reviewed. 50 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 5. Achievements 2016 and Objectives 2017 We committed Progress We aim By To conduct performance appraisal for 100% To conduct performance appraisal for 100% 0% 2018 of office employees with a new Performance of office employees. Appraisal System. To conduct an Employee Satisfaction Survey 0% 2017 To conduct an Employee Satisfaction Survey. (not conducted within 2016). To train 600 marine employees on management 75% issues. To include Corporate Responsibility in the 0% To include Corporate Responsibility in the 2017 information material of new hired employees information material of new hired employees. (by 2017). To train all Managers on Corporate Responsibility 75% 2017 To train all Managers on Corporate Responsibility. (by 2017). ATTICA GROUP 51 VΙΙ. Passengers We ensure our Passenger Safety WE ARE... WE FOLLOW.... Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact 5,033 PRINCIPLE journeys annually Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 7 8 59 vessel inspections from local authorities (for food hygiene and safety) Promote greater environmental responsibility WE ACHIEVED... 107,123 responded by Customer Services calls We conducted internal trainings on passenger safety procedures to 100% of marine employees. Division The overall performance of our vessels in the Domestic and Adriatic Sea lines increased by 1% and 2% respectively. 945 questionnaires in vessels We were subject to 59 inspections from local authorities for food hygiene and safety, with no recorded noncompliance incidents. We maintain 4 corporate websites, with over 2.5 million 199,673 members in the Passenger Loyalty & Reward program unique visitors annually and handle 5 mobile applications with over 89,000 downloads. seasmiles We trained 33.3% of Marketing Department employees on responsible communication issues. We sent 68,954 SMS messages to our passengers. We dispatched 2,317 notifications to serve passengers WE COMMIT TO... with particular requirements to our vessels, out of which 228 for passengers with reduced mobility and 13 for Safeguard the health and safety of our passengers passengers with sensitivity to allergens. and offer them the best possible travel experience, We increased the members in our loyalty and reward in order to meet their needs and expectations program by 38%. during their journey. 52 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 WE FOCUS... Safety & Security Responsible Communication Quality & Satisfaction Air Quality & Energy Passengers Sales Network Economic Growth Media Citizens PASSENGER Suppliers Environment SAFETY Water & Liquid Waste ENVIRONMENTAL Societal Support Associations and Unions SOCIETY RESPONSIBLE NGOs Local Communities MANAGEMENT IMPACT SUPPORT Raw Materials & Solid Waste Shareholders Responsible Procurement State EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS Employees Training & Development Equality & Diversity Health & Safety Human Resources & Employment 1. Safety and Security Emergency Response Team We have created an Emergency Response Team to guide We ensure passenger safety onboard vessels and communicate with third parties on their our vessels behalf (such as the Ministry of Shipping and Marine Policy’s Search and Rescue Center, rescue teams, We consider passenger health and safety onboard our vessels experts and Media), in order for vessels to focus on as our indisputable obligation. Therefore, we: handling potential emergency situations. The Team Were subject to extensive vessel inspections from external consists of: bodies (Merchant Vessels Inspection and classification The Chief Executive Officer. societies) in 2016. The Marine Operations Executive Director. Have established Safety Committees in all vessels, in order The Marine Operations Director. to examine and assess health and safety issues. The Electrical / Electronic Support Director. Train our employees on passenger safety procedures. The Legal Counsel. Carry out regular maintenance of rescue equipment. The Marine Personnel Director. Demonstrate use of lifejackets to passengers and display informational videos regarding use of lifejackets, assembly At the same time, we have established a substitute stations and rescue equipment. Emergency Response Team. In 2016, Emergency Have placed clear signs with fundamental safety information. Response Team’s members met for internal trainings. Have equipped all our vessels with the necessary medical and pharmaceutical equipment. Have made the Cardio Express telemedicine support service Addressing Infectious / Transmittable available to all our vessels for the initial assessment of Diseases medical incidents at sea. Prohibit transportation of explosives, flammable, According to an established procedure and the combustible and hazardous materials in general, except semiannual internal trainings conducted onboard those permitted by the relevant legislation. all vessels to address incidents of infectious / Operate 2 reservation and ticketing systems, which are transmittable diseases, we immediately notify and certified by the relevant authorities and ensure that the request assistance from the respective port authorities number of issued tickets do not exceed the respective and external authorities (e.g. Hellenic Center for Disease maximum number. Within 2016: Control and Prevention) in case of respective incidents There were no complaints for overbooking and no relevant and lead the vessel to the nearest port. fines were imposed by respective authorities. Regarding one previous writ of summons for a relevant The patient is then rushed to the vessel’s infirmary, violation on Blue Star Patmos in August 2013, for which where we record in detail personal information and a fine of €500 was imposed, the case is expected to be medical history and apply the necessary precautions discussed before the Piraeus First Instance Court within for the crew or the doctor (such as hand disinfectant, 2017. surgical gloves and mask, disposable waterproof suit and apron, infectious waste disposal bags and laser thermometer). Upon arrival, the patient is escorted outside the vessel and handed over to the respective authorities (e.g. HCDCP), while we disinfect We conducted internal trainings on passenger the cabins and areas visited by the patient and place safety procedures to 100% of marine employees all items handled in appropriate bags, which we hand over to an external specialized company, following the competent authorities’ agreement. No incident of patient with infectious / transmittable disease was reported in 2016. 54 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Food hygiene and safety: We have defined specific food Missing Onboard Person Search hygiene and safety procedures, in order to provide high quality products to our passengers. Within this context, our Each vessel has developed a Missing Person Response food and catering contractors apply food safety management Plan (SAA), in order to respond to confirmed cases of systems. More specifically, we: disappeared and missing persons. According to this Have the necessary cleaning/sanitation and food storage procedure, we inform all passengers regarding an areas, as well as specific catering areas. incident and set up a search team to search throughout Provide employees with the necessary clothing during food vessel areas (initially cabins, lounges, decks and preparation, such as uniforms and head caps. WCs and subsequently engine room, crew premises, Specify the use of disposable gloves to prepare cold kitchen garages and warehouses). In case the missing person meals (such as sandwiches and salads) and warm kitchen is not found until the port of arrival, port authorities portions and we prohibit use of the same gloves to handle thoroughly check all passengers and search all vehicles fresh and cooked foodstuffs, according to respective during passenger disembarkation. No missing person procedures. incident was reported in 2016. Require employees to wash their hands before starting and finishing their work, and after waste handling, use of We offer safe products and services cleaners or chemicals, as well as after every contact with a phone, money, fresh foodstuffs or doorknobs, according to We strive to provide quality and safe products and services respective procedures. to our passengers, in order to ensure our long-term business Strictly prohibit smoking in food preparation areas. success. Therefore: On average, audit compliance with our procedures and All contractors comply with the requirements of ISO 9001 practices once per month per vessel. These inspections Quality Management System and ISO 22000 Food Safety resulted in no findings or corrective actions taken within Management System, in order to eliminate risks (such as 2016, compared to 37 and 34 respectively in 2015. materials or ingredients) that could potentially harm human health. Within this context, we are informed regarding regular Hotel services hygiene and safety: We focus to provide audit results conducted by contractors and proceed with high quality hotel services onboard our vessels, since corrective actions if required. passenger satisfaction is directly associated with their safe Audit our Management Systems (Quality, Environmental and accommodation. Therefore, we: Food Safety Management Systems), as well as the quality of Systematically sanitize public and accommodation areas. products and services itself. Inspect passenger and crew accommodation areas, with 50 Record audit findings and potential corrective actions with inspections and no findings or corrective actions required specific remediation time plan, which are communicated to within 2016. all involved parties. Are annually audited by ABS (American Bureau of Shipping) for ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certificates, with respective audits to contractors for their ISO 22000 certificates taking place from their own certification bodies. Perform a Mystery Passenger survey in 17 and 19 passenger service categories in three stages of three visits per year onboard our vessels in Domestic and Adriatic Sea lines respectively, in order to ensure effective vessel operation, quality services and prompt response to passenger needs. It must be noted that in 2016, as in 2015, no procedures and practices had to be revised or improved as a result of our Mystery Passenger surveys. Within 2016, there were no incidents of products and services non-compliance, during the external audits conducted by the relevant health and market authorities. The overall performance of our vessels in the Domestic and Adriatic Sea lines increased by 1% and 2% respectively ATTICA GROUP 55 Within 2016, there were: Vessel Inspections from Local Authorities No cases of non-compliance with regulations regarding Besides ourselves inspecting our vessels, we are product and service use or their health and safety impacts. subject to additional scheduled or unscheduled No recalls of products and services regarding health and inspections from local authorities. These inspections safety impacts. address our vessels’ Hotel Operations & Customer No significant relevant fines (over €20,000) or other Services Department for health issues or hygiene sanctions imposed from respective authorities. certificates, either when the vessel is docked or at sea. Upon inspection completion, we proceed with the We ensure protection of personal items required corrective actions, according to the results from the draft audit report, which is filed in the vessel’s Indicating our commitment to ensure our passengers’ inspection archive. We assess inspection results safety, protect their personal items and offer a quality travel for each vessel twice a year, in order to: experience, we: Identify repeated comments or cases of nonProvide safe storage for any property, money and valuables compliance. whose value does not exceed €500 within each vessel’s Assess corrective actions already taken. Purser Office. Proceed with further corrective actions, if deemed Inform passengers regarding safety of personal items through necessary. loudspeaker announcements during their journey. Intensify inspections to luggage areas with additional marine employees on routes with increased passenger volume. Have established a formal procedure to handle lost and found We were subject to 59 inspections from local items. authorities for food hygiene and safety, with no Compensate passengers in cases marine employees are recorded non-compliance incidents responsible for damaged or ruined luggage or vehicle during boarding/disembarkation or during the journey. PURE CABIN Passenger Compensations 2014 2015 2016 We were the world’s first passenger shipping company Lost/found or damaged 4,635 4,283 4,642 to introduce the PURE CABIN category in one Adriatic items (number) Sea line vessel in 2010. Since 2011, we have expanded Adriatic Sea lines (number) 526 235 525 its use in three additional vessels in Domestic lines. Domestic lines (number) 4,109 4,048 4,117 Approximately 2% of all cabins onboard our vessels are PURE CABINS and 2% of our overall passenger Compensations paid for luggage 40,282 47,259 28,917 and other damages (€) volume travel within such cabins, which are provided at an extra charge. PURE CABINS feature a state-of-theCompensations paid for luggage (€) 33,739 44,606 24,027 art air and surface purifying system, in order to offer Compensations paid for other damages (€) 6,544 2,653 4,890 improved accommodation conditions to passengers Compensations paid for vehicle damages (€) 33,674 357,587* 41,960 sensitive to airborne particles. After each use, PURE * The increased compensations for 2015 were the result of damages equal to CABINS are purified and a cleaning certificate with the €326,573.2 in one vessel cargo, due to extreme weather conditions. corresponding inspection date is issued. Within 2016, two passenger lawsuits for a lost luggage and a lost unaccompanied parcel onboard our vessels took place, which are expected to be discussed during 2017. 56 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 We ensure protection of personal data Passenger Items and Luggage Found According to a formally established lost and found items We strive to ensure protection of our passengers’ personal procedure, we keep small and high value items which were data, in order to establish solid and concrete trust found onboard a vessel for 21 and 30 days respectively. relationships. Therefore, we: Keep personal data collected from passengers, More specifically, we: professionals and website visitors in a secure database. Destroy various items after 21 days have elapsed, Do not disclose any information to third parties, unless except for books (which are provided to the crew’s required by law and/or competent authorities. library), as well as foodstuffs, medicines and personal Seek individual consent to process personal data, hygiene items (which are either immediately destroyed exclusively for communication, statistical analysis and or after 3 days, depending on their kind). service improvement purposes. Keep travel and personal documents for 7 days and then Inform customers that incoming calls are recorded, hand them over to port authorities. prior to connect them with Customer Services Division After 30 days have elapsed for valuable items, we: representatives. – Deposit monetary amounts to the charitable organization supported by each vessel (see section Within 2016, we did not receive any complaint regarding V-2). privacy issues or loss of personal data, while no relevant fines – Send electronic equipment for recycling by the were imposed by respective authorities. Information Technology and Telecommunications Division, according to a specific procedure. There were over 50 electrical devices sent for recycling within 2016. 2. Responsible Communication We responsibly advertise our products and services We maintain 4 corporate websites, with over 2.5 million unique visitors annually We aim to ensure our communication material is fair, legal, and handle 5 mobile applications with over sincere, corresponds to reality, does not display or promote 89,000 downloads stereotypes and respects people’s diversity. Therefore, we: Follow the principles of the Hellenic Code of Advertising & Communication, issued by the Communication Audit Council. Do not use texts, audio or images that promote stereotypes. Ensure use of proper communication and advertisements for our products and services, in collaboration with the Marketing and Sales Departments. Have structured our Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries websites, easily accessible by people with visual impairments. Do not sell or provide any products and services which are either banned or disputed in foreign markets. Furthermore, we state applicable conditions on Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries websites regarding: Regulations and boarding processes. Tickets. Reservations. Cancellations or refunds. Transportation of pets. Storage of personal belongings. At the same time, we maintain one corporate website and manage a mobile application for AML, with over 240,000 unique visitors and 1,249 downloads within 2016. ATTICA GROUP 57 In 2016, there were: Labeling Allergens Initiatives to renew and revamp our corporate websites, in order to create a user friendly and efficient reservation We require from prepackaged foodstuff suppliers interface, as well as improve accessibility for people with to comply with the European Regulation for Food visual impairments. Labeling 1169/2011 and clearly display whether Five social and environmental messages to inform their products contain specific ingredients included passengers in every vessel, regarding: in the allergens list, according to Directive 2003/89/ Water sport safety. EC. At the same time, we have placed clear and detailed Fire prevention. signs to inform consumers about allergens for Ultraviolet radiation protection. every non-prepackaged meal within our vessels Voluntary blood donation. (such as gluten, eggs, soy and milk). Agoni Grammi Gonimi program. No cases of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing, advertising, promotion, product and service information and labeling. No cases of campaigns being withdrawn. No relevant fines or other sanctions were imposed by respective authorities. We ensure prompt communication We strive to promptly inform our passengers in case of cancellation or delays in scheduled routes, in order to minimize their potential discomfort. Within this context, we utilize a wide range of communication means, which include: Websites www.superfast.com and www.bluestarferries.com. Radio. Port authority representatives. Various journal and news portals. Communication via SMS (in case passengers have registered their mobile number). Newsletters. Social media. Phone calls. E-mails. Furthermore, we inform passengers with Greek and English audio announcements in case of delays during the journey, which include their cause and the estimated delay time. We sent 68,954 SMS messages to our passengers We trained 33.3% of Marketing Department employees on responsible communication issues 58 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 3. Quality and Satisfaction We ensure that our services are affordable We recognize the unfavorable economic situation for thousands of Greek households and we strive to provide competitive prices for our services, without however compromising their quality, in order to overcome the financial crisis and maintain transportation volume. Depending on line and destination, we offer: Early booking tickets, with up to 30% discount. Ticket packages, with significant discounts. Discounts in tickets for children, teenagers, young people and people above 65 years old. Discounts in selected destinations throughout the year. Discounts throughout the year (such as Super Economy, Special Economy, Supersaver Economy, Saver Economy, for Family Cabins with Children Cartoons passengers and private vehicles, for Naval and Coast Guard We have introduced family cabins marked with retirees, for combined Domestic and Adriatic Sea routes, for the Bluestarino children cartoon and the Fasteritos Officers and soldiers). children cartoons in all Blue Star and Superfast vessels Discounts for members registered in our Passenger Loyalty respectively, for families with small children who have and Reward program. booked a 4-bed external cabin. Upon availability, Discounts for university students and their families, even Reception desks offer these specially decorated cabins before their student identification card has been issued. to our child passengers free-of-charge. It must be noted that we increased the number of Bluestarino family cabins Supporting Tourism in Islands within 2016, with 4 additional cabins for every Blue Star vessel. Within 2016, we supported the effort to reverse the negative tourism trend and strengthen the transportation volume in Lesvos, Chios, Leros and Kos, due to the refugee crisis. For this reason, we offered a 30% discount to 5,372 passenger and 1,690 private vehicles and motorcycle tickets for passengers with at least four overnight stays in these islands, in collaboration with local municipalities and hoteliers’ associations. ATTICA GROUP 59 We ensure equal treatment of passengers Custom-made Vessel Design In order to facilitate passenger boarding, we have Equal Treatment specifically tailor-designed the Blue Star Delos to address According to our Code of Ethics & Professional Conduct, the needs of its route, by introducing: we promote equal treatment for all customers and Wider boarding / disembarkation staircase with stair partners, without any exceptions, and behave with escalator, instead of two staircases on the vessel’s left caution and care during our transactions with vulnerable and right side. social groups. Two vehicle ramps, one larger than the other, in order to select which one to use depending on the cargo requirements and port infrastructure. We ensure equal treatment of all our passengers, in order to Ability to reach appropriate speed, to perform a shortenhance our customer-centric orientation. More specifically, time journey. we: Have equipped all our vessels and premises with the necessary infrastructure to facilitate access from people with disabilities. Do not impose extra charges on cabins for passengers with disabilities. Are promptly informed about the number of passengers with disabilities on each route, in order to plan the availability of wheelchairs. Check that emergency switches in cabins for passengers with disabilities are fully operational before passenger boarding. Require that food rations for passengers with sensitivity to allergens are prepared with separate food preparation equipment (such as frying pans, cutting boards, knives). We listen to our passengers Have introduced procedures for clothing management and protection of passengers from allergens. In order to effectively serve our passengers, we have Created 92 new pet accommodation facilities in 6 vessels. established mechanisms to communicate and receive comments and complaints, which are handled by our Customer Services Division. These mechanisms include: A call center and dedicated email address for passengers. Written communication from passengers. Private meetings with passengers. Comments form, complaints form, Pure Cabins questionnaire, A la Carte restaurants questionnaire, which are located in various vessel areas, such as the Reception desk and the bar, regarding quality, variety and service. A specific form which is completed by the Reception desk, in case verbal complaints are received or incidents are noted. The Complaints form, located in all vessels’ restaurants. The dedicated devices to allow passengers to evaluate We dispatched 2,317 notifications to serve passengers the services provided, which we installed in all our vessels with particular requirements to our vessels, out of which 228 within 2016. for passengers with reduced mobility and 13 for passengers with sensitivity to allergens 60 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 We monitor our passengers’ satisfaction @sea Portal Within 2016, we launched the new interactive and We recognize the importance and our responsibility to offer multifunctional @sea portal, where all Blue Star and reliable and responsible passenger services, in order to Superfast passengers can connect with any device (laptop, ensure our business success. Within 2016, we separated our smartphone or tablet), via the onboard wifi network. Customer Services and Loyalty Division into two divisions, Therefore, they can access free-of-charge recreational the Loyalty Division to manage communication related to material such as music, TV and games, as well as our Loyalty and Reward program and the Customer Services information about: Division, which received over 107,000 calls within 2016, Weather conditions. responding to 93.5% of these, compared to 93.7% in 2015. Vessel location in real-time. Restaurant and bar menus. Ports and destination information. Loyalty and Reward program seasmiles. Utilizing Questionnaires Passenger questionnaires are forwarded to the vessel’s Master, who reviews them and forwards the questionnaires to the Customer Services Division, which documents observations in a Passenger Observation Report . The Report is forwarded monthly to our vessel Passengers Service Masters, the Divisions’ directors and the catering 2013 2014 2015 2016 contractor within each vessel and is subject to meetings Formal letters in response to 834 533 563 726 for all interested parties, in order to assess and define comments, complaints and further corrective and preventive actions, if deemed requests (number) necessary. Adriatic Sea lines (number) 335 185 117 137 Domestic lines (number) 499 348 446 589 Formal thank-you letters (number) 139 127 163 190 Adriatic Sea lines (number) 52 43 54 40 Domestic lines (number) 87 84 109 150 Questionnaires in vessels 1,376 1,189 1,096 945 (number) Total calls (number)* NR 105,802** 219,700 107,123 Calls to Reservation NR NR NR 176,456 and Loyalty Divisions * Total calls for 2014 and 2015 also include calls related to our Loyalty and Reward program seasmiles; total calls for 2016 do not include calls related to seasmiles. ** Total calls for 2014 refer to May-December 2014. NR: Not reported ATTICA GROUP 61 Passenger Compensation In case of journey delay, passengers are compensated Be compensated with 200% of the passenger ticket according to the European law and the Passenger Charter value and receive back the vehicle ticket value, in case on of Rights and Obligations (with the modification of Law our own responsibility they were not forwarded to their 3709/2008), with compensation being related to the destination with the same or another vessel within 24 journey duration. Indicatively, passengers are entitled to hours from the scheduled departure time. compensation for delays: Of at least 1 hour, for journeys of less than 4 hours. During 2016 there were: Of over 2 hours, for journeys between 4 and 8 hours. 9 Adriatic route journeys with a delay of over 3 hours, Of over 3 hours, for journeys between 8 and 24 hours. for which we paid compensations of €515.2, covered the ticket cost for an alternative transportation mean to one More specifically, in case the scheduled departure is passenger and offered 50% discount for future journeys delayed for over 90 minutes, passengers are entitled to to 5 additional passengers, even beyond our legal compensation according to their ticket, or to: obligations. Remain onboard and receive free light meals or 3 Domestic route journeys with a delay of over 1 refreshments until their destination is reached. hour, for which we paid compensations of €206.5 to Receive a free meal for delays of over four hours, as well 4 passengers and offered 20% discount for future as free on vessel or hotel accommodation, when feasible journeys to one additional passenger. and necessary. 3 Adriatic route journeys with modified departure Be compensated with 25% of the ticket value or other time, for which we paid compensations of €394 to 3 prior to agreement compensatory payment, in case they passengers, even beyond our legal obligations. were forwarded to their destination with the same or Scheduled journeys in the Rafina Cyclades route that another company vessel. Compensation depends on the were not conducted, due to our fleet restructure in the delay itself (e.g. 1 hour for journeys up to 4 hours), with Domestic lines, for which we served all passengers the compensation increasing to 50% of the ticket value, in on the specific route with other journeys and paid case the delay is double. compensations of €1,180 on two cases. Improving the Best Seasmiles Program We seek our passengers to experience a polite, In 2011 we established the Passenger Loyalty and hospitable and pleasant journey. Therefore, all marine Reward program seasmiles, which provides members employees receive upon their appointment the with exclusive benefits, gifts, special offers, high quality Improving the Best guide by the Marine Personnel services, within three card levels (Provisional, Silver and Department, in order to follow the guide and apply it in Gold). Members collect points for every ticket and product their everyday way of working. The guide describes crew bought from bars, restaurants and vessel stores, which duties, regulations, behavior and appearance guidelines, are automatically registered in their personal account and as well as general information about the Group and its can be redeemed for future journeys, meals and drinks, as vessels. well as products branded under the seasmiles logo. Seasmiles Loyalty & Reward Program 2016 199,673 2015 144,697 2014 121,650 2013 71,893 Members in seasmiles program (number) We increased the members in our loyalty and reward program by 38% 62 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 4. Achievements 2016 and Objectives 2017 We committed Progress We aim By To install a device on all vessels to allow 100% passengers to evaluate the services provided. To create 92 new accommodation facilities 100% To create 40 new pet accommodation facilities 2017 in 6 vessels for pets. in 5 vessels. To establish a Customer Relationship 0% To establish a Customer Relationship 2020 Management system (CRM) (by 2020). Management system (CRM). To advise customers on the responsible To advise customers on the responsible use use of our services (e.g. environmental protection), 100% of our services (e.g. environmental protection), 2017 through various means (e.g. communication through various means (e.g. communication programs, vessel screens) (by 2017). programs, vessel screens). To categorize complaints per category (e.g. delays, 0% To categorize complaints per category 2020 price of tickets, price discrepancies) (by 2020). (e.g. delays, price of tickets, price discrepancies). To reorganize our Call Center. 2017 To reduce unanswered calls from our 2017 Call Center by 40%. To create a Project Team, in order to properly and efficiently respond to the new European 2017 Union’s privacy requirements. To achieve a scheduled routes rate of over 90%. 2017 To certify 3 vessels according to the 2017 We do local standard. To increase communication with our 2017 passengers through SMS by 20%. To increase PURE CABINS in 2 vessels, 2017 with 4 cabins per vessel. ATTICA GROUP 63 VΙΙΙ. Environment We reduce our Environmental Impact WE ARE... WE FOLLOW… Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact €2.1 million environmental PRINCIPLE investments Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 7 8 9,713,922 Promote greater environmental responsibility Encourage development and diffusion of GJ energy consumption environmentally friendly technologies 9 4,380 KWh produced energy from renewable energy sources WE ACHIEVED… We produced 4,380 KWh of electricity. 748,603 tonnes eCO2 We use refrigerant materials that do not affect the ozone layer (such as R134a, R404a, R410) in 100% of refrigerators and freezers onboard our vessels. We informed our passengers on Corporate Responsibility issues, such as environmental protection. 215,967 m water consumption 3 We used 43% recycled paper for printing and copying at our offices and vessels. We transported from Islands free-of-charge over 78 tonnes of materials for recycling. We reduced our total water consumption by 3%. WE COMMIT TO… Integrate sustainable development in our operations and apply environmentally friendlier business practices, in order to reduce, where feasible, our environmental impacts. 64 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 WE FOCUS… Raw Materials & Solid Waste Air Quality & Energy Water & Liquid Waste Human Resources & Employment State Environment Safety & Security Equality & Diversity NGOs Passengers ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Quality & Satisfaction EMPLOYMENT PASSENGER Employees RESPONSIBLE Media MANAGEMENT Responsible Communication CONDITIONS SAFETY Training & Development Shareholders Sales Network Health & Safety SOCIETY SUPPORT Citizens Associations and Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Growth Responsible Procurement Societal Support ATTICA GROUP 65 1. Air Quality and Energy We operate in a systematic way Have established a weekly training plan for marine employees, in order to prevent pollution incidents (e.g. sea pollution) We are committed to operate responsibly regarding the and train them to promptly and effectively respond to such environment and to minimize the negative environmental incidents. impact, which inevitably originates from our operations. Conduct weekly environmental emergency exercises on Within this context, we: vessels, in cooperation with local authorities and participation Record our environmental performance. of office employees. Implement an Environmental Management System and evaluate our environmental impact annually. It must be noted that in 2016: Have implemented and certified all our vessels according to We invested approximately €2.1 million for environmental ISO 14001, becoming the first group in the Greek passenger protection programs (disposal and environmental shipping industry to do so. rehabilitation investments, as well as prevention and Have Energy Efficiency certificates issued for all our vessels. environmental management investments), without including Demand an asbestos non-use certificate from our suppliers. in this figure insurance coverage amounts. Have appointed Officers with responsibilities on environmental We were not accused of violating any environmental practices on all our vessels. legislation and we did not receive any written notices by Discuss environmental protection issues during respective relevant authorities regarding environmental issues. meetings of each vessel’s Safety Committee. As a result of an imposed fine of €13,500 regarding a Train employees on environmental issues and conduct limited pollution incident in Blue Galaxy (see section VIII-3), internal trainings for all marine employees, on issues such we reviewed our relevant oil bunkering and respective crew as waste management and responsible use of water. Within training procedures. 2016, we conducted external trainings to 3 office employees No respective significant fines (over €20,000) or other on environmental issues, for a total duration of 19 hours, sanctions were imposed, during the scheduled and ad-hoc compared to 7 office employees and 22 hours in 2015. audits conducted by relevant authorities. We manage our environmental footprint In order to identify the sources from which we can reduce our environmental impact, we calculate greenhouse gas emissions per energy source used, which include oil (both for shipping fuels and onboard electricity generation) and electricity (for office operations): Energy and Environmental Footprint Source Consumption Energy Environmental Consumption Energy Environmental 2015 Consumption Footprint 2016 Consumption Footprint 2015 (GJ) 2015 (tn eCO2) 2016 (GJ) 2016 (tn eCO2) Scope 1 Oil 219,477 tn 9,016,449 694,049.3 236,466 tn 9,709,322 747,717.5 MGO 8,946 tn 384,678 28,627.2 7,903 tn 337,283 25,289.6 LFO 173,039 tn 7,094,599 545,072.8 187,656 tn 7,795,138 591,116.4 HFO 37,492 tn 1,537,172 120,349.3 40,907 tn 1,576,901 131,311.5 Scope 2 Electricity 819,932.2 KWh 2,951.8 590.3 1,363,371.9 KWh 4,600 885.4 Total 9,019,400.8 694,639.6 9,713,922 748,602.9 * Data refer to our offices and vessels. ** Sources of conversion factors: International Maritime Organization (MGO, LFO and HFO), IEA CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion 2015 edition 1 (Electricity) 66 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Participation in Programs In order to manage our environmental footprint and achieve We strive to be continuously informed about efficient energy consumption, we: environmental issues, and therefore participate in Have installed sunscreen films in our offices’ ground floor European Union research programs (FLAGSHIP), and mezzanine. as well as collaborate with internal combustion engine Have introduced automations into our offices’ BMS for manufacturers (WNSD) in joint research projects to efficient cooling / heating. reduce emissions. At the same time, we participate in Have installed energy saving light bulbs (LED) in our offices the European-funded programs Poseidon Med I with a 5-year warranty and we use LED light bulbs onboard and Poseidon Med II, which aim to explore the possibility vessels, except for security lights. to use environmentally friendlier shipping fuels. Ensure optimum efficiency level for vessel engines to be More specifically: used in each journey, in order to both preserve engines and Poseidon Med I aims to establish the legal framework avoid unnecessary fuel consumption. and conditions to use Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) as Utilize the exhaust gas heat of main engines to heat air a shipping fuel in the Mediterranean and Adriatic Sea. circulating in public areas and hot water in sanitary areas. The program features 19 partners from 5 memberAdjust electrical appliances (such as refrigerators and States (Greece, Cyprus, Italy, Croatia and Slovenia) freezers) at optimum use and operation levels, according to and our Group is actively involved to submit pilot both legislation and manuals. projects regarding vessel upgrading and building new Deactivate electrical appliances when not in use. vessels. Regularly clean vessel hulls and propellers for improved Poseidon Med II is a follow-up to Poseidon Med I energy efficiency. and Archipelago-LNG programs and is funded by the Lower or turn down air conditioning in empty cabins. European Union, with the participation of 26 partners Purchase office equipment (such as computers and printers) from three member-States (Greece, Italy with energy star specifications. and Cyprus), in order to utilize LNG in six main Replaced 46 advertising signs in our vessels with new LED European ports (Piraeus, Patra, Heraklion, Venice, advertising billboards and installed 17 new LED signs. Igoumenitsa and Limassol) and LNG station in Revithousa. The program features studies to introduce and use LNG as a shipping fuel in Southeastern Mediterranean Sea and design LNG supply network and Installing Photovoltaic Panels related infrastructure on a broader scale. In 2014, we installed a pilot photovoltaic panel unit onboard Blue Star Delos, in order to reduce fossil fuels In 2016 we signed a memorandum of understanding used to generate electricity and gaseous pollutants in (MOU) with the Public Natural Gas Supply Company the long-term. Although we did not further upgrade (DEPA). Within this context, we will jointly examine the unit within 2016, we continued its operation with parameters and conditions for use of LNG in our vessels positive results, as we reduced the use of vessel power and we will seek to further develop our cooperation, generators for electricity and consequently prevented based on the conclusions drawn. approximately 2,844 kgr of carbon dioxide emissions. Energy Produced from Renewable Energy Sources 2016 4,380 2015 4,380 Electricity produced (KWh) We produced 4,380 KWh of electricity ATTICA GROUP 67 In 2016, the total quantity of refrigerant materials used was Use of Liquefied Natural Gas 3,124.5 kgr, compared to 2,577 kgr in 2015. Natural gas is converted into liquid by cooling it to -162°C, which shrinks its volume by 600 times Refrigerant Materials and allows efficient and safe transportation. Liquefied Material 2015 2016 Natural Gas is odorless, non-toxic and non-corrosive Stored Used Stored Used and is considered the world’s cleanest fossil fuel, (kgr) (kgr) (kgr) (kgr) as it has no SO2 emissions and can achieve 95%-100% CO2 31,772.9 0 33,797 0 lower particulate matter emissions (PM), 85% lower R22 0 0 0 0 ΝΟΧ emissions and 25% lower CO2 emissions, R134 1,230 0 1,230 0 compared to marine diesel oil. R134A 4,901.2 655 4,901.2 1,123 R404 156 0 156 0 R404A 1,978 980 1,978 1,295 We reduce our impact on the ozone layer R407 225 233 225 395 R407A 3 0 3 0 Buildings/Vessels: We require our suppliers not to use R410 90 0 90 0 refrigerant materials which significantly affect the ozone layer R410A 0 50 0 0 (such as R22) during maintenance activities in offices and R417 172 190 172 116 vessels, and instead use refrigerants that do not affect the R422 593 469 593 195.5 ozone layer (such as CO2, R 407, R 410, R 404, R 134a). Other 98 0 98 0 Total 41,219.1 2,577 43,243.2 3,124.5 Refrigerators/Freezers: In 2016, we installed 38 refrigerators and freezers with environmentally friendlier refrigerant materials. We reduce our atmospheric impact Our air pollutants (except carbon dioxide, which is described above) mainly emanate from vessel engines during their operation. To manage their impact, we: Use marine gas oil (MGO) with 0.1% sulphur content when vessels stay within ports for over 2 hours, as well as low sulphur heavy fuel oil (LSHFO) with up to 1.5% sulphur content when vessels are in European waters. Use machinery which comply with the legislative requirements regarding nitrogen oxides (NOX) and particulate matter (PM) emissions from vessel engines. Perform the necessary maintenance activities to ensure proper machinery function, as well as regular internal and external inspections to certify their proper function through relevant certificates (such as the International Air Pollution We use refrigerant materials that do not affect the ozone Certificate). layer (such as R134a, R404a, R410) in 100% Proceed with corrective measures, if deemed necessary. of refrigerators and freezers onboard our vessels We monitor noise levels At the same time, we replenish refrigerant and fire suppressant materials (which inevitably leak) in our offices We strive to reduce noise pollution, since vessel docking and and vessels with environmentally friendlier refrigerant operation can be a potential source of noise. Indicatively, materials, as their Ozone Depleting Potential (R-11 equivalent) we ensure the use of machinery and mechanical equipment, is zero. which comply with the required standards on noise levels, while it must be noted that we did not receive any formal complaints regarding our vessels’ acoustic impact. 68 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 We sensitize employees and passengers Employee awareness: We recognize the importance our Distribute our own climate change brochure to all passenemployees to be aware about the environment, and therefore gers, which suggests environmentally friendlier practices implement initiatives to adopt environmentally responsible onboard, at home, as well as during driving. practices within the workplace. Within this context, we have Have placed designated signs in all vessel cabins to encourplaced designated signs to remind all marine employees to age passengers to turn off lights when not in use. turn off any unnecessary lights. Have signed the Declaration on Sustainable mobility & transport of the International Union of Railways (UIC). Passenger awareness: We believe we are morally obliged Promote alternative and environmentally friendlier forms of to raise passenger awareness regarding environmental transportation and travel, and offer travel packages which protection, not only during their journey, but also in their daily combine Train and Vessel transportation for domestic and activities. Within this context, we: European destinations. Participate in most Eurail & Interail Pass products and have created our own Eurail/Interail Greek Islands Pass, which offers 6 free train and vessel journeys to holders. Display on vessel screens information on how to prevent forest fires, in cooperation with the General Secretariat for Civil Protection (GSCP), an agency within Ministry of Interior. We informed our passengers on Corporate Responsibility issues, such as environmental protection ATTICA GROUP 69 2. Raw Materials and Solid Waste We manage raw materials We reduce materials used We recognize that raw materials are not inexhaustible, but We implement initiatives to reduce use of materials, finite, and prioritize the use of natural resources as efficiently within the context of our efforts for efficient use of natural as possible. To achieve this, we implement programs to: resources. Indicatively, we: Monitor use of materials. Entirely use multifunction printers and photocopiers at Reduce materials used. our offices, whose 93% of mechanisms, spare parts and Reuse materials. consumables is recycled and refurbished. Furthermore: Recycle materials. The percentage of recycled or certified paper we used for Dispose materials properly. all purposes was 19.7%. Besides using recycled paper, we do not use any other Reduce Impacts from Consumption of Materials recycled materials. Have installed air dryers in WCs of all our vessels, in order Monitor Use of Materials to reduce use of paper for hand drying. Ensure the efficient use of spare parts and other supplies (such as consumables), in order not to store large quantities. Reduce Dispose Have installed chemical dosimeters onboard our vessels Reuse Recycle Materials Materials and train marine employees on their proper use, in order to Materials Materials Used Properly ensure efficient use of chemical substances. We used 43% recycled paper for printing and copying at our offices and vessels Paper Use for Commercial Purposes 66.4 2016 18.8 38.8 2015 52.9 48.8 2014 49.3 39.6 2013 52.8 Paper use (tn) Use of recycled or certified paper (%) We reuse materials We reuse consumables, where possible, as we: Return loading pallets back to our suppliers, in order to reuse them. Use clean damaged sheets, towels, pillowcases and other fabrics to clean various surfaces and as tows in the engine room. 70 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 We recycle materials Waste associated with our activities is a direct result primarily of our vessel operations, and secondary a result of our office operations (i.e. paper, toners): Material Consumption and Recycling Material Consumption 2016 Recycling 2015 Recycling 2016 Paper 69,464 kgr 7,000 kgr 7,100 kgr Toners/ink cartridges for printers/faxes/photocopying 1,589 units 495 kgr 180 kgr machines (out of which 771 were recycled) (249 units) Domestic batteries 128 kgr 87 kgr 128 kgr Vessel batteries 5,000 kgr 8,200 kgr 5,000 kgr UPS Batteries 3,155 kgr NR 145 kgr IT equipment (computers, printers etc.) 680 units 84 units from offices 1,900 kgr from vessels / electrical equipment and light bulbs 27,575 light bulbs 8 m3 from vessels 5.5 m3 from vessels 950 light bulbs Cooking oils 61 tn 8,235 kgr from vessels 2,370 kgr from vessels 14.4 m3 from vessels 25.2 m3 from vessels Empty paint cans NR NR 30 m3 from vessels Lubricants 1,283,184 lt 275.8 m 3 235.6 m3 Medicines and pharmaceuticals 614 units 398 units 368 units Chemical substances 60,072 lt NR NR NR: Not reported Special waste: We forward special waste collected Paper Recycling onboard our vessels (such as IT and electrical equipment) to specialized special waste collecting companies, which comply We forward for recycling all collected waste or used with strict standards regarding environmental protection and paper through the non-profit organization Klimaka , apply proper treatment methods. which provides medical and psychosocial services to vulnerable social groups, contributes to lessen social Various materials: We have placed recycling bins in our exclusion and promotes equal opportunities for people offices and vessels to collect and forward for recycling paper, to access public goods. The organization employs toners, electronic equipment, fluorescent lamps, domestic homeless people to collect paper and covers part of its batteries, as well as UPS / laptop / mobile phones batteries, expenses with this activity’s revenues. as part of our efforts to promote recycling throughout daily activities of employees and passengers. Materials Recycling At the same time, we also collect and forward for recycling 37.2 used cooking oils from vessels. 18.4 2016 100 Medicines and pharmaceutical materials: We forward 100 expired medicines to pharmacies that have joined the 4.6 collection program, regardless whether these have been used. 15.6 However, we do not forward pharmaceutical materials such 59.9 as syringes, mercury thermometers, scalpels and serums. 39 24 2015 100 100 Paper per employee (kgr/office employee) Lubricants (%) Domestic batteries (%) Vessel batteries (%) UPS batteries (%) Toners/ink cartidges (%) Medicines and pharmaceuticals (%) ATTICA GROUP 71 We properly manage solid waste Sponsoring Recycling Activities Within the context of our social contribution, we are the We recognize our obligation to protect the environment from main sponsor of: solid waste and garbage, which mainly emanate from our The Municipality of Leipsoi in Dodecanese and all South vessels operations. Therefore, we: Aegean Region islands, in order to transport recyclable Train our marine employees on our Waste Management materials from islands to the Hellenic Recovery Manual , which describes our waste collection procedures Recycling Corporation (HE.R.R.Co) in Attica. The total and is accessible by all employees. quantity of free-of-charge transported materials (such Do not allow any hazardous waste and garbage disposal as paper, electrical appliances, frying oils and caps) for at sea, even if allowed to be disposed at sea by relevant recycling through our vessels was 78.4 tonnes. legislation. The organization OIKO PATMOS, in order to transport Do not discharge food or any related garbage at sea. recyclable materials collected from recycling activities Have placed designated signs to remind passengers and in the Dodecanese. In 2016, we supported the employees not to throw waste overboard. organization to collect the necessary quantity of Have determined specific collection points for waste generplastic caps and deliver a motorized wheelchair in ated onboard our vessels. Kalithies, Rhodes, as well as deliver a check of €630 Deliver all garbage and solid waste from our vessels to apto the friends of Patmos Hospital, as a result of the propriate reception facilities of licensed contractors within revenues generated from collecting plastics, aluminum ports after each journey, exceeding the relevant legislative and caps, in order to contribute to the Hospital’s needs requirements. in medicines. Solid Waste 28,836 2016 7,150 30,446 2015 6,750 28,287 2014 6,850 28,114 2013 6,950 Solid waste (m3) Solid waste indicator (m3 per million passengers) We transported from Islands free-of-charge over 78 tonnes of materials for recycling 72 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 3. Water and Liquid Waste We monitor water consumption We aim to contribute to better manage water resources in the long-term, being aware of the responsible approach required on this issue. Therefore, we: Use extensively seawater onboard vessels after appropriate treatment, for activities such as cooling machines and cleaning decks. Perform only absolutely necessary external cleaning and washing activities, in cases of rainfalls or bad weather. Have installed photocell-operated water mixers in public WCs onboard Blue Star Delos and Blue Star Patmos. Have installed filters to reduce consumption of drinking We reduced our total water consumption by 3% water. Plan and select the minimum number of hydrants to be used during water supply. Check water meters before water supply has began and Water after it has ended and have appointed a vessel Officer to 2013 2014 2015 2016 monitor and confirm the actual water supply. Use pressure machinery, where possible, and ensure their Water consumption (m3) 122,521 113,663 222,758 215,967.3 proper maintenance. Vessels 120,014 111,437 221,508 214,125 Ensure proper and regular maintenance of water production Offices 2,507 2,226 1,250 1,842.3 equipment and dictate immediate notification of any failures Water sources (%) to the Technical Division. Public water supply NR NR 65.6 64.7 Have placed designated signs to remind passengers and networks (146,583 m3) (139,792.3 m3) employees to use water responsibly in accommodation, Seawater NR NR 34.2 35.3 sanitary and catering areas. (76,175 m3) (76,175 m3) Train employees to use water more efficiently. Ensure that water leakages (such as in pipes, shower heads and flushers) or any other leakages are immediately Drinking Water Quality Assurance managed, as well as perform all necessary maintenance We have established a procedure to supply, manage activities on vessel systems. Within 2016, there was safely and sample drinking water, in order to ensure no significant leakage of any material (e.g. chemical the quality of water used and consumed onboard our substances spills), with a limited pollution incident in Blue vessels, according to which we: Galaxy due to an oil tank overflow caused by carelessness Use separate water hose to supply water, which is during a repetitive task without any issues until now, which solely intended for this purpose and is kept away from resulted in a minor oil spill at sea during the vessel’s oil any potential sources of contamination. bunkering. Ensure water hose runs for a few minutes prior to connect it to the drinking water supply tank, in order not to introduce stagnant water or external materials, which could potentially pose health risks to the supply tank. Regularly clean and sanitize drinking water tanks, exceeding legislative requirements, and ensure continuous chlorination of drinking water. Sanitize shower heads, sprinklers in bars and filters in washbasins located in cabins, public areas, bars and kitchen twice a month. Collaborate with an external partner to collect drinking water samples. Analyze water samples in accredited laboratories, which issue a respective report with results and suggest corrective actions, in case there are any problems. No such incidents occurred within 2016. ATTICA GROUP 73 We manage liquid waste We assess our impact on biodiversity Being aware that uncontrolled liquid waste disposal at seas can significantly affect the marine environment, we: Biodiversity Do not dispose processed sewage water from sewage As water covers 71% of our planet, preserving the systems within ports, exceeding the respective legislation. balance of marine ecosystems and biodiversity are Regularly monitor operation of wastewater treatment crucial for humankind. The intense growth of human systems. activities and the associated environmental pollution Comply with relevant regulations regarding bilge and ballast have significantly degraded the natural environment water management and monitor their implementation, within a very short period of time. adhering to ISM procedures. Deliver all liquid waste from our vessels (lubricants and fuel Consequently, many organisms fail to adapt to these waste) to licensed contractors within ports. new conditions, with their survival being threatened. According to the United Nations’ Millennium Ecosystem Liquid Waste Assessment report, the extinction of species due to human intervention occurs 1,000 times faster than 4,598 it would naturally and 1/4 of the planet’s mammals face extinction in the coming years. The situation is 2016 139 even more critical for the marine environment, as it is 723.8 estimated that 60% of coral reefs will extinct by 2030, due to illegal fishing and pollution. 4,651 2015 56 Marine Biodiversity: We recognize the importance of marine biodiversity and our obligation to reduce the risk of disrupting 4,087 it. Therefore, we: 2014 66 Abide to the relevant legislation concerning the abstraction and use of seawater as ballast water in our vessels, in order 3,736 to avoid transfer of marine organisms into other non-native 2013 ecosystems. 25 Do not use the toxic substance tributyltin (TBT) in anti-fouling paints for any of our vessels. Liquid waste (m3) Use exclusively environmentally friendlier cleaning agents Sewage water (tn) Bilge water (m3) during cleaning activities of garages, decks and exterior surfaces in general. * Quantities of sewage water refer to cases where vessels are docked or during Promote beach cleaning by producing and distributing maintenance/cleaning activities to the sewage network. ** Quantities of bilge water refer to quantities delivered to appropriate reception beach ashtrays for free through our central agencies and facilities of licensed contractors within ports. vessels. Since 2007, we have distributed over 1.3 million ashtrays to passengers and citizens. 74 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Land Biodiversity: We recognize the importance of Coastal and Seafloor Erosion biodiversity for the ecosystems’ balance and we do not Waves created by vessels are one of the main reasons conduct any activities within protected areas, as our offices of coastal and seafloor erosion, especially in shallow are located in an urban environment, without any adjacent waters, since large and fast vessels cruising along protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value (even beaches or other coastal areas create large waves outside protected areas). directed towards the coastline, subtracting and carrying various sediments, gravel, marine flora and fauna from beaches, as well as the seafloor. Coastal and seafloor erosion affects: Stability of various structures in coastal areas, such as buildings, piers and docks. Survivability of various marine ecosystems, altering living conditions for many marine organisms. For this reason, we comply with legislation and adhere to the cruising speed limits defined by the relevant provisions, in order to minimize the respective impact. It must be noted that that we did not receive any formal complaints regarding our vessels’ rippling impact to local communities. 4. Achievements 2016 and Objectives 2017 We committed Progress We aim By To replace 150 advertising signs in our vessels 25% To replace 86 advertising signs in our vessels 2017 with new LED advertising billboards. with new LED advertising billboards. To add parameters to the BMS system for To install a BMS system in our offices our offices’ effective depiction and technical sup75% 2017 for efficient cooling/heating. port, combined with more efficient energy cost management. To relocate to new offices with reduced energy To install solar absorption systems in low 25% 2017 requirements. energy efficiency areas of our offices. To implement a recycling system for paper, To install LED light bulbs in our offices. 100% cartridges, IT equipment, batteries and organic 2017 waste. To train our office employees on recycling issues. 2017 To further upgrade the photovoltaic panel To further upgrade the photovoltaic panel 0% 2020 unit onboard Blue Star Delos. unit onboard Blue Star Delos. To reduce consumption of refrigerant materials 2017 by 2%. ATTICA GROUP 75 ΙΧ. Summary 1. About this Report This is the 8th Corporate Responsibility Report published by Attica Group. Here in, we present the practices followed and the results achieved, through focusing on topics our Stakeholders are interested in and committing in the long-term towards responsible business operations. The Principles we follow: The Report follows: Your feedback: We welcome your thoughts, comments or For structure and content, the guidelines Sustainability proposals through the feedback form at the end of this Report Reporting Standards (version 2016) of the Global or at the following address: Reporting Initiative (GRI). For principles, the UN’s Global Compact. Corporate Responsibility Team For presentation of quantitative data, the EFQM’s RADAR Attica Group Card. 1-7 Lysikratous & Evripidou Str.,17674 Athens E-mail: csr@attica-group.com The scope we refer to: The Corporate Responsibility Report: Refers to the period 1/1/2016-31/12/2016 (unless The symbols we use: For convenient reading of this indicated otherwise in certain points). Report, please pay attention to the following main symbols, Addresses all activities of ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A. (Attica which are widely used: Group), namely the provision of maritime transportation services for passengers, private vehicles and freight units in Good Practice the Eastern Mediterranean Sea, with references to the Group’s Indicates examples of good practices activities in the Morocco Spain route in area III (Attica Group), implemented. which are not included in the scope of this Report. Contains, as a norm, quantitative data for the period 2014Policy 2016 for all quantitative indicators. Indicates sections from formal Contains data from direct measurement, while cases of corporate Policies. estimations or data that refer to Africa Morocco Links (AML) are clearly indicated. Did you Know Data presented have been collected internally, in order to be Indicates information of particular published in this Report. interest. The limitations we recognize: We recognize limitations in Issue of Consideration the Report, which we intend to handle in future publications, Indicates issues of public interest such as presentation of more quantitative data and and consideration. objectives. Development of Report: The option of our Report: This Report has been prepared The Report has been developed in cooperation in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. with STREAM Management www.stream-eu.com 76 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 100% 75% 50% 25% 0% 2. Summary Data completion under completion progress off plan not achieved Section 2014 2015 2016 Objectives 2016 Achievements 2016 Objectives 2017 MANAGEMENT We commit to adopt responsible policies and practices in our operations and to harmoniously cooperate with our Stakeholders, in order to create mutual long-term value. We increased by 9% the number of GRI indicators GRI indicators in the Report and by 8% the number of 35 + 0 56 + 10 58 + 14 (number, full + partially) quantitative indicators we make reference to within the Report. Quantitative indicators 115 185 200 Να in the Report (number) To include our Corporate To restructure the Group’s Objectives in the Report Responsibility Report’s 0 24 33 Να Management and (number) quantitative indicators Organizational structure. in our SAP ERP (by 2018). To create a Quality Να Assurance and Environment Department. To train the Corporate Να Responsibility Team in Report development. To conduct a Stakeholder To conduct a Stakeholder Engagement process on Engagement process on Να issues related to Corporate issues related to Corporate Responsibility (by 2018). Responsibility (by 2018). To include Corporate To include Corporate Responsibility Team’s Responsibility Team’s Να responsibilities within responsibilities within its members’ formal job its members’ formal job descriptions (by 2017). descriptions. Violation cases concerning No violation cases concerning our main principles and rules our main principles and rules NR 0 0 Να of professional behavior of professional behavior (number) occurred. We have communicated Codes of professional Να behavior to 100% of our employees. To conduct trainings or To conduct trainings or briefings related to the Code briefings related to the Code Να of Ethics & Professional of Ethics & Professional Conduct (by 2017). Conduct. We informed 100% of Office employees office employees on our To develop an informed on anti-corruption NR 100 100 Να anti-corruption policies Anti-Corruption Code. procedures (%) and procedures. Corruption incidents No bribery incidents related 0 0 0 Να (number) to our employees occurred. Management Executives We informed 8 Management informed on competition NR 7 8 Να Executives on legislative issues (number) competition issues. We were subject to 41 Significant fines external Management System 0 0 0 Να (number) audits, with no recorded non-compliance incident. ATTICA GROUP 77 Section 2014 2015 2016 Objectives 2016 Achievements 2016 Objectives 2017 SOCIETY We commit to combine our business success with our country’s and partners’ development, as well as support local communities affected by our operations, in order to contribute to improving the quality of life and prosperity of our society in general. Turnover (total sales with VAT) 266.66 277.63 268.61 Να (million €) Profits after taxes 4.27 33.18 20.25 Να (million €) We distributed over €335.3 million in economic value: over €60.5 million to employees (for salaries, benefits and insurance payments), €48.6 million for taxes (including VAT and port taxes), €60.9 million to providers of capital Cost of employees (for interest and return (including salaries, benefits 55.42 58.7 60.59 Να payments), €14.9 million to and insurance payments) agents (for commissions), (million €) €145.1 million to suppliers (for purchases of goods and services), €1.3 million to society (for discount tickets, implemented programs, sponsorships and donations) and €4 million for investments. Payments to suppliers 144.41* 116.23* 145.1 Να (million €) Investments (million €) 37.73 1.15 4.06 Να To increase training hours Sales network employees parNR 83 74 Να for sales network employees ticipating in trainings (number) by 5%. We allocated 100% of To support the activities Social contribution (€) 1,677,153 2,186,348 1,398,436 Να sponsorships and donations of charitable organizations to local communities. and NGOs. We welcomed 866 young people Να from schools and universities visiting our facilities. We supported the development of 232 students Να in Merchant Navy’s Officer and Coast Guard academies. Discount tickets (number) 85,757 84,764 44,747 Να To implement at least 2 Employee volunteers volunteer activities with 138 148 121 Να (number) the participation of our employees. We collected 324 blood units Blood units from voluntary through our voluntary blood blood donation programs 69 82 68 Να donation programs in the last (number) four years. To consolidate/review the various procurement To establish a single processes per Department Suppliers (number) 2,100 1,130 1,202 Να Procurement Process. and establish a single Procurement Process (by 2018). 78 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Section 2014 2015 2016 Objectives 2016 Achievements 2016 Objectives 2017 SOCIETY To develop a Policy for To develop a Policy for Να our Contractors’ Suppliers our Contractors’ Suppliers. (by 2019). To develop a Code of To develop a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Conduct for Suppliers, Να including selection criteria including selection criteria to become a supplier to become a supplier. (by 2017). We increased the percentage Procurement expenditure 28.3 71.2 90.4 Να of procurement expenditure to local suppliers (%) to local suppliers to 90.4%. Purchases from rural We increased the percentage 2.1 11.8 16.8 Να suppliers (%) of rural suppliers by 42.3%. EMPLOYEES We commit to cultivate a workplace focused on respect, equality, safety and merit, as well as offer training opportunities to our employees, in order to facilitate their personal and professional development. We employ 100% of our Employees 182 + 181 + 191 + Να employees with full time (number, offices + vessels) 1,010 1,115 1,151 employment contracts. We covered 50% of Να permanent job openings in offices by internal candidates. No complaints or grievances regarding our marine Να employees’ living conditions were filed. No complaints or grievances Να regarding our employees’ labour conditions were filed. To conduct an Employee To conduct an Employee Να Satisfaction Survey. Satisfaction Survey. To include Corporate To include Corporate Responsibility in the Responsibility in the Να information material of new information material of new hired employees (by 2017). hired employees. Women in overall 12.4 12.6 11.5 Να workforce (%) Women in Director/Manager NR 2.3 1.9 Να positions (%) 100% of employees in Local employees in Director/ NR 100 100 Να Director/Manager positions Manager positions (%) are of local nationality. Discrimination incidents 0 0 0 Να (number) ATTICA GROUP 79 Section 2014 2015 2016 Objectives 2016 Achievements 2016 Objectives 2017 EMPLOYEES Employees with entry level The entry level wage wage equal or higher than the of office employees is higher NR 100 100 Να legal basic wage or collective than the minimum wage agreement (%) by 19.5%. To train 600 marine Training hours (hours) 883 1,240 5,964 Να employees on management issues. To train all Managers on To train all Managers on Να Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility. (by 2017). 82.8% of our employees Employees receiving (80% of marine employees) their annual leave, as initially NR 82.8 82.8 Να received their annual leave, planned (%) as initially planned. To conduct performance Employees participating To conduct performance appraisal for 100% of in performance appraisal NR 53 / 100 0 / 100 Να appraisal for 100% of office office employees with a (%, offices / vessels) employees. new Performance Appraisal System (by 2018). Marine employees We conducted internal participating in internal trainings on Health and Safety NR 100 100 Να trainings on Health and issues to 100% of marine Safety issues (%) employees. Fatal accidents 0 0 0 Να (number, employees) Accidents (number) 17 20 19 Να Accidents with absence >3 NR 20 19 Να days (number) Injury rate (rate) 1.4 1.31* 1.07 Να 80 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Section 2014 2015 2016 Objectives 2016 Achievements 2016 Objectives 2017 PASSENGERS We commit to safeguard the health and safety of our passengers and offer them the best possible travel experience, in order to meet their needs and expectations during their journey. Marine employees We conducted internal participating in internal trainings on passenger safety NR 100 100 Να trainings on passenger safety procedures to 100% of procedures (%) marine employees. The overall performance of Vessels’ evaluation within our vessels in the Domestic the context of Mystery and Adriatic Sea lines 74 / 71 80 / 77 81 / 79 Να Passenger (%, Domestic increased by 1% and 2% lines / Adriatic Sea lines) respectively. To advise customers on To advise customers on the responsible use of our the responsible use of our services (e.g. environmental services (e.g. environmental Να protection), through various protection), through various means (e.g. communication means (e.g. communication programs, vessel screens) programs, vessel screens). (by 2017). To create 92 new To create 40 new pet Να accommodation facilities accommodation facilities in 6 vessels for pets. in 5 vessels. To certify 3 vessels Να according to the We do local standard. To increase PURE CABINS Να in 2 vessels, with 4 cabins per vessel. We were subject to 59 Inspections from local inspections from local authorities for food hygiene NR 87 59 Να authorities for food hygiene and safety (number) and safety, with no recorded non-compliance incidents. Items lost/found or damaged 4,635 4,283 4,642 Να (number) Compensations for vehicle 33,674 357,587 41,960 Να damages (€) To create a Project Team, We trained 33.3% of in order to properly and Complaints regarding Marketing Department 0 0 0 Να efficiently respond to the customer privacy (number) employees on responsible new European Union’s communication issues. privacy requirements. To achieve a scheduled Delays in routes (number) NR 6 15 Να routes rate of over 90%. We maintain 4 corporate websites, with over 2.5 Formal letters in response million unique visitors to comments, complaints 533 563 726 Να annually and handle 5 mobile and requests (number) applications with over 89,000 downloads. ATTICA GROUP 81 Section 2014 2015 2016 Objectives 2016 Achievements 2016 Objectives 2017 PASSENGERS Formal thank-you letters 127 163 190 Να (number) To install a device on all Questionnaires in vessels vessels to allow passengers 1,189 1,096 945 Να (number) to evaluate the services provided. Calls responded by Customer To reorganize our 105,802 219,700 107,123 Να Services Division (number) Call Center. To reduce unanswered Να calls from our Call Center by 40%. To establish a Customer To establish a Customer Να Relationship Management Relationship Management system (CRM) (by 2020). system (CRM) (by 2020). To categorize complaints To categorize complaints per category (e.g. delays, per category (e.g. delays, Να price of tickets, price price of tickets, price discrepancies) (by 2020). discrepancies) (by 2020). To increase communication We sent 68,954 SMS Να with our passengers through messages to our passengers. SMS by 20%. We dispatched 2,317 notifications to serve passengers with particular requirements to our Να vessels, out of which 228 for passengers with reduced mobility and 13 for passengers with sensitivity to allergens. We increased the members Members in loyalty and 121,650 144,697 199,673 Να in our loyalty and reward reward program (number) program by 38%. ENVIRONMENT We commit to integrate sustainable development in our operations and apply environmentally friendlier business practices, in order to reduce, where feasible, our environmental impacts. We informed our passengers To train our office Environmental protection on Corporate Responsibility 1.3 4.3 2.1 Να employees on recycling investments (million €) issues, such as environmental issues. protection. To replace 150 advertising To replace 86 advertising Energy consumption (GJ) 9,137,277 9,019,401 9,713,922 Να in our vessels with new signs signs in our vessels with new LED advertising billboards. LED advertising billboards. 82 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Section 2014 2015 2016 Objectives 2016 Achievements 2016 Objectives 2017 ENVIRONMENT To add parameters to the BMS system for our offices’ To install a BMS system effective depiction and Ναour offices for efficient in technical support, combined cooling/heating. with more efficient energy cost management. To install solar absorption To relocate to new offices Electricity consumption systems in low energy 883,670 819,932 1,363,372 Να reduced energy with (KWh) efficiency areas of our requirements. offices. To install LED light bulbs Να in our offices. We produced 4,380 KWh To further upgrade the Electricity produced from To further upgrade the of electricity. photovoltaic panel unit renewable energy sources NR 4,380* 4,380 Να photovoltaic panel unit onboard Blue Star Delos (KWh) onboard Blue Star Delos. (by 2020). Prevention of CO2 due to energy use from NR 3,154* 2,844 Να renewable energy sources (kgr) Total eCO2 emissions (tn) 712,949 694,640 748,603 Να We use refrigerant materials that do not affect the ozone To reduce consumption Use of refrigerant materials layer (such as R134a, 3,957 2,577 3,124.5 Να of refrigerant materials (kgr) R404a, R410) in 100% of by 2%. refrigerators and freezers onboard our vessels. Total ODP of refrigerant materials (number, R-11 NR 0 0 Να equivalent) We used 43% recycled Paper used for commercial NR 38.8 66.4 Να paper for printing and copying purposes (tn) at our offices and vessels. To implement a recycling Recycled toners/ink 328 system for paper, cartridges, cartridges for printers/faxes/ 495* 180 Να (units) IT equipment, batteries and photocopying machines (kgr) organic waste. Materials from recycling We transported from Islands activities, transported for NR 179 78 Να free-of-charge over 78 tonnes recycling (tn) of materials for recycling. Solid waste (m3) 28,287 30,446 28,836 Να Solid waste indicator 6,850* 6,750* 7,150 Να (m3 per million passengers) We reduced our total water Water consumption (m3) 113,663 222,758* 215,967 Να consumption by 3%. Liquid waste (m3) 4,087 4,651 4,598 Να NR = Not Reported * Data provided in our previous Report have been restated. ATTICA GROUP 83 3. Global Compact, Sustainable Development Goals, ISO26000 and GRI Tables The correspondence between the content of this Report and the Global Compact Principles, the Sustainable Development Goals, the ISO26000 International Guidelines, as well as the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI Standards 2016) General Disclosures, Management Approach and Topic-Specific Disclosures, is presented in the following tables. Coverage of Indicators and GRI’s Disclosures is characterized as Full (F), Partial (P) or Not Applicable (NA). General Disclosures of GRI required for Core option are indicated in grey background. Management Approach, Topic Specific Disclosures and Boundaries for Material Topics (both for GRI related Topics and other Topics) are indicated on the Table, based on the Materiality Analysis conducted. No external assurance has been conducted for the Material Topics. United Nations’ Global Compact Table Issue Principle Report Section Coverage Human Rights 1. Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights V-3, VI-3 F 2. Ensure not to be complicit in human rights abuses VI-3 F Labour Standards 3. Recognize freedom of association and right to collective bargaining VI-3 F 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour VI-3 F 5. Abolish effectively child labour VI-3 F 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation VI-3 F Environment 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges V-3, VIII-1-3 F 8. Promote greater environmental responsibility VIII-1-3 F 9. Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies VIII-1 F Corruption 10. Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery IV-1,2 F United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals Table Goal Principle Report Section 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere V-1,2, VI-3 2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture V-2, VII-1 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages V-2, VI-2, VII-1 4. Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning V-2, VI-4 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls VI-3 6. Ensure access to water and sanitation for all VIII-3 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all VIII-1 8. Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all V-1,2, VI-1-3 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation V-1,2, VIII-1 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries VI-3 11. Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable V-2 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns V-3, VII-1, VIII-2 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts VIII-1 14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources VIII-2,3 15. Sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss VIII-3 16. Promote just, peaceful and inclusive societies V-2 17. Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development IV-VIII 84 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 ISO26000 Table Aspect Report Section Coverage 1. Scope IX-1 F 2. Definitions IX-4 F 3. Understanding Social Responsibility IV-1,2 F 4. Principles of Social Responsibility IV-2,3 F 5. Recognizing Social Responsibility & Engaging Stakeholders IV-3 F 6. Guidance on Social Responsibility Core Subjects a. Organizational Governance IV-1 F b. Human Rights VI-3 F c. Labor practices VI-3 F d. Environment V-3, VIII-1-3 F e. Fair operating practices IV-1 F f. Consumer issues VII-1-3 F g. Community involvement and development V-2 F 7. Guidance on Integrating SR throughout the Organization a. Enhancing Credibility IV-VIII F b. Communication IV-1,2, VI-1 F GRI Content Index Boundary GRI Standard Report Section Coverage of Disclosure General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational Profile Yes (Group) 102-1 IX-1 F 102-2 III-2 F 102-3 III-2, IX-1 F 102-4 III-2 F 102-5 III-2 F 102-6 III-2 F 102-7 VI-1, III-2, V-1 F 102-8 VI-1 F 102-9 III-2 F 102-10 III-2 F 102-11 V-3, VI-2, VII-1, VIII-1 F 102-12 IV-2 F 102-13 IV-2 F Strategy Yes (Group 102-14 I F 102-15 I, IV-1 P Ethics and Integrity Yes (Group, Suppliers) 102-16 IV-1,2, VI-2,3, VII-2, VIII-1-3 F 102-17 IV-1 P Governance Yes (Group) 102-18 IV-1 F 102-19 IV-2 P 102-20 IV-1 P 102-21 IV-1 F 102-22 IV-1 F ATTICA GROUP 85 Boundary GRI Standard Report Section Coverage of Disclosure 102-23 IV-1 F 102-25 IV-1 F 102-26 IV-2 P 102-27 IV-1,2 P 102-28 IV-1 P 102-30 IV-1 P 102-31 IV-1 F 102-32 IV-3 F 102-34 IV-1 F 102-35 IV-1 P 102-36 IV-1 P 102-38 VI-3 F 102-39 VI-3 F Stakeholder Engagement Yes (Group) 102-40 IV-3 F 102-41 VI-3 F 102-42 IV-3 F 102-43 IV-3 F 102-44 IV-3 F Reporting Practice Yes (Group) 102-45 V-1, IX-1 F 102-46 IV-3, IX-3 F 102-47 IV-3, IX-3 F 102-48 IX-1 F 102-49 IX-1 F 102-50 IX-1 F 102-51 IX-1 F 102-52 IX-1 F 102-53 IX-1 F 102-54 IX-1 F 102-55 IX-3 F 102-56 IX-1,3 F Economic Topics GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 IV-1,3, V-1-3, VI-1,3, IX-3 F 103-2 IV-1, V-1-3, VI-1,3 F 103-3 IV-1,3, V-1-3, VI-1,3 F GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 V-1 F 201-4 V-1 F GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 Yes (Group) 202-1 VI-3 F 202-2 VI-1 F GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 Yes (Group) 203-2 V-2 F 86 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Boundary GRI Standard Report Section Coverage of Disclosure GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 Yes (Group, Suppliers) 204-1 V-3 F GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 IV-1 P 205-3 IV-1 F GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 Yes (Group) 206-1 IV-1 F Environment Topics GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 IV-3, VIII-1-3, IX-3 F 103-2 VIII-1-3 F 103-3 IV-3, VIII-1-3 F GRI 301: Materials 2016 Yes (Group) 301-1 VIII-2 F 301-2 VIII-2 F GRI 302: Energy 2016 Yes (Group) 302-1 VIII-1 F 302-2 VIII-1 P 302-4 VIII-1 P GRI 303: Water 2016 Yes (Group) 303-1 VIII-3 F 303-2 VIII-3 F GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 Yes (Group) 304-1 VIII-3 F 304-2 VIII-3 F GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Yes (Group) 305-1 VIII-1 F 305-2 VIII-1 P 305-5 VIII-1 P 305-6 VIII-1 F 305-7 VIII-1 P GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Yes (Group) 306-2 VIII-2,3 P 306-3 VIII-3 F 306-4 VIII-2 P GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 Yes (Group) 307-1 VIII-1 F GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-2 V-3 F Social Topics GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 IV-3, V-2,3, VI-1-4, VII-1,2, IX-3 F 103-2 V-2,3, VI-1-4, VII-1,2 F 103-3 IV-3, V-2,3, VI-1-4, VII-1,2 F ATTICA GROUP 87 Boundary GRI Standard Report Section Coverage of Disclosure GRI 401: Employment 2016 Yes (Group) 401-1 VI-1 F 401-2 VI-3 F 401-3 VI-1 P GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 Yes (Group) 402-1 VI-3 F GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 Yes (Group) 403-1 VI-2 F 403-2 VI-2 F 403-3 VI-2 F 403-4 VI-2 F GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 Yes (Group) 404-1 VI-4 F 404-3 VI-4 F GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 Yes (Group) 405-1 VI-1,3,4 F 405-2 VI-3 F GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 Yes (Group) 406-1 VI-3 F GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 407-1 VI-3 P GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 VI-3 P GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 VI-3 P GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 410-1 V-2 F GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous People 2016 411-1 NA GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 Yes (Group) 412-3 VI-3 F GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 Yes (Group) 413-1 V-2 P 413-2 V-2 F GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 Yes (Group, Suppliers) 414-2 V-3 F GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 IV-1 F GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 Yes (Group, Customers) 416-1 VII-1 P 416-2 VII-1 F GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling 2016 Yes (Group, Customers, Network) 417-1 VII-2 F 88 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 Boundary GRI Standard Report Section Coverage of Disclosure 417-2 VII-2 F 417-3 VII-2 F GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 VII-1 F GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 IV-1 F Boundary GRI Standard Report Section Coverage of Disclosure Other Topics (non GRI) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 IV-3, V-2,3, VI-1, 103-1 F VII-1,3, VIII-1,3, IX-3 103-2 V-2,3, VI-1, VII-1,3, VIII-1,3 F IV-3, V-2,3, VI-1, 103-3 F VII-1,3, VIII-1,3 Products and Services Yes (Group) Audits and inspections for products and services quality (by number, outcome) VII-1 F Passenger satisfaction surveys and practices (results) ΙV-3,VΙΙ-3 F Non-compliance with health and market authorities VII-1 F and regulations (by number, outcomes) Reductions in products and services prices VΙΙ-3 F Vessel Operations and Impacts Yes (Group) Proactive approaches on vessel safety standards VII-1 F and respective compliance Accidents within vessels (by type, reason, results) VII-1 F Non-compliance with regulations regarding exceeding vessel VII-1 F capacity (by number, outcomes) Non-compliance with regulations regarding rippling impacts VIII-3 F to coastal areas (by number, outcomes) Responsible Buying Yes (Group, Suppliers) Suppliers evaluation (by percentage, frequency) V-3 F Discontinuation of collaboration with suppliers (by number, reason) V-3 F ATTICA GROUP 89 Boundary GRI Standard Report Section Coverage of Disclosure Acoustic Impact Yes (Group) Non-compliance with regulations regarding acoustic impact VIII-1 F (by number, outcomes) Work Conditions Yes (Group) Employees with overtime work (by percentage, average) VI-1 F Non-compliance with regulations regarding work conditions VI-1 F (by number, outcomes) Non-compliance with regulations regarding accommodation conditions VI-1 F for marine employees (by number, outcomes) Volunteering Yes (Group) Participation in volunteering activities V-2 F 90 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 4. Glossary Please pay attention to the following, frequently used terms: Term Refers to The mixture of water, lubricants and fuel produced during engine washing, as well as Bilge water by accidental leaks. The various living organisms in an ecosystem (land, marine and aquatic), Biodiversity as well as the extent of their genetic composition. The gaseous chemical compound derived from the combustion of fossil fuels Carbon dioxide , CO2 (oil, gasoline, natural gas, etc.) and organic compounds (wood, plastic, etc.), which contributes to the greenhouse effect. The maritime technical organizations who establish safety regulations for shipbuilding, Classification societies as well as for the vessels’ equipment. The voluntary commitment of companies to include in their corporate practices economical, social and environmental criteria and activities, which are beyond the Corporate Responsibility , Corporate Social Responsibility , legislative requirements and are related to their impact on Stakeholders. Sustainable Development The terms refer to the current economic growth that does not compromise the ability of future generations to satisfy their own needs. The total greenhouse gas emissions that arise directly (e.g. burning of fossil fuels Environmental footprint for heating) or indirectly (e.g. by the use of products) from a company. The measurement unit of all greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming equivalent CO2 , eCO2 (carbon dioxide-CO2, methane-CH4, nitrous oxide-N2O, fluorinated hydrocarbons-HFCS, perfluorocarbons-PFC’s, sulfur hexafluoride-SF6), expressed as equivalent carbon dioxide. The United Nations Global Compact, an initiative to encourage companies to align their Global Compact business operation with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Group , we , Attica Group To ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A. (which this Report addresses). The International Maritime Organisation, which is a specialized organization to establish measures in order to improve safety of international shipping and prevent environmental IMO pollution from vessels, and is also responsible for legal issues related to liability and indemnify cases of maritime accidents, as well as facilitate international maritime traffic. The Convention of the International Maritime Organization to adopt concrete measures, MARPOL in order to control and prevent pollution from vessels. Passengers The people transported with our vessels. Report The Corporate Responsibility Report 2016. The area and section of this Report (e.g. used in the GRI, Global Compact and Stakeholder VI-3 etc. Tables). For example, the term VI-3 makes reference to area VI (Employees), section 3 (Equality and Fairness). The declaration adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights with the fundamental rights to which all human beings are inherently entitled. ATTICA GROUP 91 5. Feedback Form 1. To which Stakeholder group do you belong? Employees Shareholders Passengers Sales Network Suppliers State Associations and Unions Local Communities Citizens NGOs Media Other 2. What is your impression, about the following areas of this Report? Area Excellent Good Neutral Mediocre Bad IV. Management V. Society VI. Employees VII. Passengers VIII. Environment 3. What is your impression, about the following elements of this Report? Element Excellent Good Neutral Mediocre Bad Sections have the right balance Important topics are covered Structure supports easy reading Texts are comprehensive Quantitative elements are complete Graphs included are comprehensive Layout is attractive/pleasant 4. Are there any topics, which are not answered (or not adequately covered) in this Report or do you have questions you would like to be answered in our next Report? 5. Are there any other comments/proposals you might have? Personal Data (optionally): Name Please fill out the form and send it to: Organization Attica Group, Corporate Responsibility Team Address 1-7 Lysikratous & Evripidou Street, 17674, Athens Phone/Fax e-mail: csr@attica-group.com E-mail All information on this form will be used only for evaluating this Report, through statistical analysis. Personal data are protected, as defined by the respective law regarding private information. 92 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 ATTICA GROUP 93 Development of content and layout: STREAM Management /www.stream-eu.com This report is available online on our Group websites: www.attica-group.com www.bluestarferries.com www.superfast.com ATTICA GROUP 1-7 Lysikratous & Evripidou Street 17674, Athens, Greece www.attica-group.com
