Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Nykredit Realkredit Group CSR Report 2017 Foreword by Michael Rasmussen, Group Chief Executive 1 Nykredit Realkredit Group CSR Report 2017 2 Denmark's largest lender Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Contents Foreword by Michael Rasmussen, Group Chief Executive 5 1 Denmark's largest lender 7 2 Nykredit's country-wide presence 11 3 Pledge to our customers 15 4 Staff 19 5 Investment and procurement 25 6 Climate and environment 31 7 Business ethics 37 8 Our social commitment 41 9 CSR key figures 44 10 GRI reporting 50 Foreword by Michael Rasmussen, Group Chief Executive 3 Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 The Nykredit Group adopted the UN Global Compact in 2008. This CSR Report, which covers the calendar year 2017, contains our Communication on Progress . It also contains Nykredit's statutory report on the under-represented gender and on corporate social responsibility in accordance with section 135(a) and (b) of the Danish Executive Order on Financial Reports for Credit Institutions and Investment Firms, etc. 4 Denmark's largest lender Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Foreword by Michael Rasmussen, Group Chief Executive For more than 165 years, Nykredit has helped Danish families Committed to the global agenda objectives buy their homes and Danish businesses grow. Nykredit has been a UN Global Compact member since 2008. For almost 10 years, we have been committed to meeting the Today, we are Denmark's leading credit provider, the largest Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human lender to homeowners and one of the largest lenders to small rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. and medium-sized enterprises, the agricultural sector and the We have also endorsed the UN Principles for Responsible housing sector. Nykredit is lender to people and businesses all Investments (the UN PRI), which, together with our own policies over Denmark. in this area, form the framework for responsible investments of more than DKK 270bn. Nykredit is unique in the Danish financial market, being a mutual predominantly owned by an association which represents our Sustainable development calls for an unyielding commitment by customers. Nykredit was founded by and for our customers – organisations and participants, including the business sector. and of that we are proud. In 2017 Nykredit's majority owner, For many years, Nykredit has actively addressed corporate Forenet Kredit, was joined by a group of minority shareholders responsibility issues, and in this report, you can read about our consisting of Danish pension funds, with whom we share many policies and efforts in this area in 2017, which was also the year common values. when we signed the World Economic Forum's Compact for Responsive and Responsible Leadership as a natural extension However, Nykredit competes in the same market, is governed of our business concept. In 2018, we wish to take our CSR by the same legislative framework and is faced with the same efforts to a new level. We will incorporate the UN's 17 customer expectations as other financial businesses. And sustainable development goals, thereby contributing to the joint Nykredit has the same strong focus on efficiency and profitability global corporate responsibility agenda, we will engage even as everyone else. Indeed, a strong and healthy business is the more actively in dialogue with our external environment, and we foundation that allows us to realise our overarching objective of will revisit our CSR strategy, policies and efforts. running a financial business for the benefit of our customers. This objective is delivered in two particular ways: We share our success with our customers. When Nykredit performs well, our customers benefit from attractive discounts and our customer loyalty programme, KundeKroner. That benefits our customers and strengthens competition. We also assume corporate responsibility in a broad sense by serving homeowners and businesses in all parts of Denmark, at all times. That is our pledge to communities. Nykredit's corporate responsibility Being the largest credit provider in Denmark and a systemically important financial institution (SIFI) implies responsibility for supporting financial stability in Denmark. As a SIFI, we must meet certain requirements for the way we do financial business. For that purpose, we have a strong focus on maintaining a solid and stable capital position. Forenet Kredit's sale in 2017 of a minority shareholding to a consortium consisting of pension companies provides for a stronger foundation, enabling us to remain a lender to people and businesses all over Denmark, at all times. By pursuing a responsible credit policy, Nykredit can offer financing to customers all over Denmark and, most notably, in ways that do not raise financial stability concerns. As a financial business, Nykredit also undertakes to combat financial crime. Fighting financial crime is key to maintaining trust in the financial system. We are strongly committed to actively combatting financial crime, such as tax evasion, terrorist financing, money laundering and cybercrime. Michael Rasmussen Group Chief Executive Foreword by Michael Rasmussen, Group Chief Executive 5 Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Did you know that … Nykredit is Denmark's seventh largest corporate taxpayer? According to the Danish Ministry of Taxation's most recent open tax list, the Nykredit Group paid corporate tax of DKK 1.3bn for the income year 2016. 6 Denmark's largest lender Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 1 Denmark's largest lender Nykredit is a Danish financial services group serving personal, business and institutional customers. Our business activities lie within banking, mortgage lending, Forenet Kredit estate agency services, administration and management of investment funds, leasing and insurance mediation. Forenet Kredit is the association behind Nykredit and Totalkredit. The association promotes stable As Denmark's largest credit provider with contact to more mortgage loans for homeowners all over Denmark – than 1 million customers, our financial strength plays a now and in future – and has identified five key key role in the development of Danish communities. And priorities. Nykredit is unique in the Danish financial market, being a mutual predominantly owned by an association, Forenet 1. The world's best home loans Kredit, which represents our customers. 2. Mortgage lending – also in times of crisis Forenet Kredit is the largest shareholder with a 78.90% ownership interest. Besides Forenet Kredit, an investor 3. Loans to our children and grandchildren consortium consisting of PFA Pension, PensionDanmark, PKA, AP Pension and MP Pension owns 16.89% of 4. Fair loans to all of Denmark Nykredit, PRAS A/S owns 2.25%, Østifterne f.m.b.a. owns 1.63%, and Industriens Fond owns 0.34%. 5. We share the profits 6. Investor consortium consisting of PFA Pension (10.03%), PensionDanmark (2.40%), PKA (2.40%), AP Pension (1.63%) and MP Pension (0.44%). Please refer to the latest financial statements of Nykredit Realkredit A/S for a full group chart. Denmark's largest lender 7 Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Nykredit – at a glance  Mortgage lending of DKK 1,138bn  41% share of mortgage lending in Denmark  Bank loans of DKK 55.7bn  Assets under management of DKK 179bn  Assets under administration of DKK 807bn  42 customer centres across Denmark  57 partner banks  3,502 staff Our business areas We serve our customers in the following segments: Wealth Retail Wholesale Clients Totalkredit Management 26% 43% 5% 27% Retail comprises mortgage Wholesale Clients' activities Wealth Management Totalkredit provides lending and banking comprise Nykredit's comprises asset and wealth mortgage loans to services tailored to personal corporate and institutional management activities and Totalkredit's personal and customers and small and clients, public housing, consists of the business business customers medium-sized business large housing cooperatives divisions Nykredit Asset through local and regional customers, including and business customers' Management, Nykredit banks. agricultural customers, as mortgage loans in foreign Portefølje Administration well as residential rental property – and Nykredit's and Private Banking Elite. activities, along with estate securities and financial agency and leasing instruments trading. activities. Business profit: Business profit: Business profit: Business profit: DKK 3,699m DKK 2,305m DKK 400m DKK 2,259m Total lending: DKK 444bn Total lending: DKK 205bn Total lending: DKK 11bn Total lending: DKK 533bn 1,340 staff 216 staff Assets under 113 staff management: DKK 179bn Assets under administration: DKK 807bn 157 staff Percentages show the business areas' share of business profit 2017 excluding group items. 8 Denmark's largest lender Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Business concept and strategy Nykredit's business concept, The story of Nykredit: Nykredit's primary risks comprise credit, market, liquidity Nykredit in Denmark , describes the Group's history, and operational risks. As Nykredit's business activities basic values and six specific pledges to our key primarily consist of mortgage lending, Nykredit mainly stakeholders: our customers, partners in the Totalkredit incurs credit risk. More specifically, this means that we alliance, communities, staff, shareholders and investors. risk losing money on loans granted to personal and business customers. If we were to suffer very significant The objectives of Nykredit's Group strategy, losses, they would have a negative bearing on our Winning the Double, are: performance and resilience and affect the Group's ability 1. winning homeowners over as satisfied and loyal fullto offer loans to and sustain lending growth in Denmark. service customers 2. taking the Totalkredit alliance to a higher level. Nykredit's business activities and investments may also have a negative impact on individuals, the environment With these two objectives in mind, Nykredit wishes to and the climate. These risks and our risk management develop its business – to the benefit of our customers. are described in more detail in the individual sections of this Report. Corporate responsibility and stakeholder responsibility are ingrained in Nykredit's business concept and strategy Nykredit focuses on risk management that ensures and in everything we do every single day. agreement between risk profile, risk appetite and current legislation, as well as on a robust capital structure. Risk Risks management should ensure financial solutions that are Nykredit's business activities and investments pose viable for Nykredit and Denmark in the short, medium particular risks. If we fail to manage our risks, it may and long term. have significant negative consequences for the Group's ability to act in its main capacity as Denmark's leading The Group's risk policy defines the risk appetite and the lender – to the material detriment of Danish society. Group's risk framework, and, for each risk type, a specific policy, limits and guidelines have been defined in Nykredit is a systemically important financial institution order to integrate risk management in the day-to-day and as such plays a huge role in the Danish economy operations. and the housing market in particular. We have made 6 specific and long-term pledges to our customers, business partners, the communities, staff, shareholders and bond investors: Pledge to our customers Pledge to our staff We will help our customers stay on top of their We will prioritise development and opportunities for finances and will provide them with opportunities and skilled and engaged people. We want to be known for security. We want to share their dreams and worries our trusting culture guided by customer focus, team and help them find the right solutions. spirit and empowerment. Pledge to our business Pledge to our shareholders partners As one of Denmark's largest financial institutions, In collaboration with our partners in the Totalkredit we will strive to maintain a strong and stable share, alliance, we want to make a difference to our delivering attractive risk-adjusted returns and customers by offering attractive products and effective dividends. solutions. We will actively develop the partnership to strengthen our combined competitiveness. Pledge to communities Pledge to our bond investors We will be active in all of Denmark and support growth As one of Europe's largest bond issuers, we will – in urban and rural districts alike – at all times. provide a stable and secure investment opportunity for domestic and foreign bond investors. Denmark's largest lender 9 Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Nykredit is lender to people and businesses all over Denmark. Also in your district 10 Denmark's largest lender Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 As a representative of the customers, it is essential to us that 2 Nykredit's Nykredit is lender to country-wide people and businesses all presence over Denmark, thereby contributing to societal Pledge to communities As a unique feature in the Danish financial market, cohesion in Denmark. Nykredit has made a pledge to communities: Nina Smith Chairman of Forenet Kredit Pledge to communities We will be active in all of Denmark and support growth – in urban and rural districts alike – at all times. The pledge is new, but the history of Nykredit as lender to the people and businesses all over Denmark reaches far back in time. From 1851, a number of mortgage associations were established in Denmark, 16 of which merged in 1972 to become two mortgage associations: Forenede Kreditforeninger and Jyllands Kreditforening. In 1985, the two mortgage associations merged into Nykredit. With the acquisition of Totalkredit in 2003, Nykredit truly gained a nationwide reach. Today, the Nykredit Group is represented all over Denmark through Nykredit Bank and the 57 partner banks of the Totalkredit alliance. This way, we contribute to geographical balance in Denmark. Two in three homeowners Two in three new mortgage loans to homeowners in the rural districts originated from Nykredit and Totalkredit in 2017, and we granted every three new business mortgages in the same areas. That is above our usual market share and solid proof that we have put our pledge into action. We provide loans to create opportunities for homeowners and businesses – all across Denmark. Nykredit's country-wide presence 11 Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Challenges Providing mortgage loans to all of Denmark naturally The difficulties of certain regions to recover from the poses certain challenges. Denmark is a small country, crisis are related to a general urbanisation trend and a yet with great demographic variance. In the years demographic development resulting in more elderly following the financial crisis of the 2000s, the housing people and fewer working-age people in the rural market and businesses all over Denmark were districts. To this should be added the centralisation of struggling, but not as much as the rural districts, which local welfare services and the challenge of keeping local took much longer to recover. Some districts are still shops and businesses afloat. struggling today. For example, the prices of detached and terraced houses have risen more in the cities than in Urbanisation, demography and centralisation of local peripheral municipalities. welfare services may erode the credit quality of lending in rural districts. A mortgage loan is secured by mortgage Sales prices, detached and terraced houses on real estate, and if the possibility of a future sale of the (100 = Q1/2012) property is low or non-existing for the area concerned, additional losses may arise. The risk of suffering losses Urban muncipalities Peripheral municipalities does not deter Nykredit from providing loans in rural Others districts, but we do have special focus on in-depth credit assessment with a view to minimising losses and on 130 having a strong capital position that will enable us to 125 120 provide loans at all times. 115 110 Demographic development, 2017-2026 (%) 105 100 95 Other municipalities Rural district municipalities 90 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 20 Source: Statistics Denmark, Finance Denmark, Nykredit Markets 15 10 5 0 -5 -10 -15 Source: Statistics Denmark, Nykredit Markets 12 Nykredit's country-wide presence Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 We wish to continue our close dialogue with local and national politicians as well as rural and business organisations on the risks and prospects of lending, growth and development in rural districts. Rural district loans Historically, the mortgage system builds on the foundation of a high level of security behind the loans combined with minimal losses. This has fostered a robust system with high investor confidence to the benefit of borrowers who can get affordable mortgage loans. However, on the flip side, we have properties that prove difficult to mortgage within the existing mortgage system. In 2017 this led us to develop a banking alternative, our rural district loan , for creditworthy homeowners who want to live in homes that for one reason or another cannot be mortgaged in the traditional way. Typically, the marketability of the properties in question is very low. The rural district loan ensures a sound relationship between risk and price, and the price of a rural district loan often is often slightly higher than the price of an ordinary mortgage loan. In 2017 we granted very few rural district loans. As it turned out, the majority of customers interested in the new loan type eventually bought homes that could be mortgaged via a traditional mortgage loan. Did you know that ... Nykredit is a member of the Joint Council of Rural Areas (Landdistrikternes Fællesråd)? As a member of the Council, we work with other participants to ensure sound development in the rural districts. In 2017 we contributed to the Council's growth committee, which focuses on small and medium-sized businesses in rural districts engaged in commercial areas of significance outside the largest cities: manufacturing, agriculture, food production, trades, industry and tourism. Nykredit's country-wide presence 13 Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 14 Nykredit's country-wide presence Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 3 Pledge to our customers investigate into ways in which SMEs may obtain Pledge to our customers progress and growth. We will help our customers stay on top of their finances and will provide them with opportunities and We are where our customers need us security. We want to share their dreams and worries and help them find the right solutions. In a world of increasing digitisation, we strive to be where our customers are, as and when they need us. We serve our customers through 42 customer centres situated This is our pledge to our customers – a pledge that we throughout the five regions of Denmark. The alliance with strive to live up to every single day, as we aim to be our Totalkredit partners also strengthens our nation-wide homeowners' and business owners' preferred partner. presence. In addition, Nykredit has representative offices Being Denmark's largest lender, we carry a great in France and Spain. And in Denmark, Nybolig and responsibility for offering our customers professional and Estate have 289 estate agencies. We offer telephone lasting advice. Through holistic advisory services and a meetings and video calls as well as an array of digital responsible credit policy, we aim to create transparency solutions and are always ready to answer questions by and security for our customers, and through our phone, email and on social media. proactive contact policy, we will build close relationships with our customers and gain insight into their dreams and worries. Insights that will be used to develop new Did you know that ... services and products, and to improve customer services.  Our customer centres hold 200,000 meetings annually For example, the launch of our new customer service  We hold 9,000 video conferences annually concept in November 2017 was attributable to a firm  We have 10 million hits at nykredit.dk wish among our customers that we improve our availability. Under the new concept, all customers are  Our Customer Services unit answers 1 million calls offered fast and professional on-the-spot advice over the  We have 320,000 online bank visits a month telephone 70 hours a week, which brings Nykredit at the forefront of the industry.  We are in contact with many customers on Facebook and LinkedIn To this should be added the opportunities brought about  Totalkredit serves around 754,000 borrowers by digitisation in the form of self-service via Nykredit's online and mobile banking services, new apps that  The 1,104 branches in the Totalkredit alliance provide a provide overview and options as well as web-based strong local presence video meetings, chat robots and much more.  We have a Customer Ambassador who works to preserve the valuable relationship between the customers and We also get close to our customers when we take part in Nykredit. awarding the annual Danish Owner-Manager of the Year prize. Similarly, we strengthen our customer relations under the Knowledge Forum (Vidensforum) research project, where we, together with Aarhus University, 42 customer centres across Denmark. Strong local representation through 1,104 branches in the Totalkredit alliance. Pledge to our customers 15 Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Nykredit for you and for me Customers' preferred bank Being a financial mutual, Nykredit's fundamental According to Forenet Kredit's active ownership policy: objective is to operate a financial business to the benefit The Association also attaches importance to high of its customers. customer satisfaction – on a level with that of comparable financial businesses with the highest This objective is manifested in two areas in particular: customer satisfaction scores . 1. We can share our success with our customers; and 2. our ambition is for Nykredit to be customers' The ownership policy carries with it certain preferred bank. responsibilities. In 2018, we will work hard to become homeowners' and business owners' preferred partner Customer loyalty bonuses and discounts under the heading of customers' preferred bank . To The Nykredit Group is quite unique, being a mutual become customers' preferred partner, we must predominantly owned by a customer association, Forenet understand their needs and offer solutions that help them Kredit. Forenet Kredit wants customers to share in the realise their dreams or develop their business in line with profits from its ownership of Nykredit and Totalkredit. So their ambitions. when things are going well for the Nykredit Group, Forenet Kredit is able to contribute capital to the Group. We will also develop new solutions in close dialogue with And customers may receive customer loyalty bonuses homeowners. One example is the Radar app, which we (KundeKroner) and discounts. launched in 2018. Radar offers our customers mobile tips and inspiration on how to stay on top of their finances. The discounts will be increased in the period from 2018 up to and including 2019 when Nykredit will also 2018 will also see the launch of our new customer introduce discounts to business customers with service concept, which offers all our customers full mortgage loans, including agricultural customers and flexibility, on-the-spot advice and enhanced focus on housing cooperatives. In 2017 our customers received large business customers, who will be served at DKK 1,000 per DKK 1 million borrowed, and in 2018 and business customer centres dedicated to their individual 2019, they will receive DKK 1,500 per DKK 1 million needs. borrowed. A family with a mortgage loan of DKK 3 million will receive a discount of DKK 4,500 a year, and a business with a mortgage loan of DKK 10 million will receive a discount of DKK 15,000 a year. 16 Pledge to our customers Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Pledge to our customers 17 Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 18 Pledge to our customers Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 4 Staff At Nykredit, we value the well-being of our staff. Our staff create value for Nykredit – and for the customers. We want to invest actively in staff development, and we actively support the Danish labour market model based on dialogue between the parties. At Nykredit our stance is clear: We cannot promise our staff that they will Risks hold the same job for many years. Nykredit actively addresses risks and challenges relating to our staff. To this end, we conduct staff satisfaction Instead we can promise them surveys with the participation of all staff. These surveys something better: security of offer us a detailed account of the job satisfaction of our development. staff and their perception of the physical and mental working environment, their immediate superior and top We offer new challenges and management. According to the most recent survey from development for skilled and engaged 2016, overall staff engagement in terms of satisfaction staff. and motivation was 5 percentage points higher than in other comparable financial businesses. Currently, we are Trine Ahrenkiel not seeing any major, overall staff-related challenges that Head of HR & Corporate Communications call for measures at Group level. In the light of the current, global me too debate on sexual harassment of women, we have reviewed our preparedness in this area. Our staff satisfaction surveys allow for the reporting of harassment, and we have welldefined management procedures to address any problems reported. Pledge to our staff As part of our corporate values, Nykredit has made the following pledge to our staff: Pledge to our staff Specific initiatives include: We will prioritise development and opportunities for skilled and engaged people. We want to be known for  making use of joint training courses funded by the financial our trusting culture guided by customer focus, team sector to the benefit of financial sector staff. In the 12spirit and empowerment. month period from 1 June 2017, we have earmarked 1,200 paid man-days for such training courses The technological development has changed the way we live, work and operate a business. This will mean the  focusing on internal mobility. 59% of job vacancies at automation of an increasing number of jobs in the long Nykredit are filled by in-house candidates term. Prospects of automation have of course been a source of concern among many – including employees in  using annual performance and development reviews and the financial sector. regular progress reviews as a basis for creating new challenges and opportunities for our staff With that in mind, we are committed to investing in the advancement of staff skills through training and  changing our staff satisfaction survey so it reflects the development. Our goal is to empower as many members focus on development we pledge of our staff as possible to maintain a strong position in a volatile labour market and to maintain their market  focusing on a new Group skills strategy in 2018. value . Staff 19 Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 The pledge to our staff holds a double message. On the central liaison board and the union representative one hand, we offer development opportunities; on the system. other hand, we make demands on the individual: Our staff must have the necessary skills and most of all the Nykredit fully supports the Danish labour market model requisite engagement. Our staff must keep up with new and believes in the ongoing dialogue between the parties trends, the business and its development, be flexible and as a constructive means of development. curious and be ready to take on new tasks and new learning. Nykredit takes into account all current working environment rules and regulations. We perform Stronger management workplace assessments for insights into potential In recent years, Nykredit has had a keen focus on problems relating to the physical and mental work strengthening its management skills. This focus derives environment. from our trust in management as a strategic tool for leveraging Nykredit's overall performance and unlocking Diversity and the under-represented gender the full potential of our staff as well as fulfilling the pledge Nykredit has adopted a diversity policy based on the to our staff. Danish Companies Act, the Danish Financial Business Act and the Recommendations on Corporate Nykredit has invested heavily in management Governance. development, which includes:  An executive leadership programme for our top-40 Nykredit deems diversity to be a key prerequisite for managers innovative thinking and development, and our aim is to  An ambitious management academy for all managers develop and draw on the overall potential of all our staff. of the Group  An annual management day for all managers of the The differences among staff when it comes to skills, Group. gender, life phases, ethnical and educational background etc, are considered a resource that we wish to put into Nykredit as part of a regulated labour market play. Nykredit aims to be a workplace that All of the above builds on a solid foundation: the Danish accommodates staff and managers of different ages and agreement-based labour market where constructive sexual orientation, of both genders and with different dialogue between employees and employers result in ethnic and religious backgrounds. broad-based collective agreements to the benefit of both parties. In accordance with applicable law, we have set a target for the proportion of the under-represented gender on For this purpose, Nykredit also has agreed forums and the Boards of Directors. In 2017 the target was 25% for procedures for staff involvement at work and for the all Boards of Directors of the Group. This target was met exercise of staff rights through for example the Group's by Nykredit A/S and Nykredit Realkredit A/S, but not by Totalkredit A/S and Nykredit Bank A/S. 20 Staff Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 The under-represented gender on Boards of Directors Percentage Target 2017, Target 2018, Company Women Men Percentage excl staff percentage percentage representatives Nykredit A/S 5 13 28 20 25 30 Nykredit Realkredit A/S 5 10 33 30 25 30 Totalkredit A/S 1 8 11 11 25 25 Nykredit Bank A/S 0 8 0 0 25 25 It follows from Nykredit's diversity policy that regard must Therefore, we will also strive to include a significant be had to the combined skills profile of the Board of objective criterion when fixing salaries, including an Directors and any need for strengthening the profile assessment of the specific job complexity in accordance within certain fields when appointing members of the with a recognised assessment system, thereby Board of Directors. In addition to professional skills, underpinning the Group's equal pay objective. regard must be had to personal skills and diversity in relation to for example gender, age and nationality. This report makes up Nykredit's statutory disclosure on the under-represented gender on boards of directors and Based on the current situation and Nykredit's diversity in management in general. The following key figures policy, we have raised the target for the proportion of the stood out in 2017: 34% female managers at Group level under-represented gender on the Boards of Directors of and 28% female managers on the Boards of Directors. Nykredit A/S and Nykredit Realkredit A/S from 25% to These figures should be seen in the context of our target 30%. In coming years, we will also continue our of 25-40% female managers, depending on management endeavours to ensure a balanced composition of the level, and 25% female members on our Boards of Boards of Directors of Totalkredit A/S and Nykredit Bank Directors. More information is available in section 9, CSR A/S. It should be noted that three of the members of the key figures. Board of Directors of Totalkredit A/S are executives from the Totalkredit partner banks. The under-represented gender in management Nykredit also aims to increase the proportion of the under-represented gender in executive positions. In 2017 Nykredit had a total of 34% female managers. Nykredit is constantly targeting efforts to create conditions that support the career development of the underrepresented gender. For 2018, we have a target of 2540% female managers, depending on management level, to be reached by:  preparing a strategy, an action plan and targets for attracting a higher proportion of the under-represented gender to management positions  focusing on creating a pipeline of female management talent through effective internal recruitment and mobility  ensuring that the employment and recruitment procedures contribute to uncovering female management talent  ensuring the representation of both genders when recruiting executive-level managers  ensuring diversity in selecting participants for the Group's management and talent programmes  creating the right conditions for the under-represented gender via career development, networks, mentor schemes etc. Staff 21 Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 22 Staff Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Staff – in brief Important to society Strong and productive businesses that make use of society's complete talent pool are important to society as a whole. That requires talented and engaged staff who are offered the opportunity to develop, thrive and realise their potential in their professional life – as well as strong focus on higher diversity. Important to Nykredit Without skilled and engaged staff, Nykredit will lack value creation, and no value will be created for our customers. Nykredit's ambitions Nykredit aims to build an attractive workplace that can attract skilled staff and strong talents. The following policies and agreements guide Nykredit's HR activities:  Strategic HR priorities, cf the Group's strategy  Diversity policy  Remuneration policy  Group collective agreement  Current working environment legislation  Whistleblower scheme to counter criminal offences Activities and results in 2017 Nykredit's key focus was on the following areas in 2017:  Adoption and implementation of Nykredit's pledge to our staff concerning development  Stronger management  Development of new talent programme  Updated diversity policy Outlook for 2018 In coming years, we will continue our efforts to fulfil the pledge to our staff, including:  Revised staff satisfaction survey in 2018  New and improved performance and development review concept in 2018  Group skills strategy 2018  Strategy, action plans and initiatives aiming to foster diversity, including management representation of the under-represented gender Staff 23 Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 24 Staff Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 5 Investment and procurement Nykredit is conscious of its responsibilities in the areas of investment and procurement. When investing several hundred billions of kroner on behalf of our customers and ourselves, and being a medium-sized purchaser of goods and services, Nykredit has a huge impact on the world we all live in. In running our business, we strive to respect human rights, the environment and the climate and to dissociate ourselves from corruption. Nykredit therefore aims to procure goods and services from and invest in companies that abide by international law. At As investor, we apply the UN PRI principles when we the same time, we see a potential in sustainable select businesses and identify problems. businesses. Businesses that put customers first, treat their employees decently and respectfully and are active UN PRI is involved in OECD's most recent guidelines to in solving social challenges make for good investment financial institutions, the UN's climate work and, most opportunities and business partners. recently, the EU Commission's sustainable financing initiative. Risks At Nykredit, we have applied the six principles since Nykredit primarily offers mortgage loans for private 2009, and we report our development on a regular basis. residential property and commercial property in Denmark. To a lesser extent, we offer mortgage loans in Read more about our report and UN PRI's assessment Sweden, France and Spain. These activities are subject reports at nykredit.com. to approval in the respective countries. Consequently, the risk of violating human rights or international conventions via our internal staff policies, credit granting and lending activities is judged to be low. Conversely, investments made on behalf of ourselves and our customers and the products and services we purchase equities and bonds. However, Nykredit also makes direct for our operations entail risk. investments in infrastructure and government bonds. We participate actively in several organisations that focus on To counter this risk, Nykredit is particularly looking to the responsible investment. In Denmark, we are a member OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the Ten of Dansif, an association for institutional investors, such Principles of the UN Global Compact and the UN's as pension funds, foundations and banks, interested in Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI). These responsible investment. Nykredit also plays an active principles are enshrined in Nykredit's investment, credit role through UN PRI, the investor equivalent of the Ten and procurement policies. These policies set out our Principles of the UN Global Impact on responsible specific approach to due diligence and conduct for the business conduct. According to UN PRI, Nykredit is one purpose of ensuring that human rights, respect for the of the global front-runners when it comes to the environment and the climate and the fight against implementation of the six principles for responsible corruption form an integral part of the way we operate investment. our business. All Nykredit's investments are governed by Nykredit's Responsible investment and active ownership investment policy, which relies on international law, Nykredit engages in investment activities all over the including the UN Global Compact and the OECD world. We primarily invest in companies through their guidelines. In 2017 based on Nykredit's investment Responsible investment in figures Year-end 2015 2016 2017 Number of companies screened 2,000 2,281 2,320 Companies subject to norm breach engagement 21 17 21 Number of companies excluded 20 23 32 Responsible investments, DKKbn* 253.8 303.4 278.9 Investment and procurement 25 Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 policy, Nykredit made sustainable investments of a total Active ownership entails that we engage in and maintain of DKK 278.9bn. The investment policy is founded on dialogue with the companies in which we invest. Data overlapping approaches adjusted to the specific parts of obtained through our screening processes are, for the investment process. A common feature is that we example, used to identify instances of human rights view risks in the individual sector and relative to the violations. If instances of human rights violations are individual company. One example is respect for human identified, we will together with our advisers and peer rights (broadly understood as rights of association, investors explore the possibility of making the company stakeholder rights and indirect suppression from change its conduct. At end-2017 Nykredit had 21 authorities, etc), respect for the environment (such as pending cases of this nature; see for instance the case of local protection of biodiversity and the climate) and antiBHP Billiton. corruption. We review the company's own disclosures, including its due diligence, and combine these data with If a company fails to change its conduct, or if we find publicly available data. such a change to be unrealistic, the company will be placed on Nykredit's exclusion list; see for instance the Against this perspective, Nykredit's investments are all case of North Dakota Access Pipeline. At end-2017 32 subjected to screening at the end of each quarter. All companies were on Nykredit's exclusion list, which is equities and bonds are matched with the issuing publicly accessible at Nykredit's website. The exclusion company. The company is identified in terms of list is integrated with Nykredit's data systems, which will subsidiaries, joint ventures etc. This applies to around block any investing in the companies on the list. 2,230 companies. We correlate these data in an Companies sanctioned by the EU will also be blocked. extensive database that retrieves data from companies, public institutions, such as the UN, OECD and the EU, interest organisations and, of course, media. Nykredit's investment process 26 Investment and procurement Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Increased use of sustainability assessments for equity investments Nykredit relies on sustainability analyses when conducting risk analyses of all funds, in the active selection process and in a number of equity funds. In 2017 funds subjected to sustainability assessments significantly outperformed the market. The chart below illustrates the development in investments involving sustainability analyses. 9,000,000,000 8,000,000,000 7,000,000,000 6,000,000,000 5,000,000,000 4,000,000,000 3,000,000,000 2,000,000,000 1,000,000,000 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 BHP Billiton North Dakota Access Pipeline During the clean-up after the Samarco mine collapse in In the spring of 2017, Nykredit placed the companies Brazil, Nykredit, along with other institutional investors, had Energy Transfer Partners, Enbridge, Phillips 66, Marathon talks with the mining company BHP Billiton. BHP admitted Petroleum and Sunoco Logistics on the exclusion list. liability and paid compensation to the parties affected by the collapse and is currently reconstructing the villages that These companies are all involved in the construction of the were destroyed. North Dakota Access Pipeline. The oil pipeline runs through a territory which according to the US Supreme Court has To avoid a new accident of this kind, the company been unlawfully seized by the US government. The pipeline commissioned an independent expert assessment of the also runs through the drinking water, hunting and fishing background for the accident and is now applying this grounds of local native American tribes. knowledge in performing controls of its mines in other parts of the world. Nykredit approached Phillips 66, among others, which acknowledged the problems. Nevertheless, the companies Information from the expert assessment is also made decided to launch the last phase of the pipeline available to competing mining companies. construction. Subsequently, the UN stated that the rights of the native American tribes had been breached, and this led Nykredit to exclude the companies. Investment and procurement 27 Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Responsible procurement When we purchase goods and services, we place demands on our suppliers when it comes to human Code of Conduct for suppliers and subsuppliers rights, the environment, labour standards and ethics. We place great emphasis on ensuring that our procurement  Environment activities never involve products that have been Responsible production manufactured with the use of child labour, forced labour,  Responsibility discrimination, disciplinary measures or the disregard of Child labour employees' rights to privacy. Forced labour The right to privacy Nykredit is strictly monitoring our business partners' Disciplinary measures compliance with the social responsibility guidelines set  Labour standards out in ISO 26000 and the UN Global Compact. It is Right of association/collective bargaining important that our suppliers display high social, ethical Discrimination and environmental standards. When buying a product or Remuneration and employee benefits a service, we ask the individual supplier to comply with Working hours our Code of Conduct. We reserve the right to verify Working environment compliance with these requirements by our suppliers and  Ethics subsuppliers and to terminate agreements in the event of Corruption and bribery breach. See Climate and environment for more Gifts and business events information about Nykredit's membership of Ecolabelling Denmark's network for eco-labelled procurement since 2012 as part of Nykredit's climate and environment strategy. 28 Investment and procurement Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Responsible investment and procurement – in brief Important to society Respect for human rights, climate and environmental challenges as well as corruption are key drivers of sustainable development in society as a whole. Responsible investment and procurement are key elements in that respect. Important to Nykredit Businesses that put customers first, treat their staff decently and respectfully and are active in solving social challenges make for good investment opportunities and business partners. Nykredit's ambitions In Nykredit's investment universe, we always strive to make a positive contribution to the world we are all a part of. Both when we invest our customers' money and our own. Responsible procurement is thoughtful procurement. That is why we place specific demands on our cooperation partners in the areas of human rights, the environment, labour standards and ethics. Activities and results in 2017  In 2017 based on Nykredit's investment policy, Nykredit made sustainable investments of DKK 278.9bn.  Nykredit's investments are all screened on a quarterly basis. Today, around 2,320 businesses undergo screening.  According to UN PRI, Nykredit is one of the global front-runners when it comes to the implementation of the six principles for responsible investment.  In 2017 Nykredit participated in more than 500 annual general meetings.  Nykredit has increased the number of equity investments that involve sustainability analyses. Outlook for 2018  Nykredit wants its investments to reflect the objective set out in the Paris Agreement.  Nykredit will enhance the scope of its active ownership in 2018 with special focus on dialogue with the companies in between annual general meetings.  Through UN PRI and the financial organisations in Denmark and Europe, Nykredit wants to contribute to EU's endeavours to further develop sustainable financing.  Nykredit wants to work more directly with its suppliers on the human rights challenges faced by their subsuppliers and will therefore select a couple of our primary suppliers in 2018 with a view to joining forces and finding solutions to the challenges. Investment and procurement 29 Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 30 Investment and procurement Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 6 Climate and environment Today, all responsible businesses – including Nykredit – Climate and environment strategy have to actively address global climate and In 2012, we formulated a climate and environment environmental challenges. As a service provider, strategy focused on delivering two objectives by 2020: Nykredit's direct climate and environmental impact is relatively modest, but we still strive to make Denmark 1. We want to reduce our carbon footprint by greener through our business conduct. decreasing our energy consumption and converting to renewable energy sources. Our goal is to reduce Risks and risk management our carbon emission by 65% compared with the We seek to reduce the negative climate and 2012 level by end-2020. environmental impact of our own business (direct impact) as well as the impact that follows from our supply chain, At end-2017 we had reached about 78% of our investments and lending practices (indirect impact) in the reduction target, equivalent to a halving of our markets in which we operate. Our main climate and carbon emissions since 2012. This is mainly due to environmental risks derive from investments as well as our efforts to make our buildings more energy private residential, agricultural and business lending. Add efficient and a reduced amount of travelling. Our to this risks related to the procurement of equipment and climate and environmental accounts can be viewed various services, as the processes of suppliers or in section 9, CSR key figures. subsuppliers may adversely affect both the climate and the environment. With the prospect of more frequent and extreme weather events due to climate change in future, Status our customers are more likely to suffer damage to their 78% private or commercial properties. Such conditions pose a risk of loss to our customers as well as Nykredit. Therefore, we wish to offer our customers sustainable value propositions that may prepare them for the 2. We want to develop and support climate and consequences of climate change and environmental environmentally friendly solutions and to support the challenges. green transition of society by offering green solutions to our homeowner customers. Since 2009, our environmental policy has set the tone for Nykredit's management of climate and environmental In 2017 we helped our customers make their homes risks. We also have an investment policy and a Code of more energy efficient and financed the erection of Conduct for suppliers, which also includes environmental wind turbines and biogas plants as well as hybrid and climate considerations. ferries. Climate and environment 31 Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Nykredit is shifting to biogas In 2017, six of Nykredit's locations converted to biogas as a carbon-neutral source of heating. Biogas is defined as carbon neutral, as it is generated from biologically degradable materials contrary to the fossil fuel used so far. Nykredit thus supports the Danish government's ambition that by 2050 energy supply should be 100% based on renewable energy sources (see the 2012 Energy Agreement). In 2016, to ensure strategic growth, we set four specific goals for 2017: 1. Continued reduction and transition of Nykredit's concluded an agreement with DriveNow in 2017; a energy consumption: In the period 2012-2017 we service that provides electric city cars in almost halved our carbon emissions per staff Copenhagen as an alternative to taxis as they are member as a result of more efficient use of our less harmful to the environment and climate. buildings and a variety of technical changes: We installed LED lighting and adjusted the ventilation 3. Positioning Nykredit as the energy sector's systems in several buildings. Our internal print preferred financial services provider: In 2017 we centre obtained an eco-label certification (Nordic financed wind turbines with an output capacity Swan Ecolabel). We entered into an agreement with totalling 13.2MW. We financed a district cooling Siemens on identifying energy savings in our two system in Høje Taastrup of 6MW, as well as batterylargest buildings. Finally, six of our locations have powered ferries for HH Ferries and hybrid ferries for now replaced natural gas with origin-guaranteed and Scandlines. carbon-neutral biogas. 4. Greater share of eco-labelled procurement: As 2. Maintaining Nykredit's low level of travel: For the members of Eco-labelling Denmark we are to fifth consecutive year, we have managed to reduce increase our share of eco-labelled procurement the amount of air travel. The same applies to within ten selected product categories. In 2016, it travelling by train and company/private car. We have was not possible to increase the share of ecoalso reduced our vehicle fleet having sold our labelled procurement compared with 2015 within the executive cars, for example. Contrary to the other seven categories we have prioritised up until now categories, transport by taxi has increased. To (see chart below). Therefore, in 2018 we will comply with an increasing need for taxi transport consider new product categories that might help while also reducing our carbon footprint, we ensure more responsible procurement. Purchase of eco-labelled products (%) 2014 2015 2016 100% 90% 80% 70% 60% 50% 40% 30% 20% 10% 0% Laundries Prints Office supplies Furniture Data machines Cleaning services Hotel and conference Note: As data for 2017 will be compiled in the summer of 2018, the most recent data in this figure are for 2016. 32 Climate and environment Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Environmental management We strive to run our operations as efficiently as possible, Carbon Disclosure Project and we monitor consumption in all of Nykredit's many buildings via our Energy Management System. This increases the security of our day-to-day operations, ensuring that we are in sync with our climate and environment strategy. We assess our progress in relation to our goals on a quarterly basis, examining any irregularities that need to be addressed to be able to improve our results further. As we want to take an even For the second consecutive year, Nykredit has responded to more structured approach to our processes, we began the annual questionnaire from the Carbon Disclosure Project setting up an environmental management system in (CDP). The CDP is the most widespread investor tool for 2017 (in line with the ISO 14001 standard). benchmarking the efforts of organisations and businesses on reducing their carbon footprint. Due to our response to Customers and the climate climate changes, Nykredit in 2017 moved up two steps to a total score of B, which is in line with the other participants in As a business, we can do much to consider the climate the sector. and the environment, but we can reach even further through customer involvement. In its main report from 2017, the Danish Council on Climate Change outlines energy renovation of buildings as one of the key transitional elements of fulfilling the Danish government's long-term goal of a low-carbon environment by 2050. Nykredit has a market share of about 41% in the Danish mortgage lending market and by calling attention to the advantages of home energy optimisation, we can potentially help reduce carbon emissions by thousands of tonnes. We support homeowners who consider the climate and the environment when rebuilding, renovating or improving their homes. Since 2012, Nykredit has developed sustainable value propositions for our customers that contribute positively to Denmark's green transition. We have four concrete proposals at this time: Home Check-up, Homebuyer's Inspection, Home Plan and Home Project Support, which may all contribute to making our customers' homes more energy-efficient – and in turn provide Denmark with a more climate and environmentally friendly building stock. Climate and environment 33 Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 34 Climate and environment Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Climate and environment – in brief Important to society Today climate changes and environmental challenges pose two of the most severe problems globally. These problems can only be solved through an ambitious, global mix of tools where both the public and private sector are contributors. Important to Nykredit As Denmark's leading lender, Nykredit has a great potential for supporting Denmark's green transition and helping homeowners, businesses and investors reduce their carbon emissions. Nykredit's ambitions Nykredit's ambition in the climate and environmental area is to make Denmark greener by developing sustainable value propositions and investment products as well as financing sustainable energy. We want to reduce our carbon footprint by 65% by end-2020. Also, climate and environmental considerations are an integral part of our investment policy and the Code of Conduct for our suppliers. Activities and results in 2017  The primary key performance indicator (KPI) of Nykredit's climate and environment strategy is to reduce our carbon footprint by 65% by 2020 compared with the 2012 level. By end-2017 we had reached 78% of our target.  We moved up two steps in 2017 to a total score of B in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP).  We reduced our total amount of waste from 421 tonnes in 2016 to 413 tonnes. We also increased recycling from 42% to 45%.  In 2017 we started using DriveNow electric city cars, installed LED lighting and began using biogas for heating instead of natural gas.  In 2017 we participated in the WWF's Earth Hour campaign for the tenth time and in the Global Footprint Network's Earth Overshoot Day campaign for the first time.  We also financed wind turbines, district cooling systems and battery-powered and hybrid ferries in 2017. Outlook for 2018 We want to:  set goals for Nykredit's future resource consumption  implement the ISO 14001 standard in the Group  improve or, as a minimum, maintain our score in the CDP  support national and international intentions of electrification in Denmark through conversion of energy consumption in our operations  consider new product categories that may be eligible for greener procurement. Climate and environment 35 Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 36 Climate and environment Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 7 Business ethics Today financial crime, including money laundering, stipulates zero tolerance against corruption in all its terrorist financing, tax evasion and corruption, is a global forms, something which is also incorporated in our Code problem that reaches across borders. Consequently, it is of Conduct, which must be complied with by all staff at also an area in which active measures are taken at Nykredit. international level to curb the opportunities of criminals. Tax evasion Nykredit sees it as part of our corporate responsibility to In recent years, tax evasion, including financial prevent our business from being used as a vehicle for companies' participation in tax evasion, has become a money laundering, terrorist financing and tax evasion, public focus area following leaks of documents from tax including to collaborate with the relevant authorities and havens. Bank and mortgage loans granted by the to comply with financial sanctions aimed at combatting Nykredit Group are reported to the Danish tax terrorism or freezing funds. authorities, SKAT. Nykredit has adopted an unambiguous tax policy that takes a clear stand against We also see it as part of our business ethics agenda to the act of and participation in tax evasion, while prevent corruption and money laundering and, being a stipulating that Nykredit does not engage in the large Danish company, to be a responsible taxpayer and establishment or administration of companies in tax a Group that ensures appropriate protection and proper havens. Updated in 2017, the tax policy is available at handling of personal data. Nykredit's website. Risks The tax policy covers the entire Group as well as the Nykredit has identified a number of risks related to affairs of the Group and of Nykredit's customers. The business ethics and to money laundering in particular. In policy aims to solidify Nykredit's position as a competitive 2017 several cases in the financial sector showed that business and responsible taxpayer. Nykredit checks the sector is challenged with respect to countering customer data and ownership structures and has money laundering in a sufficiently effective manner. We established internal processes for the purpose of find it difficult to completely avoid being misused for ensuring, in the tax area, that Nykredit acts and reports money laundering or tax evasion, as financial businesses in compliance with applicable legislation, has knowledge are faced with criminals who are constantly perfecting of best practice and addresses the area in accordance their methods. We are, however, working actively to with Nykredit's tax policy. minimise these risks through policies and control systems. As a consequence of increased focus, the authorities have instituted a number of special investigations in the Corruption area vis-à-vis the financial sector and, of course, the In recent years, Denmark has seen a number of bribery Nykredit Group. These investigations have not cases but Denmark is also one of the least corrupt uncovered any instances where the Group has been countries in the world, occupying a (joint) first place in exploited for tax evasion purposes, and the Group has Transparency International's Corruption Perceptions not received any criticism in connection with SKAT's Index in 2016. Corruption is understood to mean eg investigations in the area. Nykredit has, and will continue bribery, fraud, embezzlement or extortion and does not to have, focus on this area in order to ensure that we are necessarily imply the exchange of money, but may also not being exploited for tax evasion purposes. include positive discrimination etc. As is the case with other businesses, there is a risk that Nykredit as a group Money laundering or Nykredit's staff may become the victim of or guilty of In 2017 Nykredit updated its policy on the prevention of committing corruption. money laundering, terrorist financing and breach of financial sanctions. This policy sets out to prevent Nykredit has adopted an anti-corruption policy aiming at Nykredit from being exploited for the purpose of financial ensuring and supporting conduct and work ethics crime, while ensuring that Nykredit applies its resources characterised by the highest standards of personal and in an effective and risk-weighted manner for the organisational integrity, internally as well as externally, in prevention of financial crime. our dealings with all types of customers and business partners. This policy is in line with the Ten Principles of By applying the requisite and proportional means, the UN Global Compact, which we endorse, and Nykredit will actively seek to prevent, mitigate and Business ethics 37 Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 manage the risks related to financial crime for the purpose of always having a low risk of Nykredit being exploited as a vehicle for financial crime through the products we offer, our delivery channels and our geographic presence, thereby limiting any harmful consequences for society. Together with Finance Denmark, Nykredit has intensified its anti-money laundering activities considerably. We have allocated more resources to the area, and in November 2017, the industry took steps to strengthen its collaboration with the authorities in the fight against money laundering. Nykredit wants to continue this work at full throttle, and it is our hope that more resources will be allocated to the authorities so as to ensure they follow through on the intelligence we provide. Close collaboration with the authorities is core to ensuring that Danish banks are not exploited by criminals for money laundering. Personal data Nykredit has access to personal data through its customer and staff relations. Nykredit is continuously working to ensure proper protection and secure handling of personal data. Price transparency Nykredit aims to protect the Group against risks that may cause infringement of the integrity of Nykredit's Customer relation diversity calls for transparency of the customers and staff as a consequence of a breach of prices and fees of Nykredit's products and services. We personal data security. have long worked and will continue to work with a uniform and clear pricing and fee policy for the purpose Nykredit has adopted a policy in the area that lays down of Nykredit's homeowner banking programme the overall framework and principles for Nykredit's (BoligBank). treatment, including collection and storage, of personal data with the aim of providing the data subjects with high Increased focus on transparency is also reflected in new protection at all times. legislation following from PSD2 (payments) and MiFID II (investments), which was implemented in Nykredit in the Accordingly, all members of staff must ensure that course of 2017 or is being implemented. In 2017 the Nykredit complies with the basic principles of good implementation of MiFID II in particular brought about a practice for the processing of data. number of adjustments in terms of costs paid by Nykredit's customers when investing in securities and The entry into force of the EU General Data Protection investment funds. Regulation on 25 May 2018 will mean a tightening of existing legislation, including a widening of the rights of Our customers are thus experiencing increased data subjects. Businesses acting in breach of applicable transparency of the direct and indirect expenses of legislation will be liable to a fine. investing in Nykredit's investment funds or dealing in securities. At the same time, the cost of trading in certain In 2017 Nykredit launched a special programme focusing securities has been lowered. on the implementation of the principles laid down in the General Data Protection Regulation, including adaptation of existing policies and business procedures. Under the programme, the future governance setup, the internal control environment and any current support for the business units in relation to personal data processing will be strengthened. 38 Business ethics Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Business ethics 39 Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 40 Business ethics Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 8 Our social commitment Photographer: Jakob Carlsen Our social commitment is in alignment with Nykredit's corporate social responsibility policy, according to which As a volunteer of the Råd til Livet Nykredit wants to support Danish communities through programme, I have gained an social partnerships. At Nykredit, we have targeted our awareness of the wide gaps in our efforts at the area of expertise held by the majority of our living conditions. Personally, I am staff: personal financial advice. thrilled to be able to offer my help, which is really nothing, if you ask me. Risks But what seems like nothing to me may People in difficult life stages may require financial advice mean the world to others. Helping that reaches beyond the advice and services normally others move on and escape the crisis I offered by banks to personal customers. People once found them in makes me happy. struggling with tight finances run the risk that temporary problems turn into permanent ones. Lena Fordsmann, Mentor. At Nykredit, we acknowledge that you may require advisory services that differ from the services normally offered by us and our colleagues in the sector. This is why we engage in social partnerships where our staff can make a difference to the target groups in the projects. Michael Rasmussen, Group Chief Executive of Nykredit, is a member of the governing body of the Mary At the end of 2017, 44 staff had volunteered, applying Foundation. The Råd til Livet programme offers battered their expert knowledge and experience of personal women social, financial and legal advice. Nykredit's staff financial affairs as financial mentors for people who need provide financial advice tailored to the needs of the a helping hand. individual women. The aim is to provide the individual women with a better overview and empower them to Help to battered women manage their own personal finances. The social partnership called Råd til Livet is a longstanding partnership between the Mary Foundation, Mødrehjælpen (Mothers' Help), LOKK (the National Organisation of Shelters for Battered Women and Children), Nykredit, Østifterne and local attorneys. Our social 41 commitment Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Counselling of returned veterans Donations and recycling Pernille Hirshals, Corporate Communications, hands over PCs to Christopher Klüter, General Manager at HackYourFuture The programme called Økonomisk Overblik is a Nykredit donated furniture, bicycles, IT equipment and partnership between Soldaterlegatet (the Soldiers' art to a number of recipients in 2017. We have donated Grant), KFUM Soldiers Mission and Nykredit. The 15 works of art to the Christmas Seal Foundation and programme is aimed at returned veterans who have 159 works of art to the Lillebælt Hospital, and we have been physically or mentally affected by their service. donated 20 bicycles to refugees living at the Sandholm Using a help-to-self-help approach, financial mentors refugee camp. 100 tables, 70 chairs and IT equipment from Nykredit help returned veterans get a handle on have been put to great use at Fontanaskolen and at their personal finances or effectively manage any PMU. 30 computer screens have been donated to a compensation amounts awarded. group of volunteers at Skanderborg, where they are connected with computers, mice and keyboards and Financial inclusion handed out to refugees who use them for education etc. We assume a responsibility for financial inclusion. This Finally, we have donated PCs to the HackYourFuture means that we aim to not preclude vulnerable and project. Under this project, volunteers teach refugees disadvantaged people from access to basic banking computer programming. products as and when the need arises and provided that they are not under suspicion of misuse of Nykredit's Passing on things that we no longer need ourselves products for the purpose of financial crime. In 2017 we makes good sense and creates value for others. Such thus contributed to Finance Denmark's endeavours to set initiatives foster positive social trends with focus on the up a framework for the opening of accounts for homeless sharing economy and the circular economy, and that is people, and in Q4/2017 we were ready to launch our why we wish to remain open to similar donations and solution at Nykredit Bank. recycling in the future. 42 Our social commitment Nykredit Realkredit Group – CSR Report 2017 Our social commitment – in brief Important to communities Complex life situations may call for advice that extends beyond the services normally offered by banks to personal customers. The lack of financial overview means that temporary problems may develop into permanent ones. Important to Nykredit Nykredit is a member of two social partnerships: Råd til Livet and Økonomisk Overblik. Under both projects, our staff volunteer their expertise within personal financial affairs as unpaid financial mentors. Nykredit's ambitions Our social commitment is in alignment with Nykredit's corporate social responsibility policy, according to which Nykredit wants to support Danish communities through social partnerships. Activities and results in 2017 Råd til Livet:  Approximately 575 advisers distributed on around 25 locations across the country at Mødrehjælpen (Mothers' Help) and crisis centres.  Evaluations of the social partnership Råd til Livet at Mødrehjælpen show that more than half of the users experience that Råd til Livet helps them better understand their personal finances, and 66% experience improved well-being. Økonomisk Overblik:  Approximately 50 advisers distributed across soldiers' recreational centres at Høvelte, Fredericia, Holstebro and Hvorup.  Evaluations of the social partnership Økonomisk Overblik show that, in their assessment of the advice offered, veterans are very positive, both in terms of specific tools for handling their own personal finances and in terms of positive expectations for the future. Outlook for 2018  We will continue our efforts in 2018. Our social 43 commitment 9 CSR key figures Human Resources Key figures 2015 2016 2017 Average number of full-time staff* 3,709 3,640 3,502 Staff turnover 15.1% 13.1% 19.3% Of which voluntary 8.8% 9.4% 10.8% Of which involuntary 6.3% 3.7% 8.5% Women in management 31% 32.0% 34.0% * The average number of full-time staff, determined on the basis of the Danish ATP method, excluding Nykredit Forsikring A/S and JN Data A/S. Staff figures 2015 2016 2017 Permanent staff, year-end 3,432 3,227 3,105 of which part-time staff 349 313 278 Staff paid by the hour 626 586 544 New staff 285 321 322 Outflow 543 459 647 New staff as percentage of permanent staff 8.3% 9.9% 10.4% Staff satisfaction survey Level (0-100) 2015 2016 2017 Staff satisfaction 74 73 73 Assessment of indoor climate (good indoor climate) 69 No data 70 Assessment of noise level (low noise level) 82 No data 83 Impact on sick absence rate (low impact) 99 No data 99 Work-life balance 2015 2016 2017 Part-time staff 349 313 278 of which women 318 286 29 of which men 31 27 249 Average number of days per paid maternity leave 125 128 131 Number of staff members on leave 371 340 340 Health 2015 2016 2017 Average days of absence because of illness 6.1 5.8 5.5 44 CSR key figures Percentage of female managers % 2015 2016 2017 Target 2018 Executive-level management 16% 19% 17% 25% Middle-level management 26% 34% 33% 35% Lower-level management 48% 35% 53% 40% Total female managers 31% 32% 34% Note: The individual categories are defined as: Executive-level management: Managers reporting directly to a member of the Group Executive Board. Middle-level management: Managers to whom five or more staff members report directly. Lower-level management: Managers to whom four or fewer staff members report directly. The downward revision of the target for lower-level management should be seen in the light of the revised definition of the categories. * Due to breaks in historical data, 2015 data are determined according to older management level definitions. Female Board representation % 2015 2016 2017 Target 2018 Nykredit A/S 22% 22% 28% 30% Nykredit Realkredit A/S 20% 20% 33% 30% Nykredit Bank A/S 20% 0% 0% 25% Totalkredit A/S 22% 11% 11% 25% Staff receiving regular performance and career development reviews 2017, % of staff Men Women Total Management 77.0% 88.0% 81.0% Total 86.0% 85.0% 85.0% Numbers are lower than 100% because of maternity and other leave, illness, change of jobs, etc. Customers Number of customers ('000) 2015 2016 2017 Number of customers 1,065 1,067 1,101 of which personal customers 398 396 409 of which business customers 73 68 69 of which Totalkredit customers 617 625 644 of which double customers * -23 -22 -21 * Customers who are customers of both Nykredit and Totalkredit. Customer satisfaction 2015 2016 2017 Personal customers, (EPSI 1-100) 70 71 71 Business customers, (EPSI 1-100) 66 66 63 Complaints 267 195 183 CSR key figures 45 Environment and climate Nykredit wants to run a sustainable, socially responsible business. We have therefore set a target of reducing our carbon footprint by 65% by 2020, which we monitor regularly. Resource consumption HQ + staff Customer SubsidiNykredit Nykredit Nykredit Index JN Data** buildings centres aries 2017 2016 2012 2016-2017 Nykredit facts Number of locations 7 43 1 1 53 63 74 84 of which leased premises 6 34 1 41 54 56 76 Heated area (sqm) 65,076 41,963 1,473 2,483 110,995 128,922 146,784 86 Number of staff (total) 2,757 924 46 89 3,816 4,224 4,807 90 Number of full-time staff (FTE) 2,264 910 41 89 3,304 3,623 4,100 91 Consumption data Electricity (MWh) 5,576 2,145 47 3,012 10,780 12,476 16,054 86 Electricity from renewable energy systems (MWh) 228 72 0 0 301 304 99 Heating (MWh) 5,040 4,182 117 72 9,412 9,570 12,010 98 Heating, degree-day adjusted (MWh)* 5,737 4,761 122 77 10,697 11,693 14,094 91 Direct energy consumption (MWh) 335 437 0 0 772 857 806 90 Indirect energy consumption (MWh) 10,509 5,964 164 3,084 19,720 23,616 29,343 84 Total energy consumption (MWh) 10,844 6,400 164 3,084 20,492 24,474 30,149 84 KPIs Heated area per staff member (sqm) 29 46 36 28 34 36 35 94 Electricity consumption per staff member (kWh) 2,564 2,437 1,143 33,838 3,354 3,527 3,773 95 Electricity consumption per square metre (kWh) 86 51 32 1,213 100 99 107 101 Heat consumption per staff member (kWh) 2,534 5,232 2,972 867 3,238 3,228 3,312 100 Heat consumption per square metre (kWh) 88 113 83 31 96 91 94 106 Total energy consumption per staff member (kWh) 4,790 7,033 4,005 34,650 6,202 6,755 7,085 92 Total energy consumption per square metre (kWh) 167 153 112 1,242 185 190 200 97 Transport Company car travel (1,000 km) 782 0 4 18 804 816 927 99 Own car travel (1,000 km) 4,236 0 292 0 4,528 4,693 6,427 96 Taxi travel (1,000 km) 293 0 3 2 298 252 525 118 Rail travel (1,000 km) 1,468 0 22 37 1,526 1,694 2,170 90 Air travel (1,000 km) 2,974 0 11 169 3,153 3,723 9,120 85 CO2 emissions**** Scope 1 – direct CO2 emissions Company car travel (tonnes) 109 0 1 3 113 114 143 99 Heating – oil and gas 20 54 0 0 73 114 165 65 Scope 2 – indirect CO2 emissions Electricity consumption (tonnes) 1,598 615 13 863 3,089 2,911 6,609 106 Heat consumption – from CHP plants 513 411 12 8 944 1,214 1,522 78 Scope 3 – other indirect CO2 emissions Air travel (tonnes) 359 0 1 19 379 457 1,191 83 Rail travel (tonnes) 54 0 1 1 56 66 52 85 Own car travel (tonnes) 593 0 41 0 634 657 1,060 96 Taxi travel (tonnes) 43 0 0 0 44 37 78 118 Total Total heat consumption (tonnes) 533 465 12 8 1,017 1,328 1,688 77 Total transport (tonnes) 1,158 0 44 23 1,225 1,331 2,524 92 Total CO2 emissions (tonnes) 3,289 1,079 70 894 5,332 5,570 10,821 96 CO2 emission per staff member (tonnes)*** 1.45 1.19 1.70 10.04 1.61 1.54 2.64 105 * The calculation is based on degree-day adjusted heat consumption, corresponding to a standard year. ** Approximately 15% of the energy consumption of JN Data has been included in 2017 as Nykredit took up about one-fifth of its operations. The number of kilometres and emissions from transport for JN Data are based on the distribution also applied to expenses. *** Due to a printing error in Nykredit's statement of CO2 emission for 2012, the index number has been corrected from 2.54 to 2.64. **** See next page for a detailed definition of Scopes 1-3. 46 CSR key figures CO2 EMISSIONS: CURRENT LEVEL TOWARDS TARGET OF 65% CO2 REDUCTION – BY SOURCE Direct and indirect emissions Our air emissions are divided into three categories:  Scope 1 – Direct greenhouse gas emissions are emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by Nykredit. They include emissions from direct combustion of fuels and our vehicle fleet.  Scope 2 – Indirect greenhouse gas emissions are emissions that result from the consumption of the electricity we purchase. They include emissions that result from our consumption of electricity and district heating.  Scope 3 – Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions are emissions from sources that are not owned or controlled by Nykredit. They include third-party deliveries, business travel and use of products and services sold. Reporting of Scope 3 emissions is optional. Nykredit includes the following elements: CO 2 emissions from air and rail travel, workrelated own car travel and taxi travel. CO2 emissions (Scopes) 2012 2016 2017 Index 2012-2017 LocationMarketLocationMarketLocationMarketLocationMarketbased based based based based based based based Total CO2 emissions (tonnes) 10,821 12,400 5,570 9,196 5,332 8,419 49% 68% Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) 308 308 228 228 186 186 60% 60% Company car travel (tonnes) 143 143 114 114 113 113 79% 79% Heat consumption (tonnes) – oil and gas 165 165 114 114 73 73 45% 45% Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2) 8,131 9,710 4,125 7,751 4,033 7,121 50% 73% Electricity consumption (tonnes) 6,609 8,188 2,911 6,537 3,089 6,177 47% 75% Heat consumption (tonnes) – from CHP plants 1,522 1,522 1,214 1,214 944 944 62% 62% Other indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 3) 2,382 2,382 1,217 1,217 1,113 1,113 47% 47% Air travel (tonnes) 1,191 1,191 457 457 379 379 32% 32% Rail travel (tonnes) 52 52 66 66 56 56 107% 107% Own car travel (tonnes) 1,060 1,060 657 657 634 634 60% 60% Taxi travel (tonnes) 78 78 37 37 44 44 57% 57% Note: Source of the market-based emissions from electricity is RE-DISS European Residual Mixes. CSR key figures 47 Waste In 2017, Nykredit measured the Group's waste according to the following table. It shows that about 45% of Nykredit's waste was recycled. We aim to increase this percentage. HQ + staff Customer SubsidiNykredit Nykredit Index JN Data buildings centres aries 2017 2016 2016-2017 Total waste (tonnes) 297 117 413 421 98 Waste per staff member (kg/FTE) 131 128 125 120 104 Waste sent to landfill (tonnes) 3.93 0.00 3.93 0.55 714 Waste sent to incineration (tonnes) 171 54 225 245 92 Batteries (tonnes) 0.00 0.03 0.03 0.05 60 Waste recycled (tonnes) 121 65 186 175 106 of which food waste (tonnes) 46 0 46 21 217 of which paper waste (tonnes) 69 61 131 147 89 of which electronic waste (tonnes) 1.71 0.02 1.73 1.71 101 of which glass waste (tonnes) 1.78 3.78 5.56 3.28 170 of which iron and metal waste (tonnes) 1.91 0.00 1.91 1.33 143 of which other waste (tonnes) 0 0 0 0 14 Recycling (%) 41% 56% 45% 42% 108 Other fragments (%) 59% 44% 55% 58% 94 Water consumption In 2017, water use was an independent reporting item in Nykredit's Climate and Environment Report. See the figures below. HQ + staff Customer SubsidiNykredit Nykredit Index JN Data* buildings centres aries 2017 2016 2016-2017 Heated area (sqm) 65,076 41,963 1,473 2,483 110,995 111,843 99 Total water use (cubic metres) 26,880 8,718 428 691 36,717 39,928 92 Number of staff (FTE) 2,264 910 41 89 3,304 3,623 91 Water use per staff member (litres) 11,873 9,580 10,436 7,764 11,113 11,021 101 Water use per square metre (litres) 413 208 291 278 331 289 114 * Approximately 15% of the energy consumption of JN Data has been included in 2017 as Nykredit took up about one-fifth of its operations. The water use of JN Data is based on the distribution also applied to expenses. 48 CSR key figures CSR key figures 49 10 GRI reporting Nykredit's Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index includes reference to relevant reports and websites dealing with the matter in question. Annual Report = Annual Report 2017, Nykredit Group Fact Book = Fact Book 2017, Nykredit Group CSR Report = CSR Report 2017, Nykredit Group General standard disclosures GRI Disclosure Description/Reference External Assurance Strategy and Analysis No G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the CSR Report organisation about the relevance of sustainability to Annual Report the organisation and the organisation's strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. CSR Report Organisational profile No G4-3 Name of the organisation. Annual Report G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services. Annual Report, Business areas CSR Report www.nykredit.com G4-5 Location of the organisation's headquarters. Annual Report, Company information G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operates, Annual Report, Business areas and names of countries where either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. Annual Report, Group chart G4-8 Markets. Annual Report, Business areas G4-9 Scale of the organisation. Annual Report, Financial highlights Annual Report, Business areas G4-10 Number of staff. CSR Report, Key figures G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective Nykredit has a collective agreement with NYKREDS, a bargaining agreements. company-specific branch of the Danish Financial Services Union G4-12 The organisation's supply chain. CSR Report, Investment and procurement G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period Annual Report, Nykredit's strategy regarding the organisation's size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain. G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or Annual Report, Organisation, management and corporate principle is addressed by the organisation. responsibility G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and CSR Report social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or CSR Report international advocacy organisations. Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries No G4-17 Entities included in the organisation's consolidated Annual Report, Group chart financial statements and whether any entity included in the organisation's consolidated financial statements is not covered by the report. G4-18 The process for defining the report content and the The material aspects were identified through internal Aspect Boundaries and how the organisation has assessment of key factors implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. 50 GRI reporting GRI Disclosure Description/Reference External Assurance G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining See the two tables below with Specific Standard report content. Disclosures and Financial Services Sector Disclosures G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organisation for material None aspects. G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organisation for material None aspects. G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in None previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in None the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Stakeholder Engagement No G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. CSR Report G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders CSR Report with whom to engage. G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement. CSR Report G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised CSR Report through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns. Report Profile No G4-28 Reporting period. Calendar year 2017 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. Nykredit GRI index 2017 in Nykredit's CSR Report, February 2017 G4-30 Reporting cycle. Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report. Nykredit Corporate Communications G4-32 The GRI reporting option chosen. GRI Content Index for 'In Accordance' – Core This table, CSR Report G4-33 Assurance. No external assurance of the GRI index Governance No G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation. CSR Report Annual Report www.nykredit.com Ethics and Integrity No G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour. CSR Report Specific standard disclosures GRI Material Aspects & Indicators Reported DMA & Indicators External Assurance Economic No G4-DMA Economic performance & community investment. CSR Report G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. Annual Report, Financial highlights Value generated by the organisation's community investment programs and breakdown of community investment by theme. G4-DMA Indirect economic impacts. CSR Report G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the CSR Report extent of impacts. GRI Disclosure Description/Reference External Assurance Environmental Partial G4-DMA Energy. CSR Report Yes GRI reporting 51 GRI Disclosure Description/Reference External Assurance G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation. CSR Report, Key figures Yes G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organisation. CSR Report, Key figures Yes G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. CSR Report, Key figures Yes G4-DMA Water. CSR Report, Key figures No G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. All water obtained from public water supply No CSR Report, Climate and environment G4-DMA Emissions. CSR Report, Climate and environment Yes G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). CSR Report, Key figures Yes G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2). CSR Report, Key figures Yes G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions CSR Report, Key figures Yes (Scope 3). G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. CSR Report, Key figures Yes G4-DMA Effluents and waste. CSR Report, Key figures No G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. CSR Report, Key figures No G4-DMA Products and services. CSR Report No G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of CSR Report No products and services. G4-DMA Transport. CSR Report, Key figures Yes G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting CSR Report No products and other goods and materials for the organisation's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. G4-DMA Supplier environmental assessment. CSR Report No G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using CSR Report, Key figures No environmental criteria. Labour Practices and Decent Work No G4-DMA Employment. CSR Report G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and CSR Report, Key figures employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. G4-DMA Labour/management relations. Nykredit has a good relationship with NYKREDS, its staff association, and Nykredit appreciates that NYKREDS seeks influence and works to ensure that staff conditions are considered in the day-to-day operations and the continuous group development. Interaction takes place at many levels: between the individual supervisor and union representative, in the local and central works councils and health and safety committees, as well as in a number of ad-hoc working groups. In order to support the objective of being an attractive and challenging workplace, Nykredit has prepared a staff policy, which is being implemented through the local works councils in dialogue with NYKREDS. G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational Minimum 3 months' notice according to the collective changes, including whether these are specified in agreement. Changes need approval from NYKREDS collective agreements. before implementation. G4-DMA Occupational health and safety. Nykredit is focusing on health in general, as healthy staff members have higher job satisfaction, lower sick absence rates and create a good social environment. Even though the risk of robberies in Nykredit is limited due to the amount of cash handled, Nykredit has guidelines for staff to follow in case of robberies. Psychological treatment is offered to staff in case of robberies. www.nykredit.com G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal The total workforce of Nykredit is represented. joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular CSR Report, Key figures performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category. G4-DMA Training and education. In 2011 new rules were introduced requiring financial companies to ensure and prove that advisers have the necessary skills to advise customers on investment products and financial instruments. Nykredit's compulsory training programme ensures that advisers have a high level of expertise and that such expertise is translated into sound advice. 52 GRI reporting GRI Disclosure Description/Reference External Assurance A wide range of internal and external courses and training programmes ensure continuous development of staff skills. Nykredit makes an effort to spot talent and offer talent programmes for advisers, specialists and managers. www.nykredit.dk G4-DMA Diversity and equal opportunity. Nykredit aims at staff diversity in terms of gender, age, ethnicity, sexual orientation and flextime jobs. Nykredit focuses on more women in management and has made an active contribution under the Charter for more women in management and Operation Chain Reaction . Nykredit has set targets for the percentage of women on the Boards of Directors of Nykredit's financial companies and has developed a policy to raise the percentage of women at other management levels. www.nykredit.com G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of CSR Report employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. G4-DMA Equal remuneration for women and men. Nykredit has an equal wage policy, and statistics on the wage distribution are compiled every year. It is Nykredit's ambition to remunerate based on skills, effort and performance, independently of gender. G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to Nykredit has an equal wage policy, and statistics on the men by employee category, by significant locations of wage distribution are compiled every year. It is Nykredit's operation. ambition to remunerate based on skills, effort and performance, independently of gender. Human Rights No G4-DMA Investment. CSR Report G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment CSR Report, Key figures agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening. FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative CSR Report environmental or social screening. G4-DMA Non-discrimination. Nykredit has adopted the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Nykredit aims to be a workplace that accommodates staff and managers of different ages and sexual orientation, of both genders and with different ethnic and religious backgrounds. www.nykredit.com G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and None reported corrective actions taken. G4-DMA Freedom of association and collective bargaining. Nykredit has adopted the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. www.nykredit.com G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to CSR Report exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights. G4-DMA Supplier human rights assessment. Nykredit has adopted the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The procurement practice of the Nykredit Group should support the overall strategy and goals. Contracts are made in accordance with the law and in line with the policies on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). CSR Report G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using CSR Report, Key figures human rights criteria. GRI reporting 53 GRI Disclosure Description/Reference External Assurance Society No G4-DMA Local communities. CSR Report G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local www.nykredit.com community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically CSR Report disadvantaged areas by type. Fact Book, Mortgage lending by geography G4-DMA Anti-corruption. Nykredit's anti-corruption policy sets out the principles for Nykredit's approach to countering any form of corruption. The risk of corruption at the Nykredit Group is assessed as low, as Nykredit is a Danish-based financial services group with relatively few foreign customers and operating mainly in Scandinavia and the EU. www.nykredit.dk G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies All new staff members are trained in measures to combat and procedures. money laundering. All staff must follow the Nykredit Code of Conduct. G4-DMA Public policy. Nykredit does not provide direct or indirect financial support to politicians or political parties. G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and Nykredit does not provide direct or indirect financial recipient/beneficiary. support to politicians or political parties. G4-DMA Supplier assessment for impacts on society. The procurement practice of the Nykredit Group should support the overall strategy and goals. Contracts are made in accordance with the law and the policies on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and the environment. G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using CSR Report, Key figures criteria for impacts on society. Product Responsibility No G4-DMA Product and service labelling. It is important that customers have a positive experience when dealing with Nykredit. Nykredit wants to offer its customers the best and most competent advice in the market. Under Nykredit Certification, all customer-facing staff undergo a structured development programme providing them with training that goes beyond the requirements of Danish law. Nykredit regularly ask customers about their expectations regarding Nykredit's advisers, products and services and whether their experience matches those expectations. www.nykredit.dk G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. CSR Report, Key figures G4-DMA Customer privacy. Security has top priority in the financial sector in general. The sector as a whole acknowledges the fact that in this area we are not competitors but have a shared interest in maintaining maximum security at national level. Threats are monitored closely, and cooperation across the financial sector involves internal as well as external experts. Nykredit participates actively in this sector cooperation and complies with the security rules laid down by Finance Denmark for self-service solutions. We conduct annual penetration tests, where an external expert attempts to hack into our systems. G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding For the total number of complaints, see the CSR Report, breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer Key figures. Nykredit also has a more detailed list of data. complaints broken down by category. G4-DMA Compliance. Nykredit acts in compliance with laws and regulations. Under Nykredit Certification, all customer-facing staff undergo a structured development programme providing them with training that goes beyond the requirements of Danish law. G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 54 GRI reporting Financial services sector disclosures GRI Sector Specific Aspects & Indicators Reported DMA & Indicators External Assurance Product Responsibility No G4-DMA Product portfolio. Considering Nykredit's market share of the Danish mortgage market of around 45%, future measures in the construction area will significantly impact Nykredit's activities as well as our customers' financial positions. Nykredit therefore wishes to contribute to meeting the challenges of the coming years – by providing support for the solutions needed by society as well as changing our own conduct. Nykredit develops concepts, products and advisory services stimulating the environmental and climate awareness and investments of our customers and primary stakeholders. www.nykredit.dk FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by Fact Book specific region, size (eg micro/SME/large) and by sector. G4-DMA Audit. Nykredit Realkredit A/S is subject to financial regulation, an internal audit function has been set up in the Nykredit Group. Nykredit Realkredit A/S has set up a joint Audit Board for all the companies within the Nykredit Group that are obliged to set up such a board. The Board of Directors and the Audit Board meet with the independent auditors at least once a year without the attendance of the Executive Board. www.nykredit.com G4-DMA Active ownership. A changing society needs sound financial enterprises to foster changes and secure sustainable short and longterm financial solutions. As a market player, Nykredit's business concept is financial sustainability. When we receive confirmed information on breach of conventions etc, we take active ownership of the relevant company in order to make it change its conduct. We may cooperate with other investors, or we may choose to cast our vote at the company's annual general meeting. www.nykredit.com FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative CSR Report, Key figures environmental or social screening. GRI reporting 55 Kalvebod Brygge 1-3 DK-1780 Copenhagen V +45 70 10 90 00 Nykredit.com 56 GRI reporting
