1 6 March 2018 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that GTX Corp will continue to support the ten principles of the Global Compact in human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. I wish to renew the company’s ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principals. With this communication, I am expressing our intent to implement those principles in our own company further. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles a continual part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and will continue to engage in collaborative projects to advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, the World Health Organization, and particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. I recognize that this expression of continual support by myself as the CEO of GTX Corp is the first step in the requirements needed for continual participation in the Global Compact. Following this letter, the United Nations Global Compact will receive our annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency and will include a description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken or plans to undertake to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas of human rights, labor, environment, anti-corruption. Additionally, a measure of outcomes will be presented in this COP in order to further disclose GTX Corp’s degree of which it has addressed its targets, the indicators that were met, and any other qualitative or quantitative measurement of results. Kind Regards, Patrick Bertagna Chief Executive Officer GTX Corp 1 2 GTX Corp’s Communication on Progress Human Rights Principles Assessment, Policy, and Goals GTX Corp’s goal is to ensure that all of our employees and business partners respect and achieve the articles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Every person in the world is entitled to freedom, justice, and peace. GTX Corp’s stance on corporate social responsibility (CSR) is that, “GTX Corp actively engages beyond the company’s investors and stockholders, to implement involvement with the communities alongside the company’s partners. Our aim is to empower our staff, customers, clients, and partners, to make positive changes in their communities at home and abroad.” GTX Corp is focused on ensuring the safety of populations within their communities in addition to empowering individuals to make positive social changes in both the community as well as in the business world. This is conveyed through presentations and dissemination of overall company orientations. GTX Corp is committed to the highest standards of conduct in our relationships with each other, as well as with our clients, consultants, sponsors and others involved. This requires that we conduct our business in accordance with the highest standards of both personal and business conduct. Our employee training helps us in this endeavor by providing a statement of fundamental principles and key policies and procedures that govern the conduct of our employees with general information about employment with GTX Corp. All business partners, suppliers, and manufacturers are expected to adhere to the principles on Human Rights. Any violation of the articles outlined in this universal declaration would lead to Immune Therapeutics’ disassociation with this organizations and the reporting of the violations to the proper authorities. Immune Therapeutics has sectors spanning: Biotechnology and Healthcare, Consumer Products. The countries in which we operate/have operated with our respective business affiliations and interests include: United States, United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia, Ecuador and many more. In each of these countries listed, there is the risk of violations of human rights, labor, environment, and corruption. To ensure that violations do not occur, GTX Corp and our affiliates take a hands-on approach to the implementation, production, and development of each sector and product in each respective region. Our goal is to empower the people of these countries to become more self-sufficient, employ more local people, and develop in a way that is sustainable from a business and ecological standpoint. Often times, as seen in developing countries, the vision for growth is short term, and profits often times overpowers ethics. 2 3 Related risks and impact in industry sector and country(ies) of operation Wearable Technology and Consumer Products: The major risks that are associated with this sector in the countries listed include people being subjected to cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment; everyone has the right to equal pay for equal work; and the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association, specifically with regards to the manufacturing of the products. GTX Corp’s specific goals in the area of human rights for the upcoming year: • Promote the advancement of research and technologies that are geared towards improving the quality of life in individuals spanning all economic, religious, ethnic, and political barriers. ● Encourage the advancement of medical assisting devices for therapeutic, precautionary, and protective services. ● Maintain a supply chain for all affiliations that is in compliance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. ● Empower women to attain greater levels of equality across all sectors of society through our associates and other charitable organizations we involve ourselves with. Implementation GTX Corp has taken the following measures to prevent human rights violations at its work locations: ● A reporting structure has been implemented throughout the workplace which allows for any person to report a violation to their superior, or if uncomfortable with reporting that that individual, they can communicate directly with the upper management. Measurement of Outcomes • As reported, GTX Corp has maintained 100% accountability throughout its supply chain of various offerings without a single report of human rights violations. Labor Principles Assessment, Policy, and Goals GTX Corp’s policy on labor principals acknowledges the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; and stands behind the principals of eliminating all forms of compulsory labor, the effective abolition of child labor, and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Additionally, GTX Corp has an open stance against discrimination ranging from traditional forms such as sex, race or religion, to newer forms based on age, sexual orientation, HIV/AIDS status and disability. 3 4 Implementation ● Company orientation manual highlights the assessment, policy and goals of our labor principals as well as standards on personal behavior, harassment, and discrimination. ● GTX Corp has an open door policy allowing for individuals to bring forward any concern or complaint that they may have regarding their employment, or the employment of others associated with GTX Corp. Any item that cannot be solved in this manner will be subject to arbitration before the executive team. Measurement of Outcomes • GTX Corp has hired, brought on associates, and conducted business with companies, individuals, countries, and foundations with equal opportunity and without discrimination. • GTX Corp has had zero reports of any form of compulsory labor or child labor in any of its operations in which it has had involvement. Environment Assessment, Policy and Goals The environmental policy of GTX Corp is reflective of our environmental commitment to individuals alike. GTX Corp will continually strive to find ways to increase efficiencies, support technologies that are better for the environment, and seek to enact change at all levels of corporate engagement. It is our policy to comply with all environmental laws of the respective region in which we are doing work, and when possible, institute changes that will have a positive impact on the community from an environmental standpoint. GTX Corp Specific Goals for our environmental commitment: • Actively seek out strategies that ensure environmental protection, mitigate inputs that negatively impact the local ecosystem, and change the fundamental approach in many instances to make production and commerce as low-impact and sustainable as possible. • Continue to involve high profile individuals in humanitarian efforts worldwide in order to increase knowledge and solutions to problems that the world is currently facing. Measurement of Outcomes ● As reported, no laws or environmental concerns were raised by GTX Corp’s work, supply chain, and partners. Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy, and Goals 4 5 It is the policy of the GTX Corp that corruption, fraud, theft, maladministration or any other dishonest activities of a similar nature will not be tolerated. In addition, such irregular activities will be investigated and followed up by the application of all remedies available within the full extent of the law(s) internationally, and in the country in which we are operating. Outlined in our company’s vision, employees are expected to uphold at all times, standards of integrity and behavior that will reflect positively upon themselves, their community, and GTX Corp. All information and materials are regarded as confidential or proprietary. Employees should treat all of GTX Corp’s business affairs, information, materials, plans and projects as confidential information. GTX Corp complies with all anti-corruption regulations set by the national government where we do business and international bodies worldwide. The company does not tolerate or engage in any actions constituting corruption, fraud, theft and maladministration collectively such as: theft, misconduct while handling money or transactions, insider trading, false or misleading reporting, or the omission of any acts under similar contexts. Implementation ● GTX Corp has an open door policy allowing for individuals to bring forward any concern or complaint that they may have regarding their employment, employment of others associated with GTX Corp, or the business actions of the company. Any item that cannot be solved in this manner will be subject to arbitration before the executive team. ● GTX Corp has a system of checks and balances between its divisions, executives, and managers that intends to disclose any concerning issue as they arise. ● Proper diligence into transactions and business proposals is mandatory between advisors, managers, lawyers, and executives involved in order to ensure that infractions do not occur. Measurement of Outcomes ● GTX Corp has specific personnel to review and look into past transactions of the company to identify any irregularity. ● New reporting and communication procedures have been put into place to streamline the dissemination of information. 5
