United Nations Global Compact – Communication on Progress Our second report Human Rights Labor Contents 3 Chief Executive’s statement 4 About Anthesis 14 5 Anthesis CSR 6 Summary of progress in 2017 Anti-corruption 7 Human rights 7 14 Labor Environment 23 Environment 30 Anti-corruption 37 North America leads the way 23 30 38 Themes for 2018 Chief Executive’s statement of continued support Our 2017-18 reporting year saw significant It’s a pleasure to welcome you to our development for our UK CSR program – second United Nations Global Compact amid substantial UK and global business Communication on Progress report. Our growth through the creation of two Stuart McLachlan commitment to the 10 principles remains new roles. Our new Chief Sustainability as strong as ever, both in terms of our Chief Executive Officer Officer, Paul Crewe, will steer, sponsor direct impact, as we further develop our and champion the program at a global own Corporate and Social Responsibility and board level, and our new Safety, (CSR) program, and in terms of our impact Health, Environment and Quality (SHEQ) through influence, as we work with some Lead, Andy Marsh, is now responsible for of the world’s largest organizations to compliance and standards across all our support their achievement of social and UK operations. environmental change. “Unity, not Uniformity” We are an SME with just over 110 people We also formed a Diversity and Inclusivity in our UK business, and an additional ~100 (D&I) working group and introduced our across the globe. It has been less than five commitment to run a D&I program at our years since Anthesis began trading, and Employee Conference in December 2017. we are making sound progress towards consolidating the social, environmental In this, our second UNGC report, we and financial management activities that summarize the actions we took between have already been taking place across the February 2017 and January 2018 to uphold companies which have come together to the 10 UNGC principles and lay out our form the Anthesis Group. intentions for the next reporting period. We set our targets high last year and are Our progress has been recognized proud of the progress we have made externally too, achieving eighth place in towards achieving them. the Sunday Time’s SME Export Track 100 and being named in the London Stock Exchange Group’s ‘1000 Companies to Inspire Britain’ report. Both these achievements are testament to Anthesis’ rapid growth, and to our trust and empowerment business model which thrives on ‘unity not uniformity’. 3 About Anthesis Anthesis is a specialist global Anthesis brings together expertise from sustainability services and solutions countries around the world and has provider founded on the belief that offices in the US, Canada, UK, Ireland, sustainable business practices are at the Germany, Sweden, Finland, Middle East, heart of long-term commercial success. China and the Philippines. We have a track record of pioneering new approaches We develop value-driven sustainability to sustainability. strategy which is underpinned by technical experience and delivered by Anthesis has clients across industry innovative, collaborative teams across the sectors, including corporate world. We not only develop solutions for multinationals like Coca-Cola, Tesco, clients using our data analytics and broad and RB. Building productive, lasting insight, but provide creative solutions relationships with clients is at the heart and act as both a delivery and financing of our approach. partner, too. Anthesis (UK) Limited, part of the group, We combine the reach of big have been members of the UNGC since consultancies with the expertise of our July 2016. practice leaders and our in-house energy and engineering delivery teams. About this report Examples of initiatives led by the UK Our CSR team, in conjunction with business are given throughout this experts around the business and our Communication on Progress. We made visualization team, are responsible for this progress in globalizing our program report. The content in the report covers during 2017, and this report also covers the 2017 reporting year, which runs from activities undertaken elsewhere. We 1st February 2017 – 31st January 2018. have included a section entitled “North America Leads the Way”, where we feature initiatives specific to the region. While our ultimate aim is to make our UNGC report and Anthesis CSR activities truly global, for 2017 we have focused on our largest areas in terms of colleagues: 75% are currently based in the UK and North America (of which 77% are UK based and 23% are North America based). Anthesis CSR Structure of team, governance and sponsorship Anthesis’ CSR activities are sponsored by Chief Sustainability Officer, Paul Crewe. Our UK CSR team was formally established in 2016 and has taken the lead on coordinating CSR activities. The team has also collaborated with our North America CSR Lead, Jennifer Clipsham, to deliver global initiatives and ensure alignment. For this reporting period our UK team comprised Helen Tyrrell (CSR Lead) and Laura Thompson (EMS Lead) as well as a ‘champ’ from each UK office. These ‘champs’ deliver our Environmental Management System (EMS), run local campaigns and initiatives and contribute to the overall program plan. In January 2018, the new role of SHEQ Lead was created and, in this role, Andy Marsh took over responsibility for EMS and compliance from Laura Thompson. Mentorship and advice for the UK program has been provided by Ben Tuxworth who also has overall responsibility for reporting decisions. The UK CSR and SHEQ Leads meet with champs monthly to discuss progress against targets and annually to determine targets. They also conference call Anthesis’ North America CSR Lead monthly and meet quarterly with our Chief Sustainability Officer who represents the program at global board level. Further global collaboration is planned for 2018. To learn more, please get in touch by emailing: AnthesisCSR@anthesisgroup.com. Key stakeholders This report is prepared for our stakeholders: our investors; employees; business partners and clients; contractors and suppliers, as well as for the wider communities in which we operate and which our business operations impact. Defining our material topics Our material topics are defined in a number of ways. Feedback from colleagues gained from our 2017 all colleague survey, and from other colleague and management feedback channels including engagement initiatives (such as a CSR graffiti board at our Employee conference in December 2017) are important factors. We also receive input from our sustainability champs, senior team, CEO and Chief Sustainability Officer. Our EMS also provides a procedure to determine environmental aspects and impacts in terms of legislation, environmental severity, likelihood and existing controls, which guide the CSR team’s priorities in terms of objective and target setting annually. 5 Our impact and progress The direct impact of our UK organizational activity in 2017 is covered in the pages that follow and, where initiatives are global or include other regions, this is indicated. For each of the four focus areas of the UNGC, we present a summary of how we are directly implementing the principles through our day-to-day operations at Anthesis, and the impact of our work with clients. Our work with clients has a bearing on all 10 UNGC principles. We further extend that positive impact by producing and sharing thought leadership materials. Summary of progress against themes Back to basics We put our data gathering methodology for business travel, commuting, office consumption, energy use and waste to the test and published our first carbon footprint relating to our UK operations in 2016-17. We maintained ISO14001 across UK offices and appointed a new SHEQ Lead with overall responsibility for implementation and expansion of our EMS. Going global We teamed up with our North America colleagues to design and deliver two global engagement campaigns and collaborated on colleague training programs across both regions. We also include Anthesis North America’s achievements in this report for the first time. Exciting stuff Our client work within the sustainability field is pretty exciting (we include a client case study for each of the four reporting areas in this report). Our colleagues are experts who drive positive impact through our client and partnership work. In 2017, we embarked on a consultation program to listen to all our colleagues about what matters to them both globally and locally, big and small. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Section 1: Human rights Our direct impact: human rights Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Our commitment Anthesis’ commitment is laid out in our We encourage a culture of open sustainability policy, championed by discussion and, over the course of 2017, our CEO, Stuart McLachlan. We strive to are pleased to report a growing number Themes for this section: uphold human rights in accordance with of platforms to support communication the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human and feedback within our organization (see #Cultureanddiversity Rights and aim to implement responsible progress section). #Healthandwellbeing action according to the Guiding Principles As a business that has grown in part by for Business introduced by the UN Human strategic acquisition and that operates Rights Council in 2011. We also support across nine global locations, we recognize and follow the UK Government’s guidance the value of cultural diversity, and are for business to integrate human rights. invested in understanding and celebrating the differences across our communities, “We recognize the value of prizing unity over uniformity. cultural diversity, and are Following the integration of our new Energy team and their work with the invested in understanding Energy Company Obligation (ECO), we are supporting UK householders living and celebrating our in fuel poverty by providing energy differences across our efficiency measures. communities” Our HR function, reporting to senior management, is responsible for updating employee policies, reviewing progress The nature of Anthesis’ services and towards implementing them, and products is grounded in environmental, monitoring any breaches which may business and social responsibility, and occur. In regards to our value chain, our sustainability policy summarizes the our SHEQ Lead, in collaboration with principles at the core of our approach. Our other business functions, is responsible public interest disclosure (whistleblowing) for introducing initiatives to better and anti-bribery and corruption policies understand and influence the human also guide our practice in relation to rights processes of both our suppliers human rights. and clients. 8 Our direct impact: human rights Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights All colleague survey We conducted our second global all colleague survey which highlighted particular strengths for Anthesis as an employer in the areas of Vision and Purpose, Collaboration and Teamwork, Creativity and Employer Flexibility. There was a significant [27%] improvement in colleague satisfaction with the learning and development opportunities on offer to them with the launch of our Emergen Program, and a 10% greater Human rights awareness awareness of our CSR program. 90% of colleagues reported feeling Our awareness training for employees regarding human rights and ‘proud and excited’ to work for Anthesis. sustainable procurement is on hold, pending final publication of our The survey responses also highlighted areas for action. Our response sustainable procurement policy. rate was down to 57% from 76%. We will be working hard to rectify Our human rights impact assessment was conducted during 2017 this, and followed up with face to face discussions conducted by our and will be completed in 2018. The commitment will be delivered and L&D Manager. The results were shared at our UK conference in 2017. overseen by our SHEQ Lead. We commit to undertake our third all colleague survey and aim to We commit to supporting our colleagues and suppliers to make improve the overall response rate. Responding to colleagues’ feedback informed procurement choices in line with our sustainable we want to further improve global connectivity. procurement policy. We commit to undertaking a third round of internal culture interviews We commit to complete our human rights impact assessment. across different teams and regions. 9 Our direct impact: human rights Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Connecting colleagues We embarked upon a long term program to promote greater connectivity across regions and service areas. Our knowledge sharing platform, Sharepoint, was launched across the global business during 2017/18 and is supported by our new role of IT Operations Manager, Equality and diversity Kevin Maitland, and our new Connectivity Director, Dee Moloney. We launched our D&I program at the end of 2017, with listening briefs At the end of our reporting year, the shared platform is being used by conducted in the UK and North America, where small groups of all regions where project collaboration takes place. All UK colleagues colleagues were invited to discuss D&I within Anthesis. Our program have received training in the use of this platform. The project will need launch followed on from these listening briefs. further development and embedding and is ongoing, and is related to global implementation of our CRM and project management We unified equal opportunities statements on open roles advertised tool Kimble. on our website globally in line with best practice in the UK. We commit to further improvements on the use and usability of our We commit to create a global steering committee with overall global Sharepoint platform by embarking on a region-by-region global responsibility for our D&I program. engagement program, ensuring latest updates are implemented and sustaining a program of continuing support for UK users. We commit to delivering unconscious bias training to our global colleagues to initiate our D&I program, teams and regions. We commit to producing a monthly global newsletter for all colleagues. We commit to extend our quarterly colleague award scheme the Extra Mile Award – beyond UK operations. We commit to introduce a ‘Global Town Hall’ conference call to share news and to celebrate great collaboration and client work with all Anthesis colleagues. We commit to bringing our business support platform, Kimble, to other global regions. 10 Our direct impact: human rights Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Additional progress PULSE To promote greater global collaboration, and awareness of our multiple service offerings, our deep subject matter expertise and the initiatives taking place internally, we introduced half hour ‘Pulse’ webinars, organized and presented by colleagues, for colleagues. STEP program This program was introduced for early career professionals to support their personal and professional development through five key areas: attendance at networking events; training in business development skills; shadowing and mentorship programs and involvement in our ‘Sym’ Groups. Employee assistance program We launched a free, confidential program offering a helpline supported by trained counsellors and a web platform for advice for all UK colleagues and their immediate families. HR digest We introduced a regular monthly information email to keep colleagues informed of their benefits, changes to employment law, open roles and starters and leavers. Fuel poverty reduction Through the delivery of over 5,000 energy efficiency measures for our clients we have helped to reduce the cost of heating for households that are in fuel poverty. These measures ensure households become warmer, cheaper to heat and provides additional health benefits for those that are more susceptible to issues that can arise from cold weather. 11 Our direct impact: human rights Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Performance highlight Wellbeing and mental health awareness week Pictured To mark World Mental Health Day on 10th October 2017, Anthesis signed the World Tai chi at the group’s Federation for Mental Health (WFMH) Mentally Healthy Workplace Pledge. In the UK we London office; Principal delivered our first Wellbeing Week from 9th – 13th October, where we partnered with MIND, Consultant Pete Scholes’ the mental health charity, to deliver training for our line managers on managing mental cheeky cat health at work, and delivered our first global webinar on the topic. “Thanks to the Internal team who made our Wellbeing Week a resounding success. I appreciate the effort made to make sure Anthesis is an open and honest environment.” Sophie Taylor, Global Digital Marketing Executive The week was structured around the ‘Five Ways To Wellbeing’ with each day picking up one of the five ways (Give, Connect, Keep Learning, Be Active, Take Notice) including mindfulness practices, poetry writing and Tai chi. We also asked colleagues globally to share pictures of things that support or improve their wellbeing. Colleagues shared pictures of their pets (like Pete’s cat!), their children and their favorite outdoor space. Impact through influence: human rights Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Spotlight on... Developing standards for responsible sourcing Read more: Ethical Stone Register UK Modern Slavery Act With increasing interest in the issues of responsible sourcing of building products, 2015 – What Do the Anthesis was engaged by Stone Federation to develop a sector specific responsible Recent Updates Mean for sourcing standard for members, and to include consideration of rights of workers and local Business? communities, alongside environmental impact and procurement issues. We were able to use the expertise of technical specialists, including Associate Director Katie Livesey’s experience in the development of BES6001. The work involved extensive consultation with members and customers, drafting of the standard, and piloting with stakeholders to ensure appropriateness and effectiveness. As a result the Ethical Stone Register (ESR) is now established as the key standard for sourcing of environmentally and socially responsible stone. We have partnered with Stone Federation to continue in our responsibility as an external auditor and verifier. Jane Buxey of Stone Federation gave us this industry insight: “We commissioned the production of the Ethical Stone Register in order to demonstrate to the world our commitment and belief in the ethical and responsible sourcing of natural stone.” “We believe that we have a responsibility to the client base, the industry and our members to try to make a difference on the issue of responsible and ethical sourcing practices and we aim to get all our members started on the journey with room to progress and gain extra recognition for their efforts and investment. Our industry has this requirement and we are providing it.” 13 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Section 2: Labor Our direct impact: labor Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Our commitment Anthesis upholds freedom of association Our employment contracts make and the right to collective bargaining provision for annual salary reviews, and for all its employees. We believe that our Employee Handbook outlines the Themes for this section: employee empowerment and freedom of process for raising grievances. #Communication association are key drivers of our success We offer all employees the opportunity as a business. We strive to give employees #Voiceandfeedback to take part in health and wellbeing a voice, to develop skills, and to embrace initiatives, including: #Rewardandrecognition a transparent and open culture, both locally and globally. Anthesis is founded on the basis of trust and empowerment for all our employees. A flexible working policy. A tax-free childcare voucher “Empowerment scheme. and freedom of A tax-free cycle to work scheme. association are Free flu vaccines. key drivers of Free eye tests. Two volunteering days our business” annually. A tax-free payroll giving We believe every colleague needs to system to allow colleagues to have the opportunity to understand make tax savings on charitable our business performance in order to donations. participate fully. Business performance updates are shared and discussed openly on a monthly basis at our all colleague We also added two more health and meetings led by our CEO. wellbeing initiatives in 2017: Anthesis strives for exemplary business practice and is supported by a Human Employee assistance program. Resources consultancy to advise on Life insurance. employment law and best practice. A new appraisal and feedback system was implemented in 2017. 15 Our direct impact: labor Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Our commitment We call our operating model ‘Jungle Gym’. The wider D&I program was introduced It is designed to support technical and in December 2017 at our all colleague managerial career pathways across our conference with a presentation on different disciplines and service areas. unconscious bias. The full program is All colleagues have the opportunity to expected to be launched officially in 2018, participate in its development. with Anthesis pledging to: “We are committed Keep our policies up to date in line with best practice. to promoting gender Making sure that our performance appraisal and equality, and in career progression processes minimize bias through clarity. 2017 we were able Continue promoting our to formally offer culture of celebrating diversity including unconscious bias colleagues a voice training. Report our diversity on diversity” performance alongside our sustainability performance. Our equal opportunities policy outlines how we endeavor to eliminate discrimination across all types of diversity. Anthesis supports the elimination of all We are committed to promoting gender forms of forced or compulsory labor in equality across our operations and in 2017, line with the 2015 UK Modern Slavery Act we were able to formally offer colleagues and supports the effective abolition of a voice on D&I. child labor. Our commitment to ethical trading is outlined in our sustainability As a prelude to the implementation of a policy. Our anti-bribery and corruption D&I program, a listening brief was held in policy further supports our commitment the UK by Global Advisory Board member, to ethical trading principles. Nicky Chambers, and by Partner Emma Armstrong in North America, to engage In the reporting year we had zero with colleagues in small groups on breaches of our H&S policy or processes this subject. and there were no work-related injuries. Our direct impact: labor Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Elimination of child labor We undertook a policy gap analysis with regards to forced and child labor which revealed gaps in our policy statements, apart from in our Gender equality UNGC report, which states our commitment to elimination of forced We invited colleagues in the UK and North America to participate in and child labor. small, listening groups on the subject of gender equality at Anthesis. Our risk assessment for forced and child labor within our business We embarked upon a review on equal pay, opportunities and operations is under way, with further action planned in the 2018 treatment. We introduced our global D&I program at our All Colleague reporting year. Conference in December 2017. We commit to developing an independent statement with regards to We commit to voluntarily conducting and publishing our gender pay forced and child labor. gap reports. We commit to completion of our risk assessment for forced and We commit to reviewing recruitment processes with the intention of child labor. promoting and monitoring diversity at the point of entry to Anthesis. 17 Our direct impact: labor Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Employee support We undertook a review of our employee appraisal system in collaboration with our North America colleagues resulting in the The Emergen Program introduction a new appraisal and feedback process to better support Our Learning and Development program, The Emergen Program, colleague development. entered its second year, delivering modules on Mindfulness, Coaching, The new process utilizes a cloud-based software package, Primalogik, Relational Intelligence, Storytelling, Project Management, Mental where appraisals, progress against goals and feedback can all be Health, and Essential Conversations, to name a few. recorded. As part of this we implemented a balanced scorecard We collaborated with North America to deliver Courageous approach where employees set goals in four areas: Great Place to Work, Conversations training for all North America colleagues – 100% of Business & Financial, Excellence in Role, and Personal Development. those colleagues who gave feedback felt that they were actively Conversations around progress against goals and career development involved in the sessions, the content was relevant to them and that are held quarterly to provide more focused and agile discussions. they would use what they had learnt. We commit to undertaking a UK Employee Handbook review in the We commit to a continued program of learning and development light of current policies, new data protection laws and changes to our for all UK colleagues through our Emergen Program and to further aspirations and the best practice we strive for. collaboration to offer more training to all global colleagues in 2018. We commit to connect with North America colleagues to reflect their developing mentoring program in the UK. 18 Our direct impact: labor Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Health and Safety Our Health and Safety policy and practices continued to be embedded across all parts of the UK business. Our SHEQ Lead continues to Career progression consolidate practice, ensuring up to date Health and Safety, Fire Development of our career progression map ’Jungle Gym’ career map Warden and First Aid training for H&S representatives in each office was initiated in 2017 and UK colleague consultations are underway to location and overseeing H&S practices for client work. ensure its suitability for all roles across the business. We commit to reviewing existing policies and creating new policies We commit to further develop and, if possible, launch our ‘Jungle to ensure the safety of our staff to include driving at work and home Gym’ career map. working policies. 19 Our direct impact: labor Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Colleague engagement We listened to and engaged with our colleagues on our CSR program through our global all colleague survey, the publication of our first UNGC report and two global campaigns one for World Environment Day which had the theme of connecting people with nature and one Health and wellbeing for Mental Health Awareness week. We promoted our health and wellbeing opportunities, particularly annual volunteering days. To increase uptake we ran local volunteering Our all colleague survey reported a 10% increase in awareness of initiatives and raised the profile of this colleague benefit through our CSR activities. 87% of our colleagues feel the organization is internal communications. committed to improving sustainability internally, and 95% of us feel our organization has a positive impact on sustainability through the In 2017 13 employees used a total of 69 hours (9.2 days) volunteering work it carries out. – an increase of 114% from 2016. We commit to further engagement with colleagues on our CSR We commit to continued promotion of health and wellbeing program through local and global campaigns, through our global opportunities and to supporting our colleagues to use their ‘Pulse’ sessions and through our all colleague survey 2018. volunteering days. 20 Our direct impact: labor Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Performance highlight World Environment Day 2017 Pictured: ‘Best Campsite We ran our first global colleague engagement program to shine our own spotlight on the Ever’ by Senior Principal environment by creating a photo gallery to raise money for a worthy environmental cause Consultant & Practice and connect with colleagues across the globe. Leader Jennifer Clipsham 2017’s World Environment Day (WED) theme was ‘Connecting People to Nature’ – getting people out and about to appreciate the natural world and the need to protect it. Our collaborative photo gallery gave us the opportunity to do just this. Colleagues from around the world shared pictures of their favorite places, people and wildlife in a bid to nominate and raise money for a charitable organization, and be crowned Anthesis WED Photographer of the Year 2017! This year, Canada was the host country for World Environment Day activities, and our Canadian colleagues were keen to take part: “This employee engagement campaign was a fabulous opportunity for all of us to connect with one another on the wild spaces and beautiful places that inspire us to do the work we do every day here at Anthesis. We share a common ethos around wilderness conservation as well as a passion for friendly competition from time to time…so the challenge was on!” Jennifer Clipsham, Senior Principal Consultant & Practice Leader, Canada All in all, 149 photos amounted to a $149 Canadian dollar donation to the colleaguenominated, island-focused charity ‘Seacology’. This organization works to protect island habitats and assist local communities by offering villages a unique deal: if they agree to create a forest or marine reserve, Seacology provide funds for village needs, such as a school or health clinic. Impact through influence: labor Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Spotlight on... Employee engagement: supporting our clients Read more: Anthesis North America supported a client in integrating sustainability into the company’s employee engagement efforts. We developed an employee engagement campaign to Biodiversity, Burdocks guide their efforts over three years. The campaign covers a range of environmental topics of and Brylcreem – importance for the company to compliment the strong engagement campaign they already Anthesis Colleagues get run on wellbeing topics. The project was an integral element of the client’s sustainability Volunteering strategy, which identified employee engagement as a high priority to embed sustainability throughout the workplace culture and further promote their sustainability goals. Anthesis put together a menu of activities, supporting resources, special events to align with, potential metrics to measure impact, and fun facts for each environmental topic that the client could select from, and deploy, including: 1. GHG Emissions and Energy Reduction 2. Waste Avoidance and Minimization 3. Water Reduction 4. Paper Reduction 5. Minimizing Environmental Impacts of IT 6. Volunteer Activities and Community Involvement All of this was mapped out in a calendar, providing guidance for how the client could spread out implementation of various options across a number of years. This was driven by the belief that tying activities to corporate goals will help associates develop the connection between their personal actions and the company’s sustainability culture. 22 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Section 3: Environment Our direct impact: environment Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Our commitment At Anthesis we are committed to To reduce the need for travel, we make protecting the environment. Our best use of online communication tools to Themes for this section: work supports greater environmental talk with each other, and employ a travel responsibility by our clients through hierarchy to ensure journeys are made in #Compliance developing sustainability-related the most energy-efficient and safe way. #Metricsandmeasurements strategy, as well as our bespoke tools, methodologies and other services – #People such as footprinting and reporting, risk hotspotting (RiskHorizonTM), energy and “We carefully carbon management, and circularity and food waste metrics. Our impact monitor and use through influence is extended through our growingprogram of thought resources sparingly” leadership activities. For our internal operational footprint We have an EMS certified to we have been applying our expertise, ISO14001:2004 standard by Intertek. tools and methodology with regard to This system allows us to proactively data gathering and dissemination for identify the environmental impacts of our our baseline (2016) and 2017 reports activities, and to determine those which which will be ready for publication have, or can have, significant effects on early in the 2018 reporting year. Since the environment. We review the scope of the services we deliver are primarily the EMS annually, and are committed to advisory and software-related, our main improving the way we work to reduce our operational impacts are in business negative environmental impact, guided travel, commuting, office utilities and by our detailed internal targets. Our SHEQ waste. We use resources sparingly, and Lead has responsibility for maintaining carefully monitor and manage our use of the EMS (and organizing associated fuel, electricity and water. We procure training), and undertakes both internal office supplies responsibly wherever and external audits. In 2018 we will be possible, including organic fruit/milk migrating to the new 2015 standard supplies, and office stationery made with across our UK operations. recycled content. While our environmental measurement We have appropriate waste and recycling and monitoring procedures have matured measurements in place at all of our well in the few years Anthesis has been offices, including a separate food waste trading, we are committed to extending stream where possible, and WEEE the rigor and reach of our program collections to enable us to dispose of over 2018. electronic equipment responsibly. Our direct impact: environment Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Sustainability commitments Our 2017 review of our overall sustainability strategy to maximize impact, governance and reach resulted in the creation of two news roles – a dedicated SHEQ Lead to direct our EMS and a Chief Sustainability Officer with responsibility for sustainability. This will ensure robustness and rigor in our processes and a strategic global direction for our overall program. Environmental Management Our review of sustainability reporting options has been put on hold for Our EMS scope was expanded to include social responsibility and the current reporting year given our commitment to the UNGC but biodiversity in 2017 and we maintained ISO14001:2015 standard across remains a target for future activities. our UK operations. We commit to reviewing our global sustainability policy. We commit to supporting our colleagues and suppliers to make informed procurement choices in line our sustainable procurement We commit to become a diligent member of the BITC circular office policy. campaign. We commit to completing our business human rights impact We commit to further colleague engagement on environmental issues assessment. including a World Environment Day global campaign on plastics. We commit to expanding the scope of EMS to include our new Energy team. 25 Our direct impact: environment Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Emissions reduction and reporting We have complied our baseline greenhouse gas reports which relate Encouraging volunteering to our 2016 baseline and our 2017 reporting year. We have consolidated We supported our colleagues to make use of their volunteering days our data gathering methodology to ensure as full a dataset as possible and as part of a campaign related to World Environment Day to take and have quality assessed for both years. Our GHG reports were part in local biodiversity initiatives. published in early 2018 and can be viewed here. For example, in our Oxford office all colleagues were given the Smart energy meters were fitted in UK offices where we were opportunity to spend half a day volunteering with Friends of Aston’s permitted to do so to give us greater visibility on energy use. Our Eyot, a charity dedicated to protecting and managing the local office champs continue to gather data monthly and energy meter wildlife area. We saw a 114% increase in hours spent volunteering by readings are used as a check when needed. UK colleagues. We commit to internal and external publication of our 2016 and 2017 We commit to continued support for our colleagues to take up footprint reports. volunteering days. We commit to supporting our North America colleagues to implement a commuting survey for all colleagues and to initiate a business travel recording and reporting system. We commit to preparation of 2018 footprint reports. We commit to producing clear instructions for all colleagues on recording business travel to ensure improving robustness of data for 2018 footprint reports. We commit to delivering further training for office champs for data gathering and to further streamline our approach across UK operations. We commit to making reductions targets following on from publication of our baseline 2016 and 2017 footprint reports. 26 Our direct impact: environment Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Sustainable procurement Our sustainable procurement policy is drafted pending final approval. The policy aims to minimize the environmental and social impact of goods and services we purchase by: Incorporating sustainability into procurement decisions, including considering whole-life costs and impacts of products and services. Evaluating our supply chain and key suppliers for sustainability risks and opportunities. Ensuring sustainable procurement is owned and championed at senior management level. Ensuring all colleagues and key suppliers understand the policy and comply with its requirements. Publication is anticipated for Q2 2018. We continue to work with organizations such as UNOPS, and Columbia Threadneedle Investments to support them with delivering their sustainable procurement policies. We commit to publishing our sustainable procurement policy. We commit to delivering an awareness program for our procurers with regards to our sustainable procurement policy. We commit to supporting our suppliers to make sustainable procurement choices. We commit to conducting an environmental assessment and LCA on all products and services purchased. 27 Our direct impact: environment Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Performance highlight Getting to baseline We set our baseline GHG emissions scope to include business travel, commuting, office energy use, office waste, and office water use. Our primary intentions are to set a robust, scalable system for monitoring and measuring GHG emissions starting with UK operations. We will use the findings to engage colleagues, support reduction campaigns and initiatives and to set a baseline for monitoring progress. Our data gathering methodology for business travel has proved to be effective and scalable. All individuals load their travel expenses onto our cloud based business support tool, identifying start and end locations and mode of travel. These data are then exported from the platform where an excel macro looks up mileage. The results are loaded to our partner tool FootpinterTM to calculate emissions. “Our primary intentions are to set a robust, scalable system for monitoring and measuring GHG emissions.” For commuting data, we sent out an annual survey to all colleagues about their commuting patterns and for utilities, our office champs check electricity and gas meters on a monthly basis, recording the results on a spreadsheet. Where possible we have had smart meters fitted in our offices. However this has yet to facilitate data gathering much owing to the difficulty in getting a new meter fitted when an office move takes place and to inconsistent and hard to understand online data provided by the meters. These two challenges have remained significant barriers to using the meters in any useful way thus far. For our waste measurements our office champs run one waste measurement week every quarter. These snapshot results are scaled to provide an annual picture. For paper use we refer to purchasing records. All data is then verified by our global analytics team, loaded onto FootprinterTM and finally passed on to our data visualization team for final reports. With such a busy team our main challenges have been creating a robust yet resource light methodology, being able to process and verify data in a timely manner and plugging gaps in resources or data. However we have prepared reports and set reductions targets for 2018 and beyond. 28 Impact through influence: environment Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Spotlight on... Deposit return schemes Read more: The call to introduce a Deposit Return Scheme (DRS) in the UK has steadily increased. In the Helping Your Business summer of 2017 the Scottish Government announced that it would introduce a DRS, and in Take Action on Single-Use October of the same year the Environment Secretary announced a call for responses on how Plastics: FAQ Guide a scheme could be designed in England. During the summer of 2017 Anthesis worked with a client to support them to develop their position on DRS, which enabled them to develop an informed response to this call for the government. “The team built a model that enabled the costs and benefits of five different scenarios to be determined based on cost, revenue and performance assumption.” Informed by international research into DRS the Anthesis team developed the preferred structural components of a UK DRS. Using this structure, the team built a Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA) model that enabled the costs and benefits of five different DRS scenarios to be determined based on cost, revenue and performance assumption. The assumptions were developed alongside the client and the material impact of key assumptions on the overall CBA results tested through a sensitivity analysis. The client was provided with a report outlining the findings from the international research and CBA modelling. Recommendations on possible position statements that the client could make with regards to a UK DRS were also provided. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Section 4: Anti-corruption Our direct impact: anti-corruption Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Our commitment We have a zero-tolerance approach to Our company-wide culture of trust is bribery and corruption across the whole designed to empower our employees of Anthesis and in all the geographies to voice any concerns they may have Theme for this section: where we work, which includes in-cash/regarding potential instances of kind bribery, embezzlement, fraud and corruption. Furthermore, we employ #Goodpractice extortion. Our anti-bribery and antia transparent approach to financial corruption policy is written into every performance across the business with colleague contract and forms part of our regular monthly updates supplied by the colleague handbook, which details that CEO at all-colleague meetings. These all those representing Anthesis must meetings are recorded for people who are comply with all applicable laws, including unable to attend. the UK Bribery Act 2010. Our policy outlines our commitment to pursue all business in an ethical and honest manner, “We employ a transparent and to communicate the policy to our approach to financial business partners too. The board has primary responsibility for reviewing the performance across the policy annually, and ensuring that any business with regular instances of non-compliance are dealt with appropriately. monthly updates supplied Our business activities are subject to by the CEO” annual external audits and all acquisitions are subject to a strict due diligence It is part of our core business to help process. We keep evidence of all financial organizations ensure their own operations transactions and have never been are not complicit in any form of involved in any legal cases, or other corruption, either directly, or anywhere instances, of bribery or corruption. We in their supply chain. For example, our take special care when giving gifts and software tool RiskHorizonTM enables entertainment, such as event hospitality, decision makers to understand global and never do so to gain any commercial, risks to their businesses better. contractual, regulatory or personal As we form and maintain business advantage. We keep records of any relationships with organizations around gifts offered over a value of £200. We the world, sometimes in regions with less complete contracts and, where needed, stable political climates than the UK, we non-disclosure agreements before we understand that we need to carry out a commence work with clients, outlining formal assessment of potential corruption clear pricing (e.g. based on day rates of risk areas for our business operations in employees) and other terms of working. the coming year. 31 Our direct impact: anti-corruption Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Awareness training Our ongoing awareness program regarding anti-bribery and anti -corruption has not been delivered in a formal way during the reporting year owing to prioritization of other urgent training modules for our employees such as line management training and project Risk assessments management training. Our anti-bribery and corruption risk assessment was partially However, we recognize the importance of anti-bribery and corruption completed in the current reporting year but interrupted owing to CSR training for all colleagues and it has been scheduled as part of our team changes and resulting resourcing constraints. This is due to be 2018 training program. completed in the 2018. We commit to delivering an ongoing awareness training for all We commit to completing our anti-bribery and corruption risk colleagues on the details of our anti-bribery and corruption policy. assessment for relevant colleagues, and to reviewing this annually. 32 Our direct impact: anti-corruption Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Systems implementation The implementation of a system for reviewing the effectiveness of our anti-bribery and corruption policy has not been undertaken in 2017, owing to insufficient resources but it remains in our target list for 2018. Our anti-bribery and corruption policy forms part of all employment contracts and also features in our contractual employee handbook which is issued to all colleagues. We commit to establishing a system to review the effectiveness of our anti-bribery and corruption policy and to setting regular review dates. 33 Our direct impact: anti-corruption Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Additional progress Compliance We had no breaches of our anti-bribery and corruption policy, and no whistleblowing procedures were raised during the 2017 reporting year. Legal We have not been involved in any legal cases involving bribery and corruption. Transactional services We introduced a new global Transaction and Corporate service offering to our suite of sustainability solutions, headed up by Director Tim Clare. This new service addresses the need to incorporate Environmental, Social, Governance (ESG) issues into transactional due diligence. Early identification and screening of supply chains, energy management (e.g. buying better, using less and self-generating) and waste (e.g. converting waste to an asset) is transforming the scope of Environmental Due Diligence (EDD) assessments. Increasingly now, all parties involved in transactions recognize they should identify, model and quantify these risks as a core part of their investment analysis, alongside financial metrics. Our direct impact: anti-corruption Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Performance highlights Maintaining good practice Anthesis business operations are subject to an annual audit by external firm Moore Stephens. Our 2017 audit took place in March 2018. Anthesis had no breaches identified and received a clean audit opinion, although the letter to management advised us to improve our consistency of project documentation. We will address this during the current year as the new finance director, Jason Urry, implements a review of processes and as systems upgrades take place. 35 Impact through influence: anti-corruption Our commitment Progress and goals Highlights Spotlight on... Anthesis Corporate and Transaction Services Read more: Anthesis is an adviser to private equity houses and other financial institutions, seeking to ensure their ESG factors are appropriately managed. Anthesis helps these clients evaluate Realizing the Commercial these issues with regard to their own operations, in the evaluation of potential investments Value of ESG (due diligence) and in their management of those investments during ownership. Bribery and corruption is a specific topic within the governance stream of ESG and is considered alongside related factors such as accounting standards, anti-competitive behavior, business ethics, compliance, lobbying and presence or otherwise of whistleblower schemes. “Anthesis worked with the client and its investee company to evaluate the risks involved and the existing procedures in place” During a recent assignment, Anthesis supported a private equity client who had invested in a specialist business producing papers for governmental documents. The business’ product types are a target for groups seeking to undertake fraudulent activities and its global marketplace includes clients in countries known from heightened bribery and corruption risks. Anthesis worked with the client and its investee company to evaluate the risks involved and the existing procedures in place, especially with regard to in-country third party sales agents, and then helped with the setting of its improvement goals in this space. North America leads the way Our UNGC report has included other regions besides the UK where global To get started we challenged the team to do one of the five items, each day collaboration has taken place and in particular the collaboration between the UK for five days, for five minutes each. If we can bring more positivity into this and North America as a prelude to developing a truly global CSR taskforce. In present moment, our brain experiences what Shawn Achor calls a “happiness this final section we would like to illustrate an employee initiative run exclusively advantage,” based on the finding that “your brain at positive performs by and for North America colleagues: the Happiness Challenge! significantly better than it does at negative, neutral or stressed.” Everyone who successfully completed the Happiness Challenge (by doing one of “Your brain at positive performs significantly better the five items for five days in a row) received a mindfulness resource. than it does at negative, neutral or stressed.” We plan to run additional mental health awareness campaigns in 2018 to keep this topic top of mind. Our first mentor initiative will be piloted in early 2018 with three sets of mentors and mentees to help develop our colleagues. We also Mental health at work and at home is something we are trying to increase intend to launch a monthly Extra Mile Award to recognize the amazing things awareness of across the team. In October 2017 we issued a friendly challenge to our team members do that help make Anthesis North America a great place everyone in the North America team focused on positive thinking. The 21-Day to work. Happiness Challenge encourages people to try five ways to be more positive: gratitude, positive experience, exercise, meditation/ mindfulness, and kindness. Our 2018 plan Back to basics Embedding of our new team structure; setting our first reductions targets against baseline GHG emissions for the UK; moving to the 2015 ISO14001 standard and integrating and aligning practices with the new Energy team of the UK business. Going global Expand our global CSR working group beyond North America; further collaboration on global initiatives and greater integration of other regions into the overall CSR program. Exciting stuff Launch of our global D&I steering group and program; expansion of Anthesis’ client services and reach; further colleague engagement and steps towards a unified, global CSR ‘make a difference’ program for Anthesis. It’s an exciting time, and we look forward to communicating our global vision, and the plan to achieve it, in our next COP. In the meantime, please look at our website for updates on our progress. Anthesis’ services Advisory + communications Energy + resource efficiency Software + systems Product + supply chain Transaction + corporate services Thought leadership We are privileged to have talented employees who are world-leading experts in their respective areas. We want to share our knowledge, experiences and insights because we understand this is a powerful way to extend the positive impact of our work. Our thought leadership work includes: Regular content production on Sponsoring events, hosting our website, available for free, round tables and speaking such as blogs, short guides and at events and conferences, webinars (we provide a taster of both to share our insights and these in the following sections). support the continuation of such collaboration forums. Contributions to external Membership of a number publications, and guest or of professional forums and collaborative blogs on the collaboration networks, through Anthesis website. which we can actively contribute to the sustainability agenda. Environmental In the UK, Industries Commission Our global we support Providing the technology and services that deliver team founded and work in environmental performance across the economy in a costand host: partnership with: effective manner. Low Carbon South West Carbon Trust Low Carbon South West is Contributing to and benefiting a membership organization from a more sustainable future promoting the growth of the through carbon reduction, environmental sector and low resource efficiency strategies carbon industries in the South and commercializing low and West of England. carbon technologies. Social Stock Exchange The Crowd Business Leader’s Working to create an efficient In 2017-2018 we sponsored The Forum buyers’ and sellers’ marketplace Crowd Forum events, a monthly A consortium for professionals for impact investors and social dose of inspiration for people in the clothing sector. impact businesses. working in large organizations who are connecting their businesses with society. UK Green Building Business In The Council Community Working to radically improve Working together with other the sustainability of the built members to tackle a wide range environment. of issues that are essential to building a fairer society and a more sustainable future. 40 Our accreditations and memberships Our accreditation by Achilles supplier management service demonstrates our excellent health and safety, quality and environmental management standards. Our accreditation by SafeContractor demonstrates our commitment to reducing risk and operating under recognized, high health and safety standards. We are a member of the Contractors Health and Safety Assessment Scheme having demonstrated compliance and management of current health and safety legislation. Our ISO9001 accredited Quality Management System ensures we deliver projects to clients which address their needs and continually improve our communication methods. Many of our staff are members of CIBSE, a global network of first class information, education and expertise in the field of building services engineering. We are ISO14001:2004 accredited which means we conform to the BSI Standard regulations and maintain our target to reduce our carbon impacts by 4% year on year from our baseline. The National Insulation Association is the leading trade association in the UK for insulation and is fully committed to maintaining and raising standards within the industry. Unit 3G.1 The Leathermarket 11-13 Weston Street London SE1 3ER T: +44 (0)1865 250 818 AnthesisCSR@anthesisgroup.com www.anthesisgroup.com
