Dare to make a difference Integrated Annual Report 2017 People rely on us We deliver affordable high for their personal value hygiene solutions in baby, feminine and adult care for our customers and hygiene. That’s a consumers worldwide. And as you read this opening big responsibility. paragraph, millions of people around the world will either be using one of our products or putting one into their shopping basket or trolley. They may be even buying them online. Our progress in 2017 That adds up to a lot of responsibility. Biennial employee engagement Revenue (€/bn) Because we touch so many lives survey (%) every day, we cannot just measure our performance in terms of financial outcomes. What we do and how we do it 85 87 2.36 are inseparable and that is why, this year, 1.99 1.69 we are publishing an integrated annual report covering all material matters that impact our ability to create value. 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Accident frequency rate Adjusted EBITDA (€/m) It documents the high standards we (see page 23) have set for ourselves right across the business, and how we empower our people to do what is right. 19.89 21.41 266.4 248.7 14.39 209.1 It shows how we are working with others towards sustainable solutions that are fundamental to near-term success and 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 long-term prosperity and to protecting Carbon intensity ratio Profit (€/m) the interests of all our stakeholders. (gCO2/EUR) (Base year 2014, scope 1-2) Find out more online Our website has a dedicated webpage (29%) (29%) for our 2017 integrated annual (45%) 119.7 128.4 98.6 report: http://www.ontexglobal.com/ integrated-report-2017. 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Disclaimer: This report may include forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements regarding or based upon our management’s current intentions, beliefs or expectations relating to, among other things, Ontex’s future results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies or developments in the industry in which we operate. By their nature, forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results or future events to differ materially from those expressed or implied thereby. These risks, uncertainties and assumptions could adversely affect the outcome and financial effects of the plans and events described herein. Forward-looking statements contained in this report regarding trends or current activities should not be taken as a report that such trends or activities will continue in the future. This report represents the directors’ report prepared in accordance with article 119 of the Belgian Company Code. In most of the tables of this report, amounts are shown in € million for reasons of transparency. This may give rise to rounding differences in the tables presented in the report. This report has been prepared in Dutch and translated into English. In the case of discrepancies between the two versions, the Dutch version will prevail. Contents Strategic Report At a glance 2 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 4 Highlights 2017 8 Market trends 10 Business model 12 Our strategy 13 Our key performance indicators 14 Stakeholder engagement 16 Our people 20 Innovation 26 Responsible production 28 Categorical performance review 28 Mature Markets Retail 30 Healthcare 32 Middle East North Africa 34 Growth Markets 38 Americas Retail 40 Financial review 42 Reporting Methodology for Declaration Non-financial Disclosure 45 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement 46 Remuneration Report 62 Risk management 66 Financial Statements Table of contents 71 Statement of the Board of Directors 72 Statutory auditor’s report 73 General information 76 Consolidated financial statements 77 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 85 Summary of the statutory financial statements 142 Additional Information Investor Relations and financial communications 145 Glossary 146 Appendices Appendix 1: Statutory auditor’s report for non-financials 147 Appendix 2: Sustainability Performance Addendum 149 To help navigate through our report, Appendix 3: Index table GRI and the following bookmark icons, when non-financial disclosure 154 highlighted, represent what section you're reading. They are positioned at the top left-hand corner of the page. Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 1 At a glance A strong and diversified value-adding business €2.36bn in sales in over 110 countries We are a growing international personal Revenue split by Product Category (%) hygiene business organized 19 production facilities into five separate Divisions so that we stay focused on  aby Care B Feminine Care 61% 9% in 15 countries the specific needs of our Adult Care 29% customers and consumers. 29 Other 1% We offer affordable hygiene solutions sales and marketing sites for all generations, selling our Ontex brands (%) 11,000 products in more than 110 countries through leading retailer brands as R  etailer brands 52% employees (average) well as under our own brands. Ontex own brands 48% 50 nationalities Our 19 manufacturing sites are strategically located across Europe, Africa, Russia, Asia Pacific and the 21% Americas, supported by seven Diverse markets (%) specialized R&D centers that focus female managers on continuous innovation for our W  estern Europe 46% end-users. 13% 100% Eastern Europe Americas 27% We add value through the Rest of the World 14% of our wood-based fibers come from certified products we make, the jobs we or controlled resources create, the way we steward the natural resources we use and the 100% Customer base (%) high standards of responsible behavior we set ourselves. L  argest customer 6% of our cotton comes from organic sources Customers 2–10 29% A  ll other customers 65% Divisions (%) M  ature Markets Retail 38% Americas Retail 27% Healthcare 19% M  iddle East North Africa 8% Growth Markets 8% 2 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report Our top five brands Our product categories Baby Care Baby Care is the largest part of our business encompassing a broad range of baby diapers, and disposable baby pants sold under our own Ontex brands and retailer brands. Our baby diapers and pants production combine almost 40 years of experience and are designed to perform to the very high standards to bring comfort to babies. Adult Care Our Adult Care products help to guarantee discretion, protection and dignity for those with light, medium or heavy incontinence. We use high quality materials and forward-thinking design to develop solutions that include pads, pants, adult diapers and underpads that are sold to institutions as well as directly to customers and consumers under our own Ontex brands as well as retailer brands. Feminine Care Our range of Feminine Care products, including ultra-towels, fluff towels, panty liners and tampons, have innovative features to offer protection and comfort at all times. Thanks to our market knowledge and emphasis on R&D, we can respond to the needs and different lifestyles of women of today. We sell our feminine care products under our own Ontex brands as well as retailer brands. Our five Divisions Mature Markets Retail Americas Retail Healthcare Growth Markets Middle East Mature Markets Retail Our Americas Retail Division We supply mainly Ontex Our Growth Markets Division North Africa supplies mainly retailer was born following our branded adult care products is characterized by dynamic With our own regional local branded baby care, feminine acquisition of Mexican-based through institutional channels markets where the retail hero brands, we have grown care and adult care products Grupo Mabe. This Division such as hospitals, nursing landscape is transforming closer to our consumers. We in Western Europe and is built up in three clusters: homes, health insurers and from traditional to modern. have built further on our Australia. Mexico and Central America, local authorities. We also sell With agile working practices, strong market position in baby Brazil, and North America and directly to consumers through insight and advanced care, the largest category of supplies Ontex branded and pharmacies, home delivery production technology, the Middle East North African Revenue retailer branded baby care, and self-paid channels. we supply retailer brands or markets, and in adult care. €901.7m adult care and feminine care products. Ontex brands, depending on the needs of our customers. 2016: €854.6m Revenue Revenue 5.1% Like-for-like growth Revenue €433.4m Revenue €189.8m 2016: €428.8m €637.5m €193.1m Key markets 2016: €206.2m 2.0% Like-for-like growth 1.4% Like-for-like growth Western Europe 2016: €333.9m 2016: €169.6m Australia 12.2% Like-for-like growth 8.5% Like-for-like growth Key markets Key markets Benelux and France Turkey Key markets Key markets Germany, Spain, Italy Algeria Mexico and Central America Commonwealth of UK and Ireland Pakistan Brazil Independent States, North America Central and Eastern Europe Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 3 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer As our business evolves yearon-year, Charles Bouaziz, our CEO, and Luc Missorten, Chairman of the Board, take a brief look back at 2017 and QA pick out some of the areas that will be key to the continued development of the Company. Left to right: Charles Bouaziz, Chief Executive Officer and Luc Missorten, Chairman of the Board 4 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report How would you describe 2017? 2017 was a year of many ‘firsts’ for What about the challenges in 2017? the company. Charles: When we look back in 10 Charles: While adjusted EBITDA years, we’ll see 2017 as pivotal in Charles: Yes, we passed the €2 billion was 7.1% higher, we saw extreme our transformation. We continued to mark for the first time as we grew price pressure in many of our invest in branding, sales, marketing and like-for-like revenue 5.5%. And we markets, unprecedented rises in innovation capabilities to support our again outperformed the market in terms raw materials costs and unfavorable entrepreneurial mindset as we celebrated of topline, driven by most Divisions and all currency movements which affected our transition to a consumer goods three categories. margins. We also faced a particularly company. We also continued to embed challenging market in Brazil as well as our PRIDE values. More than 50% of our revenue came increased distribution costs to meet from outside Western Europe, a clear sign customer needs in some regions owing It is thanks to our own people that we that we are an international player. to our own full-capacity utilization. have the unique ability to meet the needs of our customers and consumers with We also made our first steps into What would you like to particularly specific rather than general solutions. Sub-Saharan Africa with the opening of highlight from the year? I thank them for their commitment and our plant in Ethiopia, emphasizing Ontex’s willingness to adapt as we consolidated belief in a local market approach. Brazil Charles: There are many highlights our strongholds and grew in new was another important strategic move. which you can read about in this markets. Wherever I am in the company, By seizing this opportunity, we have report (see pages 8 and 9). But in terms I see how we are firmly focused on established a firm foothold in an of our journey, the start of our digital bringing affordability and high value to important market. transformation program stands out. Led our customers and consumers. by a dedicated team, it will touch every Luc: All these ‘firsts’ are results of the part of our operation. For our customers, Luc: Investment in relationships and strategic choices that we have made. it’s about helping to accelerate the share partnerships with key customers as The local production plant in Ethiopia is of e-commerce. well as innovation are matters close a good example of our organic roll-out to the heart of the Board. During the approach in new markets, while the It’s not a one-size-fits-all approach but year, Ontex continued to profile itself as South American acquisition has added about making sure that each Division is a caring solutions provider. Moving the impetus to our geographical growth and equipped to understand and adapt to focus from the end-product itself to given us leading regional positions in two new shopping or purchasing patterns the experience we provide is helping categories, Baby Care and Adult Care. and use that experience to accompany to further differentiate us and customers on their journey. decommoditize our products. Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 5 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer – continued In manufacturing, it’s all about data Luc: 2017 has seen further harvesting and analysis to improve our improvement in terms of product safety, efficiency and ability to adapt mix, brand mix and geographical mix quickly and effectively. and we have invested to strengthen our footprint in some regions and And, of course, there is the benefit for adjust it to changing needs in others. the development of our people and in Whether we grow organically or through maximizing the value and impact of acquisitions, we maintain a flexible and our organization through learning resilient capital structure so that we are opportunities, career progression ready to act when the opportunities arise. and more. In terms of sustainability, do you feel that you have progressed in 2017? Luc: The sustainability question remains high on the list of our “Wherever I am priorities. Each year we review the sustainability strategy and related goals. in the company, I see how We see it as a key element in creating our people are firmly focused value for our business and the on bringing affordability communities in which we work and and high value to our essential to the way we manage risk. customers and Charles: Our focus is on three consumers.” “The start of our strategic areas: products, people and planet (see page 13). It is our ambition digital transformation to integrate sustainability into all policies, program is certainly aspects and activities of the organization. a highlight of 2017. Led by I am pleased with the progress that we made towards our goals. We have a dedicated team, Luc: It is in the company’s DNA to introduced a number of new eco-friendly it will touch every part provide new services and products. products during the year. When it comes of our operation.” Digitalization is not an end in itself. to people, we have improved our safety The investments will help put us in a performance on the shop floor, provided position to provide what our customers more opportunities for development and and consumers need. As a Board, we introduced a graduate program to ensure ensure that systems are implemented in a pipeline of new talent. a structured and controlled manner and only in areas where it will bring tangible benefits to our customers and ourselves. What about the balance of the business? Charles: Nourishing local hero Retailer branded brands is central to our business products Ontex branded 52% model and our Ontex branded products products accounted for almost 50% of our sales in 2017, perhaps reflecting 48% our own local hero character and can-do spirit. Having said that, our aim is to grow faster than the market, and the weight of that growth can be in either local brands or retailer brands. 6 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report Charles: We see huge potential for growth in what is a highly fragmented market and we are in the fortunate position that all regions are relevant to all our categories, driven by positive demographics and increasing adoption rates. We see no immediate easing of the challenges experienced in recent years. The actions we have taken to increase our capacity of higher-margin products and the further integration of our Brazil business are all expected to show benefits in the coming years. “Nourishing local hero brands is central to our business model.” And in terms of our environmental impact, the switch to green electricity in our European plants, the adoption of a sustainability scorecard at all our R&D centers and our commitment to communicate on progress in line with the UN Global Compact reporting obligations are just a few examples of what we have done. And finally, a brief look ahead? Luc: The group is well positioned to maintain its growth path. The new members of the Board (see page 50) will add value and contribute to the various aspects of our business as we become more international and broaden our mix. Digitalization: In manufacturing, it's all about data harvesting and analysis to improve our safety, efficiency and ability to adapt quickly and efficiently. Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 7 Highlights 2017 Key highlights Smart business solutions Ontex participated at the Private Label Manufacturers’ Association Fair in Amsterdam. The PLMA is the only of the year organization of its kind and constitutes an important platform for us as we continue to build our relationships and provide smart business solutions and affordable hygiene products for everyone. Launch of Global Graduate Program We’re growing, and we’re growing fast. To meet our rate of expansion, we launched a graduate program that gives candidates the chance to work in Raising urinary incontinence different functions and departments awareness over a period of 18 months and Under our leading Adult Care brand, embrace the full Ontex experience. The Canped, we launched a campaign to uptake was very encouraging. The aim is draw attention to and reduce the taboo not only to contribute to their personal around the problem of urinary development but make them part of our incontinence in Turkey, where one in ambitions and our growth story as well. four females aged 40 years and over, Brazil acquisition completed and one in ten males aged 50 years and We finalized the acquisition of the over experience urinary incontinence. Brazil-based personal hygiene business While there have been significant of Hypermarcas, which extended our medical advances in urinary market position in the Americas. This incontinence, it remains a common addition to the Americas Retail Division New Code of Ethics health problem. The campaign which enabled us to grow our business We launched our new Code of Ethics lasted three months was aimed at 10 outside Western Europe and further reinforcing our commitment to behave million women over the age of 40 and strengthen our position worldwide. It ethically towards our employees and in led to the Turkish team winning two Felis also increased sales from Ontex’s own all of our business practices. It provides communication awards, an initiative brands, and gave us access to a guidance to employees and those doing organized by the Turkish magazine, fast-growing market for adult business on behalf of Ontex to act with MediaCat. incontinence in the region. honesty and integrity at all times. Strong world player Signatory of the UNGC In our recently acquired business To show our commitments towards in Brazil, we hosted a visit by Geert fair business practices we committed UNICEF partnership Improving on all fronts Bourgeois, the Minister-President of towards the UN Global Compact We reconfirmed our long-term The biennial Ontex employee Flanders. He ‘tweeted’ to say how business principles. partnership with the UNICEF WaSH engagement survey returned a very proud he was of Ontex’s growth from (Water, Sanitation and Hygiene) healthy result. We had a participation a Flemish family company to a strong program. The program covers a wide rate of 71% and we saw improvement in world player, thanks to innovative and range of activities such as the installation every single category, with the overall environmentally friendly products. of water pumps, educating adolescents engagement score moving up to 87%, on menstruation, spreading the practice 2 percentage points better than 2015. of hand-washing, building toilets and Each business and leadership team has hand-washing facilities in schools and set up its own action plans to address health centers, and more. With this the results of the feedback from their partnership we aim to take care of the organization as we seek to take full people who need it most and improve benefit from the learnings. hygiene practices around the world. 8 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report Launch first local intranet Broadened international presence New brand launched in Brazil In Mexico, we launched our first As part of our growth plans, we In Brazil, we launched Moviment, local intranet, Ontex connect Mexico. announced an investment in a new a new brand of unisex pants for adult Local intranet aims to increase the production facility in Radomsko, Poland. incontinence aimed at active adults communication and interaction within Due to come online by the end of 2018, with moderate or severe urinary the Ontex community. It allows the it will enable us to optimize manufacturing incontinence. The launch campaign Mexican teams to post their local news, and service for our expanding customer sought to demystify urinary incontinence pictures and documents in their local and consumer base in Central and and show consumers that they can live language. Eastern Europe. It will also create a normal life without restrictions. around 170 job opportunities in the region by 2020. Another step in our expansion strategy We opened a new plant in Ethiopia, the second largest country in Africa in terms of population, increasing the availability of our products in the East Ontex at EUGMS Congress African region. The new 11,000 m2 In September, a Healthcare team was factory site in Hawassa uses state-ofpresent with an Ontex booth at the Czech celebrations the-art technology to produce baby Congress of the European Medicine Ontex Turnov marked its 20th diapers under the Canbebe brand Society in Nice, France. During this anniversary (and 25 years of Ontex in and is the first international personal congress, Ontex organized a seminar on the Czech Republic) with a celebratory hygiene company in Ethiopia. It is a ‘Prevention, Detection and Management open day. In recognition of the efforts prime example of our local market of Incontinence’ and received an award and skills of its employees, families and approach and allows us to respond for Best Communication on urinary friends as well as the general public efficiently and flexibly to consumers and incontinence by the academic director were invited to tour the production customer needs. of the EUGMS. plant and warehouses. During these 20 years, we have grown from 130 Towards zero accidents Green electricity for our plants in Safeguarding and enhancing the lives employees in a 7,000 m2 plant to just Europe of our employees is a key part of our under 900 employees in a 67,000 m2 Part of our sustainability strategy sustainability agenda and we have one, which makes Turnov one of our is to operate efficiently and reduce stated that by 2020, 50% of our plants largest plants. our carbon emissions. Electricity is will be formally certified according our main source of energy. In Europe, to OHSAS 18001 which sets out the all our plants are now powered minimum requirements for occupational completely by electricity from health and safety management best certified ‘renewable’ sources. practice. We took a next step in reaching that target with the certification of our manufacturing plant in Italy, as well as our Serenity incontinence brand. Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 9 Market trends How trends are Continued affecting each category growth Baby Care potential Sociodemographics While baby numbers globally still showed a positive trend for 2015-2017, the expected slow-down over the next four to five years is likely to have an overall adverse impact on baby diaper growth in some regions. In developing in our regions, a rise in disposable incomes, allied to growing literacy rates among the female population and awareness of the importance of health and hygiene, is expected to fuel diaper demand. markets Category In developing markets, there is still potential to further increase category adoption adoption as people move from cloth to disposable hygiene products. In some and usage developed markets, we see that people tend to use Baby Care products longer than in the past, and toddlers getting clean later than before. GDP Baby Care is the category that has recently experienced the strongest price and pricing pressure. In addition, the increased pressure on disposable income has helped to fuel the rise of retailer and value brands in this category. The three categories in which we are Innovation Globally, we see a material shift in focus from taped diapers towards baby active – Baby Care, Adult Care and pants, already well adopted by Asian consumers and now impacting the Feminine Care – continue to offer Russian, Western European and North American markets, and also a shift towards thinner diapers. In developed countries, there is an increasing significant growth potential. demand for more sophisticated and premium-priced products (mainly focusing on dryness, softness and new designs), as well as for Our baby diapers, incontinence products organic products and feminine care products are essential Competitive Consumers are increasingly comfortable with buying retailer brand products consumables that play a key role in dynamics and we can also see a worldwide rise of local brands versus global brands. sustainable development in terms of improved quality of life, hygiene and healthier skin as well as cost-effective Adult Care convenience, independence and dignity. SocioContinued growth of an aging population, urbanization, economic affluence demographics and increased awareness of treatment methods for incontinence are Each category is driven by generally expected to be major drivers for the global Adult Care market. favorable social trends which in the developed world center mainly on a Category Globally, the Adult Care category adoption is increasing, driven by new adoption product offerings addressing consumer needs that were so far unmet, healthier life style, and in developing and usage breaking down taboos related to incontinence, and increased product markets, focus on the increased availability in retail channels, following changes in reimbursement methods. awareness of the importance of hygiene to the improvement of health and Innovation Emergence of new solutions addressing specific needs, for example male pads and pants, are expected to further unlock consumer needs. avoidance of disease. Competitive Competitive dynamics are becoming more pronounced as new players The following section looks at each of dynamics enter the category attracted by favorable conditions and prospects. our product categories and how they are affected by a number of main trends. Feminine Care SocioOverall, stable Feminine Care population. demographics Category Slight decline in tampon usage owing to increased concerns regarding safety, adoption cannibalization of Adult Care products that better address feminine and usage incontinence needs and increase in daily usage of panty liners in Europe and increased category adoption in developed markets. Competitive Less volatile than Baby and Adult Care as retailer brands are not as active in dynamics this category in Europe and the US. 10 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report “The fast emergence of pants in both Baby and Adult Care shows how product innovation and “There is still 'premiumization' can significant potential also drive growth to further drive category in all categories.” adoption and usage across all three categories globally.” Megatrends fueling The reality of channel shifts market dynamics In almost all of our markets we see hard discounters growing in strength. In 2017, a combination of emerging Consumers are not just looking for the societal and categorical trends best value for money. They also want helped fuel market dynamics. access to a wider choice of goods, simplicity and ease of purchase. Global demographics Global demographics are changing These reasons are also driving across most countries and regions consumers towards e-commerce. in which we operate. Birth rates are A recent study by Citibank concluded declining as a result of the combined that the online channel shift would be effect of wider and easier access to most prevalent in the Baby Care contraceptives and the emancipation category in the US. of women. At the same time, life expectancy is increasing, especially for The emergence of subscription models today’s aging baby boomer generation. is supporting this trend. Revenue pressure Category adoption Revenue pressure in some geographies Category adoption is also gaining pace. is causing consumers to radically There are differences between regions change their consumption patterns, and markets, but increased category either buying fewer products or penetration presents a significant resorting to the cheapest ones. This opportunity. Adult Care, which has has led to a new set of competitive been recently gaining acceptance in dynamics where retailer brands are Europe, is a good example of this as gaining market share in off-line retail is Baby Care in Brazil, Asia and Africa. sales in Europe against a background of strong promotional pressure by The emergence of pants in both Baby leading A-brands. This means that and Feminine Care shows how product competitive pressure is very strong innovation and premiumization can in some key Ontex geographies such also drive growth in all categories. as Brazil, Mexico, and Turkey. Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 11 Business model Competitive advantage A unique competitive We adapt our technology and machinery for all people. We take action to enhance advantage to create to suit the purpose and have plants all the lives of not only our employees and sustainable value over the world, close to the markets in people who work with Ontex, but all which we operate. From engineering people around us. Our unique combination of attributes capability to consumer insights, we offer makes Ontex a competitive force the smart response to customer and Partnership in delivering high-performance local market preferences. We are a trusted partner to and affordable hygiene solutions our customers, our suppliers for our customers and consumers. Flexibility and scale and distributors, and healthcare Our business is flexible, institutions. From concept development, Innovation and quality delivering affordable products R&D and technology, to production and By listening to our consumers, through multiple channels, with the agility global logistics, we constantly monitor and by following trends to adapt technology and response to what is key to our partners and our closely, we deliver a comprehensive range local market preferences. Being a leading customers: high-performance, better of high-quality, affordable and effective international producer of personal value and excellent service. local products and brands that genuinely hygiene solutions brings significant improve people’s lives. From raw material scale advantages for us, and also for our purchase through manufacturing to customers: security of supply from our finished goods deliveries, our structured 19 production sites, and procurement and efficient Quality Management System advantages make sure we stay at the and innovation pipeline ensure we deliver forefront of our local consumer demands. on our promises to partners and consumers. Communities People are the heart Manufacturing expertise of our business and it’s Our years of experience make our employees that make the Ontex us experts in navigating the difference every day. It’s with their complexities of evolving markets, passion, reliability, integrity and drive customers’ and consumers’ needs. that we are able to create affordable hygiene solutions that are accessible 12 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report Our strategy Affordable high value hygiene products Our aim is to bring affordable quality to current and new markets with local hero brands while delivering sustainable value to our employees, shareholders, partners, customers, and suppliers. We believe in growing and developing our people and increasing our relevance and positive impact on the communities around us. Further strengthen our position Build our local hero brands Explore new business Business in more developed markets Focus on growing Ontex’s brands, development opportunities strategy Continue to strengthen retailer and locally differentiated and tailored to the To better serve our consumers partner brands and Healthcare owned preferences of the local consumers and and customers, we will develop new brands in our more developed markets. customers. We will continue to leverage business models with products and We continue to lead in innovation, deep consumer insights on a local level services and enter new geographies shopper and consumers insights, and that allow us to innovate on products, through organic expansion and mergers building close relationships with packaging, services and communication and acquisitions. retailers, partners, and healthcare that meet the needs of our consumers providers. and customers. Sustainable growth People at the heart Responsible production Sustainability We develop responsible products We want to create a positive impact We strive to operate within the limits strategy at an affordable price. in society and improve people’s lives of our planet so that we support the • Offering eco-brands and labeling for whenever we connect with them. needs of present and future consumers wanting to make responsible generations. personal hygiene purchases. For our employees: • Reduce the impact on the • Investing in innovative products that • Prioritize a safe and healthy environment of our operations have smaller environmental footprints working environment. by minimizing emissions. than the products they replace. • Provide a working environment • Minimize waste from our production that attracts and retains the best sites and products. employees. • Implement sustainable purchasing. • Create an entrepreneurial • Offer environmentally efficient environment that gives responsibility transport and packaging. to employees and allows them to develop. For our community: • Contribute to a better life for the people impacted by our business. • Ensure our locations and supply chains prioritize and uphold human rights. Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 13 Our key performance indicators The Ontex KPI's Like-for-like Outperform revenue the markets growth we chose 4.8 5.5 (%) to play in 0.2 2015 2016 2017 Read more about this KPI on page 42 Adjusted Expand profit EBITDA margin over time 24 10 margin (bps) (117) Read more about this KPI on page 44 2015 2016 2017 Balanced Grow balance portfolio: in own brands vs. partner 56 52 62 1. Brands brands in terms (%) of business 38 44 48  ntex brands O Partner brands Read more about this KPI on page 6 2015 2016 2017 2. Geographies Grow further (%) outside 34 48 54 Western Europe Read more about this  estern Europe W 66 Rest of the World 52 46 KPI on page 5 2015 2016 2017 3. Categories Grow our 1 2 1 (%) three product 34 categories 10 30 9 29 12 Read more about this  aby Care B KPI on page 30 Feminine Care 53 58 61 Adult Care Other 2015 2016 2017 14 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report Engaged Be a preferred employees* employer with (%) highly engaged 85 87 employees Read more about this KPI on page 22 2015 2016 2017 * Our employee engagement survey is a bi-yearly survey so there are no figures from 2016. CAPEX Remain efficient spending in capex spending (% net sales) in the personal 3.9 4.8 hygiene industry 3.3 Read more about this KPI on page 42 2015 2016 2017 Nurture local Build sustainable brands leading positions in our core categories and Read more about this countries KPI on page 6 and on the Divisional pages Carbon We aim to be intensity ratio carbon neutral (29%) (29%) (gCO2/EUR) by 2030 (45%) (Base year 2014, scope 1-2) 2015 2016 2017 Read more about this KPI on page 28 Healthy and Continue to Safe working decrease the conditions number of 19.89 21.41 (frequency rate) accidents 14.39 towards a vision of ‘zero accidents’ 2015 2016 2017 Read more about this KPI on page 23 Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 15 Stakeholder engagement Engaging with our stakeholders to build a sustainable business Our approach to stakeholder engagement Our approach to our stakeholders Key We invest time and effort in building constitutes of three elements: Suppliers strong relationships with a wide range 1. Understand stakeholder of stakeholders including customers and interactions throughout our Employees consumers, suppliers, communities and value chain. 2. E ngage with stakeholders to Customers relevant NGOs. We consider them our key understand concerns and influencers – the eyes and ears of Ontex expectations. Consumers – challenging what we do and how we do 3. Determine most material business issues and Investors it. Each provides important input so that sustainability strategy. we can identify and address issues with C  ommunities and non-governmental organizations far greater impact than if we had been working alone. Understand stakeholder interactions throughout our value chain Our value chain is connected to a wide variety of people, economic impact is significant and far-reaching, and communities, ecosystems and other businesses around we want it to be as positive as possible. Therefore, we the world. Our business’ social, environmental and invested in building strong relationships. Upstream: Ontex operations: Downstream: Raw materials Manufacturing Use and end-of-life Forestry Polymers Transport Manufacturing Distribution Retail and care institutions Energy Packaging Packing End-user Waste 16 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report Engage with stakeholders to understand concerns and expectations We engage with our stakeholder groups in a variety involved in multi-stakeholder initiatives, such as the United of formal and informal settings. These range from meetings with Nations Global Compact so that we can help address pressing local, regional and national groups to ongoing dialogues with our global challenges. The table below shows how we engage, the customers and consumers. At an international level, we are topics of concern and how we try to address them. Stakeholder How Key topics Our group we engage and concerns response • Visits and meetings • Raw material sourcing • Responsible sourcing • Supplier conferences • Business ethics/human rights • Vetting suppliers Suppliers • Aligning suppliers with Code of Ethics • Procurement • Management systems • Supplier tracker • Quality • Operating sustainably • Innovation • Safe raw materials • Recruitment • Health and safety • E  nsuring safe and healthy working conditions • Personal development reviews • Working conditions • Ensuring the ethics of our own operations Employees • Supporting diversity and equal opportunities • Surveys • Equal opportunities • Union/worker representative meetings • Business ethics • Training and education • Internal and external audits • Leadership • Graduate program • Senior executive business updates • Personal development • Internal mobility • Internal communication via intranet, • Talent development staff updates, newsletter • Leadership competency model • Community and employee well-being projects • Personal Growth Plan • ‘Speak Up’ hotline • Social media and website • Monitoring product sales • Product quality/safety • Sustainable manufacturing/production • Contact through our sales team • Carbon footprint • Offering more eco-labeled products Customers • Ensuring safe and healthy working conditions • Regular customer visits • Smart, innovative solutions • Joint business planning • Eco-labeling • Responsible and documented sourcing • Surveys and research • Sourcing • Eco-innovation • Innovation • Ethical operations • Working conditions • Training our institutional customers • Human rights • Consumer insights • Consumer panels and focus groups • Product quality/safety • Ensuring consumer health and safety • Social media networks • Environmental impact of our product • Reducing the environmental impact Consumers of our products • Product labeling • Product quality • Offering more eco-labeled products • Service • Innovation • Customized products addressing local needs • Ongoing dialogue with investors/analysts • Governance • C  lear and transparent governance framework • Investor presentations/ meetings • Business ethics • Ensuring the ethics of our own operations Investors • Reducing the environmental impact • AGM • Risk management • Quarterly earnings reports and webcasts • Environment/carbon footprint of our products • Materiality exercise with investors • Operating sustainably • PR • SRI indices and information requests • Ongoing dialogue • Human rights • Affordable personal hygiene solutions • Partnerships on common issues • Environment • Ensuring consumer health and safety Communities • Research • Memberships of business • End-of-life waste and non• Chemicals/quality protocols/policies and industry associations • Consumer health and safety governmental • Donations • Charitable activities • Local community involvement organizations • Information requests from academics and students • Corporate website and social media networks Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 17 Stakeholder engagement – continued Examples of engagement Suppliers Employees Investors Ontex China: Supplier audits to secure quality Bi-yearly employee engagement survey Transparency through, amongst others, Carbon of raw materials with an 87% engagement rate in 2017 Disclosure Project Questionnaire “ Caring for our consumers starts with the selection of our Communities and non-governmental organizations suppliers. Based upon Consumers Reforestation in Puebla, Mexico, initiated by the Creation and local production of a Canbebe diaper, a risk assessment we meeting the specific needs of East African moms BioBaby team of Ontex Mexico and their families (in collaboration with Reforestamos Mexico) audited 58 suppliers and dads in 2017.” Sophia Chen Quality Manager Ontex China “We were so proud to have a participation Customers of almost 300 employees Ontex UK Stronger Together training: together with UK customers eliminating risks of Modern Slavery with their families. In total, we planted 2,600 trees!” BioBaby team “As an athlete but also as a mother, I always strive for the best performance, and this is what the Canbebe Comfort & Dry diapers can offer me. Being successful in sports is all about making smart choices, just like you constantly try to do in motherhood.” Meseret Defar Ethiopian World Champion Athlete and Canbebe Brand Ambassador 18 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report Determine most material business aspects from a sustainability perspective Very important 12 14 In 2016, we reviewed our material aspects (along with our main stakeholders) to take 10 4 into account the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our materiality 1 2 Importance for stakeholders assessment process involving our stakeholders was disclosed in detail in last year’s sustainability 19 16 18 8 9 5 report and can be found on our website. The materiality matrix shows the main themes and why they matter, the links to the SDGs and 15 17 7 11 where you can find more information on the topic in this report. We are due to review the matrix in 2018 to reassess our most material business aspects. It will help ensure relevance and that we remain focused on delivering long-term business success. 13 6 3 Important Important Importance for business Very important Areas of focus and SDGs Our material More why they matter addressed aspects information Sustainable growth 1 Product labeling Page 33 We strive for sustainable growth, offering 2 Customer health and safety Page 29 customers and consumers responsible products 3 Eco innovations Page 26 at an affordable price. 4 End-of-life waste Page 28 People at the heart 5 Occupational health and safety Page 23 We want to create a positive impact on 6 Training and education Page 22 society and improve people’s lives whenever we connect with them. 7 Diversity and equal opportunities Page 20 8 Local community engagement Page 24 9 Business ethics Page 25 10 Human rights Page 24 Responsible production 11 Emissions Page 28 We strive to operate within the limits of our planet so that we can support the needs of present and 12 Energy Page 28 future generations. 13 Environmental impacts of transporting our products Page 29 14 Materials Page 28 Other aspects N/A 15 Biodiversity N/A While these aspects are important to us as a 16 Employment business, they are not discussed in detail within this report, as they are not considered to be currently 17 Sustainability communications material. We continue to monitor stakeholder, 18 Supplier environmental assessment financial, and non-financial issues and assess their materiality to Ontex. 19 Water Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 19 Our people People at the heart We say it often, and with good reason. People lie at the heart of our business. They are our greatest asset. It is their innovative skills, passion and drive and, vitally, their empowerment that enable us to serve our customers and generate long-term value for all our stakeholders. In 2017, all these attributes were evident as we continued to grow as a company, not just in size but in terms of maturity. Diversity a key to success We value the benefits that diversity brings. We believe that there is no way to better understand our consumers than by having an organization made up of people from different nationalities, genders and ages and giving them the opportunities to develop. We outline our commitment towards diversity in our Diversity policy. We added 2,300 new employees following the completion of the Brazilian acquisition. Cultural fit plays an important As we expand our business and acquire part in our recruitment policy, and it was new plants in new countries, our diverse encouraging to see how quickly our new nature puts us in a good position to colleagues took on the values and culture understand the local market and culture. of our company, and how eager they were We firmly believe that this is a major to participate in making them come to life factor in our success. in a way that reflected themselves. There are more than 50 different nationalities among our 11,000 people worldwide. Of those, 29% are women (2016: 26%), and women now occupy 21% (2016: 22%) of our senior management positions. 67% of employees working in our plants are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Emphasizing our Each quarter, we singled out one of the five PRIDE commitment to invest in the people we values and asked employees to contribute with their own thoughts to create a sense of dialogue employ, more than 91% of employee about our values. The response was very positive. contracts have no fixed duration. Here we see a Brazilian team working around our values. 20 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report Ove r 50 Our workforce profile (% of our total global workforce) 13% Age Contract type Nationalities Asia division Limited No fixed Undisclosed 6% 91% 3% duration duration 2.20% Below 30 Americas 27% 41.73% 0 30 –5 Oceania 60% 0.93% Africa 8.85% Number of employees Europe 46.29% Gender (%) Female management Female 29.3% Male 21% 11,000 70.6% Undisclosed 0.1% “Diversity is the inclusion of everyone and giving pace to everyone to contribute. About ensuring that all employees at all levels have a voice and that the voice is heard.” Astrid De Lathauwer Group Human Resources Director Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 21 Our people – continued Employee survey shows all-round improvement We are encouraged by the results of our second employee engagement survey, showing an engagement rate of 87% (+2% compared to 2015). There were improvements in all categories compared with the 2015 survey. The results confirm that the work done to put people first is being appreciated. They are also a strong indication that our people share the vision and that they understand their role in making it come to life. With this overall engagement score, we clearly outperform our benchmark organizations within FMCG. Bringing on talent Investing in our talent We are growing fast and we need to recruit extensively. As part of this, during 207,255 hours of training the year we had our first intake of our have been given new graduate trainee program, the Global Graduate Program. 19 the average number of hours training per fullAt the same time, we continued to time equivalent employee provide further training opportunities for our own employees. We also created a number of online knowledge modules to Engaged and well-supported enable our people to upgrade their skills employees and develop the capabilities we require The roll-out and affirmation of the PRIDE as a dynamic FMCG company. values continued during the year. In true Ontex fashion, it was left up to each site The opening of the new Ethiopian plant or business to do it in a way that is close presented a great opportunity for further to their local culture and encourages the development. The employees at the new participation of everyone. For example, plant followed various induction training at our Villefranche sales office in France, courses at our factories in Europe where they organized a ‘values workshop’ our engineers and technicians had the focused on Passion. They asked all the chance to lead, share their knowledge employees to share their own passions and enrich their own set of skills. When and turned them into a striking photo the plant opened later in the year, they campaign. In Brazil, more than 35 values were there on-site again to help with the and vision workshops were conducted start-up. for the various functions in which all Ontex leaders participated. They Internal mobility also offers the were encouraged to think of actions opportunity for our people to develop to reinforce our PRIDE values and how skills and experience, and during the year to engage their teams in new and creative there was an increase in the number of ways. Music and theatre contests, badges internal moves between functions, representing each value, and a PRIDE race Divisions and regions. were just some of the ideas that emerged. 22 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report Proactive health and safety Zero Creating a healthy and safe working environment is a key pillar of our sustainability efforts. Health and safety fatalities in any of our sites across the world (H&S) is governed by a steering committee comprising of five members Plants with Health & Safety committees of our executive team. The committee’s purpose is to ensure quick decisionYes 95% making as we accelerate our shift towards No 5% an ingrained safety culture at Ontex. In 2017, we continued to implement OHSAS 18001 at our production sites to ensure demonstrably sound occupational H&S practices. We now have 15% of our main production sites certified. We plan to have at least 50% certified by 2020. Types of accidents We also launched a major program to progress from a compliance state Superficial injury 36% of mind to a proactive stance where Cut wounds 17% Twisted, disjoints we drive improvement. It included the and overwork 13% introduction of a Group-wide accidents Open wounds 7% and incidents reporting system in Internal injury 6% Fractures 7% accordance with international standards, Others 14% supported by a full training program. The recruitment of more H&S experts to our plants and offices will help ensure Frequency rate* that we have the right capabilities to take 19.89 2015 ourselves to the next level. 2016 21.41 Our accident frequency rate dropped by 33% to 14.39 which keeps us on track 2017** 14.39 for our 2020 target of maximum 6.5. The improvement is due to both the Our frequency rate dropped -33% concentrated effort that we have put in to improving safety as well as a change in reporting methodology. The figures compared with last year for 2017 include, for the first time, figures from our sales offices and warehouses. Severity rate*** 2015 0.34 In August, Ontex Großpostwitz 2016* 0.27 in Germany welcomed its employees and their families for a relaxed family summer 2017 ** 0.17 party. There were lots of games for the whole family as well as Asia Americas face painting and different North & Sub-Saharan Africa Oceania handicraft activities for the Europe children. In addition, the employees’ children were encouraged to dress up in * The number of labor accidents per million protective gear such as safety worked hours. helmets, goggles and clothing ** Scope: Production sites and offices (excluding the and get their photo taken. The Brazilian sales office). pictures were then used to *** Severity is calculated on the total lost days compared produce engaging health & to the total number of hours scheduled to be worked safety posters to create more by the employees. Days mean scheduled worked awareness around these topics days. The counting of the lost days begins the day in the workplace. after the accident. Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 23 Our people – continued Respect for human rights... introduced a third-party social audit We want to support our communities and We value the rights of the people who are scheme for suppliers in risk areas to build partnerships with local organizations. involved in our products or operations be implemented in 2018 and beyond. We have a long-term goal that all of our along the supply chain. We need to make plants and offices engage in some sort sure that the human rights of everyone One of the key aspects of our supplier of activity based on local needs and involved in the supply of our products are partnership program is measuring our employee engagement and which is respected, that we maintain high ethical suppliers’ sustainability performance. linked to their business in some social standards and that we comply with all Each year we carry out a supplier survey or environmental way. international and national rules and to ensure that the level of our suppliers’ regulations during the manufacture and engagement in sustainability matters Our aim is that by end 2020 all plants supply of our materials and products. aligns with our ambitions. In 2017 HB have selected a local community project Fuller won the biennial supplier In 2017, 70% of our plants engaged in Our employees are expected to comply sustainability award. some sort of local initiative. Examples with all legal requirements as well as our included the donation and distribution of new Code of Ethics which, among other Engaging locally Biobaby diapers following the earthquake things, includes a number of separate We are essentially a community of local in September in Mexico; the sponsorship policies that specify our corporate businesses each with a deep connection and support by the Healthcare Division to compliance requirements. to and understanding of our local ERIC, the only charity dedicated to the communities. While each plant has its bowel and bladder health of all children During the year, we became a signatory own specific sustainability targets to help and teenagers in the UK; Ontex Russia’s to the UN Global Compact to show our ensure we grow our businesses and participation in a charity program called commitments towards fair business create value consistently and relevantly, ‘Health for People’ with a full truck of practices, and introduced our first formal our plants collaborate and share good diapers and underpads to enhance the human rights policy. practices. life of disabled people and to help children in hospitals, and the building We started to implement a social of a local school playground by the accountability system at 14 of our 19 sites management team of the Ontex plant with the aim of conducting third-party Geographic in Mayen, Germany, to demonstrate social audits during 2018. location of our care for society. ...along the value chain our suppliers In all, we work with more than 200 suppliers (amount (in %) of globally. 93% of our raw material and suppliers per region) packaging suppliers signed our supplier Code of Conduct, compared with 59% in 2016. In addition, during the year we Europe Asia 67% 21% North America 1% North Africa 2% Central America 7% Oceania High human rights risk 2% 24 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report Business ethics New Code of Ethics The way we do business is closely linked to our values, including integrity. We do not only expect our employees and those doing business on behalf of Ontex to comply with the law, but also to conduct our business in accordance with the highest ethical standards. In 2017, we broadened the scope of our former Code of Conduct and we introduced our new Code of Ethics in 14 languages. Our Code of Ethics serves as a guide for doing business ‘the Ontex way’ covering the key ethical and compliance areas business if it requires giving or receiving Speak up relevant for all employees and people a bribe. We ask our employees to look out We encourage our employees to speak doing business on behalf of Ontex in our for certain ‘red flags’ that may indicate a up and to report any suspected unethical manufacturing plants and in our risk of bribery or other form of corruption behavior or other misconduct, so it office-based locations. prior to entering any contract or can be addressed. We provide several providing any services to a customer, channels for raising concerns, including Our new Code of Ethics covers areas supplier or other business partner. through an external speak up line. such as community involvement, health We also have a clear policy on gifts and Reports of concerns are evaluated and safety, economic sanctions, fair hospitality, including a list of maximum internally by an evaluation team competition and anti-bribery. Each topic monetary values to help our employees (consisting of Legal, Human Resources, of our Code of Ethics is owned by a in assessing the reasonableness of a gift Audit and Compliance) and appropriate specific department within Ontex that or hospitality. Line managers must be measures are taken. The Compliance has particular expertise in that subject notified (or give their approval in certain Steering Committee receives a report and can be contacted in case of cases) when those monetary values are of all concerns raised when meeting on questions. exceeded. Approval of line managers is a quarterly basis. also required when a public or Our Code of Ethics is published on our government official is involved. corporate website. Focus on fair competition For the second year in a row we organized an e-learning on competition law for our Marketing and Sales employees and our extended leadership team, followed by a knowledge test. 98% Our Code of Ethics serves as a of invited employees completed the guide for doing business ‘the Ontex way’ and covers working training and reached a score of 90% to areas such as working the test. Additionally, all Sales managers conditions, health and safety, attended a face-to-face competition law fair competition, anti-bribery and corruption. workshop. Anti-bribery and corruption Anti-bribery and corruption is another important topic in our Code of Ethics. We help our employees to fully comply with all anti-bribery laws and to not accept Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 25 Innovation Innovation strengthened Innovation is a key strategic Together with trend agencies, local pillar at Ontex. experts as well as bloggers, online influencers and our Marketing teams, Drawing on market trends and customer we study the trends that are shaping and consumer insights, and combining consumers’ desires and behavior globally them with our technical expertise and and then look at how these may translate creativity, we develop products that meet locally. The task of our cross-functional specific consumer needs all the while team is to assess their relevance to keeping focus on cost-effectiveness personal hygiene and design new value and manufacturing efficiency. propositions for our customers and consumers. The acquisition of the Grupo Mabe business in Mexico in 2016 further Innovative in connecting with our strengthened our R&D capabilities consumers digitally and product developments based on We continued to exploit innovative “We have a single understanding our customers and ways to establish a relationship with set of global quality consumers in this part of the world. our consumers. All our brands are very compliance standards in Throughout the year, we arranged active in the digital space, and today order to ensure production virtual or face-to-face meetings as well a considerable part of our marketing as workshops and training sessions for efforts is focused on digital channels excellence.” our Sales and Marketing people to and that share is growing. Annick De Poorter share knowledge and leverage our joint Group Quality, R&D and expertise. The new local brands, strong in Digital solutions, whether they are apps Sustainability Director digital communication and disruptive by or sites where we offer help and advice, nature, are a good fit with our agility and speak to consumers in a personalized our entrepreneurial culture, and there way and are a natural part of us being a were many exchanges to inspire our sponsor of local hero brands. We notice Marketing community. that social communities are strong and loyal supporters of our brands. It is where Innovation in products our consumers are and how we best The addition of a further R&D center in connect with them. Mexico provided the impetus to optimize our innovation processes further and Our forum for our incontinence brand, ensure that we involve all stakeholders. Serenity, is a good illustration of sharing For example, an innovation pipeline was experience online, while the example of set up per region, we started to develop Canbebe in Turkey, where we set up a a sustainability scorecard for all new real-time expert panel for new mothers, projects of which the implementation preserved the legacy of the brand but in is planned in 2018, based upon lifea modern and accessible way. cycle assessment and we initiated a new program to clearly describe the Direct access to consumers also enables requirements for each development us to understand any issues and rectify stage of a project to ensure consistency them quickly. How you deal with issues of execution. says a lot about a company, and we have seen how an open and transparent During the year, we continued to bring approach helps strengthen emotional innovative, affordable and high-performing links with our community. personal hygiene products to our markets. 26 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report “We want to Light-fit technology delight all the We successfully launched a light version to our iD incontinence brand which senses and provide our combines ultra-light weight and consumers a positive and thinness with absorption comparable with thicker products. The new personalized experience.” product’s flexibility, discrete feminine profile and high performance were all Oriane Perreaux Group Marketing Director highly appreciated during product testing as it scored more highly than all other products tested. Skin protection formula In 2017, we launched PRODERM® for our Mexican baby brand bbtips. It was developed for diapers and baby wipes as a protective formula that helps to preserve and restore babies’ skin, a fundamental concern for first-time parents. The formula, along with long-lasting performance and extra-soft materials were tested in collaboration with the Mexican National Institute of Pediatrics. Flow channel Consumers rank long-lasting diaper dryness very highly as they seek best value for money. We launched a new flow channel technology which combines better fluid distribution and faster absorption rates. With 12 hours of dry feeling and improved sagging, it matches the consumer’s expectations. Flexfit Thanks to our manufacturing synergies, we created a unique solution for Turkish parents with a revised Canbebe baby diaper. The Flexfit diaper is thinner and more comfortable for the baby, on top of the unique front and back barriers of the diaper. Organic tampons In our efforts to support more sustainable consumption, we launched a tampon with organic cotton and a compact bio-plastic and plant-based applicator. Modern day consumers love to share their positive experiences online. This represents a real opportunity for our local brands. People are more than willing to try a product recommended by a friend or even by someone they don’t know. Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 27 Responsible production Assurance for our customers Ensuring that we make our in 2017. The increase is due to the while ensuring the high performance products in a responsible extension of our scope in 2017. When of our products. manner is central to our looking to the emissions intensity ratio we human approach to success see a slight decrease compared with last In 2017, we managed to decrease the raw and to nearand long-term year from 32.3 gCO2/€ in 2016 to 32.0 material usage in all product categories prosperity. gCO2/€ in 2017. When comparing with except for our baby pants and external 2014 we even see a further decrease in Feminine Care category. Responsible production serves as the carbon intensity ratio of 29%. an assurance for our customers and The amount of renewable raw material consumers as we all seek to reduce The decrease in carbon emissions is in our products decreased slightly, our environmental impact. mainly due to the shift towards green ending up at 48%. For our packing we electricity. Moreover, we continuously stayed at 80%. A detailed overview of the progress on look for ways to increase our energyour sustainability efforts can be found in efficiency. For example, in 2017, 3.5 Moreover, we are also investigating the online performance addendum. million kWh were saved with lighting the opportunities for our consumers optimization projects at our plants. to recycle products at the end of life. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions We are actively involved in stakeholder In 2017, we refined our energy-related Materials discussions in Belgium and the goals introducing a new target to be Sourcing of suitable raw materials, Netherlands, aimed at evaluating the carbon neutral across all our operations including chemical substances and feasibility of recycling used products. by the end of 2030. packaging, is one of the main areas of During 2017, a mapping of the recycling focus in our sustainability efforts. It is options was conducted. As a next step we In 2017, we had an increase of 7% in not just a question of ensuring an ethical set up a mutli-stakeholder project for our absolute GHG emissions (scope 1-2) supply chain but developing ways of recycling diaper waste that compared with the year before, from reducing our need for raw materials will be tested in 2018. 64,288 tons in 2016 to 68,957 tons and finding sustainable options, all the Reducing our carbon intensity ratio* Share of renewable raw materials Main raw materials (gCO2/EUR) (Scope 1–2, base year 2014) in our products (%) 2015 (45%) 2015 52% 2016 (29%) 2016 50% 2017 (29%) 2017 48% * Excluding data from the Brazilian sites Material and packaging use Share of renewable raw materials Pulp-based per 1,000 units (kgs) in our packaging (%) materials 51% SAP 22% Compared Non-woven 15% Product categories with 2014 2015 81% PE plastic film 6% Glue 3% Baby diaper (5%) 80% 2016 Tapes 1% Baby pants 0% Viscose 1% 2017 80% Other raw material 1% External Feminine Care 6% Light incontinence (3%) Heavy incontinence (7%) 28 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report Wood sourcing Waste Waste recycling (% of our waste which is recycled or incinerated with energy recuperation) 2015 91% 2016 89% 2017 85% Certified 42% Sent to recycling 81% Controlled 58%  ent to incineration S with energy recovery 4% Sent to incineration without energy recovery 1% Sent to landfill 13% Sustainable forestry and digest it into humus soil to provide risks to make sure we meet consumers’ Pulp (fluff) is one of our most significant nutrients for plants. Early results are positive, expectations as well as all regulatory raw materials. All the pulp that we use is and we plan to expand testing in 2018. requirements. Elemental Chlorine Free or Total Chlorine Free bleached and comes from certified Green transport All raw materials are screened or controlled sources. In 2017, we added Our products cover many kilometers toxicologically by an independent Brazil as a pulp-sourcing country, next to before reaching the end-user. As part of toxicologist to make sure chemical safety the US and Sweden. All our fluff originates the Lean & Green program, our goal was can be ensured. from softwood pine trees. to reduce the carbon emissions from our logistics by 20% by the end of 2017, Our products are rigorously tested Waste compared with 2012. 2017 was the last in our own and independent quality In spite of our continuous efforts in year of measurement. Before publication laboratories. The tests focus on product improving our production efficiency, the of the final results, the VIL* will analyze performance such as rashes caused by joint-production of waste is inevitable. the reduction in carbon emissions. The baby diapers (due to rewet issues). To But the way we manage these byresult will be published on our website ensure a healthy and safe product we products makes a great difference. after confirmation by the VIL. take a number of steps throughout our value chain. Any potential safety issue At Ontex, the majority of our production ISO certification that is identified during production is waste is recycled or converted back into By the end of 2020, our aim is to have all thoroughly investigated to understand useful energy. main production sites independently the nature of the problem and prompt certified to ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 – actions are taken to eliminate any safety By the end of 2020, our goal is to reduce the internationally recognized standards risk for the end-consumer. One of the production waste going to landfill to zero. for environmental management and tools we have at our disposal is voluntary In 2017, nine plants achieved that goal energy management. In 2017, 69% of our product recall. Over the last three years ahead of schedule. However, owing to the main production plants were ISO 14001 we have had no product recalls. increase in production in countries with certified and 62% are ISO 50001 certified. poorer recycling infrastructure, overall We audit our suppliers to ensure waste going to landfill increased from 11% Ensuring consumer health and safety the quality of our raw materials and to 13% compared with 2016. Consumer health and safety is a top additionally we regularly monitor the priority for Ontex. quality of all material received to ensure In keeping with the Ontex spirit, we want that we meet the rigorous quality plants to seek the best solution for their A certified multi-site ISO 9001 Quality standards for our products. specific needs but also encourage them Management System was integrated in to share those practices that are working each production facility. Our quality In the event of an incident relating to the for them. management processes are audited safety of our consumers or the quality of annually and regularly monitored through our products, crisis management teams In Italy, for example, the plant has been performance indicators that drive are activated in the affected markets experimenting with new methods to continuous improvement activities. under the direction of our product re-use pulp and super-absorbent dust quality, science and communications from filter cleaning. They send the During supplier and raw material experts, to ensure timely and effective mixture to an earthworm breeder where selection and product development marketplace action. the worms feed on the organic matter we systematically evaluate all potential * VIL is the Flemish Institute for Logistics. Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 29 Categorical performance review Growth across all product categories Revenue by category Ontex’ performance was strong (%) in 2017 against a generally disruptive background. We faced tough competition and an function and the Division. We have a uncertain economic environment in many dedicated team to lead the change but, of our markets. Internally, we pursued in Ontex style, the approach is pragmatic our own ongoing transformation into and flexible to ensure we get the best a consumer goods company. returns for ourselves, our customers and our consumers. The passion and drive of our people were very much in evidence. This was not just Growth across all product categories Baby Care 61% in our operational performance, but also In terms of categories, we grew our Adult Care 29% Feminine Care 9% reflected in the employee survey which business across all three: Baby Care, Other 1% encouragingly showed improvement Adult Care and Feminine Care. in all categories versus our 2015 results, Reported revenue and that we are on a par with the Baby Care (€/m) best-in-class. In Baby Care, our biggest category, there (LFL growth %) was a general increase in demand driven Developing our people by further penetration in various parts Mature Markets Retail The company has grown quickly in the of the world and the continued growth 901.7 +5.1 % last four years and our ambition is to continue this growth and success. of emerging markets. Our revenue increased 6.3% on a like-for-like basis. In 2017, we reconfigured the set-up of In Western Europe, we benefited from Healthcare some of our teams to become even retailer brands’ share gains in diapers, 433.4 more responsive to customer needs and and also increased our share of retailer sustain our growth. We also continued brands. Our own brands gained share +2.0% to put the systems in place internally to in Mexico and Algeria, although these support the structured growth of our were partly offset by a lower share in Middle East North Africa people through career progression Turkey and Brazil where the market 189.8 +1.4% opportunities, regular assessments, cross-functional moves and more. dynamics are extremely challenging. During the year, baby pants grew strongly The establishment of the Americas driven by category leader activity to push Growth Markets leadership team is a good example of this more profitable subcategory. 193.1 +8.5% how we can develop and progress our people’s careers. Feminine Care Feminine Care is the most commoditized Americas Retail Division Digitalization category and we try to engage with 637.5 During the year, we also embarked on consumers not just on comparable a digitalization program that will affect product quality but on an emotional +1 2.2% every part of our company. We are an level as well through the packaging design agile and lean company, which enables and on-pack messaging. During the year, us to implement changes relatively our retailer brands in Western Europe quickly. The nature of the digital maintained share in a slightly transformation will depend on the declining category. 30 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report “The FMCG environment is moving faster and faster every day. We are aligning our organization to make sure that we remain fully connected with the reality of the outside world” Thierry Navarre Chief Operational Officer Like-for-like revenue in the category grew 4.2% driven by new business gains, and consolidating our leading position in retailer brands. Adult Care Adult Care is the fastest-growing category with penetration driven by the breakdown of taboos surrounding such products and by the increase in purchasing power in emerging markets. We sell through two main channels: institutional and retail. Revenue in both channels was up in 2017 to give an overall increase of 5.2% on a like-for-like basis. In institutional channels, revenue growth was supported by innovations to strengthen our offer and included the launch of Serenity pants in Spain. Revenue from retail channels increased, and we also increased our leading branded positions in Italy, Mexico and Brazil. Approach to digitalization: We have a dedicated team to lead our digital transformation but, in Ontex style, the approach is pragmatic and flexible and we will invest only where we know we will get the returns for ourselves, our customers and our consumers. Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 31 Mature markets retail Responding to a challenging market Revenue €901.7m (2016: €854.6m) “A strong performance, in a year of leadership change, demonstrated the capability and depth of talent Mature Markets Retail Division in our team as well as the supplies retailer branded undeniable drive of Ontex.“ Mauricio Troncoso Baby Care, Feminine Care General Manager, and Adult Care products in Mauricio Troncoso Mature Markets Retail Division Western Europe and Australia. General Manager Mature Markets Retail Division Performance Mature Markets Retail Division delivered a strong top-line performance with higher Strategy volumes in most of our markets. The Our strategy to develop more in-depth like-for-like improvement in revenue, at partnerships with our retailer customers 5.1%, was ahead of market growth, and is paying off. While we maintain our came from new business gained across product quality and entrepreneurship, we all three categories and the substantial add value in terms of business-planning organic growth of some of our key processes, category management, unique retailer customers. shopper insights, as well as innovation. At the end of the day, this allows us to offer We faced continued price pressure in raw high value products to consumers at an materials, energy and transportation and attractive price. while our cost-saving program helped us to mitigate these spikes our margins Investing in people remain under pressure. We invested in The quality of our people, and their price in certain areas of our business but increased understanding of markets and largely offset this by maximizing the mix end-users, play a key differentiating role. through higher value products such as In 2017, we continued to transform the baby pants and adult pants. The ability to Mature Markets Retail organization to manage our portfolio gives us a degree of better respond to the business needs of Key Markets flexibility and adds a further layer of our customers, investing in people and Western Europe resilience to this business. training as well as in various tools, such as Australia shopper analytics, to serve our customers with what they need to succeed. 32 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report “In every category, our overriding aim is to produce quality products at an affordable price so that everyone can have access to them.” Laurent Bonnard Group Sales Director Growth make, but more importantly, because In line with our strategy to expand in we are committed to do our part in stages, in October we announced the leaving a better world for the future construction of a new €40 million plant generations. For example, 60% of our in Poland to support the growth of our turnover from the Nordic countries come retailer customer and consumer base from products with one or more eco or Our ability to offer customized solutions in in Central and Eastern Europe. The new health labels. An overview of the different diapers to retailer brands factory is planned to come online by the labels can be found on our website. is one of the reasons why end of 2018 and aims to be fully we are the clear number one in the retailer brand market operational by 2020. Our market* in Europe today. Our offer is Our Mature Markets Retail Division specific for each retailer and Sustainability matters operates in regions that represent 15% based on detailed marketing knowledge to ensure that Just like the rest of Ontex, we put special of the global disposable hygiene retail their diapers harmonize with emphasis in continuously improving the market in value terms. Baby Care and their overall positioning. sustainability of our products. Ontex is Feminine Care categories declined in committed to supporting the marketing value -3% and -1% respectively owing to of products with eco and/or health labels their mature nature and pressure on to better meet market requirements. pricing. Adult Care grew by 9%. Our commitment is unwavering, not only Market value Baby Care because consumers’ increasing awareness In volume terms, retailer brands in all 50% of ecological and health-related issues put three categories increased their share Adult Care special demands on the products that we of the total market. In Baby Care, they 15% now account for 50% of the market, in Feminine Care 37% and in Adult Feminine Care Care 39%. 35% Looking ahead During the year, we proved that the fundamentals of the business are sound and strong. Our people continue growing with new and essential capabilities. The Group-wide digitalization program will help us better deal with the complexity of the range we offer and bring even greater efficiency. All of this will underpin the basis of our success: offering the best value to our customers and consumers, which is the reason why more and more consumers are choosing retail brands. It is simply a better value equation for them. * Sources: Nielsen Full Year December 2017 Euromonitor 2017 actuals Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 33 Healthcare Giving confidence Our goal is to help adults who are experiencing incontinence to live their lives with dignity and in comfort. We are a “We never forget that predominantly business-toour business is all about dignity business operation, supplying and quality of life. It’s also about our products to healthcare smart solutions at affordable prices institutions. We also sell and maintaining the human factor.” directly to consumers through pharmacies, home delivery Xavier Lambrecht and online. General Manager, Healthcare Division Revenue Performance €433.4m Growth in 2017 followed the similar steady pattern of recent years. In a declining market, revenue grew 2.0% on a life-for-like basis, supported by (2016: €428.8m) increased volumes of our branded Adult Care products. We performed well in the majority of our markets, despite significant price pressures during the year, especially in Italy where we are Number 1 supplier. 34 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report “We are now the Number 5 player in the Growth Changes to reimbursement programs in World. Our international positions many countries may mean that users are are attractive to suppliers left only with a choice of low-cost and, looking to extend their business. potentially, inferior products. In 2017, we The larger volumes put us in a stronger made our first steps into the retail world position and suppliers are more willing in Italy to help ensure that our marketleading products remain available to to develop with us.” end-users. We capitalized on the equity in Philippe Agostini our leading brand, Serenity, to launch this Chief Procurement and retail initiative through e-commerce Supply Chain Officer channels and in pharmacies. We also started to penetrate private nursing home groups, where we have been less strong, and where the value of having a strong set of values is proving an advantage. In true Ontex spirit, our value proposition is broader than just the product. Management systems for patient follow-up and online training for carers as well as accredited online training for nurses all form part of E-commerce has been the offer. one of our routes to market. We are used to serving patients at home Investing in people and have experience We invested substantially in training delivering to home. We are during the year for both our office and accelerating our efforts in digitalization as part of the shop-floor people. In our factories, new Group-wide effort. technology means we have to constantly upgrade our skills, and in the new factory We remained focused on product and in France we introduced a dedicated channel mix, as well as cost control change management plan to enhance without sacrificing the quality of the team work which has resulted in product. We also continued to evolve our increased output. business model, broadening our range of services to the customer, such as Sustainability matters management systems for institutional In 2017, we carried out a detailed survey customers and training for carers so that of energy consumption, scrap reduction they understand how to optimize the use and raw materials usage on our lines. of our products. We also looked at ways we could reduce the environmental impact of the supply Strategy chain. In Brussels, Belgium, we found a In terms of institutional customers, we company that specialized in city deliveries aim to bring cost-efficient, innovative using electric vehicles. products and solutions to the market without compromising product quality, Looking ahead or patient dignity, or comfort. Market conditions will probably remain largely unchanged. A vibrant product As the more profitable self-pay channel pipeline and the addition of further continues to develop as a result of the services should help strengthen our reduction in funding and reimbursement, position in the traditional institutional our strategy is to grow our share by market while we continue to explore the addressing consumers’ unmet needs. opportunities of the self-pay business Key Markets and other market opportunities. Benelux and France Germany Spain and Italy UK and Ireland Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 35 Middle East North Africa Our Middle East North Africa Division manufactures and markets branded products in mainly Turkey, Algeria and Unlocking new Pakistan on a local basis and reaches other countries in the region through exports. opportunities Performance Our operations in MENA are almost entirely focused on local hero brands. The challenging political and economic backdrop in the region was compounded in 2017 by new entrants and aggressive action from local hard discounters in Turkey. Revenue growth slowed to 1.4% on a like-for-like basis as volumes fell and Revenue pricing came under pressure. €189.8m Some share gains and volume improvement in our international export markets, and the continued good performance of Canped, the leading (2016: €206.2m) Özgür Akyildiz brand in Adult Care in Turkey, helped to General Manager, offset the impact. Middle East North Africa Division Despite the top-line challenges to our diaper products, we were able to continue our profitable growth journey taking advantage of the breadth of our portfolio. Strategy We seek to unlock new untapped opportunities in the region, both in terms of new countries and product In September 2017, we launched the Canbebe ‘To penetration. We dedicate resources both the Future with Moms’ campaign in Turkey aiming category and country-wise, building on to provide knowledge about physiological and pedagogical development to 14,000 mothers while raising their children. 36 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report the success of the Incontinence Task Growth of the personal hygiene Investing in people Force, which was formed specifically market in Turkey* The actions implemented following the to grow our adult care business in 2015 employee engagement survey, with the region. individual targets for each country, have clear born fruit. In the 2017 survey, we We aim to create greater awareness of saw significant improvement especially in our Canbebe and Canped brands, through those countries that had scored less well higher marketing investment in Turkey and and where we put in extra resources to Pakistan using modern channels. deal with shortfalls. The work continues. Growth The organizational structure has now Growth is driven by innovation as well caught up with our rapid growth and we as penetration. During the year, we are better balanced to face the future. set up a local R&D center in Istanbul. Baby Care During the year, we used all the resources 4.7% Co-operation with the Group’s and other Adult Care available to us through the Ontex Group 29.6% regional R&D resources will help drive functions to further develop and educate product development specific to the our people. The strong collaborative ties region and strengthen our local hero with the Group sales team, and the approach. consumer and market data provided, made a strong contribution to our We also took an innovative approach operation and are typical of the way to nurturing our Canbebe brand and fill Ontex operates. a gap in the local market. In September, we set up an online panel comprising of Sustainability matters leading Turkish baby care specialists to Many end-users in the MENA region answer questions and concerns from are generally looking at the basic level new mothers. The project typified Ontex’s of needs in terms of products, but having aim to bring value to local consumers. said that, we continue to grow the company in an environmentally sustainable way with quality products using less energy and less raw materials. The transfer of best practices between our different plants was very much in “We transfer best practices evidence in 2017. Noise reduction across our different plants. In the measures introduced at our Istanbul Istanbul plant, the noise reduction production site were so successful that all measures were so successful that other sites are being asked to use their plan as a reference in 2018 and beyond. all other sites are being asked to use their plan as a reference in 2018 Looking ahead and beyond.” We will continue to focus on profitable Özgür Akyildiz growth segments despite competition General Manager, pressure from new entrants. We see Middle East North Africa Division considerable further potential for growth in sales of our incontinence brands, due to the aging population in the region, both in Turkey and in other regions. * Source: Nielsen Full Year ending December 2017 (Baby Care), IMS Full Year December 2017 (Adult Care) Key Markets Turkey Algeria Pakistan Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 37 Growth markets Delivering growth through local expertise Revenue €193.1m (2016: €169.6m) “Our PRIDE values are evident each and every day as our people deploy their high technical capabilities and entrepreneurial skills in a fast-moving environment.” Thierry Viale General Manager, Growth Markets Division Growth Markets supplies both accelerate the growth of existing ones. retailer brands and Ontex Some of our fastest-growing products brands to developing and stretched our capacity but the extension emerging markets which tend of our local manufacturing plant in Noginsk to be a mix of high growth and and more local sourcing should remedy high volatility. We have a what are short-term issues. Revenues growing presence in adult and from Ontex’s own branded products feminine care but baby care grew, owing to better distribution and the accounts for the most introduction of the baby pants format significant portion of our to improve the mix. business. Growth in Growth Markets In 2017, revenue grew 8.5% on a like-for-like basis, Performance outstripping market growth In 2017, we delivered another year of as we benefitted from higher uninterrupted growth to underline the volumes and a more favorable mix. sustainability of our business model for 2017 like-for-like Growth Markets. Revenue grew 8.5% on revenue growth 8.5% a like-for-like basis, outstripping market growth as we benefited from higher volumes and a more favorable mix, further confirming our model of driving both retailer brands and our own Ontex brands. Russia, one of the world’s biggest markets, was the main driver of growth as retailer brands continued to develop positively. We are the leader in retailer brands and during the year we helped retailers launch their own brands or 38 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report Key Markets Commonwealth of Independent States Central and Eastern Europe Asia Sub-Saharan Africa We also saw further growth from Sub-Saharan Africa and continued good growth in the Asian markets we serve which include some the fastest growing regions for baby diapers. Strategy Our strategy is to build on the expertise gained from our experience of operating managing the day-to-day business. of transportation. In Noginsk, energy in Western Europe, including an ability We also successfully launched our Adult efficient lighting, a heat recuperation to understand the customer and build Care brand iD through pharmacies, system, automated control system retailer brands. We intend to drive leveraging our technology and our for compressors as well as an efficient sustainable, profitable growth in CIS and heritage in this growing category. central system for line waste removal and CEE and to continue growing the business collection all help contribute to reduce through our local presence and market Investing in people the environmental impact. knowledge in Sub-Saharan Africa. Since 2013, we have led the profitable transformation from a small export In Ethiopia, we are in a water-scarce Growth business with a single production line environment so we installed systems In July, we opened a new, advanced plant and revenues of €88 million, into a to ensure that all the water we use is in Hawassa, Ethiopia. It will allow us to €193 million business, and a workforce of recycled. feed growth in the region and better 536 people with one of the Group’s most serve consumers with our Canbebe modern plants in Russia and a brand new Looking ahead diapers which have just the right plant in Ethiopia. The investment in the The combination of the resources of combination of features that mothers quality of our people and the leadership an international company and the agility in East Africa are looking for. The plant team has been critical in this respect. Our of a small business are serving us well. underlines our strong belief in a local PRIDE values are evident each and every The environment remains uncertain and market approach and provides a solid day as they deploy their highly technical complex but through the actions we have bridgehead to develop the region. capabilities and entrepreneurial skills taken we aim to continue delivering in this fast-moving environment. growth ahead of our markets. We relocated the Russian production plant in Noginsk, doubling our production Sustainability matters capacity for both our own and retailer The two new factories in Russia and brands across all three product Ethiopia were built in full compliance with categories. Increased localization will our approach to sustainability and our reduce costs and help us better serve our aim to increase our relevance and market. The project was another example positive impact in our communities. of our values in action. Everyone came The localization of our production together to ensure that it was brought to facilities not only brings jobs but helps a successful conclusion while still to reduce the environmental impacts Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 39 Americas retail Building scale in key markets Armando Amselem General Manager, Americas Retail Division Revenue €637.5m (2016: €333.9m) “Our people make who we are, and we benefited from the talent available to us in the Ontex Group as we assembled a strong Americas leadership team during the year.” Armando Amselem General Manager Americas Retail Division The Americas Retail Division supplies branded products to 11 markets across the Americas from production plants in Brazil and Mexico. We have strong positions in Mexico and Brazil, two of the top five personal hygiene markets in the world. Performance Revenue in the Americas Retail Division In Baby Care in Brazil, we experienced increased by 12.2% on a like-for-like basis. a decline in overall category value. We continued to improve our position in Actions to improve our position and Mexico and increase our share in both results started to show positive signs the Baby Care and Adult Care categories towards the end of the year. despite currency volatility and reduced consumer spending power. We grew sales Strategy in the US where our focus is on ecoOur aim is to be the clear Number 3 friendly diapers and feminine care player in the region in disposable hygiene Key Markets Mexico and Central America products. In the Adult Care category products. We plan to strengthen our Brazil in Brazil, we continued to grow and profitability in Mexico and Brazil, exploit North America extended our leading position. growth potential in North America and improve our supply chain. 40 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report Growth Mexico’s aging population procurement through production to We realized a double-digit growth in Mexico's aging population the consumer. Energy and water usage is creating growing demand Mexico and managed to reach a new for incontinence products. reduction at all our plants is a key focus, volume share record of 42.9% for Ontex’s for example, and when it comes to getting own brands and retailer brands in the our products to the customer, during the Supermarkets channel (2017 Nielsen Life expectancy year we increased the use of rail freight data). in 1960 instead of trucks. Driving growth through innovation, 57 Looking ahead during the year we launched a new incontinence brand, Moviment, in Brazil years The acquisition of the Brazil business gave us access to one of the largest and in Mexico, we did a relaunch of our personal hygiene markets in the world BioBaby diapers. Life expectancy and we aim to further develop the brand in 2017 portfolio and maximize the operational Investing in people It was an intensive year in terms of 75 synergies while continuing to grow our other businesses. people. The Division has only been in existence a short while, and we dedicated years much resource to building the right leadership team as we assimilated the business in Brazil. The pool of skills available to us around the company, especially the entrepreneurial mindset, has been invaluable. The new Division In Mexico the number provides excellent opportunities for the of inhabitants aged 60 years or more has development of our people wherever increased an impressive 118% they may be in the Ontex community. Sustainability matters since 1990 Around 80% of sales in the US are in what we term eco-friendly products, a small but fast-growing segment. This means Sources: that sustainability is a core concern of National Institute of Health and Aging ours all along the value chain from National Population Council “During the year, we enlarged our base of in-house built machines with new lines in Mexico and Ethiopia. We now have ten locations where we run our own machines.” We introduced Moviment, our Martin Gärtner new Brazilian brand of unisex Group Manufacturing Director pants that are ideal for active adults with moderate or severe urinary incontinence. The launch was backed by a campaign to demystify urinary incontinence and show that people can live a normal life without restrictions. Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 41 Financial review We saw a strong performance in our underlying business in 2017 but a disappointing first year from the Brazilian business acquired in March 2017. Continued strong On a like-for-like basis, the underlying Ontex business continued to perform revenue growth in well. Ontex Group, excluding the Brazilian acquisition, and representing more than 90% of 2017 full-year revenue of €2.36 challenging market billion, significantly outperformed consumer staples in a broadly flat personal hygiene market, delivering conditions 5.5% like-for-like revenue growth across all three categories. This demonstrated strong consumer demand for the portfolio of Ontex products, resulting in market share gains across most of our Divisions. Our Mature Market Retail had Financial a particularly strong performance (with highlights revenue growing like-for-like of 5.1%) confirming the strengths we have built Revenue (€/bn) over decades in these markets after 2.36 +5.5% some temporary challenges in 2016. (LFL growth %) Adjusted EBITDA of €266.4 million was 7.1% higher year-on-year, despite a €7.8 Gross margin (€/m) million FX headwind. Adjusted EBITDA 681.0 +16.3% margins of the Group (excluding Brazil) proved robust at 12.0% compared with 12.5% in 2016. This was a resilient Adjusted EBITDA (€/m) performance with our cost savings and 266.4 efficiencies programs largely offsetting significant external headwinds, and some +7.1% capacity constraints that limited our Adjusted net profit (€/m) profitability in the near term. 131.4 -0.2% Adjusted earnings per share of €1.65, down 6.8% compared with a year ago. Investing in people ”The year 2017 saw very and processes 2017 was an excellent solid topline growth well year in terms of people ahead of peers and specifically development. As we grow, we are putting in more a very strong bounce-back structures and more by our Mature Markets Retail processes. We have, of course, a set of basic Division from a difficult 2016.” rules and regulations but we are conscious Jacques Purnode not to stifle our Chief Financial Officer entrepreneurial culture. We remain pragmatic because in the fastmoving and fast-changing Jacques Purnode world we serve we need Chief Financial Officer to remain flexible. 42 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report ”Despite the challenges, we remain confident in the long-term value of the Brazilian business to the Ontex Group.” Jacques Purnode Chief Financial Officer Revenue by Division Revenue growth (€/m) (LFL growth %) Brazil The overall performance of the Brazilian business acquired in March 2017 fell well short of our expectations. At the end of the year, we learned that discounts to 5.5% 4.9% customers, a standard retail industry 0.2% practice, had been made above the budgeted levels, and that these excess 2015 2016 2017 discounts had not been registered during Mature Markets 901.7 Healthcare 433.4 the year. As a consequence, in December, MENA 189.8 we took a charge of €15 million to revenue Growth Markets 193.1 and adjusted EBITDA to fully cover the Americas Retail 637.5 year, resulting in the 2017 adjusted EBITDA margin in Brazil of 3.8%. Gross margin Leverage (€/m) Significant actions have already been taken to address the issues in Brazil, including some changes in the sales incentive system, and reinforced processes and controls. We are reviewing ways in which we can sustainably improve the business performance on the top and 681.0 2.67x 2.79x 585.5 bottom line. Despite these challenges, we 475.6 1.94x remain confident in the long-term value of the Brazilian business to the Ontex 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Group. It provides an important branded position in the fourth largest hygiene market in the world, with opportunities to improve manufacturing efficiencies (€/m unless otherwise specified) 2017 2016 Change (%) and leverage our innovation expertise as originally foreseen. Revenue 2.36 bn 1.99 bn 18.2 Gross margin 681.0 585.5 16.3 Adjusted EBITDA 266.4 248.7 7.1 Adjusted net profit 131.4 131.7 -0.2 Adjusted free cash flow 71.0 131.1 -45.8 Net debt 744.2 664.9 11.9 Leverage 2.79x 2.67x N/A. Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 43 Financial review – continued Outlook Foreign Exchange Brazil, and to a lesser extent increasing We have three priorities for 2018: continue Movements in the value of foreign capacity of faster-growing, margin-accretive investing in initiatives which will support currencies versus the euro had a negative products. We expect this to have a positive sustainable profitable growth; strengthen impact on Group revenue and Adjusted impact on our manufacturing and supply further the underlying Ontex business, EBITDA in 2017. The full year impact of chain as the new production comes online, continuing to build on our leadership -€21.3 million on revenue was mainly alleviating the temporary pressures we position in retailer brands in Europe related to a weakening of the Turkish Lira have absorbed from strong revenue growth. and on our portfolio of local brands, and the British Pound, the Mexican Peso and achieve sustainable improvements in and US Dollar, while the Russian Rouble Adjusted Free Cash Flow (post tax) our Brazil business. In challenging markets, and the Polish Zloty strengthened Adjusted free cash flow (post tax) was we expect a better balance between top compared with the previous year. €71.0 million in 2017, 45.8% lower than in line and profitability in 2018. On the top 2016. The main reasons for the decline line, we expect a low single-digit like-forThe FX impact on Adjusted EBITDA are higher capex as planned, increased like revenue growth in broadly flat hygiene in 2017 was -€7.8 million mostly from a working capital and cash taxes paid. The markets. After a lower first half of the year, weakening of the British Pound and the higher working capital was due to the we anticipate a sequential improvement Turkish Lira, while the Russian Rouble significant build-up of working capital in in adjusted EBITDA margins in the second and the Czech Koruna were stronger. Ontex Brazil. The carved-out company, half as our actions across all aspects of the In addition to the above, the Brazilian which became operational in January business, including pricing, mix and cost Real weakened in 2017 versus the 2017, did not receive historical receivables savings, increasingly take effect. exchange rate at the time of acquisition. from Hypermarcas. This effect was fully expected and was factored into the cash Our commitment to improve our margins Net Finance Costs consideration. Excluding this one-time over time is unchanged. We will work In 2017 net finance costs were €43.8 impact, adjusted free cash flow (post tax) through the short-term challenges we million. Compared to 2016, the increase would have been some 15% lower than are facing, while our long-term objectives in net finance costs is fully explained by in 2016. remain fully intact. higher net exchange rate differences related to financing activities. Total Financing Gross Margin interest expenses in 2017 were above a Net debt at December 31, 2017 Gross margin was €681.0 million, an year ago, and were essentially offset by amounted to €744.2 million, and net increase of 16.3% compared with last the gain arising from the amendment of leverage based on the last 12 months year. Gross margin as a percentage of our syndicated loan. Adjusted EBITDA was 2.79x. sales was 47 basis points lower, from 29.4% in 2016 to 28.9% in 2017. Strong Income Tax Expense The refinancing of debt in the second like-for-like revenue growth and savings The income tax expense was €36.1 half of 2017 resulted in a meaningful generated throughout the year did not million for 2017, resulting in an effective extension of debt maturities to 2022 and fully compensate higher raw material tax rate of 22.0%, below our guidance 2024 and a lower average cost of debt pricing, and to a lesser extent a negative of approximately 24%. with the interest rate risk largely hedged, FX impact and additional manufacturing in line with the Group’s hedging policy. expenses to service the top line. Working Capital Estimated annual savings before tax are Working capital as a percentage of expected to be approximately €10 million. Adjusted EBITDA revenue was 11.3% in 2017, within our 2017 adjusted EBITDA was 7.1% higher objective of keeping working capital Dividends than in 2016 at €266.4 million. Other than requirements at or below 12% of revenue. The Board of Directors has proposed a the evolution in gross margin as detailed dividend of €0.60 per share, an increase above, we absorbed the temporary Capital Expenditure of €0.05 per share subject to shareholder impact of higher distribution expenses Capital expenditure was €111.9 million approval at the next Annual General mainly due to strong revenue growth, in 2017, or 4.8% of revenue. This is above Meeting of Shareholders. and continued to invest in our sales our historical level of investment as and marketing capabilities. expected and previously disclosed, Check out our press releases here: mainly reflecting the capex program http://www.ontexglobal.com/news-media foreseen in the acquisition of Ontex 44 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Strategic Report Reporting methodology for declaration non-financial disclosure Each year Ontex reports upon its specified, and appertains to the Ontex and with reference to the UN Global economic and sustainability performance. Group which employ some 11,000 people. Compact & UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). GRI is the In previous years, in addition to the The report covers our different units international standard for sustainability Annual Report, Ontex has published in 22 countries and our headquarters reporting. The SDGs define global a Sustainability Report covering the in Aalst, Belgium. For the first time, our sustainable development priorities and social, environmental and economic sales offices and on-site warehouses are aspirations for 2030 and seek to mobilize sustainability issues that matter most to included in the sustainability data as well. global efforts around a common set of us and to our stakeholders. The previous goals and targets. Scope 1 and 2 carbon report was published on 11 April 2017. The scope changed significantly over emissions are calculated based on the the reporting year, adding the startGreenhouse Gas Protocol definition. This year marks the publication of up of a new plant in Ethiopia and the Note that the transport of goods via our first integrated annual report. acquisition of the personal hygiene owned trucks is currently not included In highlighting what is material to business of Hypermarcas in Brazil. Note in the scope of carbon reporting. our business, our stakeholders and that the scope for energy consumption our Company, we aim to present and carbon emissions indicators does A full overview can be found in the transparently how we address our not include the two plants in Brazil. In Sustainability Performance Addendum key economic, environmental and addition, the plants in Mexico and Brazil at the back of this report. social impacts. are excluded from the scope of the electricity intensity ratio. This report has been validated by the The financial and non-financial Ontex management team and external information contained in this report The report has been prepared in assurance has been performed for covers the period January 1, 2017 to accordance with the Global Reporting selected indicators. December 31, 2017, unless otherwise Initiative (GRI) Standards (Core option) Strategic Report Ontex Integrated Report 2017 45 Corporate Governance Corporate 1. Reference Code Governance Pursuant to Article 96, § 2 of the Belgian Companies Code and the Royal Decree of June 6, 2010 designating the Corporate Governance Code to be complied with by listed companies, Statement Ontex Group NV has adopted the Corporate Governance Code as its reference code on corporate governance.1 As appropriate for a Belgian listed company with a commitment to high standards of corporate governance, the Board adopted a Corporate Governance Charter in June 2014 (hereafter the ‘Corporate Governance Charter’), as required by the In accordance with the Belgian Companies Corporate Governance Code. The Board amended the Code (wetboek van vennootschappen) and the Corporate Governance Charter on June 28 2016. The 2009 Belgian Code on Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Charter can be consulted on (hereafter the ‘Corporate Governance Code’, the Company’s website.2 the following section provides information about Ontex Group NV’s (also referred to The Corporate Governance Charter describes the main herein as the ‘Company’) corporate aspects of Ontex Group NV’s corporate governance, including governance. its governance structure and the terms of reference of the Board, as well as those of the Board committees and of the This section includes changes to Ontex Group NV’s corporate Management Committee. The Corporate Governance Charter governance, together with the relevant events that took place is regularly updated and will be annually reviewed by the Board during 2017, such as changes in Ontex Group NV’s capital or to be in line with applicable laws and regulations, the Corporate shareholder structure, modifications in Ontex Group NV’s Governance Code, and their interpretation. governance and in the composition of the Board of Directors of Ontex Group NV (hereafter the ‘Board’) and its committees, the main features of the Remuneration Report, and the internal 2. Capital and Shareholders control and risk management systems of the Ontex group. 2.1. Capital and capital evolution This chapter also includes explanations, where applicable, 2.1.1. Capital and capital evolution during 2017 of any deviations from the Corporate Governance Code As at December 31, 2017, the capital of Ontex Group NV (see section 7 of this Corporate Governance Statement). amounted to €823,587,466.38 and was represented by 82,347,218 shares without nominal value. Each share represents 1/82,347,218th of the capital and carries one vote. The shares are listed on Euronext Brussels. On March 22, 2017, the Board resolved to increase the share capital in the framework and within the limits of the authorized capital, through a capital increase in kind as described below. The Company has entered into a transaction (the ‘Ontex Brazil Transaction’) whereby it, through Ontex BVBA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and certain subsidiaries of Ontex BVBA, has directly or indirectly acquired all outstanding shares of Falcon Distribuidora Armazenamento E Transporte, a Brazilian company which manufactures disposable hygienic products (‘Falcon’). 1 The ‘2009 Belgian Code on Corporate Governance’ is available on the website of the Belgian Corporate Governance Committee (http://www.corporategovernancecommittee.be). 2 The English version of Ontex’s Corporate Governance Charter is available on the Ontex website (http://www.ontexglobal.com/sites/default/ files/20170509_ontex_corporate_governance_charter_e.pdf). 46 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Governance As a consequence of the above, on March 22, 2017, the On December 31 2017, 11,185,038 shares of the Company Board confirmed the realization of a capital increase in cash were registered shares. in an amount of €74,871,580.58 (excluding issue premium in an amount of €145,968,664.42), from €748,715,885.80 2.2. Shareholder evolution to €823,587,466.38, represented by a total number of Pursuant to the Company’s Articles of Association and the 82,347,218 shares. Corporate Governance Charter, the applicable successive thresholds as regards the application of the Law of May 2, 2007 In addition, the Board approved in 2017 a new grant under on the disclosure of significant shareholdings in issuers whose the Long Term Incentive Plan (as defined below) (the 2017 shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market and other grant being referred to as the ‘LTIP 2017’). In 2014, the provisions (hereafter the ‘Law of May 2, 2007’) and the Royal Company adopted a Long Term Incentive Plan approved by Decree of February 14, 2008 on the disclosure of significant the Board and the Shareholder Meeting on June 3, 2014 and shareholdings, are set at 3%, 5%, 7.5%, 10% and any subsequent June 10, 2014 respectively (the ‘Long Term Incentive Plan’) which multiples of 5%. consists of a combination of stock options and restricted stock units (hereafter ‘RSUs’). The Board has previously approved In the course of 2017, the Company received the following grants under the Long Term Incentive Plan, in 2014, 2015, 2016 transparency declarations: and 2017 (respectively the ‘LTIP 2014’, the ‘LTIP 2015’, the ‘LTIP 2016’, the ‘LTIP 2017’, and the Long Term Incentive Plan On January 25, 2017, the Company received a transparency including the LTIP 2014, the LTIP 2015, the LTIP 2016 and the declaration from Allianz Global Investors GmbH stating that, LTIP 2017 being referred to as the ‘LTIP’). The stock options on January 20, 2017, it crossed below the threshold of 3% of and RSUs granted under the LTIP do not confer any shareholder the total number of voting rights in the Company. rights, and the shares to be delivered to participants upon exercise of their stock options or upon vesting of their RSUs On February 9, 2017 BlackRock, Inc., and its affiliated entities, are existing shares of the Company with all rights and benefits notified the Company that BlackRock, Inc. and Blackrock attached to such shares. A more detailed description of the Investment Management (UK) Limited had, as a result of LTIP and the LTIP 2017 is set out in the Remuneration Report. sales of shares, crossed below the threshold of 5% and 3% respectively, of the total number of voting rights in Ontex. The grants made by Ontex under its LTIP provide for a threeyear vesting period. Accordingly, the grants that were made On March 2, 2017, BlackRock, Inc., and its affiliated entities, in 2014 vested as from July 31, 2017. In order to meet its notified the Company that BlackRock, Inc. had, as a result of obligations thereunder, Ontex has partially exercised a forward sales of shares, crossed below the threshold of 3% of the total purchase agreement with the following characteristics: number of voting rights in Ontex, excluding equivalent financial instruments. Number Date of shares Strike Price Highest price Lowest price On June 20, 2017, Allianz Global Investors GmbH notified the Originally entered 274,439 € 29.070 € 28.685* € 25.800* into on 21 July 2015 Company that it had acquired 2,521,427 shares in Ontex and so had crossed the threshold of 3% of the total number of * The highest price and lowest price, respectively, reflects the highest price and lowest price of Ontex shares on Euronext Brussels during the period 1 July voting rights in Ontex to 3.06%. 2015 until 21 July 2015 during which underlying Ontex shares were bought by its counterparty under the forward purchase agreement and on the basis of which the strike price of € 27.070 was determined. More details about the vested Stock Options and RSUs can be found in the Remuneration Report. More details about the forward purchase agreement can be found in the financial statements, note 7.4.6. Pursuant to the above, on December 31 2017, 208,291 shares of the Company were held by the Company. Governance Ontex Integrated Report 2017 47 Corporate Governance – continued On June 22, 2017, Norges Bank notified the Company that it had, as a result of sales of shares, crossed below the threshold of 3% of the total number of voting rights in Ontex. On June 30, 2017, Black Creek Investment Management Inc. notified the Company that it holds, as a result of the acquisition of voting securities or voting rights, 2,612,528 shares in Ontex and so had crossed the threshold of 3% of the total number of voting rights in Ontex to 3.17%. On October 3, 2017, Aviva plc, and its affiliated entities, notified the Company that Aviva plc had, as a result of sales of shares, crossed below the threshold of 3% of the total number of voting rights in Ontex, excluding equivalent financial instruments. We refer to our website for transparency declarations received after December 31, 2017. 2.3. Shareholder structure The shareholder structure of the Company on December 31, 2017 was, based on the transparency declarations received by the Company, as follows: Shareholders Shares %1 Date threshold crossed Groupe Bruxelles Lambert SA2 11,239,897 19.98% May 17, 2016 Janus Capital Management LLC 3,424,055 4.75% November 10, 2015 The Pamajugo Irrevocable Trust 2,722,221 3.64% February 29, 2016 Black Creek Investment Management Inc. 2,612,528 3.17% June 27, 2017 Allianz Global Investors GmbH 2,521,427 3.06% June 16, 2017 AXA Investment Managers SA 2,053,236 3.02% August 07, 2014 1 Percentage based on the outstanding share capital of the Company at the time of the declaration. 2 The actual percentage of GBL per December 31, 2017 adds up to 15.01%. 2.4. Dealing and Disclosure Code On June 3, 2014, the Board approved the Ontex Dealing and Disclosure Code (the ‘Dealing and Disclosure Code’) in accordance with provision 3.7 of the Corporate Governance Code. The Dealing and Disclosure Code was subsequently amended on April 2, 2015 and most recently on June 28, 2016. The Dealing and Disclosure Code restricts transactions in Ontex Group NV securities by members of the Board and of the Management Committee, and by certain senior employees of the Ontex Group during closed and prohibited periods. The Dealing and Disclosure Code also contains rules concerning the internal approval of intended transactions, as well as the disclosure of executed transactions through a notification to the Belgian Financial Services and Markets Authority, and disclosure of inside information. The Corporate Legal Counsel is the Compliance Officer for purposes of the Dealing and Disclosure Code. 48 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Governance 3. Board and Board Committees 3.1. Board composition Pursuant to the Corporate Governance Code, at least half of the directors should be non-executive and at least three directors should be independent in accordance with the criteria set out in Article 526ter of the Belgian Companies Code and the Corporate Governance Code. The composition of the Board as at December 31, 2017 complies with these recommendations. On December 31, 2017, the Board was composed as follows: Mandate Mandate Name Mandate Board Other mandates per December 31, 2017 since expires Revalue BVBA, represented by Chairman, Independent Director Barco NV, Corelio NV, GIMV, Recticel NV, Luc Missorten Scandinavian Tobacco Group 2014 2018 Regi Aalstad Independent Director A Drop in the Ocean 2017 2021 Inge Boets BVBA, represented by Independent Director Euroclear plc, Econopolis Wealth Management NV, Inge Boets QRF Management NV, La Scoperta BVBA, VZW Altijd Vrouw, Van Breda Risk & Benefits, Triginta 2014 2018 Charles Bouaziz Chief Executive Officer ESSEC Business School Alumni, Les Amis de Vaulserre et du Trieves, PAI partners 2014 2018 Michael Bredael Non-Executive Director 2017 2021 Tegacon Suisse GmbH, Independent Director Laeringsverkstedet AS represented by Gunnar Johansson 2014 2018 Uwe Krüger Independent Director SUSI Partners, Aggreko plc, Swiss Nuclear Commission 2014 2018 Artipa BVBA, represented by Chief Operating Officer Thierry Navarre 2014 2018 Cepholli BVBA, represented by Chief Financial Officer John Martin’s Breweries Jacques Purnode 2014 2018 Juan Gilberto Marín Quintero Non-Executive Director Member of the World Economic Forum 2016 2020 Jonas Deroo was appointed as Corporate Secretary by the Board on May 8, 2015. Governance Ontex Integrated Report 2017 49 Corporate Governance – continued The following paragraphs set out the Michael Bredael biographical information of the current Non-Executive Director members of the Board, including information on other director mandates held by these members. Luc Missorten Independent Director Chairman Michael Bredael is Investment Officer at Groupe Bruxelles Lambert (GBL) since 2016. He started his career at Towers Watson as a consultant in the United States (Atlanta and New York) in 2003 before joining the BNP Paribas Group in 2007. Mr. Bredael held various Investment Banking positions at BNP Paribas, across different offices (New York, Paris, Brussels and London), particularly focusing on cross-border M&A transactions. From 2014 to 2016, he was Head of the M&A Execution Group of BNP Paribas London. Mr. Bredael holds a masters degree in applied economics from EHSAL (KU Leuven). Luc Missorten was appointed as Independent Director of Ontex Group NV as of June 30, 2014. On April 10, 2015, Luc Missorten was appointed Chairman, as replacement for Paul Walsh. On May 26, 2015, Revalue BVBA, with Luc Missorten Regi Aalstad as its permanent representative, was appointed as Independent Director to Independent Director replace Luc Missorten who resigned. Luc Missorten holds a law degree from the Catholic University of Leuven, a Certificate of Advanced European Studies from the College of Europe, Bruges and an LL.M from the University of California, Berkeley. In the past, Luc Missorten served as a Vice President of Citibank from 1981 to 1990, and held the function of Corporate Finance Director for Interbrew from 1990 to 1995. From 1995 to 1999, he served as CFO for Labatt Brewing Company. Afterwards, Luc Missorten held the function of CFO at Interbrew (now AB InBev) from 1999 until 2003, and of CFO at UCB from 2003 to 2007. Luc Missorten has been the Chief Executive Officer and a board member of Corelio from 2007. As Regi Aalstad has over 25 years of experience in global FMCG. Ms. Aalstad has from September 2014, he resigned as Chief Executive Officer from Corelio but held Regional General Manager and Vice President positions with Procter & remains a board member of Corelio to date. Gamble in Asia, Europe, Middle East and Africa. She joined P&G in the Nordics in 1988 and from 1996 to 2014 held leadership roles in emerging markets. Ms. Currently, Luc Missorten is also an Independent Director of Barco, chairs its audit Aalstad chairs the humanitarian organization ‘A Drop in the Ocean’, supporting committee and is a member of its remuneration committee. In addition, he is an refugees in Greece. She advises and helps to found digital start-ups from Independent Director of GIMV, where he chairs the audit committee. Further, Switzerland, where she resides. Ms. Aalstad has non-executive director Luc Missorten is an Independent Director at Recticel, where he chairs the audit experience with public industry-leading companies operating globally in committee and is a member of its remuneration committee. Luc Missorten is telecom, digital services and sanitary sector. She holds a Master of Business also Independent Director at Scandinavian Tobacco Group. He is also an Administration in International Business from University of Michigan, USA. independent board member at Mateco. Charles Bouaziz Inge Boets Chief Executive Officer Independent Director Charles Bouaziz joined the Ontex Group in January 2013, and was appointed Inge Boets BVBA, with Ms. Boets as its permanent representative, was as an Executive Director of Ontex Group NV as of April 24, 2014. Charles Bouaziz appointed as Independent Director of Ontex Group NV as of June 30, 2014. graduated from École Supérieure des Sciences Economiques et Commerciales Ms. Boets currently also serves as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee. (ESSEC). Prior to joining the Ontex group, Charles Bouaziz held a number of senior She holds a master degree in applied economics from the University of Antwerp, positions during his 25 years in the consumer goods industry. He spent his early Belgium. Ms. Boets was a partner with Ernst & Young from 1996 through 2011 career at Michelin (in Canada) and Procter and Gamble before joining PepsiCo in where she was the Global Risk leader and held several other roles in audit and 1991. Charles Bouaziz joined PepsiCo as Marketing Director of France & Belgium advisory. Currently, Ms. Boets is also an independent director at Euroclear, and in 1996 became General Manager for France. In 2006, he became General Econopolis Wealth Management, VZW Altijd Vrouw, and Chairs the boards of Manager of a group of countries including France, Germany, Italy, Switzerland and Triginta and QRF. In addition, Inge Boets BVBA, with Ms. Boets as its permanent Austria. In 2008, Charles Bouaziz was appointed President of PepsiCo Western representative, is a board member of Van Breda Risk & Benefits and La Scoperta Europe. In 2010, he left PepsiCo and became CEO of Monoprix. Charles Bouaziz BVBA. joined PAI Partners in 2010 as member of the Food & Consumer Goods sector team and later as head of the Portfolio Performance Group. In addition, Charles Bouaziz is President of the ESSEC Business School Alumni and also holds position at Les Amis de Vaulserre et du Trieves. 50 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Governance Gunnar Johansson Jacques Purnode Independent Director Chief Financial Officer Gunnar Johansson was appointed as Independent Director of Ontex Group NV as Jacques Purnode joined the Ontex Group in August 2013, and Cepholli BVBA, with of June 30, 2014. Gunnar Johansson was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Jacques Purnode as its permanent representative, was appointed as an Executive and Nomination Committee on April 10, 2015, replacing Luc Missorten. On May 26, Director of Ontex Group NV as of April 24, 2014. Jacques Purnode holds a degree 2015, Tegacon AS, with Gunnar Johansson as its permanent representative, was of Civil Engineer in metallurgy and a Master of Business Administration from the appointed as Independent Director to replace Gunnar Johansson who resigned. Université de Liège, Belgium. Prior to joining the Ontex Group, Jacques Purnode He holds an MBA from Norges Handelshøyskole in Bergen, Norway. Gunnar held a number of senior positions at AB InBev in various roles in finance as well Johansson has vast experience in emerging markets, business-to-business and as in information technology. From 2007, he worked for Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. FMCG. Prior to starting Tegacon Suisse GmbH, he held a number of positions in London, where he most recently held the position of CFO for Europe. Currently, within SCA AB, a global company in the tissue, femcare, baby diaper and Jacques Purnode also holds a position at John Martin’s Breweries. incontinence care industries. Gunnar Johansson worked with SCA from 1981 to 2009, the last years as Global President of the Hygiene Category. He was also a member of the board of Orkla Brands, the largest FMCG company in Norway. Thierry Navarre Currently, Gunnar Johansson works as a Senior Executive Advisor at his own Chief Operating Officer company, Tegacon Suisse GmbH. He is also Non-Executive Chairman of Laeringsverkstedet, Norway. Uwe Krüger Independent Director Thierry Navarre joined the Ontex Group in May 2006 as the Group Supply Chain Director and was appointed Chief Operating Officer in February 2009. Artipa BVBA, with Thierry Navarre as its permanent representative, was appointed as an Executive Director of Ontex Group NV as of April 24, 2014. Thierry Navarre holds a degree in Business Administration from École Supérieure de Commerce de Nantes (AUDENCIA), France, and also has a master’s degree in Industrial Logistics Prof. Dr. Krüger was appointed as Non-Executive Director of Ontex Group NV from the Institut Supérieur de Logistique Industrielle (Groupe École Supérieure de as of June 2, 2014. The appointment of Uwe Krüger as Independent Director Commerce), Bordeaux, France. Before joining the Ontex Group, he was Director was approved by the Annual Shareholders‘ Meeting held on May 25, 2016. Uwe of Strategy and Development at InBev in France (now AB InBev), between July 2005 Krueger is Head of Business Services and Senior Managing Director at Temasek and May 2006, and held other senior management positions in supply and INTL., Singapore since January 1, 2018. Temasek is a leading globally diversified distribution at InBev, between 2001 and 2005. Prior to that, he held various roles investment company headquartered in Singapore with a net portfolio of S$275 in logistics and distribution at Fort James (now Georgia Pacific), between 1997 and billion. From June 2011 to July 2017 he was CEO of WS Atkins plc. (London, UK). 2001, and at Jamont (now Georgia Pacific) between 1991 and 1997. He is a physicist who graduated from the University of Frankfurt, Germany, with a PhD in complex system theory. He also studied at Columbia University (New York, USA), the Ecole Normale Supérieure (Paris, France) and at Harvard (Boston, Juan Gilberto Marín Quintero USA). Uwe Krüger has spent the majority of his career leading engineering and Non-Executive Director consulting organizations globally. He began his career at AT Kearney, followed by leadership positions at Hochtief AG in central and eastern Europe and at Turner International in Dallas, USA. More recently he was Chief Executive Officer of Swiss company, Oerlikon. Currently, Uwe Krüger is also on the board of Aggreko plc (Glasgow, UK), SUSI Partners AG (Zurich, Switzerland) and the Swiss Nuclear Commission (Zurich, Switzerland). As an honorary professor of physics he lectures at the University of Frankfurt, Germany. He also holds a Honorary Doctorate at Heriot-Watt University, Edinburgh. In 2016, he won the ACE European CEO of the Year award. Juan Gilberto Marín Quintero was appointed as Non-Executive Director of the Ontex Group as from May 25, 2016. Juan Gilberto Marín Quintero is the founder and former chairman of Grupo Mabe. He holds a degree in Business Administration from Universidad Iberoamericana, Mexico City, Mexico, an MBA from Instituto Panamericano de Alta Direccion, Mexico City and a postgraduate in International Business from the British Columbia University, Vancouver, Canada as well as a diploma in Mergers and Acquisitions from Stanford University. Formerly, Juan Gilberto Marín Quintero has been the President of the National Council of Foreign Trade, Conacex, former President of the Advisory Board of Citibanamex in Puebla, and former President of the Advisory Board of NAFINSA in Puebla and Tlaxcala, member of the Advisory Board of Telmex and Bancomext. In addition, Juan Gilberto Marín Quintero is a member of the World Economic Forum and has been president at the Latin America Entrepreneur Council, and has been president of the board of Universidad de las Americas. Furthermore, Juan Gilberto Marín Quintero currently also develops Eolic Energy, consumer products, restaurants, textile industry and real estate in Mexico. Governance Ontex Integrated Report 2017 51 Corporate Governance – continued 3.2. Board: evolution in composition during 2017 3.4. Functioning of the Board On December 31, 2017, the Board of the Company was During 2017, the Board met 15 times. The attendance rate was composed of ten members. With the exception of the CEO, as follows: COO and CFO, all Board members are Non-Executive Directors. Board Attendance Name attendance rate There are currently five Independent Directors within Revalue BVBA, represented by Luc the meaning of Article 526ter of the Belgian Companies Missorten 15/15 100% Code: Revalue BVBA (with Luc Missorten as its permanent Charles Bouaziz 15/15 100% representative), Tegacon Suisse GmbH (with Gunnar Johansson Cepholli BVBA, represented by Jacques as its permanent representative), Inge Boets BVBA (with Inge Purnode 14/15 93.33% Boets as its permanent representative), Uwe Krüger and Artipa BVBA, represented by Thierry Navarre 15/15 100% Regi Aalstad. Further there are currently two non-executive Inge Boets BVBA, represented by Inge Boets 15/15 100% non-independent directors: Gilberto Marin Quintero and Tegacon Suisse GmbH, represented by Michael Bredael. Gunnar Johansson 15/15 100% Uwe Krüger 13/15 86.66% The annual shareholders’ meeting held on May 24, 2017 Juan Gilberto Marín Quintero 14/15 93.33% appointed Regi Aalstad as independent director and Michael Regi Aalstad 6/6 100% Bredael as non-executive director of the Company upon Michael Bredael 6/6 100% recommendation of the Board and the Remuneration and Nomination Committee. 1 S  ix meetings of the Board were held since the appointment of Michael Bredael and Regi Aalstad on May 24, 2017. 3.3. Diversity Policy Ontex has adopted a diversity policy. In terms of aims, with On June 28, 2016 the Board established a management respect to all employees, including the Board, the Management committee (the ‘Management Committee’) to which it has Committee and the senior management, Ontex recognizes the delegated all its management powers, except (i) those powers benefits of having a diverse Board and Leadership Team to expressly reserved to the Board of Directors by law, (ii) matters enhance the quality of its performance. Secondly, increasing belonging to the general policy of the Company, and (iii) the diversity at the Board, Management Committee and senior supervision of the Management Committee, such powers being management is an essential element in supporting the attainment further described under section 3.5. of this Corporate of our strategic objectives and our sustainable development. Governance Statement. In designing the Board’s, Management Committee’s and Major matters reviewed by the Board during 2017 include, senior management composition, diversity is considered from among others: a number of aspects, including but not limited to gender, age, • the integration of Ontex Brazil; cultural and educational background, professional experience, • refinancing; skills and knowledge. All appointments will be based on • the approval of the half-year and quarterly financial meritocracy, and candidates will be considered against statements and corresponding financial reports; objective criteria, having due regard for the benefits of • the financial and overall performance of the Ontex Group; diversity on the Board, Management Committee or • various investments and M&A projects; and Extended Leadership Team. • general strategic, financial and operational matters of the Company. As at December 31, 2017, the Company had two female Board members, i.e. Inge Boets, as permanent representative of Inge 3.5. Board Committees Boets BVBA, and Regi Aalstad, representing 20% of the Board 3.5.1. Audit and Risk Committee members. Since its establishment, the Remuneration and In compliance with Article 526bis¸ §2 of the Belgian Companies Nomination Committee evaluates the composition of the Code and the Corporate Governance Code, all members of the Board on a yearly basis and formulates suggestions to the Audit and Risk Committee are non-executive and at least one Board, among other things taking into account the gender Director is independent in accordance with the criteria set out composition, in order to obtain that by January 1, 2020 at in Article 526ter of the Belgian Companies Code and the least one-third of the members of the Board is of the opposite Corporate Governance Code. gender as the gender of the majority of the Board in accordance with Article 518bis, §3, of the Belgian Companies Code (stating that companies whose securities are admitted for the first time for offering for negotiation on a regulated market should meet the quota from the first day of the sixth financial year beginning after this admission). 52 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Governance On December 31, 2017, the Audit and Risk Committee was 3.5.2. Remuneration and Nomination Committee composed as follows: In compliance with Article 526quater, §2 of the Belgian Companies Code and the Corporate Governance Code, all Mandate A&R Mandate Mandate members of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee Name Committee since expires are non-executive and the majority of the members are Inge Boets BVBA, Chairman of the represented by Inge Committee, independent in accordance with the criteria set out in Article Boets Independent Director 2014 2018 526ter of the Belgian Companies Code and the Corporate Tegacon Suisse Member, Governance Code. GmbH, represented Independent Director by Gunnar Johansson 2014 2018 On December 31, 2017, the Remuneration and Nomination Revalue BVBA, Member, Committee was composed as follows: represented by Luc Independent Director Missorten 2014 2018 Mandate Mandate Name Position since expires During 2017, the Audit and Risk Committee met eight times. The Tegacon Suisse Chairman of the GmbH, represented Committee, attendance rate was as follows: by Gunnar Johansson Independent Director 2014 2018 A&R Inge Boets BVBA, Independent Director Committee Attendance represented by Inge meetings Rate A&R Boets 2014 2018 Name attended Committee Revalue BVBA, Independent Director Inge Boets BVBA, represented by Inge Boets 8/8 100% represented by Luc Tegacon Suisse GmbH, represented by Missorten 2014 2018 Gunnar Johansson 8/8 100% Revalue BVBA, represented by Luc Missorten 8/8 100% During 2017, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee met six times. The attendance rate was as follows: All members attended all meetings. Marc Gallet, Corporate R&N Finance Director, is appointed as Secretary of the Audit and Committee Attendance Risk Committee. meetings Rate R&N Name attended Committee The Audit and Risk Committee is entrusted with the tasks Tegacon Suisse GmbH, represented by Gunnar Johansson 6/6 100% set out in Article 526bis, 4, of the Belgian Companies Code. It decided on the agenda, frequency and topics of its meetings, Inge Boets BVBA, represented by Inge Boets 6/6 100% and reviewed the external and internal audit plan, the half year financial statements and the external review on the half-year Revalue BVBA, represented by Luc Missorten 6/6 100% financial statements, the quarterly financial information contained in the Q1 and Q3 trading updates, the key risks, and their role and responsibility. All members attended all meetings. Astrid De Lathauwer, Group HR Director is appointed as Secretary of the Remuneration and As required by the Belgian Companies Code, Ontex Group Nomination Committee. Charles Bouaziz attended all meetings. NV confirms that (i) the Audit and Risk Committee is composed of Non-Executive Directors only and (ii) the Audit and Risk The Remuneration and Nomination Committee is entrusted Committee possesses the adequate expertise and experience with the tasks set out in Article 526quater, §5, of the Belgian in the field of the activities of the Company and (iii) Inge Boets, Companies Code. It decided on the agenda, frequency and as permanent representative of Inge Boets BVBA, Chairman of topics of the meetings, and reviewed the context and history the Audit and Risk Committee, is an Independent Director and with respect to Board composition, executive remuneration possesses the adequate expertise and experience in the field and terms and conditions of employment. The Remuneration of accounting and audit. Reference is made to her biography and Nomination Committee also reviewed the performance under chapter 3.1. of this Corporate Governance Statement. of the Ontex Group against the key performance indicators The mandate of PricewaterhouseCoopers Bedrijfsrevisoren BV (‘KPI’s’) and targets determined for the 2017 performance year. CVBA (‘PwC’) as statutory auditor of the Company has been renewed in 2017, on May 24, 2017. Governance Ontex Integrated Report 2017 53 Corporate Governance – continued As required by the Belgian Companies Code, Ontex Group NV confirms that (i) the Remuneration and Nomination Committee is composed of Non-Executive Directors only and a majority of Independent Directors, all its members being Independent Directors, and (ii) Luc Missorten, Gunnar Johansson and Inge Boets possess the adequate expertise and experience in the field of remuneration. Reference is made to their biography under section 3.1 of this Corporate Governance Statement. 3.5.3. Management Committee On June 28, 2016, the Board decided to establish a Management Committee (directiecomité) within the meaning of Article 524bis of the Belgian Companies Code to be effective as of July 1, 2016 which has the power to perform all actions that are necessary or useful for the realization of the Company’s purpose, except for those actions that are, by law or pursuant to the Articles of Association or the Corporate Governance Charter, reserved to the shareholders’ meeting or to the Board, including (i) matters belonging to the general policy of the Company, and (ii) the supervision of the Management Committee, or to other management bodies.1 Accordingly, the powers of the Management Committee include, without limitation, the operational management and organization of the Company, developing or updating on a yearly basis the overall strategy and business plan of the Company and submitting it to the Board for approval, monitoring the implementation of the overall strategy and business plan of the Company, supporting the CEO in the daily management of the Company and the exercise of his responsibilities, preparing the Company’s financial statements and presenting accurate and balanced evaluations of the Company’s financial situation to the Board and providing the Board with the information it needs in order to properly fulfill its duties, setting up and maintaining policies related to the risk profile of the Company and systems to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and other risks within the framework set out by the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee. The size and composition of the Management Committee is determined by the Board acting on a proposal of the CEO, who chairs the Management Committee. Members of the Management Committee are appointed by the Board based on a proposal of the CEO and upon recommendation of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee. Members of the Management Committee are appointed for an indefinite period and can be dismissed by the Board at any time or cease to be a member of the Management Committee if their management agreement with the Company terminates. The CEO leads and chairs the Management Committee and decides on the allocation of responsibilities among the members of the Management Committee. The CEO is vested with the day-to-day management of the Company and the execution of the resolutions of the Board and the resolutions of the Management Committee, unless decided otherwise by the Management Committee. In addition, he exercises the special and limited powers assigned to him by the Board or the Management Committee. The CEO reports regularly to the Board, including on the actions taken by the Management Committee. The specific powers as well as the composition and functioning of the Management Committee are further described in the Corporate Governance Charter. 1  54 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Governance On December 31, 2017, the Management Committee, consisted of the following members: Member of the Appointed to Management Management Name Position Team since Committee Charles Bouaziz Chairman of the Management Committee – Chief Executive Officer 2013 2016 Philippe Agostini Group Chief Procurement and Supply Chain Officer 2013 2016 Özgür Akyıldız General Manager Middle East and North Africa Division 2008 2016 Armando Amselem President of the Americas Retail Division 2016 2016 Laurent Bonnard Group Sales Director 2013 2016 Astrid De Lathauwer Group HR Director 2014 2016 Annick De Poorter Group R&D and Quality Director 2009 2016 Arlipase BVBA with Arnauld General Manager – Mature Market Retail Division Demoulin as its permanent representative1 2013 2016 Martin Gärtner Group Marketing Director 2009 2016 Marex BVBA with Xavier Lambrecht General Manager – Healthcare Division as its permanent representative 2013 2016 Artipa BVBA with Thierry Navarre Executive Director – Chief Operating Officer as its permanent representative 2009 2016 Oriane Perreaux Group marketing Director 2013 2016 Cepholli BVBA with Jacques Executive Director – Chief Financial Officer Purnode as its permanent representative 2013 2016 Mauricio Troncoso General Manager – Mature Market Retail Division 1 September 2017 2017 Thierry Viale General Manager – Growth Markets Division and Strategic Development 2013 2016 1 Mauricio Troncoso was appointed as General Manager of the Mature Market Retail Division, as replacement for Arlipase BVBA. During 2017, the Management Committee met monthly and discussed strategic, business, financial and operating matters and projects of the Ontex Group. Governance Ontex Integrated Report 2017 55 Corporate Governance – continued The following paragraphs set out the Özgür Akyıldız biographical information of the current General Manager of the Middle East members of the Management Committee, & North Africa Division including information on other Director mandates held by these members. Charles Bouaziz Chairman of the Management Committee and Chief Executive Özgür Akyildiz joined the Ontex Group in 2002 as an Assistant Sales and Marketing Manager and was appointed General Manager of the Middle East North Africa Officer Division in May 2008. Before joining the Ontex group, Özgür was Product Manager at Digiturk A.S in Istanbul, Turkey, between May 2001 and August 2002, and Sales Supervisor, between October 1999 and May 2001. Özgür holds a degree in Business Administration from Boğaziçi University, Istanbul, Turkey. Charles Bouaziz was appointed Chief Executive Officer of the Ontex Group in early Laurent Bonnard 2013. Prior to this, he held a number of senior positions during his 25 years in the Group Sales Director consumer goods industry. He spent his early career at Michelin and Procter & Gamble. In 1991, he joined PepsiCo as Marketing Director for France & Belgium and held a range of senior positions until 2008, when he became President of PepsiCo Western Europe. In 2010, he left to become CEO of Monoprix, then in 2010 joined PAI Partners as member of the Food & Consumer Goods sector team and later as head of the Portfolio Performance Group. Charles graduated from Ecole Supérieure des Sciences Economiques et Commerciales (ESSEC 1985). See also chapter 3.1 of this Corporate Governance Statement. Laurent Bonnard was appointed Group Sales Director for the Ontex Group on September 9, 2013. He has previously held various senior positions within Sales Philippe Agostini and Marketing in Mars and Quaker. Subsequently he joined PepsiCo, as Sales Group Chief Procurement & Supply Director France, and last he held the function as VP Business Development for Chain Officer Europe. Astrid De Lathauwer Group Human Resources Director Philippe Agostini previously held various senior positions in Purchasing and Supply Chain for 30 years, at Mars, McDonald’s, Lactalis, Pechiney-Alcan, JohnsonDiversey, and most recently Famar, where he held the position of Group Purchasing VP. Philippe holds a degree from the Engineer School École Nationale Supérieure des Arts et Métiers and a degree of Purchasing Master Management des Achats Industriels. Philippe was appointed as a manager of Ontex BVBA as of Astrid De Lathauwer joined the Ontex Group after holding a number of leading September 1, 2013. human resources functions. Astrid held international HR leadership roles at AT&T in Europe, at their US headquarters and at Monsanto. For 10 years, Astrid was the Chief HR Officer of Belgacom. Before joining the Ontex Group, she was Managing Armando Amselem Director of Acerta Consult. Astrid holds degrees in Political & Social Science and President of the Americas Retail History of Art. Astrid was appointed as a manager of Ontex BVBA as of October 1, Division 2014. Astrid chairs the Remuneration Committee of Colruyt and Immobel. Annick De Poorter Group R&D,Quality and Sustainability Director He joined the Ontex Group from Vita Coco where he served as Global Chief Financial Officer. Prior to Vita Coco, Armando Amselem held various management positions in Europe and the US during his 20-year career with PepsiCo, including General Manager of Tropicana North America and General Manager of PepsiCo France. He also worked for Santander Investment Bank, and Alella Vinicola. Armando holds an MBA from New York University Leonard Stern School of Annick De Poorter joined the Ontex Group in 2003 as the R&D Manager of Business, USA, and a master’s degree in Enology and a bachelor’s degree in Feminine Hygiene and was promoted to R&D and Quality Director in January 2009. Agronomic Engineering and Food Sciences from Universidad Politecnica de Before joining the Group, she worked at Libeltex NV in Belgium, and prior to that, Barcelona in Spain. she was a Scientific Researcher at University of Ghent, Belgium. Annick holds a master’s degree in Civil Engineering in Textiles from the University of Ghent, Belgium. 56 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Governance Martin Gärtner Jacques Purnode Group Manufacturing Director Chief Financial Officer Martin Gärtner joined the Ontex Group in 1997 as an Assistant Production Jacques Purnode, permanent representative of Cepholli BVBA has been Chief Manager and was promoted to Group Manufacturing Director in 2009. Before Financial Officer of the Ontex Group since August 2013. Since 2007 he worked for becoming Group Manufacturing Director, Martin held the positions of Production Coca Cola Enterprises, Inc. in London, where his last position held was CFO for Manager, Plant Manager and General Manager of the Ontex Group. Prior to joining Europe. Prior to this, he held a number of senior positions at AB InBev, as well as the Ontex Group, Martin spent two years as a trainee at Wirths J. Hygiene GmbH in roles in Finance and Information Technology. See also section 3.1. of this Germany. Martin holds a Diploma–Kfm. in Production Technique and Industrial Corporate Governance Statement. Controlling from the Technical University in Aachen, Germany. Mauricio Troncoso Xavier Lambrecht General Manager of the Mature General Manager of the Markets Retail Division Healthcare Division Mauricio Troncoso joined Ontex in 2017 as General Manager of the Mature Xavier Lambrecht, permanent representative of Marex BVBA, joined the Ontex Markets Retail Division. Before joining the Group, he was Vice President and Group in early 2009 as Sales & Marketing Director of the Healthcare Division. Managing Director for Western Europe at Kimberly Clark. Prior to that, he worked Prior to that, he held different roles within Sales Development, Marketing and at Mead Johnson in Latin America. He started his career at Procter and Gamble Business Planning at Imperial Tobacco. Xavier holds a master’s degree of where he held a number of different roles for 18 years, initially in Mexico and Commercial Engineering from the University of Leuven, Belgium. Xavier afterwards in various countries of Latin America, to finish in the P&G headquarters was appointed as a manager of Ontex BVBA as of February 1, 2014. in Cincinnati working in the Personal Health Care division. Mauricio holds a bachelor’s degree in Actuarial Sciences (Applied Math) from the Universidad Anahuac del Sur in Mexico. Thierry Navarre Chief Operating Officer Thierry Viale General Manager of the Growth Markets Division and Strategic Development Thierry Navarre, permanent representative of Artipa BVBA, joined the Ontex Group in 2006 as the Group Supply Chain Director and was appointed Chief Operating Officer in 2009. Before 2006, he was Director of Strategy & Development Thierry Viale was appointed as General Manager of the Growth Markets Division at InBev in France (now AB InBev), and held other senior management positions and Strategic Development on October 1, 2013. Prior to joining the Ontex Group, in supply and distribution at InBev between 2001 and 2005. Prior to this, between Thierry held a number of senior positions at Procter & Gamble in Western Europe, 1997 and 2001 he held various roles in logistics and distribution at Fort James (now Russia, Nigeria/West Africa, Greater China, the Balkans and in India. Thierry holds Georgia Pacific), and between 1991 and 1997 at Jamont (now Georgia Pacific). See a degree of the Saint Cyr Military Academy, a degree from the Neoma Business also chapter 3.1 of this Corporate Governance Statement. School, and a degree from ESCP Europe. Thierry was appointed as a manager of Ontex BVBA as of October 1, 2013. Oriane Perreaux Group Marketing Director Prior to joining the Ontex Group, Oriane was Brand Building Director at Carrefour Group, in charge of Baby & Kids Retailer brands for Western Europe. From 1998 to 2010, she held a number of Marketing positions at Procter & Gamble, in France first, and as of 2005 in Switzerland, working on Central Eastern Europe and Middle East and Africa regions. Oriane graduated in 1998 from ESCP Europe Business School, Paris, France. Oriane was appointed as a manager of Ontex BVBA as of 57 June 1, 2013. Governance Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Corporate Governance – continued 4. Relevant information in the event 4.6. Rules on appointment and replacement of members of a takeover bid of the Board The term of office of directors under Belgian law is limited Article 34 of the Royal Decree of November 14, 2007 on the to six years (renewable) but the Corporate Governance Code obligations of issuers of securities which have been admitted recommends that it be limited to four years. The appointment to trading on a regulated market, requires that listed companies and renewal of directors is proposed by the Board, based on a disclose certain items that may have an impact in the event of recommendation of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee a takeover bid. and is subject to approval by the shareholders’ meeting. 4.1. Capital Structure 4.7. Rules on amendments to the Articles of Association A comprehensive overview of our capital structure as Save for capital increases decided by the Board within the limits at December 31, 2017 can be found in section 2 of this of the authorized capital or a change of the registered office Corporate Governance Statement. of the Company (such change not triggering the application of different rules on the use of languages by companies than 4.2. Restrictions on transfers of securities those that currently apply to the Company), only an The Company’s Articles of Association do not impose extraordinary shareholders’ meeting is authorized to any restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company. amend the Company’s Articles of Association. A shareholders’ Furthermore, the Company is not aware of any such restrictions meeting may only deliberate on amendments to the Articles imposed by Belgian law except in the framework of market of Association if at least 50% of the share capital is represented. abuse rules. If the above attendance quorum is not reached, a new extraordinary shareholders’ meeting must be convened, 4.3. Holders of securities with special control rights which will validly deliberate regardless of the portion of the There are no holders of securities with special control rights. share capital represented at the shareholders’ meeting. As a general rule, amendments to the Articles of Association are 4.4. Employee share plans where the control rights are only adopted if approved by at least 75% of the votes cast. The not exercised directly by the employees Belgian Companies Code provides for more stringent majority The Company’s shares to be delivered to participants upon requirements in specific instances, such as for modifications exercise of the stock options or vesting of the RSUs in the of the Company’s corporate purpose clause. framework of the LTIP are existing ordinary shares in the Company with all rights and benefits attached to such shares. 4.8. Authorized capital A more detailed description of the LTIP is set out in the On June 10, 2014, the extraordinary shareholders’ meeting Remuneration Report. authorized the Board, subject to and with effect as from the closing of the IPO, to increase the capital of the Company in one The Company has not set up employee share plans where or several times by an (aggregate) amount of maximum 50% control rights over the shares are not exercised directly by of the amount of the registered capital (€340,325,414) as such the employees. amount was recorded immediately after the closing of the IPO. Within the framework of the authorized capital, the Board is 4.5. Restriction on voting rights authorized to proceed with a capital increase in any form, The Articles of Association of the Company do not contain any including, but not limited to, a capital increase in cash or in restrictions on the exercise of voting rights by the shareholders, kind and by issuance of shares, convertible bonds, warrants provided that the shareholders concerned comply with all or other securities. formalities to be admitted to the shareholders’ meeting and their voting rights are not suspended in one of the events set The Board is authorized to limit or cancel the preferential out in the Articles of Association or the Belgian Companies subscription rights of the shareholders within the limits and Code. Pursuant to Article 11 of the Company’s Articles of in accordance with the provisions set out in the Company’s Association, the Board is entitled to suspend the exercise Articles of Association and the Belgian Companies Code. of rights attaching to shares belonging to several owners. The Company is not aware of any restrictions imposed by Belgian law on the exercise of voting rights by the shareholders. 58 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Governance The authorization is valid for a term of five years as from the 4.10. Material agreements to which Ontex is a party date of the publication of the authorization in the Annexes to containing change of control provisions the Belgian State Gazette (Belgisch Staatsblad), i.e. five years 4.10.1. SFA 2014 and Senior Secured Notes from July 9, 2014. The Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered into a fiveyear multicurrency credit facilities agreement dated November On November 9, 2015, the Company recorded the realization 10, 2014 as amended and/or restated from time to time (the of a capital increase in cash, within the limits of the authorized ‘Senior Facilities Agreement 2014’) with, among others, the capital, resulting in a capital increase of €40,839,036.68 Original Lenders as set out therein and Wilmington Trust (excluding issue premium in an amount of €73,902,592.52), (London) Limited as Security Agent, for an initial amount from €680,650,828 to €721,489,864.68 as described in section of €480,000,000. 2.1.1. of this Corporate Governance Statement. The Company also issued €250,000,000 4.75% senior secured On February 29, 2016, the Company recorded the realization notes due 2021 (the ‘Senior Secured Notes’) pursuant to a of a capital increase in kind, within the limits of the authorized senior secured notes indenture dated November 14, 2014 capital, resulting in a capital increase of €27,226,021.12 (the ‘Senior Secured Notes Indenture’). (excluding issue premium in an amount of €48,451,722.68), from €721,489,864.68 to €748,715,885.80 as described in The Senior Facilities Agreement 2014, as well as the Senior section 2.1.2 of this Corporate Governance Statement. Secured Notes Indenture, contain provisions that may be triggered in the event of a change of control of the Company. On March 22, 2017, the Company recorded the realization of a capital increase in kind, within the limits of the authorized The relevant clauses in the Senior Facilities Agreement 2014, capital, resulting in a capital increase in cash of €74,871,580.58 among other things, provide that, in case any person or group (excluding issue premium in an amount of €145,968,664.42), of persons acting in concert (other than the Initial Investors and from €748,715,885.80 to €823,587,466.38 as described in Management defined therein) acquiring, directly or indirectly, section 2.1.2 of this Corporate Governance Statement. beneficial ownership of the issued capital of the Company having the right to cast more than 50% of the votes capable of 4.9. Acquisition of own shares being cast at a shareholders’ meeting of the Company, this may On June 10, 2014, the extraordinary shareholders’ meeting lead to a mandatory prepayment and cancellation under the authorized the Board, in accordance with Article 620 and of the Senior Facilities Agreement. Belgian Companies Code and within the limits set out in that article, to purchase, on or outside the stock market, up to 20% The relevant clauses in the Senior Secured Notes Indenture, of the Company’s own shares, profit-sharing certificates or among other things, grant the holders of the notes the right associated certificates, for a price not more than 10% below the to require the repurchase of all or any part of the notes at a lowest closing price in the last 30 trading days preceding the purchase price in cash in an amount equal to 101% of the transaction and not more than 5% above the highest closing principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, price during the last 30 trading days preceding the transaction. in the event of a change of control of the Company as defined This authorization is valid for five years from June 10, 2014. in the offering memorandum. This authorization is also valid if the acquisition is made by one The relevant change of control provisions have been approved of the subsidiaries directly controlled by the Company, as set by the shareholders’ meeting of May 26, 2015, in accordance out in Article 627 of the Belgian Companies Code. with Article 556 of the Belgian Companies Code. On June 22 2017, the Company bought 247,439 own shares, The Senior Facilities Agreement 2014 was amended and as further described above, cfr. section ‘capital and capital restated pursuant to an amendment and restatement evolutions during 2017’. agreement dated February 25, 2016 to provide for an additional amount of €125,000,000 (or the equivalent thereof in any other currency) and for certain other amendments to the Senior Facilities Agreement. Governance Ontex Integrated Report 2017 59 Corporate Governance – continued The Senior Facilities Agreement 2014 has been supplemented 4.10.3. Factoring Agreement by means of an additional facility notice from the Company The Company, entered into a Factoring Agreement dated dated January 25, 2017 to establish a new additional bridge February 21, 2018 with BNP Paribas Fortis Factor N.V. and KBC facility for an additional aggregate amount equal to Commercial Finance N.V. (‘Factoring Agreement’); The Factoring €125,000,000. Agreement contains provisions that may be triggered in the event of a change of control over the Company. More specifically, The Company, and certain of its subsidiaries as guarantors, the Factoring Agreement provides, among others, that in the entered into a new five-year multicurrency credit facilities event the effective control of any party is transferred to others, agreement dated November 26, 2017 (the ‘Senior Facilities the other party has the right to terminate the Factoring Agreement 2017’) for an amount of €900,000,000, comprising Agreement. a term loan of €600,000,000 and a revolving credit facility of €300,000,000, for the purpose of among others repaying the 4.10.4. Hedging Agreement Senior Facilities Agreement 2014 as amended and/or restated The Company, entered into a ISDA FX Hedging Agreement dated from time to time, and for general corporate purposes. March 12, 2018 with Crédit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank (‘CACIB’) (‘Hedging Agreement’). The Hedging Agreement The Senior Facilities Agreement 2017 contains provisions that may contains provisions that may be triggered in the event of a be triggered in the event of a change of control over the Company. change of control over the Company. More specifically, the More specifically, the Senior Facilities Agreement provides, among Hedging Agreement, provides, among others, a change of others, that any person or group of persons acting in concert control, defined as any person or group of persons acting in acquiring, directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership of the issued concert acquiring, directly or indirectly, beneficial ownership capital of the Company having the right to cast more than 50% of the issued share capital of the Company, having the right to of the votes capable of being cast at a shareholders’ meeting cast more than 50% of the votes, capable of being cast at the (‘Change of Control’) may lead to a mandatory prepayment shareholders’ meeting of the Company (‘Change of Control’), and cancellation under the Senior Facilities Agreement. provides CACIB the right to terminate the Hedging Agreement. 4.10.2. Facilities Agreement All Change of Control provisions as listed above are subject to The Company, and certain of its subsidiaries as guarantors, shareholders’ consent in accordance with article 556 of the entered into a new seven-year multicurrency credit facilities Belgian Companies Code, and such approval shall be requested agreement dated December 4, 2017 (the ‘Facilities Agreement during the upcoming shareholders’ meeting on May 25, 2018. 2017’) for an amount of €250,000,000, comprising a term loan of €150,000,000 and an accordion of €100,000,000, for the 4.11. Severance pay pursuant to termination of contract of purpose of among others repaying the Senior Secured Notes, Board members or employees pursuant to a takeover bid and for general corporate purposes. The Company has not concluded any agreement with its Board members or employees which would result in the The Facilities Agreement 2017 contains provisions that may payment of a specific severance pay if, pursuant to a takeover be triggered in the event of a change of control over the bid, the Board members or employees resign, are dismissed Company. More specifically, the Senior Facilities Agreement or their employment agreements are terminated. provides, among others, that any person or group of persons acting in concert acquiring, directly or indirectly, beneficial Please see section 8.7. of this Corporate Governance Statement ownership of the issued capital of the Company having the on termination provisions of the members of the Board and the right to cast more than 50% of the votes capable of being Management Committee in general. cast at a shareholders’ meeting (‘Change of Control’) may lead to a mandatory prepayment and cancellation under the Facilities Agreement. 60 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Governance 5. Conflicts of interests ln accordance with Article 523 of the Companies Code, Charles Bouaziz, Cepholli BVBA (represented by its permanent Each Board member should arrange his or her personal representative Jacques Purnode) and Artipa BVBA (represented and business affairs in such a way as to avoid any conflict of by its permanent representative Thierry Navarre) refrained interests of a personal, professional or financial nature with the from taking part in the deliberations and from voting on Company, directly or through relatives (including spouse or life the resolutions. companion, or other relatives (by blood or marriage) up to the second degree and foster children). ln accordance with Article 523 of the Companies Code, the auditor of the Company, PricewaterhouseCoopers In accordance with Article 523 of the Belgian Companies Code, Bedrijfsrevisoren BV CVBA, permanently represented by if a Board member has a direct or indirect patrimonial interest Peter Opsomer BV BVBA, in turn represented by its permanent in a decision or transaction which is the responsibility of the representative Peter Opsomer, has been informed of the Board, he/she must inform the other Board members before existence of the conflicts of interest. Furthermore, the relevant any decision by the Board is taken and the statutory auditor sections of these minutes will be included in the annual report must also be notified. For companies that are making or have of the Board of Directors.” made a public call on savings (such as Ontex Group NV), the conflicted Board member cannot be present during the On March 5, 2017, the Board approved the bonus and merit deliberations of the Board relating to these transactions or of the CEO, and of the Management Committee in aggregate, decisions and cannot vote. as set out below in the Remuneration Report. Conflict of interests within the meaning of Article 523 of the On May 9, 2017, the Board approved the LTIP as set out in the Belgian Companies Code arose on the following occasion in Remuneration Report. In that framework the Board also 2016, and the provisions of Article 523 Belgian Companies decided to give Jacques Purnode an exception to the general Code were complied with: policy of three-year cliff vesting for the 2016 and 2017 grant. 5.1. Remuneration of the members of the Executive 5.2. Deferred consideration 2015/2016 regarding Management Team/Management Committee acquisition Grupo Mabe On March 5, 2017, respectively May 9, 2017, the Board resolved On April 4, 2017, the Board resolved on the deferred on the remuneration (including LTIP 2017) for the members of consideration 2015-2016 regarding the Grupo Mabe acquisition the Management Committee. Prior to discussing this item, by the Company (through its subsidiaries). Charles Bouaziz, Cepholli BVBA, with Jacques Purnode as permanent representative, and Artipa BVBA, with Thierry Prior to discussing this item, Juan Gilberto Marín Quintero Navarre as permanent representatives, declared to have an declared to have a conflict of interest in accordance with Article conflict of interest in accordance with Article 523 of the Belgian 523 of the Belgian Company Code. The relevant section of the Companies Code. The relevant section of the minutes minutes can be found below in its entirety: can be found below in its entirety: “Prior to discussing the concerned agenda item, the Chairman “Prior to discussing this item on the agenda, Charles Bouaziz, informed the members that Mr. Juan Gilberto Marín Quintero Director, Jacques Purnode and Thierry Navarre, permanent had prior to the meeting declared a personal conflict of interest representatives of their respective management companies, of a financial nature, within the meaning of Article 523 of the Cepholli BVBA and Artipa BVBA, Directors of the Company, Belgian Companies Code, in respect of the sole agenda item, declared to have an interest of a patrimonial nature which which relates to the amounts of 2015 and 2016 deferred is conflicting with the decisions that fall within the scope consideration payable to him, among other sellers, with respect of powers of the Board of Directors. to the acquisition of Grupo Mabe by the Company (through its subsidiaries). This conflict of interest results from the fact that Charles Bouaziz, Jacques Purnode and Thierry Navarre are, either In light of this conflict of interest Mr. Juan Gilberto Marín in personal name or via their management company, both Quintero did not participate in the meeting. directors of the Company and members of the Executive Committee. He will inform the Company’s auditor of his conflict of interest, in accordance with Article 523 of the Belgian Companies Code, The remuneration proposals will have financial consequences and a copy of the relevant extract of these minutes will be for the Company that have been set out in the file submitted included in the relevant annual report. to the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and as set out below. The Chairman reminded the Board that Sellers and Buyers, subsidiaries of the Company (as defined in the Amended and Governance Ontex Integrated Report 2017 61 Corporate Governance – continued Restated Master Purchase Agreement for Project Spiral dated • The CEO and certain other members of the Management February 28, 2016, as further amended on April 29, 2016, the Committee are entitled, in certain circumstances, to ‘Master Purchase Agreement’, have engaged in discussions severance pay which is higher than 12 or 18 months regarding the amounts of deferred consideration due with of remuneration if the Company decides to apply the respect to the years 2015 and 2016. The parties have now non-competition clauses in their respective agreements been able to reach an agreement with respect to the deferred to the fullest extent provided by such agreements (see consideration for the years 2015 and 2016 (the ‘Proposed section 8.7. of the Remuneration Report for a detailed Agreement’). Pursuant to the Proposed Agreement, the description thereof). In accordance with Article 554, 4th Company, through its subsidiaries, will agree to pay a total indent, of the Belgian Companies Code, with respect to amount of MXN 965,888,000 to Sellers, in full and final Charles Bouaziz and Artipa BVBA, with Thierry Navarre settlement of any and all claims, disputes or discussions with as its permanent representative, the annual shareholders’ respect to the 2015 and 2016 deferred consideration. This meeting of May 26, 2015 approved a severance payment settlement amount shall be reduced with certain transaction exceeding 18 months, in certain circumstances. The costs due by Sellers to Buyers pursuant to the Master Purchase Company deems such deviations from the Corporate Agreement, amounting to a total of MXN 3,231,762.20. Governance Code necessary to attract and retain competent executive directors and managers in the Upon discussion and deliberation; the Board considers the competitive environment in which the Company operates. entry into the Proposed Agreement to be in the interest of the Company and its subsidiaries, and unanimously approves the execution thereof in the form of the draft submitted to 8. Remuneration Report the Board.” 8.1. Remuneration policy and procedure for the Board of Directors The remuneration of the Non-Executive members of the 6. Related Party Transactions Board was amended by approval of the shareholders’ meeting During 2017, Ontex Group NV has not entered into transactions of May 25, 2016 as proposed by the Board of Directors, upon with related parties within the meaning of Article 524 of the recommendation of the Remuneration and Nomination Belgian Companies Code. Committee. It took into account the responsibilities and the commitment of the Board members to develop the Ontex Group and was intended to attract and retain individuals who 7. Compliance with the 2009 Belgian Code have the necessary experience and competencies for this role. on Corporate Governance Pursuant to this shareholders’ resolution the following The Company is committed to high standards of corporate remuneration policy was approved: governance and relies on the Corporate Governance Code as • Non-Executive Board member retainer: €60,000 paid out a reference code. The Corporate Governance Code is based on annually to each Non-Executive member of the Board of a ‘comply or explain’ approach. Belgian listed companies must Directors, other than the Chairperson of the Board of comply with the Corporate Governance Code but may deviate Directors; from those provisions which are not otherwise contained in • Non-Executive Board member attendance fee: €2,500 the Belgian Companies Code, and provided they disclose the paid out to each Non-Executive member of the Board of justification for any such deviations in their corporate governance Directors, other than the Chairperson of the Board of statement included in the Annual Report in accordance with Directors, for each Board meeting attended; Article 96 §2, 2°, of the Belgian Companies Code. • Board Chairperson retainer: €120,000 paid out annually to the Chairperson of the Board of Directors; The Company complies with all provisions of the Corporate • Board Chairperson attendance fee: €5,000 paid out to the Governance Code, except in respect of the following: Chairperson of the Board of Directors for each Board • The Company’s Articles of Association allow the meeting attended; and Company to deviate from all provisions of Article 520ter • Committee member attendance fee (with respect to the of the Belgian Companies Code and hence to grant Remuneration and Nomination Committee and the Audit shares, stock options and other share-based incentives and Risk Committee respectively): €2,500 paid out to each vesting earlier than three years after their grant. However, Non-Executive Committee member, other than the the Company has not yet made use of such authorization Chairperson of the relevant Committee, for each and the LTIP, the LTIP 2014, LTIP 2015, LTIP 2016 as well Committee meeting attended; as the LTIP 2017, as described within the Remuneration Report, provides for a vesting period of three years for the stock options and RSUs. 62 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Governance • Committee Chairperson retainer (with respect to the 8.2. Remuneration policy and procedure for the Remuneration and Nomination Committee respectively Management Committee Audit and Risk Committee): €10,000 paid out annually The Company’s remuneration policy for the Management to the Chairperson of each Committee; and Committee was developed in order to attract, motivate and • Committee Chairperson attendance fee (with respect retain talented executives, who have the necessary drive to the Remuneration and Nomination Committee to deliver results towards our growth ambitions. The respectively Audit and Risk Committee): €4,000 paid remuneration policy aims at creating a high performance out to the Chairperson of each Committee for each culture to achieve long-term profitable growth. Growth is Committee meeting attended in his or her capacity defined by financial growth, but also in terms of organizational of Chairperson of such Committee. transformation and people development. To achieve this goal, the Management Committee members are evaluated against These amounts are excluding any applicable VAT. business objectives and people development objectives. In addition, Non-Executive Directors benefit from the D&O The structure of the executive remuneration package is based Policy, described under chapter 8.6 of this Corporate upon the following principles: Governance Statement. Base salaries for the members of the Management Committee The remuneration of the Executive Directors is described below are reviewed annually by the Remuneration and Nomination under chapter 8.2. of this Corporate Governance Statement. Committee. The salary adjustments, following approval by the None of the Executive Directors received any director fee. Board, become effective as of January 1 each year. As part of this annual exercise, the Remuneration and Nomination Going forward, the remuneration policy will be reviewed Committee considers: on a regular basis by the Remuneration and Nomination • the average salary increase in the country in which the Committee in line with prevailing market conditions for listed executive is employed; companies in Belgium and companies of similar size in an • the market positioning of the executive’s compensation equivalent FMCG market. package; • the different tenure and experience of each executive; 2017 Non-Executive Director remuneration overview • changes in the scope and responsibility of the executive; (by member) and • the executive’s individual performance. Paid Fee Name Function (in EUR) Revalue BVBA, Chairman of the Board, represented by Luc Independent Director Missorten 200,000 Rewarding successful Internal execution of the consistency Inge Boets BVBA, Chairman of the Audit and Risk Ontex strategy represented by Inge Boets Committee, Independent The structure of the Director 131,500 Executive remuneration is remuneration package is strongly linked to the achievement in reasonable proportion Tegacon Suisse GmbH, Chairman of the Remuneration of targets in line with the Ontex and consistent with that represented by Gunnar and Nomination Committee, financial plan approved of the line management Johansson Independent Director 128,500 by the Board reporting to them Uwe Kruger Independent Director 85,000 Juan Gilberto Marín Non-Executive Director Quintero1 87,500 Regi Aalstad Independent Director 42,500 Michael Bredael Non-Executive Director 42,500 1 Upon recommendation of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and Pay for proposal of the Board, the annual shareholders’ meeting of May 24, 2017 performance Long-term shareholder appointed Regi Aalstad and Michael Bredael Independent Directors. value creation An important part of remuneration is linked directly Aiming at aligning the interests of the to Group and Divisional executives with those of shareholders performance and is by granting them share-based consequently remuneration variable and at risk Governance Ontex Integrated Report 2017 63 Corporate Governance – continued The target short-term variable remuneration (‘bonus’) of the 8.3. Fixed and short-term variable remuneration 2017 members of the Executive Management Team is at least 50% of the CEO (total cost) of their fixed base salary. The target percentage is based on the • Fixed base remuneration: €915,456. level of each executive. An important part of the bonus is linked • 2017 short-term variable remuneration (paid out in 2018): to the Group performance and the divisional performance and €357,028. achievement of the growth targets. The shareholders’ meeting • Aggregate other elements of remuneration (medical has granted the Company the authority to deviate from the insurances and car benefits): €64,794. requirements in relation to variable remuneration included in Article 520ter of the Belgian Companies Code, as recorded in There are no pension contributions or other elements Article 30 of the Articles of Association and as further described of remuneration within the meaning of Article 96, §3, 6°, c) under section 7 of this Corporate Governance Statement. and d), of the Belgian Companies Code, except for the Long Term Incentives Plan grant described under chapter 8.5 of The composition of the bonus is as follows: this Corporate Governance Statement and the D&O Policy described under chapter 8.6. of this Corporate Governance • A 70% (or 80% for the CEO) collective part determined Statement. by financial objectives that are required to achieve the Company’s long-term plan and growth ambition. For the The assessment of performance is based on audited results General Managers of Divisions, the 70% is split into 35% and the evaluation of the Board of the individual performance Group and 35% Divisional objectives. In 2017, the targets of the CEO. There is no deferral with respect to the variable were revenue, EBITDA and free cash flow. These targets remuneration or claw-back provision in case such variable are decided by the Board. The payout of this part of the remuneration would have been granted on the basis of bonus is based on the achievements of the business inaccurate financial data. The decrease of the CEO’s targets. Below 90% of the achievements of the targets, remuneration for 2017 compared to 2016 is due to the no bonus is paid out. In addition, this part of the bonus reduction of the short-term variable remuneration. is capped at a maximum of 150%. • A 30% (or 20% for the CEO) individual part determined by 8.4. Fixed and short-term variable remuneration 2017 for the achievement of the individual business and people the members of the Management Committee (excluding development objectives. Every member of the the CEO) Management Committee agrees these objectives with the • Aggregate fixed base remuneration: €4,265,756. CEO and the Chairman of the Board at the start of the • Aggregate 2017 short-term variable remuneration performance year. The objectives for the CEO are agreed (paid out in 2018): €1,186,902. with the Chairman of the Board. This part of the bonus is • Aggregate pension entitlements (defined contribution calculated based on the performance evaluation of each plan structure) and life and disability insurance executive at the end of the year. The evaluation scores are contributions: €352,315. recommended by the CEO and approved by the Board, • Aggregate other elements of remuneration upon recommendation of the Remuneration and (medical insurance, company cars, a.o.): €235,603. Nomination Committee. The performance score for the CEO is recommended by the Chairman, upon consultation In addition, the members of the Management Committee with the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and benefit from the D&O Policy, described under section 8.6 of this approved by the Board. The payout of this part of the Corporate Governance Statement. bonus is also capped at 150%. The assessment of performance is based on audited results and the recommendation of the CEO with respect to his evaluation of the individual performance of the Management Committee members. There is no claw-back provision or deferral with respect to the variable remuneration in case such variable remuneration has been granted on the basis of inaccurate financial data. The figures are based on real remuneration paid, taking into account entry date in the Company. The decrease of the remuneration for 2017 compared to 2016 is due to the reduction of the short term variable remuneration. 64 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Governance 8.5. 2017 Long-Term Incentive Plan 8.6. D&O Policy In 2017 the Company implemented the LTIP 2017, which Ontex Group NV has entered into a directors and officers consists of a combination of stock options and RSUs. insurance policy (the ‘D&O Policy’) covering claims that would be made against any of the insured persons, subject to certain A RSU is the right to receive from the Company one share in the exceptions. Insured persons are, among others, natural Company per vested restricted stock unit, for no consideration. persons who qualify as (i) a director or officer or (ii) an employee The RSUs vest not less than three years after the grant date. while acting in a managerial or supervisory capacity, of Ontex Group NV and/or of any of its subsidiaries. A stock option gives the right to purchase from the Company one share in the Company per vested stock option, during a 8.7. Termination Provisions predetermined timeframe, by paying a predetermined exercise Charles Bouaziz, Artipa BVBA (Thierry Navarre) and Cepholli price. A stock option can only be exercised not less than three BVBA (Jacques Purnode) may claim a termination indemnity years after the grant date, in accordance with the principle set in lieu of notice of up to 12 (3 for Cepholli) months’ fixed out in Article 520ter of the Belgian Companies Code. remuneration plus bonus and a non-compete (and/or additional termination) indemnity of up to 12 months’ fixed remuneration. The vesting of the stock options and RSUs is subject to certain conditions, such as the participant remaining in service until the The other members of the Management Committee have vesting date. The evolution of the share price between grant different contractual termination provisions depending on their and vesting or exercise has been considered to be the relevant personal situation and (where applicable) employment location, performance indicator and the vesting of the LTIP 2017 award is whereby contractual termination compensation is however thus not subject to specific performance conditions. (contractually) capped within the limits of article 554 of the Belgian Company Code. The maximum total contractual The number of RSUs and stock options granted to the non-compete provision combined with applicable contractual members of the Executive Management Team in 2017 as well termination indemnit(y)(ies) is 18 months. Hence all contractual as the number of RSUs and stock option which vested in 2017 termination provisions, as set out below, are fully in line with can be summarized as follows: Belgian corporate governance regulations. # RSU’s # Stock Options Contractual non-compete and/ Granted in Vested in Granted in Vested in Contractual or additional Name 2017 2017 2017 2017 notice termination Charles Bouaziz 10,368 7,868 45,052 38,930 Name entitlement indemnity Philippe Agostini 3,098 1,484 13,463 7,343 Astrid De Lathauwer, Laurent Özgür Akyildiz 2,716 1,822 11,801 9,018 Bonnard, Marex BVBA (Xavier Lambrecht), Oriane Perreaux, Armando 3,425 0 14,882 0 Philippe Agostini, Thierry Viale, Amselem Mauricio Troncoso, Özgür Akyildiz 3 months 12 months Laurent Bonnard 2,443 1,491 10,616 7,379 Annick De Poorter 3 months 15 months Astrid De 2,430 1,399 10,559 6,922 Martin Gärtner 12 months 6 months Lathauwer Armando Amselem 90 calendar days 9 months Annick De Poorter 2,144 1,329 9,316 6,576 Martin Gärtner 1,891 1,124 8,218 5,561 Xavier Lambrecht 2,711 1,498 11,779 7,414 8.8. Information about the remuneration policy in the coming two years Thierry Navarre 4,828 3,359 20,979 16,620 In 2015 and 2016, the Remuneration and Nomination Oriane Perreaux 1,705 980 7,408 4,849 Committee reviewed the competitiveness of the total Jacques Purnode 4,327 2,980 18,802 14,747 remuneration for the different levels in the organization. Mauricio Troncoso 3,322 9 14,436 0 Thierry Viale 1,942 1,427 8,440 7,061 The Committee reviewed and discussed an extensive benchmark study by Mercer, a global benefits consulting firm, with respect to medical, death and disability and pension benefits for all employees and all countries in the Ontex Group. Based on the results of this study, a roadmap was developed for those countries where our current benefits coverage is below the median of the local market. Governance Ontex Integrated Report 2017 65 Corporate Governance – continued In 2017, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee also 9.2. Control Environment contracted with Willis Towers Watson, a global advisory for Three lines of defense executive reward, to benchmark the Ontex remuneration The Ontex Group applies the ‘three lines of defense model’ practices. This study reviewed the competitiveness of the total to clarify roles, responsibilities and accountabilities, and to remuneration levels of the members of the Management enhance communication within the area of risk and control. Committee at Ontex, in comparison to: Within this model, the lines of defense to respond to risks are: a) A  sample of companies which are active within the FMCG • First line of defense: line management is responsible for sector and which are comparable in size (measured in terms assessing risks on a day-to-day basis and implementing of revenues and number of employees) for total direct controls in response to these risks. compensation (total target cash compensation plus the • Second line of defense: the oversight functions like expected value of long-term incentives). Finance and Controlling, Quality, Compliance, Tax and b) B  EL20 as a validation of the market levels resulting from Legal oversee and challenge risk management as the international peer comparison group and as a frame of executed by the first line of defense. The second line reference for the main perquisites and retirement and related of defense functions provide guidance and direction and risk benefits. develop a risk management framework. • Third line of defense: independent assurance providers On a total compensation basis this benchmarking study such as internal audit and external audit challenge the showed that Ontex was lagging behind the benchmark for risk management processes as executed by the first and some Management Committee members. The Committee second line of defense. therefore has decided to recommend an enhancement of the remuneration package of some Management Committee Policies, procedures and processes members, in order to align the remuneration levels with the The Ontex Group fosters an environment in which its business median of the market. This adaptation may be implemented objectives and strategy are pursued in a controlled manner. over a multi-year period. This environment is created through the implementation of different Company-wide policies, procedures and processes The Remuneration Committee has also initiated discussions such as the Ontex values, Ontex Code of Conduct, the Antion a potential change of the LTIP as from 2019 onwards. The Bribery Policy, the Antitrust Policy, the Quality Management current LTIP has been approved for a five-year period, ending System and the Delegation of Authorities ruleset. The in 2018. In the course of 2018, the Remuneration Committee will Management Committee fully endorses these initiatives. make a recommendation for a new LTIP plan. In this context, the The employees are regularly informed and trained on these Committee will investigate the optimal way of linking the output subjects in order to develop sufficient risk management of the LTIP to the long-term performance of the Company. and control at all levels and in all areas of the organization. Group-wide ERP system 9. Risk management and internal The main portion of the Group entities operate the same control framework group-wide ERP systems which are managed centrally. These 9.1. Introduction systems embed the roles and responsibilities defined at the Ontex Group level. Through these systems, the main flows are The Ontex Group operates a risk management and control standardized and key controls are enforced. The systems also framework in accordance with the Belgian Companies Code allow detailed monitoring of activities and direct access to data. and the Corporate Governance Code. 9.3. Risk management The Ontex Group is exposed to a wide variety of risks within Sound risk management starts with identifying and assessing the context of its business operations that can result in its the risks associated with the Company’s business and external objectives being affected or not achieved. Controlling those factors. Once the relevant risks are identified, the Company risks is a core task of the Board (including the Audit and Risk strives to prudently manage and minimize such risks, Committee), the Management Committee and all other acknowledging that certain calculated risks are necessary employees with managerial responsibilities. to ensure that the Ontex Group achieves its objectives and continues to create value for its stakeholders. The risk management and control system has been set up to reach the following goals: All employees of the Ontex Group are accountable for the timely identification and qualitative assessment of the risks • achievement of the Ontex Group objectives; within their area of responsibility. • achieving operational excellence; • ensuring correct and timely financial reporting; and The Ontex Group has identified and analyzed its key corporate • compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. risks as disclosed under the Strategic Report of this Annual Report. These corporate risks are communicated to the various levels of management. 66 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Governance 9.4. Control activities • External Audit. In the context of its review of the annual Control measures are in place to minimize the effect of risk on accounts, the statutory auditor focuses on the design and Ontex Group’s ability to achieve its objectives. These control effectiveness of internal controls and systems relevant for activities are embedded in the Ontex Group’s key processes the preparation of the financial statements. The outcome and systems to assure that the risk responses and the Ontex of the audits, including work on internal controls, is Group’s overall objectives are carried out as designed. Control reported to management and the Audit and Risk activities are conducted throughout the organization, at all Committee and shared with Internal Audit. levels and within all departments. In 2016, an Internal Controls • Audit and Risk Committee. The Board and the Audit Manager was appointed to facilitate the further development and Risk Committee have the ultimate responsibility of control activities in a structured way. with respect to internal control and risk management. For more detailed information on the composition and Key legal compliance areas are monitored for the entire functioning of the Audit and Risk Committee, see section Ontex Group by Local Compliance Coordinators, the Head of 3.5 of this Corporate Governance Statement. Compliance, the Legal Compliance Manager and the Compliance Steering Committee. The Legal Compliance function supports 9.7. Risk management and internal control with regard the adoption of clear processes and procedures with respect to the process of financial reporting to (i) the Code of Conduct, the Anti-Bribery Policy; (ii) Antitrust The accurate and consistent application of accounting rules Policy, and (iii) insider trading, the Dealing and Disclosure throughout the Ontex Group is assured by means of a Finance Code, and other listing obligations. The Compliance Steering and Accounting Manual. Committee is composed of the COO, the CFO, the Group HR Director, the Group General Counsel and the Head of On a quarterly basis, a bottom-up risk analysis is conducted Compliance and meets regularly to discuss and decide on to identify risk factors. Action plans are defined for all key risks. legal compliance issues and action plans. The Compliance Specific identification procedures for financial risks are in place Steering Committee reports on its activities to the to assure the completeness of financial accruals. Management Committee. The accounting teams are responsible for producing the In addition to these control activities, an insurance program accounting figures, whereas the controlling teams check the is being implemented for selected risk categories that cannot validity of these figures. These checks include coherence tests be absorbed without material effect on the Company’s by comparison with historical and budget figures, as well as balance sheet. sample checks of transactions according to their materiality. 9.5. Information and communication Specific internal control activities with respect to financial The Ontex Group recognizes the importance of timely, reporting are in place, including the use of a periodic complete and accurate communication and information both closing and reporting checklist. This checklist assures clear top-down as well as bottom-up. The Ontex Group therefore communication of timelines, completeness of tasks, and put several measures in place to assure amongst others: clear assignment of responsibilities. • security of confidential information; • clear communication about roles and responsibilities; and Uniform reporting of financial information throughout the • timely communication to all stakeholders about external Ontex Group ensures a consistent flow of information, which and internal changes impacting their areas of allows the detection of potential anomalies. The Group’s ERP responsibility. systems and management information tools allow the central controlling team direct access to desegregated financial and 9.6. Monitoring of control mechanisms non-financial information. Monitoring helps to ensure that internal control systems operate effectively. An external financial calendar is planned in consultation with the Board and the Management Committee, and this calendar The quality of the Ontex Group’s risk management and control is announced to the external stakeholders. The objective of this framework is assessed by the following functions: external financial reporting is to provide Ontex stakeholders • Internal Audit. The tasks and responsibilities assigned with the information necessary for making sound business to Internal Audit are defined in the Internal Audit Charter, decisions. The financial calendar can be consulted on which has been approved by the Audit and Risk http://www.ontexglobal.com/calendar. Committee. The key mission of Internal Audit as defined in the Internal Audit Charter is “to add value to the organization by applying a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluating the internal control system and providing recommendations to improve it”. Governance Ontex Integrated Report 2017 67 Risk management – continued The table below sets out our The Board considers these to be the most significant risks faced by the Group principal risks and examples that may impact the achievement of our strategic drivers as set out on page 13. of relevant controls and They do not comprise all the risks associated with our business and are not set mitigating factors. out in priority order. Description risk Main Potential impact Competitive All Divisions face competition from branded product manufacturers and retailer brand manufacturers. We The fact that we would fail to deliver our value proposition and/or to adapt to the customer’s needs could affect our environment also face competition from competing manufacturers in performance, and could entail price and volume pressure, production innovation. Rapid time-to-market is key to our loss of market share or margin erosion. competitiveness. Reputation As a public company, Ontex has stakeholders with various needs, and Ontex is subject to high transparency standard Such adverse publicity may adversely impact our reputation, and indirectly our business and financial and and periodic reporting obligations. Ontex may be subject to condition. stakeholder adverse publicity. management Product Our reputation as a business partner relies heavily on our ability to supply quality products. In a case of quality issues, this may lead to adverse effects to consumer health, loss of market share, financial costs quality and and loss of turnover as well as putting the Company safety reputation at stake. Intellectual Although we are monitoring changes in intellectual property rights, we may inadvertently infringe intellectual property As a potential consequence thereof, the Company may face legal claims or have to pay royalties which erode our Property rights owned by others. Secondly, the Company may fail to profit margins. register intellectual property rights in a timely manner Manufacturing Our ability to serve our customers depends on the operation of our 19 manufacturing sites. We may Such temporary shortfalls in production could affect our on-time delivery record, which could in turn adversely and Logistics experience disruptions at our production facilities or in effect our ability to acquire new customers and retain extreme cases, our production facilities may shut down. existing customers. Sourcing and We are dependent upon the availability of raw materials for the manufacture of our products. On average the main raw The price volatility of the underlying commodities can affect the cost and availability of our products. We may not supply chain materials and packaging costs account for between 75% always succeed in passing on these costs to the customer/ and 80% of our cost of sales. Our raw materials are subject consumer through pricing. to price volatility due to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including but not limited to, the availability of supply, general economic conditions, commodity price fluctuations and market demand. Acquisitions From time to time, we evaluate possible acquisitions that would complement our existing operations and enable us In case we would not be able to realise the objectives of the acquisition, the integration may lead to additional to grow our business. The success of any acquisition unforeseen difficulties or liabilities, failure to deliver on depends on our ability to integrate acquired businesses financial goals and internal disruption. effectively. The integration of acquired businesses may be complex and expensive and may present a number of risks and challenges. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will realize any or all of the anticipated benefits of any future acquisitions, including the expected business growth opportunities, revenue benefits, cost synergies and other operational efficiencies Information We are increasingly reliant on IT systems and information management to run our business. There is a risk of A disruption of our IT systems could affect our sales, production and cash flows, ultimately impacting our technology, disruption of our IT systems and that sensitive data may results. Unauthorized access and misuse of sensitive data security be compromised by malicious cyber-attack or technology information could interrupt our business and/or lead to and cyber failure. loss of assets. It could also lead to negative reputational attack impact. 68 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Governance Description risk Main Potential impact Legal and Ontex is subject to applicable laws and regulations in the global jurisdictions in which it operates. Failure to comply with laws and regulations could expose us to civil and/or criminal actions, and changes to laws and regulatory regulations could have an impact on the cost of doing business. Economical Ontex operates around the globe, and as a result is subject to risks associated with operating internationally. Any such conditions or instability could impact our operations and result in additional expenditure and other and political Recent and ongoing instability in some of the countries in commercial and financial impacts incurred in order to instability which we operate may adversely affect our business. comply or adapt to such conditions and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business. Recruitment A skilled workforce and agile organization are essential for the continued success of our business. Failure to identify, In case of failure to recruit and retain adequately, this may result in a decline in business performance. and retention attract, develop and retain talents to satisfy current and future needs of the business may affect our ability to compete and grow effectively. Financial As detailed in section 7.4 of the financial statements, the Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks These risks may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. including currency risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk as well as counterparty default. Occupational As Ontex is operating around the globe, it may fail to provide for the personal safety of employees in production Reputational damage and difficulties in hiring people. health and and other facilities and during travel to high-risk locations. safety Climate Ontex is subject to applicable laws and regulations in the global jurisdictions in which it operates. Climate change Climate change legislation (e.g. the introduction of a carbon tax) could result in making our products less affordable or change continues to be a focus for government legislators working less available resulting in reduced growth and profitability. within the sustainability agenda. Governance Ontex Integrated Report 2017 69 Financial statements 70 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements Contents Financial statements Statement of the Board of Directors 72 Statutory auditor’s report 73 1. General information 78 1.1. Corporate Information 78 1.2. Business Activities 78 1.3. History of the Group 78 1.4. Legal status 78 2. Consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31 79 3. Consolidated income statement for the years ended December 31 80 4. Consolidated statement of comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31 81 5. Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the years ended December 31 82 6. Consolidated statement of cash flows for the years ended December 31 84 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements 85 7.1. Summary of significant accounting policies 85 7.2. Capital management 98 7.3. Critical accounting estimates and judgments 98 7.4. Financial instruments and financial risk management 101 7.5. Operating segments 108 7.6. List of consolidated companies 110 7.7. Business combinations 113 7.8. Goodwill and other intangible assets 116 7.9. Property, plant and equipment 118 7.10. Trade receivables, prepaid expenses and other receivables 119 7.11. Inventories 121 7.12. Cash and cash equivalents 121 7.13. Share capital 122 7.14. Earnings per share 123 7.15. Interest-bearing debts 124 7.16. Employee benefit liabilities 126 7.17. Deferred income taxes and current taxes 131 7.18. Current and non-current liabilities 132 7.19. Provisions – current liabilities 132 7.20. Employee benefit expenses 133 7.21. Other operating income/(expenses), net 133 7.22. Non-recurring income and expenses 133 7.23. Expenses by nature 134 7.24. Net finance result 135 7.25. Income tax expense 136 7.26. Share-based payments 136 7.27. Contingencies 138 7.28. Commitments 139 7.29. Related party transactions 139 7.30. Events after the end of the reporting period 141 7.31. Audit fees 141 Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 71 Statement of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors of Ontex Group NV certifies in the name and on behalf of Ontex Group NV, that to the best of their knowledge: • the consolidated financial statements, established in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’) as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, financial position and results of Ontex Group NV and of the entities included in the consolidation; and • the annual review presents a fair overview of the development and the results of the business and the position of Ontex Group NV and of the entities included in the consolidation, as well as a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing them pursuant. Article 12, paragraph 2 of the Royal Decree of November 14, 2007. The amounts in this document are represented in millions of euros (€ million), unless noted otherwise. Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout these Consolidated Financial Statements may not add up precisely to the totals provided and percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. 72 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements Statutory auditor’s report Statutory auditor’s report to the general Report on the audit of the consolidated accounts shareholders’ meeting of the company Ontex Unqualified opinion Group NV on the consolidated accounts for We have performed the statutory audit of the Group’s the year ended 31 December 2017 consolidated accounts, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2017, the We present to you our statutory auditor’s report in the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of context of our statutory audit of the consolidated comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes accounts of Ontex Group NV (the “Company”) and its in equity and the consolidated statement of cash flows for the subsidiaries (jointly “the Group”). This report includes year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial our report on the audit of the consolidated accounts, as statements, including a summary of significant accounting well as the report on other legal and regulatory policies and other explanatory information, and which is requirements. These reports form part of an integrated characterised by a consolidated statement of financial position whole and are indivisible. total of EUR 2,719.5 million and a profit for the year of EUR 128.4 million. We have been appointed as statutory auditor by the general meeting d.d. 24 May 2017, following the proposal In our opinion, the consolidated accounts give a true and fair formulated by the board of directors and following the view of the Group’s net equity and consolidated financial recommendation by the audit committee. Our mandate position as at 31 December 2017, and of its consolidated will expire on the date of the general meeting which will financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the deliberate on the consolidated accounts for the year year then ended, in accordance with International Financial ended 31 December 2019. We have performed the Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and statutory audit of the consolidated accounts of Ontex with the legal and regulatory requirements applicable in Group NV for 4 consecutive years. Belgium. Basis for unqualified opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the “Statutory auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated accounts” section of our report. We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated accounts in Belgium, including the requirements related to independence. We have obtained from the board of directors and Company officials the explanations and information necessary for performing our audit. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated accounts as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 73 Statutory auditor’s report – continued 1. Impairment of goodwill and indefinite useful life 2. Completeness and accuracy of purchase price intangible assets calculations in accordance with IFRS3 Description of the key audit matter Description of the key audit matter Ontex carries a significant value of goodwill on the balance In March 2017 Ontex acquired the personal hygiene business of sheet amounting to EUR 1,163.6 million as detailed in disclosure Hypermarcas S.A. (renamed to “Ontex Brazil”). The purchase 7.8. Under The International Financial Reporting Standards as price allocation related to this acquisition was of most endorsed by the EU (“IFRS’s”), the Company is required to test significance to our audit because of the size of the acquired the amount of goodwill and indefinite useful life intangible assets and liabilities and the significant judgements and assets for impairment at least annually. We consider this matter assumptions involved in the fair value adjustments made to to be of most significance because of the complexity of the Property, Plant and Equipment, intangible fixed assets, assessment process and significant judgments in respect of inventory, contingent liabilities and uncertain tax positions. The assumptions about the future results of the business and the increase in the intangible assets recognized under goodwill and discount rates applied to future cash flow forecasts. The most other intangibles related to Ontex Brazil amounted to EUR 24.3 important assumptions relate to the discount rate, growth rates million as disclosed in Note 7.7. of revenue and EBITDA margin. We focused on the goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment of the How our audit addressed the key audit matter Cash Generating Unit (further CGU) Americas because the With respect to the purchase price allocation of the Ontex Brazil headroom between the value in use of this CGU and its carrying acquisition described in Note 7.7, we have, amongst others, read value was significantly lower compared to the headroom in the the share purchase agreement, tested the calculation of the other CGUs. consideration paid, visited the acquired companies, had discussion with local management and read the due diligence How our audit addressed the key audit matter reports to assess completeness of purchase price allocations. We challenged if the goodwill impairment test was performed at We critically assessed the fair value calculations of identifiable the lowest CGU level at which the goodwill is monitored. We assets and liabilities and ensured the correct accounting challenged the cash flow projections used in the impairment treatment has been applied and appropriate disclosure has tests and the process through which they were prepared. We been made. We challenged the valuation assumptions such as found that the projected cash flow for 2018 were consistent discount rates, growth rates and gross margin percentage by with the Board approved budgets, which were subject to timely recalculating these, comparing with past actuals and oversight and challenge by the Directors. We have critically independent market studies. In doing so we have utilized assessed the historical accuracy of management’s estimates valuation specialists to assist with the audit of the identification and evaluation of business plans by comparing the prior year’s and valuation of the assets and liabilities acquired. We also forecast with the company’s actual performance. For the cash assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in Note 7.7 and Note flows after 2018 we critically assessed and checked the 7.3.2. assumptions related to the long term growth rates, by comparing them to industry forecasts and historical growth Our results rates. We compared the weighted average cost of capital to the We found the methodologies and the assumptions applied to cost of capital and debt of the company and comparable be in line with our expectations, and the acquisition accounting organisations, as well as considering territory specific factors. and related disclosure in line with the share purchase We tested the calculation method used and the accuracy agreement. thereof. We compared EBITDA margin, working capitaland CAPEX percentage with past actuals. We challenged the adequacy of management’s sensitivity analysis of the headroom. For all CGUs we calculated the degree to which these assumptions would need to move before an impairment conclusion was triggered. We discussed the likelihood of such a movement with management. We included valuation specialists in our team to assist us with these procedures. We also assessed the adequacy of the disclosures (Note 7.8 and Note 7.3.3) in the financial statements. Our results From our sensitivity analysis, we found the likelihood of changes resulting in impairment losses to be unlikely. 74 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements 3. Valuation of deferred taxes and valuation allowance 4. Accounting for accruals for sales incentives and on deferred tax assets related to tax losses carried purchase related incentives forward Description of the key audit matter Description of the key audit matter Trade discounts and volume rebates related to both sales and Ontex has recognised a deferred tax asset and deferred tax purchases are subject to judgmental estimates and liability of respectively EUR 18.3 million and EUR 42.8 million. assessments of the impact of commercial negotiations which EUR 95.7 million deferred tax asset position was not recognised, take place after year-end. The impact of commercial as disclosed in Note 7.17. Decreased tax rates in Belgium, France negotiations is material and hence of most significance for our and US had a positive impact on the income tax expense of the audit. Ontex calculates an estimate of final incentives based on year of EUR 4.8 million, as disclosed in Note 7.25. The valuation the information available until the financial statements are of the deferred tax positions at Ontex involved significant established. Incentives related to sales are reported as judgement, more specifically in the determination of the deduction of company’s revenue.Purchase discounts are recognition of deferred tax assets related to tax losses carried recorded as a deduction of the initial purchase. forward. The estimation of the future taxable basis is highly judgemental as well as the assessment of the impact of tax laws How our audit addressed the key audit matter and regulations, tax planning action and strategies, rulings and We have agreed the discount percentages or lump sum transfer pricing. In addition, the timing of the reversal of payments to underlying customer and purchase agreements, deferred tax positions in jurisdictions where tax authorities we recalculated the accrual and challenged the estimated have enacted gradually decreasing tax rates (mainly Belgium) is impact of commercial negotiations taking into account the very complex. Because of all the aforementioned reasons, we results. We also performed back-testing on the accruals per 31 found this key audit matter to be of most significance for our December 2016. We also reviewed credit notes and other audit. adjustments to trade receivables and trade payables after 31 December 2017 as part of our work around subsequent events. How our audit addressed the key audit matter Finally we have audited manual journal entries related to We challenged the assumptions made to assess the discounts in order to confirm that sufficient documentation and recoverability of deferred tax assets related to tax losses carried suitable attestations exist for these entries. forward and the timing of the reversal of deferred tax positions. During our procedures, we used amongst others budgets, Our results forecasts and tax laws and in addition we assessed the Our work did not identify findings that are significant for the historical accuracy of management’s assumptions. We involved financial statements as a whole. tax specialists in our audit. An important management judgement was the period over which taxable profits can be Responsibilities of the board of directors for the reliably estimated and consequently, no deferred tax assets are consolidated accounts recognised for tax losses used in any period beyond. We The board of directors is responsible for the preparation of verified that the deferred tax position was calculated at the consolidated accounts that give a true and fair view in enacted tax rate for the year in which the deferred tax position accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as is expected to reverse. adopted by the European Union and with the legal and regulatory requirements applicable in Belgium, and for such We also assessed the adequacy and completeness of the internal control as the board of directors determines is Company’s disclosure included in Note 7.3.1, 7.17 and 7.25 in necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated accounts respect of deferred taxes. that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Our results We found management’s judgements in respect of the Group’s In preparing the consolidated accounts, the board of directors deferred tax positions to be consistent and in line with our is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a expectations. going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the board of directors either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 75 Statutory auditor’s report – continued Statutory auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content consolidated accounts of the consolidated accounts, including the disclosures, Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about and whether the consolidated accounts represent the whether the consolidated accounts as a whole are free from underlying transactions and events in a manner that material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to achieves fair presentation. issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee regarding the financial information of the entities or that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always business activities within the Group to express an opinion detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements on the consolidated financial statements. We are can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, responsible for the direction, supervision and individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be performance of the Group audit. We remain solely expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on responsible for our audit opinion. the basis of these consolidated accounts. We communicate with the board of directors and with the audit As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise committee regarding, among other matters, the planned scope professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including throughout the audit. We also: any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of during our audit. the consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those We also provide the board of directors and the audit committee risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of requirements regarding independence, and to communicate not detecting a material misstatement resulting from with them all relationships and other matters that may fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, where applicable, related safeguards. misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to From the matters communicated with the board of directors the audit in order to design audit procedures that are and the audit committee, we determine those matters that appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the accounts of the current period and are therefore the key audit Group’s internal control. matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine related disclosures made by the board of directors that a matter should not be communicated in our report • Conclude on the appropriateness of the board of because the adverse consequences of doing so would directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a of such communication. material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our statutory auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our statutory auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. 76 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Statement related to independence Responsibilities of the board of directors • We did not provide services which are incompatible with The board of directors is responsible for the preparation and the statutory audit of the consolidated accounts and we the content of the directors’ report on the consolidated remained independent of the Company in the course of accounts. our mandate. • The fees for additional services which are compatible with Statutory auditor’s responsibilities the statutory audit of the consolidated accounts referred In the context of our mandate and in accordance with the to in article 134 of the Companies’ Code are correctly Belgian standard (Revised) which is complementary to the disclosed and itemized in the notes to the consolidated International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) as applicable in accounts. Belgium, our responsibility is to verify, in all material respects, the directors’ report on the consolidated accounts and to Other statements report on these matters. • This report is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee referred to in article 11 of the Regulation Aspects related to the directors’ report on the (EU) N° 537/2014. consolidated accounts In our opinion, after having performed specific procedures in Gent, 4 April 2018 relation to the directors’ report on the consolidated accounts, this report is consistent with the consolidated accounts for the The statutory auditor year under audit, and it is prepared in accordance with article PwC Bedrijfsrevisoren BCVBA 119 of the Companies’ Code. Represented by In the context of our audit of the consolidated accounts, we are also responsible for considering, in particular based on the knowledge acquired resulting from the audit, whether the directors’ report is materially misstated or contains information which is inadequately disclosed or otherwise misleading. In light Peter Opsomer of the procedures we have performed, there are no material Registered Auditor misstatements we have to report to you. We do not express any form of assurance conclusion on this directors’ report. The non-financial information is included in the directors’ report on the consolidated accounts. The Company has prepared the non-financial information, based on the Global Reporting Initiative Standards and with reference to the UN Global Compact & UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. However, we do not express an opinion as to whether the non-financial information has been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Standards and with reference to the UN Global Compact & UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. Furthermore, we do not express assurance on individual elements included in this non-financial information. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 77 1. General information 1.1. Corporate Information In 2010, Ontex was acquired by funds managed by GSCP and TPG. In 2011, Ontex opened two additional production The consolidated financial statements of Ontex Group NV for facilities, one in Australia and one in Russia, and acquired Lille the year ended December 31, 2017 were authorized for issue Healthcare, a company operating in the adult incontinence in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors on market in France. In 2013, Ontex acquired Serenity, a company March 28, 2018. operating in the adult incontinence market in Italy, and opened a production facility in Pakistan. 1.2. Business Activities In June 2014, Ontex Group NV successfully listed its shares on Ontex is a leading international provider of personal hygiene the Euronext Brussels exchange and trades under the ticker solutions, with expertise in baby care, feminine care and adult ‘ONTEX’. care. Ontex’s innovative products are distributed in more than 110 countries through Ontex brands such as BBTips, BioBaby, In February 2016, Ontex acquired Grupo Mabe, a leading Pompom, Bigfral, Canbebe, Canped, ID and Serenity, as well as Mexican manufacturer of disposable personal hygiene leading retailer brands. products. Employing 11,000 passionate people all over the world, Ontex In March 2017, Ontex has completed the acquisition of the has a presence in 22 countries, with its headquarters in Aalst, personal hygiene business of Hypermarcas (renamed to Belgium. Ontex is part of the Bel20 and STOXX® Europe 600. ‘Ontex Brazil’). 1.3. History of the Group In July 2017 Ontex opened its new production plant in Ethiopia for the manufacturing of baby diapers that are specifically Ontex was founded in 1979 by Paul Van Malderen and initially meeting the needs of African families. produced mattress protectors for the Belgian institutional market. During the 1980s and the first half of the 1990s, the Company expanded its product range into its current core 1.4. Legal status product categories and grew the business internationally both Ontex Group NV is a limited-liability company incorporated organically and through acquisitions. as a ‘naamloze vennootschap’ (‘NV’) under Belgian law with company registration number 0550.880.915. Ontex Group After opening a production facility in the Czech Republic and NV has its registered office at Korte Keppestraat 21, 9320 acquiring businesses in Belgium, Germany and Spain, Ontex Erembodegem (Aalst), Belgium. The shares of Ontex Group was listed on Euronext Brussels in 1998. Following the listing, NV are listed on the regulated market of Euronext Brussels. Ontex experienced rapid growth over several years, primarily through bolt-on acquisitions in France, Germany and Turkey. Ontex was acquired by funds advised by Candover in 2003 and subsequently de-listed from Euronext Brussels. Ontex acquired a diaper production unit of Paul Hartmann in Germany in 2004 and opened a production facility in China in 2006. In 2008, we opened a production facility in Algeria. In 2010, Ontex acquired iD Medica, which sells incontinence products in Germany. 78 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements 2. Consolidated statement of financial position as at December 31 Assets in € million Note December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Non-current Assets Goodwill 8 1,163.6 1,096.2 Intangible assets 8 50.6 32.5 Property, plant and equipment 9 578.3 455.5 Deferred tax assets 17 18.3 8.7 Non-current receivables 3.9 0.3 1,814.7 1,593.2 Current Assets Inventories 11 327.2 254.2 Trade receivables 10 369.8 312.5 Prepaid expenses and other receivables 10 80.6 61.0 Current tax assets 17 7.1 10.6 Derivative financial assets 4.1 1.6 4.7 Cash and cash equivalents 12 118.5 212.8 904.8 855.8 Total assets 2,719.5 2,449.0 Equity and Liabilities in € million Note December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Equity attributable to owners of the Company Share capital and Premium 13 1,208.0 988.8 Treasury shares (31.3) (22.3) Cumulative translation differences (158.9) (42.5) Retained earnings and other reserves 160.2 75.1 Total equity 1,178.0 999.1 Non-current liabilities Employee benefit liabilities 16 21.7 22.6 Provisions 19 0.4 0.3 Interest-bearing debts 15 772.0 779.1 Other non-current financial liabilities 18 – 26.4 Deferred tax liabilities 17 42.8 45.9 Other payables 0.2 0.4 837.1 874.7 Current liabilities Interest-bearing debts 15 69.9 22.9 Derivative financial liabilities 4.1 4.2 3.8 Other current financial liabilities 18 20.8 49.3 Trade payables 18 473.3 366.8 Accrued expenses and other payables 18 32.8 30.1 Employee benefit liabilities 18 44.7 39.1 Current tax liabilities 17 50.9 55.3 Provisions 19 7.8 7.9 704.4 575.2 Total liabilities 1,541.5 1,449.9 Total equity and liabilities 2,719.5 2,449.0 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 79 3. Consolidated income statement for the years ended December 31 Full Year Full Year in € million Note 2017 2016 Revenue 5 2,355.4 1,993.0 Cost of sales 23 (1,674.4) (1,407.5) Gross Margin 681.0 585.5 Distribution expenses 23 (225.3) (181.6) Sales and marketing expenses 23 (162.7) (125.6) General administrative expenses 23 (79.7) (76.5) Other operating income/(expenses), net 21–23 (0.5) 4.6 Income and expenses related to changes to Group structure 22 (4.4) (6.9) Income and expenses related to impairments and major litigations 22 (0.1) (6.0) Operating profit 208.3 193.5 Finance income 24 55.7 43.6 Finance costs 24 (99.5) (72.9) Net finance cost (43.8) (29.3) Profit before income taxes 164.5 164.2 Income tax expense 25 (36.1) (44.5) Profit for the period 128.4 119.7 Profit attributable to: Owners of the parent 128.4 119.7 Profit for the period 128.4 119.7 Earnings per share Full Year Full Year in € Note 2017 2016 Basic Earnings per share 14 1.61 1.61 Diluted Earnings per share 14 1.61 1.61 Adjusted Basic Earnings per share 14 1.65 1.77 Diluted Adjusted Basic Earnings per share 14 1.64 1.77 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period 79,661,317 74,407,405 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements. 80 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements 4. Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the years ended December 31 Full Year Full Year in € million Note 2017 2016 Profit for the period 128.4 119.7 Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the period, after tax: Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to income statement Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 16 1.0 (0.6) Items that will be reclassified subsequently to income statement Exchange differences on translating foreign operations (116.4) (18.2) Cash flow hedge (0.4) (0.4) Other (0.2) – Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the period, net of tax (116.0) (19.2) Total comprehensive income for the period 12.4 100.5 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the parent 12.4 100.5 Total comprehensive income for the period 12.4 100.5 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 81 5. Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the years ended December 31 Attributable to equity holders of the Company Retained Cumulative earnings Number Share Share Treasury translation and other in € million Note of shares capital Premium shares reserves reserves Total Equity Balance at December 31, 2016 13 74,861,108 722.0 266.8 (22.3) (42.5) 75.1 999.1 Transactions with owners at the level of Ontex Group NV: Share-based payments – – – – – 1.7 1.7 Dividends – – – – – (44.8) (44.8) Treasury Shares – – – (9.0) – (0.6) (9.6) Issuance expenses new shares – (1.7) – – – – (1.7) Capital increase 7,486,110 74.9 146.0 – – – 220.9 Total transactions with owners 2017 7,486,110 73.2 146.0 (9.0) – (43.7) 166.5 Comprehensive income: Profit for the period – – – – – 128.4 128.4 Other comprehensive income/(loss): Exchange differences on translating foreign operations – – – – (116.4) – (116.4) Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans – – – – – 1.0 1.0 Cash flow hedges – – – – – (0.4) (0.4) Other movements – – – – – (0.2) (0.2) Total other comprehensive income/(loss) – – – – (116.4) 0.4 (116.0) Balance at December 31, 2017 13 82,347,218 795.2 412.8 (31.3) (158.9) 160.2 1,178.0 82 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements Attributable to equity holders of the Company Retained Cumulative earnings Number of Share Share Treasury translation and other in € million Note shares capital Premium shares reserves reserves Total Equity Balance at December 31, 2015 13 72,138,887 694.8 218.3 (13.1) (24.3) (23.5) 852.2 Transactions with owners at the level of Ontex Group NV: Share-based payments – – – – – 1.8 1.8 Dividends – – – – – (34.2) (34.2) Treasury Shares – – – (9.2) – – (9.2) Issuance expenses new shares – – – – – – – Business combinations – – – – – 12.3 12.3 Capital increase 2,722,221 27.2 48.5 – – – 75.7 Total transactions with owners 2016 2,722,221 27.2 48.5 (9.2) – (20.1) 46.4 Comprehensive income: Profit for the period – – – – – 119.7 119.7 Other comprehensive income/(loss): Exchange differences on translating foreign operations – – – – (18.2) – (18.2) Remeasurements of defined benefit pension plans – – – – – (0.6) (0.6) Cash flow hedges – – – – – (0.4) (0.4) Other movements – – – – – – – Total other comprehensive income/(loss) – – – – (18.2) (1.0) (19.2) Balance at December 31, 2016 13 74,861,108 722.0 266.8 (22.3) (42.5) 75.1 999.1 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The shareholding of Ontex Group NV based on the declarations, received in the period up to December 31, 2017, is as follows: Shareholder December 31, 2017 %1 Groupe Bruxelles Lambert (GBL) 11,236,652 19.98%2 Janus Capital Management LLC 3,426,597 4.75% The Pamajugo Irrevocable Trust 2,724,944 3.64% Allianz Global Investors GmbH 2,521,427 3.06% AXA Investment Managers SA 2,055,278 3.02% Black Creek Investment Management 2,612,528 3.17% 1 At the time of the transparency declaration. 2 The actual percentage of GBL per December 31, 2017 adds up to 15.01%. The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 83 6. Consolidated statement of cash flows for the years ended December 31 Full Year Full Year in € million Note 2017 2016 Cash flows from operating activities Profit for the period 128.4 119.7 Adjustments for: Income tax expense 25 36.1 44.6 Depreciation and amortization 53.7 43.2 (Gain)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.3 Provisions (including employee benefit liabilities) (0.2) 5.1 (Gain)/loss on earn out liabilities (7.8) (6.3) Net finance cost 43.8 29.3 Changes in working capital: Inventories (8.3) (6.9) Trade receivables, prepaid expenses and other receivables (56.4) (20.2) Trade payables, accrued expenses and other payables 26.1 11.5 Employee benefit liabilities (1.5) 0.1 Cash from operating activities before taxes 214.2 220.4 Income taxes paid (44.9) (24.9) Net cash generated from operating activities 169.3 195.5 Cash flows from investing activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (including capital grants) (111.9) (77.1) Gain on disposal (0.6) 0.4 Payment for acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired 7 (297.6) (169.0) Commitments from business combinations (7.1) – Net cash used in investing activities (417.2) (245.7) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 15 1,108.2 125.9 Borrowing expenses paid 15 (3.9) – Repayment of borrowings 15 (1,087.7) (28.4) Interest paid 24 (28.3) (25.6) Interest received 24 3.3 1.5 Cost of refinancing and Other costs of financing (10.7) (6.6) Realized foreign exchange (losses)/gains on financing activities 0.7 (4.9) Derivative financial asset (2.4) (1.5) Dividends paid (44.8) (34.2) Capital increase (net of issuance expenses new shares) 219.2 – Net cash generated from financing activities 153.6 26.2 Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts (94.3) (24.0) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 212.8 236.8 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 118.5 212.8 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements. 84 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements 7.1. Summary of significant Amendments to IAS 12 ‘Income taxes’ on recognition of accounting policies deferred tax assets for unrealized losses (effective 1 January 2017). These amendments on the recognition of deferred tax 7.1.1. Introduction assets for unrealized losses clarify how to account for deferred The accounting policies used to prepare the consolidated tax assets related to debt instruments measured at fair value. financial statements for the period from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2017 are consistent with those applied in the Annual improvements 2014–2016 applicable to IFRS 12 audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended (effective 1 January 2017). This set of amendments impacts IFRS December 31, 2016 of Ontex Group NV. The accounting policies 12 ‘Disclosure of interests in other entities’ regarding have been consistently applied to all the periods presented. clarification of the scope of the standard. 7.1.2. Basis of preparation IFRS accounting standards to be adopted These consolidated financial statements of the Ontex Group as from 2018 onwards NV for the year ended December 31, 2017 have been prepared A number of new standards, amendments to existing standards in compliance with IFRS (‘International Financial Reporting and annual improvement cycles have been published and are Standards’) as adopted by the European Union. These include mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning on all IFRS standards and IFRIC interpretations issued and effective or after January 1, 2018 or later periods, and have not been as at December 31, 2017. The new standards, amendments to early adopted. Those which may be the most relevant to the standards and interpretations that are mandatory for the first Ontex Group financial statements are set out below. time for the financial year beginning January 1, 2017, did not have a significant impact. No new standards, amendments IFRS 9 Financial instruments to standards or interpretations were early adopted. (including related amendments) IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ will replace IAS 39 ‘Financial These consolidated financial statements have been prepared Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’ and bring together under the historical cost convention, except for certain financial the following aspects of accounting for financial instruments: instruments for which fair value is used (such as derivative classification and measurement, impairment, and hedge instruments) accounting. IFRS 9 changes the classification and measurement of financial assets and includes a new model for assessing the These financial statements are prepared on an accruals basis impairment of the financial assets based on expected credit and on the assumption that the entity is in going concern and losses. Most of the basics of hedge accounting do not change will continue in operation in the foreseeable future. as a result of IFRS 9. However, hedge accounting can be applied to a larger number of risk exposures than before and hedge The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS accounting principles have been harmonized with those used requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also in risk management. requires management to exercise judgment in the process of applying the Group accounting policies. The areas involving a Based on the analysis conducted until now, the Ontex Group higher degree of judgment or complexity, or areas where does not expect a significant impact of the application of the assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated new classification and measurement principles of IFRS 9, financial statements are disclosed in note 7.3. compared to the current principles under IAS 39. Regarding the accounting for transaction costs upon modification of financial IFRS accounting standards to be adopted liabilities, current accounting policies of the Group are already as from 2017 and onwards in accordance with IFRS 9. The following new amendments to existing standards have been published and are mandatory for the first time for the However, the Group expects a potential impact from the financial periods beginning on or after January 1, 2017 and have application of the new impairment model to its financial assets. no material impact on Ontex Group financial statements: IFRS 9 requires an expected credit loss model, as opposed to an Amendments to IAS 7 ‘Statement of cash flows’ (effective incurred credit loss model under IAS 39. The expected credit loss 1 January 2017). These amendments to IAS 7 introduce an model requires an entity to account for expected credit losses additional disclosure that will enable users of financial and changes in those expected credit losses at each reporting statements to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition, either financing activities. The additional disclosure has been added on a 12-month basis or lifetime basis. This means that it is no to note 7.15. longer necessary for a credit event to have occurred before credit losses are recognized which may result in an earlier recognition of credit losses. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 85 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued The Group expects to apply the lifetime expected loss model Payment terms can differ depending on the customer, based on all trade receivables. In general, the Group anticipates that on the credit risk and prior payment behavior of the customer. the application of the expected credit loss model of IFRS 9 will In addition, the geographical location of the company and the in general result in earlier recognition of credit losses for trade customer have an effect on the payment terms. There are no receivables, but the Group does not expect that the loss significant financing components in the transaction prices and allowance recognized for these receivables would increase the considerations are paid in cash. significantly as the Group already monitors closely the creditworthiness of its counterparts. Some of the customer contracts include trade discounts or volume rebates, which is granted to the customer if the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is endorsed by the EU and is to be delivered quantities exceed a certain threshold. In these cases, applied for the reporting periods beginning on 1 January 2018. the transaction price includes a variable consideration. The Ontex Group will apply the new standard in its consolidated According to IFRS 15, the effect of the variable consideration on financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018. the transaction price should be taken into account in revenue Changes in accounting policies resulting from the adoption of recognition by estimating the probability of the realization of IFRS 9 will generally be applied retrospectively, but the guidance the discount or rebate for each contract. Furthermore, IFRS 15 allows certain exemptions on retrospective application. requires the estimated variable consideration to be included in the transaction price only to the extent that it is highly probable IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue IFRS 15 supersedes IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ and IAS 11 ‘Construction recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with Contracts’ and establishes a comprehensive framework for the variable consideration is subsequently resolved determining when to recognize revenue and how much revenue (constraining the variable consideration). Furthermore, the to recognize for all contracts with customers, except for revenue Group is considering all payments made to customers and from leases, financial instruments and insurance contracts. The whether these are related to the revenue generated from the timing of the revenue recognition can take place over time or at a customer. The Group has developed a clear guideline in order point in time, depending on the transfer of control. The standard to properly present such payments as a deduction of revenue also introduces new guidance on costs of fulfilling and obtaining a or as expense. This results in reclassifications between contract, specifying the circumstances in which such costs should operating expenses (distribution expenses/sales and marketing be capitalized or expensed when incurred. Furthermore, the new expenses) and revenue, but does not generate any impact on disclosures included in IFRS 15 are more detailed than those net profit upon initial application of IFRS 15. The reclassification currently applicable under IAS 18. amounts to €20.4 million, impacting negatively revenue for the year ending December 31, 2017. The Ontex Group performed a detailed assessment of IFRS 15, of which the main aspects are mentioned below: The Group has no material incremental costs of obtaining a contract which would fulfill the capitalization criteria as defined Ontex Group’s core activity is the sale of goods. As such, the by IFRS 15. Group expects revenue recognition to occur at a point in time when control of the goods is transferred to the customer, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is endorsed by generally on delivery of the goods. The Group sells its products the EU and is to be applied for the reporting periods beginning to its customers directly, through distributors or agents. This can on 1 January 2018. The Ontex Group will apply the new result in a different moment to recognize revenue. Based on the standard in its consolidated financial statements for the year analysis performed on a contract-by-contract basis, the impact is ending 31 December 2018. The Group will apply the full assessed to be limited at year-end 2017. retrospective approach of the standard. The revenue of the Group is mainly generated by the sale IFRS 16 Leases of goods, which qualifies as a separate performance obligation. IFRS 16 supersedes IAS 17 ‘Leases’ and related interpretations. Distinct services, mainly customer training or customer assistance For lessees, IFRS 16 requires most leases to be recognized services are rendered predominantly over the period that the on-balance (under a single model), eliminating the distinction corresponding goods are sold to the customer. Ancillary services, between operating and finance leases. In accordance with the such as software assistance, are not material. Transportation new standard, the lessee will recognize assets and liabilities for (shipping) would not be considered as a separate performance the rights and obligations created by leases. The new standard obligation as control over the goods is only transferred to the will increase interest-bearing liabilities and property, plant and customer after the shipment. As such, shipping (transport) is equipment in the consolidated financial statements of the considered a fulfillment activity as the related costs are incurred Ontex Group. In addition, the rental expenses recognized in as part of the performance obligation to transfer goods to the profit or loss will decrease and depreciation and amortization customer. Based on the analysis conducted, the Group has not as well as interest expenses will increase. This will affect identified a significant adjustment to its current practice for the operating profit. year ending December 31, 2017. 86 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements The Ontex Group is currently assessing the impact of the new • IFRIC 22 ‘Foreign currency transactions and advance standard. The Group expects main impacts for leases currently consideration’ (effective 1 January 2018, but not yet classified as operating leases and for which the Group acts as a endorsed in EU): This IFRIC addresses foreign currency lessee. As at December 31, 2017, the Group had non-cancellable transactions or parts of transactions where there is (undiscounted) operating lease commitments of €81.1 million. consideration that is denominated or priced in a foreign currency. IFRS 16 will be effective for the reporting periods beginning • IFRIC 23 ‘Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments’ on 1 January 2019. The Ontex Group has not yet determined (effective 1 January 2019, but not yet endorsed in EU): whether to early adopt or not and which transition approach to This Interpretation sets out how to determine the apply, and has not yet decided whether it will use any of the accounting tax position when there is uncertainty over optional exemptions. income tax treatments. The following new relevant standards, amendments to 7.1.3. Consolidation standards and annual improvement cycles have been issued, Subsidiaries but are not mandatory for the first time for the financial periods Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control. beginning January 1, 2017 and have not been adopted by the Control is established when the Group is exposed, or has the European Union and are not expected to have a material impact rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the on Ontex’ financial statements: subsidiary and has the ability to affect those returns through its • Amendments to IFRS 2 ‘Share-based payments’ (effective power over the subsidiary. Subsidiaries are fully consolidated 1 January 2018): The amendment clarifies the from the date on which control is transferred to the Group. measurement basis for cash-settled payments and the They are de-consolidated from the date that control ceases. accounting for modifications that change an award from cash settled to equity settled. It also introduces an The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the exception to the principles in IFRS 2 that will require an acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group. The consideration award to be treated as if it was wholly equity-settled, transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values where an employer is obliged to withhold an amount for of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity the employee’s tax obligation associated with a shareinterests issued by the Group. The consideration transferred based payment and pay the amount to the tax includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a authorities. contingent consideration agreement. Acquisition-related costs • Amendments to IAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ (effective 1 are expensed as incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and January 2019): The amendments clarify that if a plan liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business amendment, curtailment or settlement occurs, it is now combination are measured initially at their fair values at mandatory that the current service cost and the net acquisition date. On an acquisition-by-acquisition basis, the interest for the period after the remeasurement are Group recognizes any non-controlling interest in the acquiree at determined using the assumptions used for the fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate remeasurement. share of the acquiree’s net assets. • Annual improvements 2014–2016 applicable to two standards of which changes on IFRS 1 et IAS 28 are The excess of the consideration of any non-controlling interest applicable as of 1 January 2018. This set of amendments in the acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of any impacts: IFRS 1 ‘First-time adoption of IFRS’, regarding the previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the deletion of short-term exemptions for first-time adopters Group’s share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded regarding IFRS 7, IAS 19, and IFRS 10; and IAS 28 as goodwill. If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of ‘Investments in associates and joint ventures’ regarding the subsidiary in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference measuring an associate or joint venture at fair value. is recognized directly in the income statement. • Annual improvements 2015–2017 (effective 1 January 2019): The Improvements contain amendments to four Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealized gains standards as a result of the IASB’s annual improvements on transactions between group companies are eliminated. project. Amendments to IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ Unrealized losses are also eliminated but considered an and IFRS 11 ‘Joint Arrangements’ clarify the definition of a impairment indicator of the asset transferred. business and the accounting for previously held interests. The amendment to IAS 12 ‘Income Taxes’ clarify that all income tax consequences of dividends (i.e. distribution of profits) should be recognized in profit or loss, regardless of how the tax arises and finally, the amendment to IAS 23 ‘Borrowing costs’ clarify the accounting for specific borrowings which remain outstanding after the related asset is ready for its intended use or sale. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 87 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued Transactions with non-controlling interests Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to interestThe Group treats the transactions with non-controlling interests bearing debts and cash and cash equivalents are presented as transactions with equity owners of the Group. For purchases in the income statement within ‘Net finance cost’. All other from non-controlling interests, the difference between any foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the income consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the statement within ‘other operating income/(expenses), net’. carrying value of the net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains and losses on disposal to non-controlling interests For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial are also recorded in equity. statements, assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign When the Group ceases to have control or significant influence, operations are translated at the closing rate at the end of the any retained interest in the entity is re-measured to its fair reporting period. Items of income and expense are translated value, with the change in carrying amount recognized in profit at the monthly average exchange rates (unless this average is or loss. The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the purposes of subsequent accounting for the retained interest as rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income an associate, joint venture or financial asset. In addition, any and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income transactions), and equity items are translated at historical in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had rates. The resulting exchange rate differences are recognized directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This may in other comprehensive income and accumulated in a separate mean that amounts previously recognized in other component of equity. comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. The principal exchange rates that have been used are 7.1.4. Goodwill as follows: Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 assets of the acquired subsidiary/associate at the date of Closing Av. Rate Closing Av. Rate Currency Rate Year Rate Year acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in “investments in associates” and is tested for impairment as part AUD 1.5346 1.4729 1.4596 1.4886 of the overall balance. Separately recognized goodwill is tested BRL 3.9729 3.6085 – – annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated CZK 25.5350 26.3277 27.0210 27.0339 impairment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not GBP 0.8872 0.8761 0.8562 0.8189 reversed. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include MXN 23.6612 21.3261 21.7719 20.6564 the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. PLN 4.1770 4.2562 4.4103 4.3641 RUB 69.3920 65.8859 64.3000 74.2212 The goodwill recognized in the statement of financial position is TRY 4.5464 4.1214 3.7072 3.3439 allocated to five Cash Generating Units (CGUs). These CGUs are Mature Market Retail, Growth Markets, Healthcare, Middle East USD 1.1993 1.1293 1.0541 1.1066 North Africa (MENA) and Americas Retail. They represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored 7.1.6. Intangible assets for internal management purposes. This is in line with the An intangible asset is recognized on the statement of financial centralized business model that was implemented during 2010. position when the following conditions are met: (1) the asset is identifiable, i.e. either separable (if it can be sold, transferred, 7.1.5. Foreign currencies licensed) or it results from contractual or legal rights; (2) it is Items included in the financial statements of each of the probable that the expected future economic benefits that are Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the attributable to the asset will flow to the Group; (3) the Group primary economic environment in which the entity operates can control the resource; and (4) the cost of the asset can be (‘the functional currency’). The consolidated financial measured reliably. statements are presented in euro, which is the Group’s presentation currency. Intangible assets are carried at acquisition cost (including the costs directly attributable to the transaction) less any Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional accumulated amortizations and less any accumulated currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the impairment losses. transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at Within the Group, internally generated intangibles represent year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities IT projects. For internal IT projects, expenses that relate to the denominated in foreign currencies are recognized in the development phase are capitalized as internally generated income statement. intangibles assets. The Group’s systems allow a reliable measure of expenses directly attributable to the different IT projects. 88 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements Externally acquired software is carried at acquisition cost less from the statement of financial position, and the new asset is any accumulated amortization and less any accumulated depreciated up until the next major repair or maintenance. impairment loss. The depreciable amount is allocated on a systematic basis over Maintenance costs as well as the costs of minor upgrades the useful life of the asset, using the straight-line method. The whose objective is to maintain (rather than increase) the level depreciable amount is the acquisition cost, less residual value, of performance of the asset is expensed as incurred. if any. The applicable useful lives are: Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, Property, plant and equipment Estimated useful life construction and or production of a qualifying intangible asset Land N/A are capitalized as part of the cost of the asset. Land improvement and buildings 30 years Plants, machinery and equipment 10 to 15 years Intangible assets are amortized on a systematic basis over their Furniture and vehicles 4 to 8 years useful life, using the straight-line method. The applicable useful Other tangible assets 5 years lives are: IT Equipment 3 to 5 years Intangible Assets Estimated useful life Brands 20 years The useful life of the machines is reviewed regularly. Each time a IT implementation costs 5 years significant upgrade is performed, such upgrade extends the Licenses 3 to 5 years useful life of the machine. The cost of the upgrade is added to the carrying amount of the machine and the new carrying Acquired concessions, patents, know-how, and other similar rights 5 years amount is depreciated prospectively over the remaining estimated useful life of the machine. Amortization commences only when the asset is available 7.1.9. Leases for use. Finance leases The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment. 7.1.7. Research and Development Leases of property, plant and equipment for which the Group Notwithstanding the detailed follow up of the R&D programs has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are for product development per project, the administrative system classified as finance leases. Finance leases are capitalized at of the Group does not differentiate the incurred expenses the lease’s commencement at the lower of the fair value of the between research and development phases. Therefore, the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease expenses in relation to the research and development phase payments. Each lease payment is allocated between the liability are charged to the statement of comprehensive income within and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the operating results. remaining balance of the liability. Finance expenses are recognized immediately in profit or loss, unless they are 7.1.8. Property, plant and equipment directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they Property, plant and equipment are carried at acquisition cost are capitalized. Contingent rentals are recognized as expenses less any accumulated depreciation and less any accumulated in the periods in which they are incurred. impairment loss. Acquisition cost includes any directly attributable cost of bringing the asset to working condition for If there is reasonable certainty that the Group will obtain its intended use. Borrowing costs that are directly attributable ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset shall be to the acquisition, construction and/or production of a depreciated over the useful life. In all other circumstances qualifying asset are capitalized as part of the cost of the asset. the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term. Expenditure on repair and maintenance which serve only to maintain, but not increase, the value of fixed assets are charged Operating leases to the income statement. However, expenditure on major repair A lease agreement is classified as an operating lease if all of and major maintenance, which increases the future economic the risks and rewards of ownership have not been transferred benefits that will be generated by the fixed asset, is identified as to the lessee. Payments under operating leases (net of any a separate element of the acquisition cost. The cost of property, incentives received from the lessor) are charged to the income plant and equipment is broken down into major components. statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. These major components, which are replaced at regular intervals and consequently have a useful life that is different from that of the fixed asset in which they are incorporated, are depreciated over their specific useful lives. In the event of replacement, the component is replaced and removed Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 89 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued 7.1.10. Impairment of non-financial assets, other The Group recognizes revenue arising from the sale of goods than goodwill when specific criteria have been met for each of the Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible Group’s activities: assets not yet available for use are not subject to amortization, • the Group transfers the significant risks and rewards but are tested annually for impairment. of ownership; • the Group retains neither continuing managerial Other assets which are subject to amortization are reviewed for involvement to the degree usually associated with impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances ownership nor effective control over the goods sold; indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An • the collectability of the related receivable is impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the reasonably assured; asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The • revenue is recognized upon delivery of the products to recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less the customer and its acceptance thereof. costs to sell and value in use. The recognition criteria are applied to the separately identifiable When an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying components of a single transaction when it is necessary to amount of the asset (or a cash-generating unit) is increased to reflect the substance of the transaction. the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying Interest income is recognized using the effective interest amount that would have been determined had no impairment method. Dividends are recognized when the shareholder’s right loss been recognized for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in to receive payment is established. prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognized immediately in profit or loss. 7.1.13. Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following 7.1.11. Inventories categories: at fair value through profit or loss, and loans and Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable receivables. The classification depends on the purpose for value. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) which the financial assets were acquired. Management method. The cost of finished goods and work in progress determines the classification of its financial assets at initial comprises the production costs, like raw materials, direct labor, recognition. and also the indirect production costs (production overheads based on normal operating capacity). Net realizable value is the Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less on the trade date – the date on which the Group commits to applicable variable selling expenses. purchase or sell an asset. Spare parts held by the Group are classified as property, plant a) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and equipment if they are expected to be used in more than (FVTPL) one period and if they are specific to a single machine. If they Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL, when the financial are not expected to be used in more than one period or if they asset is either held for trading or is designated as at FVTPL. can be used on several machines, they are classified as inventory. For the spare parts classified as inventory, the Group A financial asset is classified as held for trading if: uses write-down rules based on the economic use of these • it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling spare parts. in the near term; or • on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified 7.1.12. Revenue recognition financial instruments that the Group manages together Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received and had a recent actual pattern of short-term profitor receivable for the sale of goods or supply of services in the taking; or ordinary course of the Group’s activities. Revenue is reduced for • it is a derivative that is not designated as an effective customer returns, rebates and discounts and other similar hedging instrument. allowances and after eliminating sales within the Group. 90 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading An allowance for impairment of trade receivables is accounted may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: for when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be • such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms measurement or recognition inconsistency that would of the receivables. The amount of the allowance is the difference otherwise arise; or between the carrying amount and the present value of estimated • the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets cash flows, including the proceeds of credit insurance contracts, or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its discounted at the effective interest rate. performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group’s documented risk The amount of the allowance is deducted from the carrying management or investment strategy, and information amount of the asset and is recognized in the income statement about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or within ‘sales and marketing expenses’. • it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 permits the entire Trade receivables are no longer recognized when (1) the rights combined contract to be designed as at FVTPL. to receive cash flows from the trade receivables have expired, (2) the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains related to the receivables. or losses arising on re-measurement recognized in profit or loss. The net gain or loss recognized in profit or loss c) De-recognition of financial assets incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial The Group derecognizes a financial asset only when the asset and is included in the ‘other gains and losses’ line item. contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. assets held for trading: they are classified as current assets. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the Derivatives are classified as held for trading, unless hedge risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the accounting is applied (see note 7.1.23. below). transferred asset, the Group recognizes its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to Assets in this category are recognized at fair value and pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards subsequently adjusted to fair values, with any adjustments of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group recognized immediately in the income statement. continues to recognize the financial asset and also recognizes a collateralized borrowing for the proceeds received. b) Loans, payables and receivables Loans, payables and receivables are non-derivative financial On de-recognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the liabilities and assets with fixed or determinable payments that difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the sum are not quoted in an active market. Loans, payables (including of the consideration received and receivable and the cumulative other and trade payables) and receivables (including trade gain or loss that had been recognized in other comprehensive receivables and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents) income and accumulated in equity is recognized in profit or loss. are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. On de-recognition of a financial asset other than in its entirety (e.g. when the Group retains an option to repurchase part of The effective interest method is a method of calculating the a transferred asset), the Group allocates the previous carrying amortized cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest amount of the financial asset between the part it continues income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is to recognize under continuing involvement, and the part it no the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts longer recognizes on the basis of the relative fair values of those (including all fees and points paid or received that form an parts on the date of the transfer. The difference between the integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and carrying amount allocated to the part that is no longer other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the recognized and the sum of the consideration received for debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the the part no longer recognized and any cumulative gain or loss net carrying amount on initial recognition. allocated to it that had been recognized in other comprehensive income is recognized in profit or loss. A cumulative gain or loss Trade and other receivables after and within one year are that had been recognized in other comprehensive income is recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at allocated between the part that continues to be recognized and amortized cost, i.e. at the net present value of the receivable the part that is no longer recognized on the basis of the relative amount, using the effective interest rate method, less fair values of those parts. allowances for impairment. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 91 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued 7.1.14. Cash and cash equivalents Post-employment benefits Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held Group companies operate various pension schemes. Most at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments of the schemes are unfunded. Some schemes are funded with original maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts through payments to insurance companies or pension funds, are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the determined by periodic actuarial calculations. The Group has statement of financial position. both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays 7.1.15. Share capital fixed contributions into a separate entity. The Group has no Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Where any Group legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions company purchases the company’s equity share capital if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees (treasury shares), the consideration paid is deducted from the benefits relating to employee service in the current and equity attributable to owners of the company until the shares prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is are cancelled or reissued. Incremental costs directly not a defined contribution plan. Typically defined benefit plans attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation. Financial instruments, such as the Convertible Preferred Equity Certificates (CPECs), are either classified as financial liabilities or The liability recognized in the balance sheet in respect of equity. The financial instrument is included in equity if, and only defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the if, the instrument does not include a contractual obligation to defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period deliver cash or another financial asset or to exchange financial less the fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation assets or liabilities under conditions that are potentially is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the unfavorable to the Group, and if the instrument will or may be projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined settled in a fixed number of the Group’s own equity benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated instruments. future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which 7.1.16. Government grants the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity Grants from governments are recognized at their fair value approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. where there is a reasonable assurance that the grant will be In countries where there is no deep market in such bonds, the received and the Group will comply with all attached conditions. market rates on government bonds are used. Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments are deducted from the acquisition cost of the assets to which and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited they relate and are credited to the income statement on a to other comprehensive income in the period in which straight-line basis over the expected lives of the related assets. they arise. 7.1.17. Employee benefits Past-service costs are recognized immediately in income. Short-term employee benefits The net interest cost relating to the defined benefit plans Short-term employee benefits are recorded as an expense in is recognized within financial expenses. the income statement in the period in which the services have been rendered. Any unpaid compensation is included in For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions ‘Employee benefit liabilities’ in the statement of to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans financial position. on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognized as employee benefit expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognized as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available. Long-term employee benefits Unfunded obligations arising from long-term benefits are provided for using the projected unit credit method. 92 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements Termination benefits 7.1.19. Provisions Early termination obligations are recognized as a liability Provisions are recognized when (I) the Group has a present when the Group is ‘demonstrably committed’ to terminating legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; (II) it is the employment before the normal retirement date. The Group probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle is ‘demonstrably committed’ when, and only when, it has a the obligation; (III) and the amount has been reliably estimated. detailed formal plan for the early termination without realistic Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood possibility of withdrawal. Where such benefits are long term, that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by they are discounted using the same rate as above for defined considering the class of obligations as a whole. benefit obligations. Provisions are measured at the present value of the 7.1.18. Share-based payments expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation The Group operates an equity settled share-based using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of compensation plan, consisting of stock options (hereafter the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. ‘options’) and restricted stock units (‘RSU’). For grants of options The increase in the provision due to passage of time is and RSU’s, the fair value of the employee services received is recognized as finance cost. measured by reference to the fair value of the shares or options granted on the date of the grant. The Group recognizes the fair If the Group has an onerous contract, it will be recognized as a value of the services received in exchange for the grant of the provision. Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination options as an expense and a corresponding increase in equity penalties and employee termination payments. Provisions are on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. The fair value of not recognized for future operating losses. the options granted is determined using option pricing models, which take into account the exercise price of the option, the A provision for restructuring is only recorded if the Group share price at date of grant of the option, the risk free interest demonstrates a constructive obligation to restructure at the rate, the expected volatility of the share price over the life of the balance sheet date. The constructive obligation should be option and other relevant factors. Vesting conditions included demonstrated by: (a) a detailed formal plan identifying the main in the terms of the grant are not taken into account in features of the restructuring; and (b) raising a valid expectation estimating fair value except where those terms relate to market to those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by conditions. Non-market vesting conditions are taken into starting to implement the plan or by announcing its main account by adjusting the number of shares or options included features to those affected. in the measurement of the cost of employee services so that ultimately the amount recognized in the income statement 7.1.20. Income taxes reflects the number of vested shares or options. Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax. At each balance sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis exercisable and recognizes the impact of revision of original of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the end estimates, if any, in the income statement and a corresponding of the reporting period in the countries where the Group’s adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period. subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income. In line with paragraph 46 of IAS 12 ‘Income taxes’, management periodically When the options are exercised, the proceeds received net of evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to capital (nominal value) and share premium. interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. The social security contributions payable in connection with This evaluation is made for tax periods open for audit by the the grant of the options is considered an integral part of the competent authorities. grant itself, and the charge will be treated as a cash-settled transaction. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. Deferred tax is recognized on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 93 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued However, the deferred tax is not recognized for: A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading • the initial recognition of goodwill; may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: • the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a • such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a transaction other than a business combination that at measurement or recognition inconsistency that would the time of the transaction affects neither accounting otherwise arise; or nor taxable profit or loss; and • the financial liability forms part of a group of financial • deferred tax is recognized on temporary differences assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, except for deferred income tax liabilities where the timing • in accordance with the Group’s documented risk of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled management or investment strategy, and information by the Group and it is probable that the temporary about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. • it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 permits the entire Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognized for taxable combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as temporary differences. at FVTPL. Deferred tax assets are generally recognized for tax losses Financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any and tax attributes to the extent that it is probable that taxable gains or losses arising on recognized in profit or loss. The net profits will be available against which those deductible gain or loss recognized in profit or loss incorporates any interest temporary differences can be utilized. The carrying amount paid on the financial liability in the consolidated income of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting statement. period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part Other financial liabilities of the asset to be recovered. Other financial liabilities (including borrowings and trade and other payables) are subsequently measured at amortized cost Deferred taxes are calculated at the level of each fiscal entity in using the effective interest method. the Group. The Group is able to offset deferred tax assets and liabilities only if the deferred tax balances relate to income taxes Borrowings are recognized initially at fair value, net of levied by the same taxation authority. transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortized cost; any difference between the proceeds (net of 7.1.21. Financial liabilities transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognized in Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities ‘at the income statement over the period of the borrowings using FVTPL’ or ‘other financial liabilities’. the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to A financial asset and a financial liability shall be offset and the defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the net amount presented in the statement of financial position end of the reporting period. when, and only when, an entity: a) c urrently has a legally enforceable right to set off the The effective interest method is a method of calculating the recognized amounts; and amortized cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest b) intends  either to settle on a net basis, or to realize the asset expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is and settle the liability simultaneously. the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees and points paid or received that form an Financial liabilities at FVTPL integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL when the financial other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the liability is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL. financial liability, or (where appropriate) a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition. A financial liability is classified as held for trading if: • it has been acquired principally for the purpose of When a financial liability measured at amortized cost is repurchasing it in the near term; or modified without this resulting in derecognition, a gain or loss • on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified is recognized in profit or loss. The gain or loss is calculated as financial instruments that the Group manages together the difference between the original contractual cash flows and and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profitthe modified cash flows discounted at the original effective taking; or interest rate. • it is a derivative that is not designated as an effective hedging instrument. A limited part of trade payable is subject to reverse factoring. As the main risk and rewards of the trade payable remain with the Group, the financial liability is not de-recognized from trade payable. 94 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements 7.1.22. Derivative financial instruments The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate, foreign recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated exchange rate and commodity price risks and equity price risks under the heading of cash flow hedging reserve. The gain or associated with share-based payments, including foreign loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately exchange forward contracts, commodity hedging contracts and in profit or loss, and is included in the Other operating income/ interest rate CAP’s and SWAP’s and a total return swap. (expense) line item. Derivatives are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39. Amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value at the date the and accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the derivative contracts are entered into and are subsequently periods when the hedged item is recognized in profit or loss, in re-measured to their fair value at the end of each reporting the same line of the consolidated income statement as the period. The resulting gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss recognized hedged item. However, when the hedged forecast immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in hedge relationship. equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or nonThe fair values of various derivative instruments are disclosed in financial liability. note 7.4 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management The full fair value of a derivative is classified as a non-current Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged hedging relationship, when the hedging instrument expires or item is more than 12 months and as a current asset or liability is sold, terminated, or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than for hedge accounting. Any gain or loss recognized in other 12 months. comprehensive income and accumulated in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognized when the forecast If no hedge accounting is applied, the Group recognizes all gains transaction is ultimately recognized in profit or loss. When or losses resulting from changes in fair value of derivatives in a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain the consolidated income statement within Other operating or loss accumulated in equity is recognized immediately in profit income/expense to the extent that they relate to operating or loss. activities and within Net finance cost to the extent that they relate to the financing activities of the Group (e.g. interest rate 7.1.24. Operating segments swaps relating to the floating rate borrowings). The Group’s activities are in one segment. There are no other significant classes of business, either singularly or in aggregate. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is The chief operating decision maker, the Board of Directors, reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally reviews the operating results (defined as EBITDA) and operating enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts and there is plans, and make resource allocation decisions on a companyan intention to settle on a net basis or realize the asset and wide basis; therefore the Group operates as one segment. settle the liability simultaneously. 7.1.25. Statement of cash flows 7.1.23. Hedge accounting The cash flows of the Group are presented using the indirect The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which method. This method reconciles the movement in cash for the include derivatives in respect of foreign currency risk and reporting period by adjusting net profit of the year for any commodities, as cash flow hedges. Hedges of foreign exchange non-cash items and changes in working capital, and identifying risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash investing and financing cash flows for the reporting period. flow hedges. 7.1.26. Alternative Performance Measures At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents Following alternative performance measures (non-GAAP) the relationship between the hedging instrument and the have been included in the financial statements since hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its management believes that they are widely used by certain strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. investors, securities analysts and other interested parties Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing as supplemental measure of performance and liquidity. The basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is alternative performance measures may not be comparable highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows to similarly titled measures of other companies and have of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our operating results, our performance or our liquidity under IFRS. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 95 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued 7.1.26.1. Non-recurring Income and Expenses 7.1.26.3. Net financial debt/LTM Adjusted EBITDA ratio Items classified under the heading non-recurring income and (Leverage) expenses are those items that are considered by management Net financial debt is calculated by adding short-term and not to relate to items in the ordinary course of activities of the long-term debt and deducting cash and cash equivalents. Company. They are presented separately as they are important for the understanding of users of the consolidated financial LTM adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA plus non-recurring statements of the ‘normal’ performance of the Company due to income and expenses and excluding non-recurring impairment their size or nature. The non-recurring income and expenses of assets for the last twelve months (LTM). relate to: • acquisition-related expenses; Net financial debt/LTM Adjusted EBITDA ratio of the Group for • changes to the measurement of contingent the years ended December 31 are presented in note 7.2. considerations in the context of business combinations; ‘Capital Management’. • business restructuring costs, including costs relate to the liquidation of subsidiaries and the closure, opening or 7.1.26.4. Adjusted Free Cash Flow relocations of factories; and Adjusted Free Cash Flow is defined as Adjusted EBITDA less • impairment of assets. capital expenditures (Capex, defined as purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets), less change in Non-recurring income and expenses of the Group for the years working capital, less income taxes paid. ended December 31 are composed of the following items presented in the consolidated income statement and can be Adjusted Free Cash Flow of the Group for the years ended reconciled in note 7.22: December 31 is as follows: • income/(expenses) related to changes to Group structure; and Full Year Full Year in € million 2017 2016 • income/(expenses) related to impairments and major Operating profit 208.3 193.5 litigations. Depreciation and amortization 53.7 43.1 7.1.26.2. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA 262.0 236.6 EBITDA is defined as earnings before net finance cost, income Non-recurring income and expenses, taxes, depreciations and amortizations. Adjusted EBITDA is excluding impairment losses 4.4 12.1 defined as EBITDA plus non-recurring income and expenses Adjusted EBITDA 266.4 248.7 and excluding non-recurring impairment of assets. Change in Working Capital Inventories (8.3) (6.9) EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA reconciliation of the Group for the Trade receivables, prepaid years ended December 31 are as follows: expenses and other receivables (56.4) (20.2) Trade payables, accrued Full Year Full Year expenses and other payables 26.1 11.5 in € million 2017 2016 Capex (111.9) (77.1) Operating Profit 208.3 193.5 Adjusted Free Cash Flow (pre-tax) 115.9 156.0 Depreciation and amortization1 53.7 43.1 Income taxes paid (44.9) (24.9) EBITDA 262.0 236.6 Adjusted Free Cash Flow (post-tax) 71.0 131.1 Reconciliation of net income before interest, tax, depreciation and 7.1.26.5. Adjusted Basic Earnings and Adjusted Basic amortization (EBITDA) to adjusted EBITDA Earnings per Share EBITDA 262.0 236.6 Adjusted Basic Earnings are defined as profit for the period plus Non-recurring income and expenses, non-recurring income and expenses and tax effect on nonexcluding impairment losses 4.4 12.1 recurring income and expenses, attributable to the owners of Adjusted EBITDA 266.4 248.7 the parent. Adjusted Basic Earnings per share are defined as Adjusted Basic Earnings divided by the weighted average 1  epreciation and amortization (D&A) include €53.6 million of recurring D&A D number of ordinary shares. and €0.1 million of impairment losses in 2017 (€42.3 million of recurring D&A and €0.8 million of impairment losses in 2016). Adjusted Basic Earnings per Share for the years ended December 31 are presented in note 7.14 ‘Earnings per share’. 96 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements 7.1.26.6. Working Capital The components of our working capital are inventories, trade receivables and prepaid expenses and other receivables plus trade payables and accrued expenses and other payables. 7.1.27. Alternative Performance Measures included in the Press releases and other Regulated information 7.1.27.1. Pro-forma revenue at constant currency Pro-forma revenue at constant currency is defined as revenue for the 12 months period ending on the reporting date at prior year foreign exchange rates and inclusive of impact of mergers and acquisitions. 7.1.27.2. Like-for-Like (LFL) revenue Like-for-like revenue is defined as revenue at constant currency excluding change in scope of consolidation or M&A. 7.1.27.3. Adjusted profit for the period Adjusted profit is defined as profit for the period plus nonrecurring income and expenses and tax effect on non-recurring income and expenses, attributable to the owners of the parent. 7.1.27.4. Adjusted EBITDA margin Adjusted EBITDA margin is adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 97 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued 7.2. Capital Management The Group’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide benefits for shareholders. The Group monitors capital on the basis of the net debt position. The Group’s net debt position is calculated by adding all short and long-term interest bearing debts and by deducting the available short-term liquidity. The net debt positions of the Group for the years ended December 31 are as follows: in € million Note December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Non-current interest-bearing debts 15 772.0 779.1 Other non-current financial liabilities – 26.4 Current interest-bearing debts 15 69.9 22.9 Other current financial liabilities 20.8 49.3 Cash and cash equivalents 12 (118.5) (212.8) Total net debt position 744.2 664.9 LTM Adjusted EBITDA1 266.4 248.7 Net financial debt/LTM Adjusted EBITDA ratio 2.79 2.67 1 LTM Adjusted EBITDA as defined per note 7.1.26.1. 7.3. Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments The amounts presented in the consolidated financial statements involve the use of estimates and assumptions about the future. Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The actual amounts may differ from these estimates. The estimates and assumptions that could have an impact on the consolidated financial statements are discussed below: 7.3.1. Income taxes The Group has tax losses and other tax incentives usable to offset future taxable profits, mainly in Belgium, Brazil, France and Spain, amounting to €401.9 million at December 31, 2017 (€395.7 million at December 31, 2016). As mentioned in last year’s consolidated financial statements, the European Commission challenged Belgium’s excess profit tax ruling system (EPR), characterizing this system as illegal state aid. Ontex, through its Belgian subsidiary Ontex BVBA, had an excess profit ruling covering the years 2011-2015. Ontex has in the meantime received the recovery notice from the Belgian State and, as expected, this has not resulted in incremental corporate income tax to be paid since the amount exempt under the excess profit ruling could be offset against available tax losses. Ontex has lodged an appeal against the EC decision but a final outcome of such an appeal will take several years. If the EC decision would be overturned by the General Court or the European Court of Justice, this would have a positive impact on the tax losses position of Ontex BVBA. The Group has only recognized deferred tax assets on €53.5 million of tax losses and other tax incentives out of the €401.9 million mentioned above. The measurement of this asset depends on a number of judgmental assumptions regarding the future probable taxable profits of different Group subsidiaries in different jurisdictions. These estimates are made prudently to the extent of the best current knowledge. 98 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements The Belgian Government announced in July 2017 an important corporate tax reform which will decrease the corporate tax rate in Belgium of 33.99% to 29.58% in 2018 and 25.0% as from 2020. The Act affecting the reform was voted by Parliament in December 2017 which, by virtue of the guidance in IAS 12, is considered as substantively enacted. Therefore, deferred taxes on temporary differences, originated in Belgium, are calculated based both on the new tax rates and the timing of their expected reversals. In this regard, management has exercised judgement in deciding which temporary differences are expected to reverse before 2020, on which the tax rate of 29.58% is applicable, and those temporary differences expected to reverse after 2020 to which the tax rate of 25.0% is applied. For the deferred tax asset that has been recognized on the Ontex Group NV tax losses, a similar approach has been taken with the expected loss utilization in FY 2018 and FY 2019 tax effected at a rate of 29.58% and the expected loss utilization as from FY 2020 tax effected at 25.0%. Similarly, laws were enacted in the US and France that provide for respectively a reduction in rate to 21.0% for the US as from FY 2018 and a gradual reduction in the rate to 25.0% for Ontex in France as from FY 2022. Management has exercised judgement in deciding which temporary differences are expected to reverse in which period. The deferred tax asset that was already recognized on part of the French tax losses has been revised downwards at a blended rate of 28.0% in view of the years during which the losses are expected to be used. 7.3.2. Business combinations For business combinations, the Group must make assumptions and estimates to determine the purchase price allocation of the business being acquired. To do so, the Group must determine the acquisition-date fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. These assumptions and estimates have an impact on the asset and liability amounts recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position on the acquisition date. In addition, the estimated useful lives of the acquired property, plant and equipment, the identification of other intangible assets and the determination of the indefinite or finite useful lives of other intangible assets acquired requires significant judgments and will have an impact on the Group’s profit or loss 7.3.3. Impairment The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment in accordance with the accounting policy stated in note 7.1.4. Goodwill. The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations. These calculations require the use of estimates. These are summarized here below: As at December 31 2017 2016 Pre-tax discount rate Mature Market Retail 6.6% 7.7% Growth Markets 11.2% 13.6% Healthcare 6.0% 7.8% Middle East North Africa 13.8% 14.0% Americas Retail 10.5% 11.5% Should the estimated EBITDA at December 31, 2017 and the following two years decrease by 10% than the discounted cash flows used in the calculation of the recoverable amount, or should the discount rate used in the calculation done at that date increase by 10%, no impairment would be recognized. As indicated in note 7.8, cash flows beyond the three-year period are extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 1.0% for Mature Market Retail, 2.0% for Growth Markets, 2.7% for Healthcare, 3.0% for MENA and 3.6% for Americas Retail. These same percentages are used as perpetual growth rates. The growth rates have been determined by management but do not exceed the current market expectations in which the five CGUs are currently operating. Should the growth rate for any of the CGUs decrease by 40%, no impairment would need to be recognized. Future cash flows are estimates that are likely to be revised in future periods as underlying assumptions change. Key assumptions in supporting the value of goodwill include long-term interest rates and other market data. Should the assumptions vary adversely in the future, the value in use of goodwill may reduce below their carrying amounts. Based on current valuations, headroom appears to be sufficient to absorb a normal variation in the underlying assumptions. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 99 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued 7.3.4. Expected useful lives The expected useful lives of the property, plant and equipment and intangible assets must be estimated. The determination of the useful lives of the assets is based on management’s judgment and it is reviewed at least at each financial year-end, pursuant to IAS 16. 7.3.5. Fair value of derivatives and other financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, over-the-counter derivatives) is determined by using valuation techniques. The Group uses its judgment to select a variety of methods and make assumptions that are mainly based on market conditions existing at the end of each reporting period. All derivative financial instruments are, in accordance with IFRS 7, level 2. This means valuation methods are used for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable in the market, either directly or indirectly. 7.3.6. Employee benefits The carrying amount of the Group’s employee benefit obligations is determined on an actuarial basis using certain assumptions. One particularly sensitive assumption used for determining the net cost of the benefits granted is the discount rate. Any change to this assumption will affect the carrying amount of those obligations. The discount rate depends on the duration of the benefit, i.e. the average duration of the engagements, weighted with the present value of the costs linked to those engagements. According to IAS 19, the discount rate has to correspond to the rate of high-quality corporate bonds of similar term to the benefits valued and in the same currency. 7.3.7. Revenue recognition For the accrual for volume discounts (to customers and from suppliers) important judgements are made on the impact of commercial decisions that will influence the final discount to be received or to be granted. 100 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements 7.4. Financial Instruments and financial risk management 7.4.1. Overview of financial instruments The table below summarizes all financial instruments by category in accordance with IAS 39 and discloses the fair values of each instrument and the fair value hierarchy: December 31, 2017 Designated in hedge Loans and receivables in € million relationship At amortized cost Fair value Fair value level Trade receivables (excluding non-current receivables) 369.8 369.8 Level 2 Other receivables 56.4 56.4 Level 2 Derivative financial assets 1.6 1.6 Forward foreign exchange contracts 1.6 1.6 Level 2 Cash and cash equivalents 118.5 118.5 Level 2 Total Financial Assets 1.6 544.7 546.3 Interest-bearing debts – non-current – 772.0 787.3 Facility A Loan 2017 > 1 year 584.7 600.0 Level 2 Facility BNP Paribas Fortis > 1 year 150.0 150.0 Level 2 Total return swap 25.6 25.6 Level 2 Financial lease and other liabilities 11.7 11.7 Level 2 Derivative financial liabilities 4.2 – 4.2 Interest rate swap 1.2 1.2 Level 2 Forward foreign exchange contracts 2.9 2.9 Level 2 Other payables – non-current 0.2 0.2 Level 2 Interest-bearing debts – current 69.9 69.9 Accrued interests – other 1.0 1.0 Level 2 Revolver credit loan 30.0 30.0 Level 2 Financial lease and other liabilities 38.9 38.9 Level 2 Other current financial liabilities 20.8 20.8 Level 3 Trade payables 473.3 473.3 Level 2 Other payables – current 12.5 12.5 Level 2 Total Financial Liabilities 4.2 1,348.8 1,368.3 Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 101 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued December 31, 2016 Designated in hedge Loans and receivables in € million relationship At amortized cost Fair value Fair value level Trade receivables (excluding non-current receivables) 312.5 312.5 Level 2 Other receivables 44.4 44.4 Level 2 Derivative financial assets 4.7 4.7 Forward foreign exchange contracts 4.7 4.7 Level 2 Cash and cash equivalents 212.8 212.8 Level 2 Total Financial Assets 4.7 569.8 574.5 Interest-bearing debts – non-current – 779.1 800.5 Senior Secured Notes 2014 246.4 262.8 Level 1 Facility A Loan 2014 > 1 year 375.7 380.0 Level 2 Facility C Loan 2016 > 1 year 124.3 125.0 Level 2 Total return swap 22.3 22.3 Level 2 Financial lease and other liabilities 10.4 10.4 Level 2 Derivative financial liabilities 3.8 – 3.8 Interest rate swap 2.8 2.8 Level 2 Forward foreign exchange contracts 1.0 1.0 Level 2 Other non-current financial liabilities 26.4 26.4 Level 3 Other payables – non-current 0.4 0.4 Interest-bearing debts – current 22.9 22.9 Bonds 1.5 1.5 Level 2 Facility A Loan 2014 >1 year 0.7 0.7 Level 2 Financial lease and other liabilities 20.7 20.7 Level 2 Other current financial liabilities 49.3 49.3 Level 3 Trade payables 366.8 366.8 Level 2 Other payables – current 16.1 16.1 Level 2 Total Financial Liabilities 3.8 1,261.0 1,286.2 In the context of the Group’s financial risk management, the Group uses derivative instruments to cover specific risks, such as foreign currency exposure, interest rate exposure and commodity price exposure. The following table presents an overview of the derivative instruments outstanding at reporting date: Fair value Nominal amounts In € million December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Derivative financial assets Forward foreign exchange contracts 1.6 4.7 54.0 117.7 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swap 1.2 2.8 785.0 325.0 Forward foreign exchange contracts 2.9 1.0 83.8 22.9 The derivative instruments presented in the tables above are all designated in a cash flow hedge relationship (see below in notes 7.4.3. to 7.4.5.). The fair value of a derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is exceeding 12 months and, as a current asset or liability, if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. The fair value of the derivatives is based on level 2 inputs as defined under IFRS 7§27, meaning inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). 102 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements The above table provides an analysis of financial instruments grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value (recognized on the statement of financial position or disclosed in the notes) is observable: • Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. • Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). • Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are based on mathematical models that use market observable data and are determined as follows: • The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices (includes listed redeemable notes). • The fair values of derivative instruments are calculated using quoted prices. Where such prices are not available, a discounted cash flow analysis is performed using the applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing models for optional derivatives. Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts. Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates. • The fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding those described above) are determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis. • Level 3 liabilities: the amount has been determined based on contractual agreements. The Group has derivative financial instruments which are subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements. No offsetting needed to be done per December 31, 2017 (nor 2016). The counterparties of the outstanding derivative instruments have an A-credit rating. 7.4.2. Financial risk factors The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk, interest rate risk and commodity price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. There have been no changes in the risk management department since last year-end or in any risk management policies. 7.4.3. Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the British pound (GBP), the Turkish lira (TRY), the Polish zloty (PLN), the Australian dollar (AUD), the Mexican peso (MXN), the Brazilian real (BRL) and Russian ruble (RUB) in relation to sales, and the US dollar (USD), the Czech koruna (CZK), the Mexican peso (MXN) and the Brazilian real (BRL) in relation to procurement. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and recognized assets and liabilities. The Group also has exposures to the Turkish lira (TRY), Algerian dinar (DZD), Russian ruble (RUB), Czech koruna (CZK), Australian dollar (AUD) Pakistani rupee (PKR), Mexican peso (MXN) and Brazilian real (BRL) due to their net investments in foreign operations. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 103 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued The carrying amounts of the Group’s main foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at the end of the reporting period are as follows: Assets Liabilities In € million December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 EUR 1,706.7 1,583.4 2,345.6 2,082.2 BRL 147.6 – 150.4 – USD 52.1 65.9 112.9 116.3 MXN 51.0 45.2 75.7 43.9 PLN 46.9 48.9 0.3 0.3 DZD 22.7 19.0 5.4 3.3 RUB 19.5 20.5 1.2 (1.5) GBP 18.6 26.1 1.7 1.8 TL 17.6 20.6 8.6 12.1 AUD 16.6 16.3 3.6 4.2 The Group monitors its foreign exchange exposure closely and will enter into hedging transactions if deemed appropriate to minimize exposure throughout the Group to foreign exchange fluctuations. All hedging decisions are subject to approval of the Board of Directors. The strategy regarding FX hedges was maintained. To manage their foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions, recognized assets and liabilities, the Group uses forward exchange contracts. Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions, recognized assets and liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. The Group treasury is responsible for optimizing the net position in each foreign currency when possible and appropriate. The Group applies hedge accounting for the hedge-related transactions, the impact of the revaluation is recognized in other comprehensive income. The Group has entered into foreign exchange forward contracts at the beginning of each quarter in 2017 maturing at the latest in September 2018 in order to limit volatility in the business resulting from exposures to sales in British pound, Polish zloty, Australian dollar as well as purchases in US dollar and Czech koruna during 2017 and 2018. Based on the hedge strategy, the foreign exchange forward contracts hedge the following forecasted exposures until September 30, 2018: for British pound (GBP) 28.5 million, for Polish zloty (PLN) 78.7 million, for Australian dollar (AUD) 24.1 million, for Czech koruna (CZK) 141.7 million, for US dollar (USD) 55.8 million versus EUR, US dollar (USD) 15.4 million versus Mexican peso (MXN) and US dollar (USD) 3.6 million versus Brazilian real (BRL) and for Euro (EUR) 2.5 million versus Mexican peso (MXN). The terms of the foreign currency forward contracts have been negotiated to match the terms of the highly probable forecast transactions. The Group applies hedge accounting to the foreign currency forward contracts. At inception, these instruments were designated as cash flow hedges. At the moment the forecast transactions materialise, the foreign exchange forward contracts become fair value hedges. As the terms of the foreign currency forward contracts match the terms of the expected highly probable forecast transactions, there is no hedge ineffectiveness to be recognized in the statement of profit or loss. As of December 31, 2017 an unrealized gain of €1.1 million (Australian dollar, British pound, Czech koruna) and an unrealized loss of €3.0 million (US dollar) have been recognized in other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2017 the fair value of the derivative financial asset for the foreign exchange contracts amounted to €1.6 million (2016: €4.8 million) and of the derivative financial liability amounted to €3.0 million (2016: €1.0 million). The following table sets forth the impact on pre-tax profit and equity for the year of a 10% weakening/strengthening of the Euro against the reported currency with all other variables held constant. The impact is mainly as a result of foreign exchange gains/ losses on translation of foreign currency denominated trade receivables and payables and related derivative positions as at the respective balance sheet dates. 104 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements 10% weakening of the 10% strengthening of EUR 2017 2016 the EUR 2017 2016 Impact on Impact on Impact Impact on In € million P&L Equity on P&L equity AUD (0.3) (1.4) (1.5) 0.3 1.2 1.2 GBP (1.1) (2.6) (2.8) 0.9 2.1 2.3 PLN 3.0 – – (2.5) – – USD (4.7) 3.2 4.4 3.8 (2.6) (3.3) 7.4.4. Interest rate risk The Group’s interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates. Borrowings issued at fixed rate expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk. These risks are managed centrally by Group treasury taking into account the expectations of the Group with respect to the evolutions of the market rates. The Group has used interest rate swaps and an interest rate cap to manage these risks. Considering that the floating rate borrowings (EURIBOR + margin) are hedged through interest rate swaps, the interest expense recognized in the consolidated income statement is not subject to interest rate volatility and therefore no sensitivity analysis has been prepared. Sensitivity of the fair value of derivative financial instruments related to loans: at December 31, 2017, if EURIBOR interest rates had been 10bps higher/lower with all other variables held constant, pre-tax other comprehensive income for the year would have been respectively €1.7 million higher/€1.6 million lower. At December 31, 2016, if EURIBOR interest rates had been 10bps higher/lower with all other variables held constant, pre-tax other comprehensive income for the year would have been respectively €0.05 million higher/€0.00 million lower. Floating Rate Syndicated Term Loan A of €600 million due 2022 is carrying an interest of EURIBOR 3 month + margin of 1.25%. Floating Rate Syndicated Term Loan B of €30 million due 2022 is carrying an interest of EURIBOR 3 month + margin of 1.05%. Floating Rate Term Loan of €150 million due 2024 is carrying an interest of EURIBOR 3 month + margin of 1.40%.The notional principal amounts of the outstanding fixed payer interest rate swap contracts at December 31, 2017 are €785.0 million as per below table: Duration Fixed interest rate % Amount In € million 1 Year 0.5722% 50.0 2 Year 0.6650% 100.0 2 Year 0.1390% 50.0 2 Year 0.1430% 75.0 3 Year 0.6250% 75.0 3 Year 0.6290% 75.0 3 Year 0.6220% 75.0 4 Year 0.4950% 50.0 5 Year 0.3890% 85.0 7 Year 0.5950% 150.0 Total 785.0 Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 105 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued 7.4.5. Price risk (commodity) The Group has some exposure to the price of oil because certain of the raw materials used in production are manufactured from oil derivatives. These include glues, polyethylene, propylene and polypropylene. In relation to our fluff and propylene exposure, the Group has arrangements with certain of their fluff suppliers that reduce our exposure to volatility in fluff prices. The Group also decided to hedge a portion of the propylene exposure that is not covered by such arrangements for 2017. As of December 31, 2017, only few commodity hedge contracts have not yet matured and hence the impact on derivative financial assets and liabilities and unrealized losses is limited to less than €0.1 million. Considering the limited impact of these commodity hedge contracts, no sensitivity analysis has been performed on the fair value of these derivative financial instruments. 7.4.6. Equity price risk Following the issuance of options and RSU’s as share-based payment arrangements under the different LTIP programmes (refer to note 7.26 for details of these programs), the Group is exposed to variations in the Group share price. The Board of Directors of the Group has decided on June 1, 2015 to implement a full hedging program through a total return swap. The purpose of this financial instrument is to effectively hedge the risk that a price increase of the Ontex shares would negatively impact future cash flows related to the share-based payments. The Group entered into a total return swap (‘TRS’) agreement with a financial institution to manage its exposure to price volatility related to the shares subject to the stock option and RSU plans as disclosed in note 7.26. Under the total return swap agreement, the Company will pay interest to the financial institution. At the settlement of the TRS, the Group will receive the underlying shares which will be granted to the beneficiaries of the stock options or RSU’s upon exercise. As such, the Group hedges the risk that the share price would increase when shares have to be issued upon exercise by the beneficiaries of their options/RSUs. The shares bought in this context are recognized in deduction of Group equity at the strike price at the moment of entering into the TRS. As the Group takes physical delivery of the shares upon settlement of the TRS (no net settlement), the TRS does not meet the scope of financial instruments in accordance with IAS 32/39. As such, the TRS should not be remeasured at fair value at each closing date. As a result, the Group recognized treasury shares for an amount of €31.3 million (represented by 1,068,686 shares) and a related financial liability for an amount of €25.4 million (see note 7.15). These amounts do not require to be remeasured during the contract time and consequently, all volatility has been eliminated. 7.4.7. Credit risk Credit risk is managed on a Group basis. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to corporate customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions. The Group assesses the credit quality of the customer, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors based on which individual risk limits are set in accordance with the limits set by business managers. Historical default rates have been below 1% for 2017 and 2016. Trade receivables are spread over different countries and counterparties and there is no large concentration with one or a few counterparties. We refer to note 7.10 for the aging of the receivables and the doubtful receivables. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying amount as presented in the table above in the note 7.4.1. 106 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements 7.4.8. Liquidity risk Group treasury monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities (note 7.15 Interest-bearing debts) at all times so that the Group does not breach borrowing limits or covenants (where applicable) on its borrowing facilities. The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities (including interest payments) into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. In € million Less than 1 year Between 1 and 2 years Between 2 and 5 years Over 5 years At December 31, 2017 Interest–bearing debts (49.4) (13.8) (632.9) (154.1) Other financial liabilities (20.8) – – – Trade payables (473.3) – – – Total non–derivative financial liabilities (543.6) (13.8) (632.9) (154.1) Interest rate swaps (2.4) (2.4) (8.3) (1.8) Forward foreign exchange contracts (137.8) – – – Total derivative financial liabilities (140.2) (2.4) (8.3) (1.8) At December 31, 2016 Interest–bearing debts (80.1) (120.8) (657.9) – Other financial liabilities (49.3) (26.4) – – Trade payables (366.8) – – – Total non–derivative financial liabilities (496.2) (147.2) (657.9) – Interest rate swaps (1.4) (1.1) (0.8) – Forward foreign exchange contracts (140.6) – – – Total derivative financial liabilities (141.9) (1.1) (0.8) – The table above does not contain finance lease liabilities. The maturity of these financial liabilities was less than one year at each balance sheet date. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 107 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued 7.5. Operating segments According to IFRS 8, reportable operating segments are identified based on the ‘management approach’. This approach stipulates external segment reporting based on the Group’s internal organizational and management structure and on internal financial reporting to the chief operating decision maker. The Group’s activities are in one segment, ‘Hygienic Disposable Products’. There are no other significant classes of business, either singularly or in aggregate. The chief operating decision maker and the Board of Directors, review the operating results and operating plans, and make resource allocation decisions on a company-wide basis. Therefore, the Group operates as one segment. Enterprise-wide disclosures about product sales, geographic areas and revenue from major customers are presented below: 7.5.1. Information by Division Full Year Full Year in € million 2017 20161 Mature Market Retail 901.7 854.6 Growth Markets 193.1 169.6 Healthcare 433.4 428.8 MENA 189.8 206.2 Americas Retail 637.5 333.9 Ontex Group Revenues 2,355.4 1,993.0 1  ollowing a review of the Group’s customers and countries, a slight modification to the five Divisions has been made for which revenue is reported, effective F January 1, 2016. A limited amount of activities which represent in aggregate less than 2% of Group revenue have been re-assigned to the Middle East North Africa (MENA) Division from Healthcare and to the Americas Retail Division from Growth Markets. Prior-year information has been restated as a basis for comparison in future reporting. 7.5.2. Information by product group The key product categories are: • Baby care products, principally baby diapers, baby pants and, to a lesser extent, wet wipes. • Feminine care products, such as sanitary towels, panty liners and tampons. • Adult incontinence products, such as adult pants, adult diapers, incontinence towels and bed protection. Full Year Full Year in € million 2017 2016 Baby Care 1,426.5 1,156.1 Feminine Care 221.9 208.8 Adult Care 691.9 602.8 Other 15.1 25.3 Ontex Group Revenues 2,355.4 1,993.0 7.5.3. Information by geographic area The organizational structure of the Group and its system of internal information indicates that the main source of geographical risks results from the location of its customers (destination of its sales) and not the physical location of its assets (origin of its sales). The location of Group’s customers is accordingly the geographical segmentation criterion and is defined as below: • Western Europe • Eastern Europe • Americas • Rest of the World 108 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements Full Year Full Year in € million 2017 2016 Western Europe 1,074.9 1,044.3 Eastern Europe 315.1 301.6 Americas 641.5 337.5 Rest of the World 323.9 309.6 Ontex Group Revenues 2,355.4 1,993.0 The sales in the country of domicile of Ontex Group NV (Belgium) represent less than 3% of the Group’s revenue. Sales to countries in our top four markets are presented in the table below. The sales in all other individual countries represent less than 10% of the Group’s revenue. Full Year Full Year in € million 2017 2016 Mexico 297.2 224.1 United Kingdom 240.0 219.6 France 202.0 200.7 Brazil 201.0 – Other countries 1,415.2 1,348.6 Ontex Group Revenues 2,355.4 1,993.0 The following table presents an overview of the non-current assets (property, plant and equipment (PP&E) and intangible assets) located in the main countries. The non-current assets in all other individual countries represent less than 10% of the Group’s total non-current assets (excluding financial instruments, deferred tax assets and goodwill) in 2017. Goodwill is not included in the below table as this not monitored on a country-basis, but at the divisional level. Year ended December 31 in € million 2017 2016* Belgium 121.1 107.2 Mexico 129.3 133.1 Brazil 103.9 – Germany 60.5 55.6 Other countries 214.1 192.1 Total 628.9 488.1 * Figures 2016 corrected with the intangible assets. 7.5.4. Revenue from major customers The Group does not have a single significant customer. In 2017 the largest customer represents 6.0% (2016: 6.9%) of the revenue. The 10 largest customers represent 35.0% of 2017 revenue (2016: 35.1%). Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 109 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued 7.6 List of consolidated companies Percentage of interest held by the Group Name Country 2017 2016 Registered office Company legal number Can Hygiene SPA Algeria 100.00% 100.00% Haouch Sbaat Nord, Zone Industrielle de 04/B/0965101 Rouiba, Voie H, lot 83B, 16012 Rouiba, Alger, Algeria Ontex Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100.00% 100.00% Suite 10, 27 Mayneview Street, Milton, QLD ABN 59 130 076 283 4064, Australia Ontex Manufacturing Pty Ltd Australia 100.00% 100.00% Wonderland Drive 5, Eastern Creek, NSW, ABN 16 145 822 528 (former Ontex Australia Pty Ltd) 2766, Australia Eutima bvba Belgium 100.00% 100.00% Korte Moeie 53, 9900 Eeklo, Belgium 0415.412.891 Ontema bvba Belgium 100.00% 100.00% Genthof 12, 9255 Buggenhout, Belgium 0453.081.852 Ontex bvba Belgium 100.00% 100.00% Genthof 5, 9255 Buggenhout, Belgium 0419.457.296 Active Industria De Cosméticos Brazil 100.00% 0% Rua Contorno Oeste 1/16 Quadra 01, Lote CNPJ 22.010816/0001-39 S.A.* 01/16, Modulo 2 Senador Canedo, Goiania, Brazil Falcon Distribuidora Brazil 100.00% 0% Rua Iza Costa 1.104 Quadra: Area Lote CNPJ 23.191.831/0001-93 Armazenamento E Transporte Modulo 2, Fazenda Retio, Goiania, Brazil S.A.* Ontex Brasil Holding Ltda* Brazil 100.00% 0% Avenida Magalhaes de Castro, 4800, 22° CNPJ 25.186.120/0001-56 andar, parte 05676-120 Sao Paulo, Brazil Chicolastic Chile, S.A. Chile 100.00% 100.00% Calle la Concepcion 81, D 603 P 06, 96886530-7 Providencia, Santiagà, Region Metropolitan,8320000 Santiago de Chile, Chile Ontex Hygienic Disponables China 100.00% 100.00% Hangji industrial park, Hanjiang Dictrict, 321000400010102 (Yangzhou) Co.TD 225111 Yangzhou, China Valor Brands Centroamerica, S.A. Costa Rica 100.00% 100.00% 100 norte del Centro Comercial Tres Rios a 3-101-645685 mano izquierda-Apartamento Tinoco #02, City Cartago, 10106 San José, Costa Rica Ontex CZ Sro Czech Republic100.00% 100.00% Vesecko 491, 51101 Turnov, Czech Republic 44564422 Ontex Hygienic Disposables PLC Ethiopia 100.00% 100.00% Tracon Tower Building Addis Ababa, Subcity EIA-PC/01/005318/08 Arada, Werada 02, Kebele 01, House n° : 30/97, Ethiopia Hygiëne Medica SAS France 100.00% 100.00% Rue de croix 18, 59290 Wasquehal cedex, 401 439 872 France Ontex France SAS France 100.00% 100.00% Quai du rivage 62119 Dourges, France 338 081 102 Ontex Santé France SAS France 100.00% 100.00% Quai du rivage 62119 Dourges, France 502 601 297 Moltex Baby-Hygiene GmbH Germany 100.00% 100.00% Robert-Bosch-Straße 8, 56727 Mayen, HRB 5260 Germany Ontex Beteiligungsgesellschaft Germany 100.00% 100.00% Robert-Bosch-Straße 8, 56727 Mayen, HRB 15558 mbH Germany Ontex Engineering GmbH Germany 100.00% 100.00% Robert-Bosch-Straße 8, 56727 HRA 21335 Mayen,Germany Ontex Healthcare Deutschland Germany 100.00% 100.00% Hansaring 6, Lotte 49504, Germany HRB 9669 GmbH Ontex Hygiënartikel Deutschland Germany 100.00% 100.00% Fabrikstrasse 30, 02692 Grosspostwitz, HRB 3865 GmbH Germany Ontex Inko Deutschland GmbH Germany 100.00% 100.00% Robert-Bosch-Straße 8, 56727 Mayen, HRB 20630 Germany Ontex Logistics GmbH Germany 100.00% 100.00% Robert-Bosch-Straße 8, 56727 Mayen, HRB 21024 Germany Ontex Mayen GmbH Germany 100.00% 100.00% Robert-Bosch-Straße 8, 56727 Mayen, HRB 11699 Germany Ontex Vertrieb Gmbh and Co. KG Germany 100.00% 100.00% Robert-Bosch-Straße 8, 56727 Mayen, HRB 4983 Germany WS Windel-Shop GmbH Germany 100.00% 100.00% Robert-Bosch-Straße 8, 56727 Mayen, HRB 2793 Germany 110 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements Percentage of interest held by the Group Name Country 2017 2016 Registered office Company legal number Ontex Italia Srl Italy 100.00% 100.00% Via Oberdan 140, 25128 Brescia, Italy 10188520158 Ontex Manufacturing Italy S.r.l. Italy 100.00% 100.00% Localita Cucullo, Zona Industriale, 66026 02456370697 Ortona (Chieti),Italy Serenity Holdco S.r.l. Italy 100.00% 100.00% Localita Cucullo, Zona Industriale, 66026 02435020694 Ortona (Chieti),Italy Serenity Spa Italy 100.00% 100.00% Localita Cucullo, Zona Industriale, 66026 01635360694 Ortona (Chieti),Italy Ontex Central Asia LLP Kazakhstan 100.00% 100.00% Almaty, Bostandyk district, Al-Farabi Avenue 5, 600400642455 Business,Center Nurly Tau, Blok 1A, Suite 502, Kazakhstan Comercializadora Interncional de Mexico 100.00% 100.00% Av San Pablo, Xochimehuacan 7213, Colinia CIPQ210141Z8 comercio Mabe, S.A de C.V La Loma, Puebla Mexico CP 72230 Compania Interoceanica de Mexico 100.00% 100.00% Retorno 2 Esteban De Antunano no.8, Col. IPH060317DPA productos Higionicos, S.A de C.V Parque Industrial CD. Textil De Puebla, 74160 Puebla, Mexico Corporativo de administracion Mexico 100.00% 100.00% Av San Pablo, Xochimehuacan 7213, Colinia CAC920612HE9 con calidad, S.A de C.V La Loma, Puebla Mexico CP 72230 Grupe P.I Mabe, S.A de C.V Mexico 100.00% 100.00% Av San Pablo, Xochimehuacan 7213, Colinia GPI950824N64 La Loma, Puebla Mexico CP 72230 Inmobiliaria Kiko S.A de C.V Mexico 100.00% 100.00% Calle 27 Norte 7402, Zona Industrial Anexa a IKI811207FG8 la loma, Puebla Mexico CP 72230 P.I Mabe International, S de R.L Mexico 100.00% 100.00% Av San Pablo, Xochimehuacan 7213, Colinia GPU950824N64 de C.V La Loma, Puebla Mexico CP 72230 Productos Internacionales Mabe, Mexico 100.00% 100.00% Calle Norte 12, Ciudad Industrial 105,22505 PIM810710R32 S.A de C.V Tijuana, Mexico Promotora Internacional de Mexico 100.00% 100.00% Av San Pablo, Xochimehuacan 7213, Colinia PIC001031K61 comercio Mabe, S.A de C.V La Loma, Puebla Mexico CP 72230 Servicios Administrativos E. Mexico 100.00% 100.00% Calle 27 Norte 7402, Zona Industrial Anexa a SAI880817KP4 inmobiliaria Gima S.C la loma, Puebla Mexico CP 72230 Spiral Hygienic Disposables I** Mexico 0% 100.00% Av San Pablo, Xochimehuacan 7213, Colinia SHD161005S97 La Loma, Puebla Mexico CP 72230 Spiral Hygienic Disposables II** Mexico 0% 100.00% Av San Pablo, Xochimehuacan 7213, Colinia SHD161005MB2 La Loma, Puebla Mexico CP 72230 Transportes P.I Mabe, S.A de C.V Mexico 100.00% 100.00% Av San Pablo, Xochimehuacan 7213, Colinia TPM960709QS1 La Loma, Puebla Mexico CP 72230 Ontex Hygiene Sarlau Morocco 100.00% 100.00% Quartier Al Hank Boulevard De La Corniche, 240709 6ième étage, immeuble Yacht A/B Anfa – Casablanco, Morocco Ontex Pakistan ltd Pakistan 100.00% 100.00% Office No 705, 7th Floor, Park Avenue, Main 0076658 Sharh-e-Faisal, Karachi Sindh 7400, Pakistan Ontex Polska sp. z.o.o. Poland 100.00% 100.00% ul. Legionów 93/95, lok 26, 91-072 Lodz, 0000010044 Poland Ontex Romania Srl Romania 100.00% 100.00% Bucharest, 46 Grigore Cobalcescu Street, 2nd R 7682053 floor, 1st District Ontex OOO** Russia 0% 100.00% 11A Derbenevskaya naberezhnaya, Moscow 1027739763688 115114, the Russian Federation Ontex RU LLC Russia 100.00% 100.00% Zemlyanoy Val Street 9, 10564 Moscow, 1055008702649 Russia Ontex ES Holdco SL Spain 100.00% 100.00% Poligono Industrial Nicomedes Garcia, C/ B85082832 Fresno s/n, sector C, 40140 Valverde del Majano, Segovia, Spain Ontex ID SAU Spain 100.00% 100.00% Poligono Industrial Nicomedes Garcia, C/ NIFA-60617875 Fresno s/n, sector C, 40140 Valverde del Majano, Segovia, Spain Ontex Peninsular SAU Spain 100.00% 100.00% Poligono Industrial Nicomedes Garcia, C/ A40103855 Fresno s/n, sector C, 40140 Valverde del Majano, Segovia, Spain Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 111 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued Percentage of interest held by the Group Name Country 2017 2016 Registered office Company legal number Valor Brands Europe, S.L Spain 100.00% 100.00% Poligono Industrial Nicomedes Garcia, C/ M-635328 Fresno s/n, sector C, 40140 Valverde del Majano, Segovia, Spain Ontex Tuk. Urn. San. ve Tic. AS Turkey 100.00% 100.00% Tekstilkent Cad. Koza Plaza B Blok Kat:31 137334 No:116-117 Esenler, Istanbul LLC Ontex Ukraine Ukraine 100.00% 100.00% Building 7(C), 13 M. Pymonenka Street, 04050 37728333 Kyiv, Ukraine Ontex Health Care UK Ltd. United 100.00% 100.00% Kettering Parkway, Kettering Venture Park, 02274216 Kingdom Kettering, Northants, NN156XR, United Kingdom Ontex Retail UK Ltd. United 100.00% 100.00% Unit 5 (1st Floor), Grovelands Business 1613466 Kingdom Centre, Boundary Way, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire, HP2 7TE, United Kingdom Ontex US Holdco, LLC USA 100.00% 100.00% 1201 North Market Street, 19801 N/A Wilmington, New Castle county, Delaware, United States of America Valor Brands, LLC USA 100.00% 100.00% 960 North Point Parkway, Suite 100, 06-1661367 Alpharetta, GA 30005, USA Companies out of scope as from 2017: Spiral Hygienic Disposables I** Mexico 0% 100.00% Av San Pablo, Xochimehuacan 7213, Colinia SHD161005S97 La Loma, Puebla Mexico CP 72230 Spiral Hygienic Disposables II** Mexico 0% 100.00% Av San Pablo, Xochimehuacan 7213, Colinia SHD161005MB2 La Loma, Puebla Mexico CP 72230 Ontex OOO** Russia 0% 100.00% 11A Derbenevskaya naberezhnaya, Moscow 1027739763688 115114, the Russian Federation * Included in the consolidation since February 28, 2017. ** Liquidated in the course of 2017. The voting rights equal the percentage of interest held. The most significant Group subsidiaries are Ontex BVBA, Ontex Mayen GmbH, Ontex Cz Sro, Ontex Tuketim AS, Serenity Spa, Ontex Manufacturing Italy S.r.l., Productos Internacionales Mabe, Active Industria De Cosméticos S.A. and Falcon Distribuidora Armazenamento E Transporte S.A. 112 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements 7.7. Business combinations 2017 Acquisition On March 7, 2017, Ontex completed the acquisition of the personal hygiene business of Hypermarcas (renamed to ‘Ontex Brazil’). Following the successful integration of Grupo Mabe in 2016, the addition of Ontex Brazil supports the Group’s strategy by extending our growth platform in the Americas to Brazil, increasing revenue from Ontex-owned brands and accessing a fast-growing market. Ontex Brazil is the market leader in the adult incontinence category, and holds a solid Number 3 position in baby care in Brazil, the fourth largest hygiene market in the world. Going forward, more than 50% of Ontex Group revenue will come from outside Western Europe, and more than 50% of Group revenue will come from Ontex-owned brands. These two key milestones confirm that significant progress continues to be made in transforming Ontex into a leading international consumer company. Upon closing, the Group has paid a consideration of BRL 1,037.4 million (i.e. €315.4 million) in cash. The net cash paid for the acquisition of Ontex Brazil amounted to €259.9 million. In addition, Sellers and/or Buyers were entitled to a purchase price adjustment based on the outcome of the Purchase Price Adjustment Review (i.e. €12.2 million), which has been adjusted to €10.1 million. This adjustment to the consideration has been received in the second half of 2017. As such, the net cash paid for the acquisition of Ontex Brazil amounts to €249.8 million as presented in the consolidated cash flow statement. The net assets acquired amount to €180.6 million. As a consequence, the Group recognized a goodwill of €124.7 million in the statement of financial position. As of December 31, 2017 the purchase price allocation and hence the determination of the goodwill is provisional and will be completed within 12 months from the acquisition date. The goodwill of €124.7 million arising from the acquisition is attributable to acquired workforce, scale and geographical spread of the operations. The goodwill recognized in the consolidated financial statements is not expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. The following table summarizes the fair value of the consideration paid for Ontex Brazil and the amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date: As included in half-year As recognized per in € million report 2017 Adjustments December 31, 2017 Recognized amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed Cash and cash equivalents 56.8 56.8 Intangible assets 28.3 (4.0) 24.3 Property, plant and equipment 82.9 82.9 Non-current receivables 0.6 0.6 Inventories 64.9 64.9 Trade and other receivables 11.7 (2.6) 9.2 Prepaid expenses and other receivables 12.9 12.9 Deferred tax assets 4.7 2.3 7.0 Interest-bearing debts (17.1) (17.1) Trade and other payables (45.7) (45.7) Other liabilities (0.2) (0.2) Accrued expenses and other payables (13.8) (13.8) Current income tax liabilities (1.1) (1.1) Total identifiable net assets acquired 184.9 (4.3) 180.6 Allocation to Goodwill 118.3 6.4 124.7 Total consideration 303.2 2.1 305.3 Purchase price Cash and cash equivalents 315.4 (10.1) 305.3 Contingent consideration including purchase price adjustment (12.2) 12.2 – Total consideration transferred 303.2 2.1 305.3 Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 113 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued As a result of the acquisition and the fair value adjustments to the Intangible assets, PPE and Inventory, the consolidated statement of financial position at December 31, 2017 reflects adjustments made in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations, resulting respectively in a total amount of €24.3 million, €82.9 million and €64.9 million. The acquisition-related costs in the period ended December 31, 2017 amounted to €6.1 million and are included in ‘Income/ (expenses) related to changes to Group structure’ in the consolidated income statement (note 7.22). Since acquisition date, Ontex Brazil generated revenues and net result of respectively €201.0 million and €-4.3 million in 2017. Had this business combination been effected at January 1, 2017 the revenue of Ontex Brazil from continuing operations would have been €41.3 million higher and the net result would have been €3.6 million higher. Ontex management considers these pro forma numbers to represent an approximate measure of the performance of Ontex Brazil. The gross contractual trade receivables amount to €11.7 million. The best estimate is that at the acquisition date, all contractual cash flows are expected to be collected. There are no contingent arrangements or indemnification assets. 2016 Acquisition On February 29, 2016, Ontex completed the acquisition of 100% of the shares of Grupo P.I. Mabe, S.A. de C.V. (‘Grupo Mabe’) a leading Mexican hygienic disposables business. The integration of Grupo Mabe provides Ontex Group further access to promising markets, primarily in the Americas region and creates a considerably stronger platform for growth in the global personal hygiene solutions markets. The following table summarizes the fair value of the consideration paid for Grupo Mabe and the amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date: in € million Recognized amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed Cash and cash equivalents 30.1 Property, plant and equipment 115.0 Intangible assets (excluding goodwill) 25.2 Inventories 47.3 Trade and other receivables 86.8 Deferred tax assets 0.5 Trade and other payables (99.1) Employee benefit obligations (6.7) Interest-bearing debts (48.9) Current taxes (7.2) Deferred tax liabilities (16.6) Total identifiable net assets acquired 126.4 Allocation to Goodwill 236.1 Total consideration 362.5 Purchase price Cash and cash equivalents 185.5 Contingent consideration including purchase price adjustment 88.7 Fair value of shares exchanged 88.3 Total consideration transferred 362.5 The sellers are entitled to receive a deferred consideration of up to MXN 1,550 million payable in cash, subject to Grupo Mabe achieving certain EBITDA targets for the period 2015 to 2017. On top, parties have agreed that an additional deferred consideration in cash of up to €10.0 million per annum may be payable contingent upon overachieving the EBITDA targets in 2016 and 2017. The full amount of the earn-out payments has initially been taken into account for the determination of the goodwill in 2016 (see above), subsequently the additional deferred consideration of €10.0 million relating to 2016 EBITDA was excluded as not achieved. 114 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements The contingent consideration recognized initially amounted to €88.7 million. As at December 31, 2017, an amount of €15.8 million is recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position. The change compared to the amount recognized at December 31, 2016 (€70.8 million) relates to the payment of part of the contingent consideration for an amount of €47.8 million, the reversal of part of the contingent consideration for an amount of €10.0 million, a negative foreign currency revaluation for an amount of €2.2 million recognized as “Income/(expenses) related to changes to Group structure” in the consolidated income statement (note 7.22) and the unwinding of the discount for an amount of €0.7 million recognized as net finance cost in the consolidated income statement. Reconciliation with cash flow statement The consolidated cash flow statement presents the following relating to the acquisition of subsidiaries within the investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2017: in € million Consideration paid in cash for the acquisition of Ontex Brazil (net of cash acquired) (249.8) Contingent consideration paid for the acquisition of Grupo Mabe (47.8) Payment for acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash acquired (297.6) Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 115 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued 7.8. Goodwill and intangible assets IT implementation in € million Goodwill Brands costs Other intangibles Total Year ended December 31, 2017 Opening net book amount 1,096.2 22.2 10.1 0.2 1,128.7 Additions – – 6.4 – 6.4 Transfers – (0.1) 0.8 – 0.7 Disposals – (0.1) – – (0.1) Amortization expense – (2.0) (5.7) – (7.7) Exchange differences (57.3) (4.4) (0.7) – (62.3) Acquired through business combination 124.7 18.3 6.0 – 149.1 Closing net book amount 1,163.6 34.0 16.3 0.2 1,214.1 At December 31, 2017 Cost or valuation 1,163.6 36.4 34.8 14.2 1,249.0 Accumulated amortization and impairment – (2.4) (18.5) (14.0) (34.9) Net book amount 1,163.6 34.0 16.3 0.2 1,214.1 IT implementation in € million Goodwill Brands costs Other intangibles Total Year ended December 31, 2016 Opening net book amount 860.1 – 4.2 0.3 864.6 Additions – – 6.4 – 6.4 Transfers – – 2.7 – 2.7 Disposals – – (0.3) – (0.3) Amortization expense – (0.5) (3.3) – (3.8) Exchange differences – (2.2) 0.1 (0.1) (2.2) Acquired through business combination 236.1 24.9 0.3 – 261.3 Closing net book amount 1,096.2 22.2 10.1 0.2 1,128.7 At December 31, 2016 Cost or valuation 1,096.2 22.7 23.2 14.2 1,156.3 Accumulated amortization and impairment – (0.5) (13.1) (14.0) (27.6) Net book amount 1,096.2 22.2 10.1 0.2 1,128.7 Capitalized IT implementation costs represent internally developed and externally purchased software for own use. Brands represent the capitalization of some of the brands acquired through the acquisitions of Grupo Mabe and Ontex Brazil. The amortization expense is included in the captions of the consolidated income statement as follows: In € million 2017 2016 Cost of sales 2.0 0.1 Distribution expenses 0.1 0.1 Sales and marketing expenses 0.9 0.5 General and administrative expenses 4.7 3.1 Total amortization expense 7.7 3.8 The Group incurred €9.6 million of research and development expenses in 2017 (2016: €7.1 million) that has been recorded under the caption ‘General and administrative expenses’. No intangible assets have been pledged in the context of financial liabilities. 116 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements Goodwill impairment For the purpose of performing impairment reviews, the Group has identified five cash generating units (CGUs): Mature Market Retail, Growth Markets, Healthcare, Middle East North Africa and Americas Retail. Annual impairment reviews are performed as at December 31 for all CGU’s. These reviews compare the carrying value of each CGU with the recoverable amount of the CGU’s assets calculated using a discounted cash flow model. If the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value of the CGU, an impairment loss is recognized immediately in the income statement. Goodwill allocated to the CGUs as at December 31 was as follows: In € million 2017 2016 Mature Market Retail 732.5 732.5 Growth Markets 25.2 25.2 Healthcare 60.4 60.4 Middle East North Africa 42.0 42.0 Americas retail 303.5 236.1 Goodwill allocated to the CGU’s 1,163.6 1,096.2 The recoverable amount of a CGU is determined by means of value-in-use calculations. These calculations are based on pre-tax cash flow projections (prepared in euros) using key parameters from the consolidated financial budget approved by Ontex’ Board of Directors covering a three-year period. Cash flows beyond the three-year period are extrapolated using an estimated growth rate of 1.0% for Mature Market Retail, 2.0% for Growth Markets, 2.7% for Healthcare, 3.0% for MENA and 3.6% for Americas Retail. The growth rate does not exceed the current market expectations in which the five CGUs are currently operating. The key assumptions for the value-in-use calculations used to determine the recoverable amount are those regarding the discount rates, estimated changes to selling prices, product offerings, direct costs, EBITDA margins and terminal growth rates. The discount rate is a measure based on industry average weighted cost of capital and risk free rates weighted for the different regions in which the CGU’s are operating. Changes in selling practices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market. The calculation uses cash flow projections based on key parameters from the consolidated financial budget approved by the Board of Directors, the Group’s Strategic Plan through 2020, and pre-tax discount rates for each CGU as described in note 7.3.3 Impairment based on current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the Group. The development of the financial budget and Strategic Plan relies on a number of assumptions, including: • The market growth, the evolution of the Group’s market share, competitive landscape and innovation trends in the different markets as well as strategic initiatives. • The product mix. • The expected evolution of various direct and indirect expenses. • The estimated future capital expenditure. The assumptions were derived mainly from: • Available historic data. • External market research . • Internal market expectations based on trend reports, etc. The key assumptions used are reviewed and updated on a yearly basis by the Group’s management. Taking into account the considerable excess of the cash generating unit’s recoverable amount over its carrying amount, and based on sensitivity testing performed, management is of the opinion that any reasonably possible changes in key assumptions on which the recoverable amount is based would not cause the carrying amount to exceed the recoverable amount at December 31, 2017. The Group has performed a sensitivity analysis by reducing the risk-adjusted cash flow projections and by increasing the pre-tax discount rate as disclosed in note 7.3.3 Impairment. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 117 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued 7.9. Property, plant and equipment Land, land Assets under improvements Plant, machinery Furniture and Other construction and in € million and buildings and equipment vehicles tangible assets advance payments Total Year ended December 31, 2017 Opening net book amount 121.1 267.7 1.6 9.4 55.7 455.5 Additions 1.0 37.4 0.6 1.4 78.2 118.6 Transfers 28.0 33.7 – 0.3 (62.7) (0.7) Disposals (0.6) 4.9 (0.1) 0.8 (5.5) (0.5) Depreciation expense (5.5) (38.7) (0.4) (1.4) – (46.0) Exchange differences (6.2) (18.0) (0.1) (0.5) (6.7) (31.5) Acquired through business combination 13.3 38.9 – – 30.6 82.9 Closing net book amount 151.1 326.0 1.7 9.9 89.7 578.3 At December 31, 2017 Cost 181.6 505.2 3.0 19.3 89.7 798.8 Accumulated depreciation and impairment (30.6) (179.2) (1.4) (9.4) – (220.5) Net book amount 151.1 326.0 1.7 9.9 89.7 578.3 Land, land Assets under improvements Plant, machinery Furniture and Other construction and in € million and buildings and equipment vehicles tangible assets advance payments Total Year ended December 31, 2016 Opening net book amount 93.2 171.6 0.8 9.3 44.1 319.0 Additions 1.0 25.8 0.8 0.5 47.3 75.4 Transfers 0.4 42.9 (0.6) 0.6 (46.0) (2.7) Disposals – (2.2) – 0.3 1.6 (0.3) Depreciation expense (4.4) (33.3) (0.5) (1.1) – (39.3) Exchange differences (2.9) (7.9) (0.1) (0.2) (0.5) (11.6) Acquired through business combination 33.8 70.8 1.2 – 9.2 115.0 Closing net book amount 121.1 267.8 1.6 9.4 55.7 455.5 At December 31, 2016 Cost 146.2 423.6 2.7 17.8 55.7 646.0 Accumulated depreciation and impairment (25.1) (155.9) (1.1) (8.4) – (190.5) Net book amount 121.1 267.7 1.6 9.4 55.7 455.5 The additions to property, plant and equipment represent mainly investments in capacity extension, investments in innovation, investments to improve the efficiency and IT investments. 118 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements The following annual operating lease payments have been included in the income statement for the years ended December 31: in € million 2017 2016 Land and buildings 20.5 16.3 Machinery and equipment 6.2 6.1 Rent of pallets 4.4 5.2 Furniture and vehicles 7.0 3.9 Other lease rentals 2.2 1.8 Total operating lease payments 40.2 33.3 The depreciation expense and impairments are included in the captions of the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as follows: in € million 2017 2016 Cost of Sales 38.7 33.0 Distribution expenses 2.4 1.9 Sales and marketing expenses 1.3 1.8 General administrative expenses 3.4 1.8 Other operating income 0.2 – Total depreciation expense 46.0 38.5 Non-recurring expenses – 0.8 Total depreciation and impairment 46.0 39.3 The Group did not have material finance lease arrangements during the reporting period. No pledges have been set on the items of property, plant and equipment. 7.10. Trade receivables, prepaid expenses and other receivables Year ended December 31 in € million 2017 2016 Trade receivables 375.3 317.5 Less: allowance for impairment of trade receivables (5.5) (5.0) Trade receivables – net 369.8 312.5 Prepayments 24.2 16.5 Other amounts receivable 56.4 44.5 Prepaid expenses and other receivables 80.6 61.0 Trade and other receivables – Current 450.3 373.5 ‘Other amounts receivable’ include recoverable VAT for an amount of €43.1 million for 2017 (2016: €34.8 million). The fair value of the current receivables approximates their carrying amounts. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 119 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued The aging of the trade receivables (net) at December 31 is as follows: In € million 2017 2016 Not due 302.9 275.1 0 to 30 days 40.3 23.6 31 to 60 days 13.1 4.6 61 to 90 days 5.3 2.4 Over 90 days 8.3 6.8 Total 369.8 312.5 The Group doesn’t apply systematically external credit rating. An impairment analysis of trade receivables is done on an individual level, but there are no individual significant impairments. The carrying amount of the Group’s trade receivables (gross) are denominated in the following currencies: in € million 2017 2016 EUR 115.8 128.4 BRL 67.9 – PLN 45.5 43.2 MXN 44.5 44.3 Other 22.9 12.8 USD 18.0 22.6 RUB 17.3 19.6 TRY 16.6 18.0 GBP 16.4 21.9 AUD 10.5 6.7 Total 375.3 317.5 During the course of the year, the payment terms for the receivables have neither deteriorated nor been renegotiated. The maximum credit risk exposure at the end of the reporting period is the carrying value of each caption of receivables mentioned above. The Group does not hold any collateral as security. Movements on the Group allowance for impairment of trade receivables are as follows: Year ended December 31 in € million 2017 2016 Opening Balance 5.0 4.3 Assets Acquired – 0.7 Allowance for receivable impairment 1.8 1.5 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible (0.1) (0.7) Unused amounts reversed (0.9) (0.6) Foreign exchange differences (0.3) (0.2) At December 31 5.5 5.0 The creation and the release of the allowance for impaired receivables have been included in ‘Sales and marketing expense’ in the income statement. 120 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements The Group has entered into a Group non-recourse factoring agreement with BNP Paribas Fortis Factoring. The BNP Paribas Fortis Factoring Agreement provides us with a maximum credit facility of up to €125 million and up to 95% of the amount of the approved outstanding receivables on all debtors that we transfer to the Factor. The remaining 5% of the relevant receivables is paid by the Factor to us upon receipt of payment from the relevant debtor, upon which also the remaining balance of the receivable is derecognized. Financing per debtor is capped at 10% of the aggregate amount of all approved outstanding receivables transferred to the Factor. Any financing within the credit limit is non-recourse to us. This factoring agreement is an off-balance sheet arrangement. Next to the above mentioned Group factoring agreement, only Serenity (Italian subsidiary) entered into a bilateral factoring agreement with Ifitalia, Mediofactoring and Banca IFIS. All these agreements are non-recourse agreements. As at December 31, 2017, €175.0 million of financing was obtained through the factoring programs (€148.0 million in 2016). The late payment risk related to the factoring has been assessed as immaterial at closing 2017 and 2016. In accordance with IAS 39 ‘Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, all non-recourse trade receivables, included in these factoring programs, are derecognized for the non-continuing involvement part. 7.11. Inventories Inventories can be split as follows: Year ended December 31 in € million 2017 2016 Raw materials 150.5 110.6 Work in progress 1.0 0.9 Finished goods 166.0 147.2 Other 24.3 9.8 Write-down on inventories (14.6) (14.3) Inventories 327.2 254.2 The Group mainly uses fluff, super-absorbers and non-woven fabrics. Other raw materials used by the Group for its production include polyethylene, adhesives and tapes as basic raw materials. The finished products are baby diapers, baby pants, towels, tampons, panty liners, wipes, incontinence products and trade goods. The cost of inventories recognized as an expense and included under ‘Cost of sales’ amounted to €1,647.4 million in 2017 (€1,407.5 million in 2016). 7.12. Cash and cash equivalents The net cash position as presented in the consolidated statement of cash flows is as follows: Year ended December 31 in € million 2017 2016 Short-term bank deposits (no longer than 3 months) 18.5 7.5 Cash at bank and on hand 100.0 205.3 Total 118.5 212.8 Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 121 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued The carrying amount of the cash and cash equivalents is a reasonable approximation of their fair value. The credit quality of the banks and financial institutions the Group is working with is mentioned in the following table: in € million 2017 2016 AA 7.2 11.9 A 88.5 192.7 BBB 10.5 0.5 BB 9.1 0.2 B – 4.6 No credit rating 3.2 2.9 Total 118.5 212.8 7.13. Share capital In € million Number of shares Share capital Share Premium Total Opening balance at January 1, 2016 72,138,887 694.8 218.3 913.1 Capital Increase 2,722,221 27.2 48.5 75.7 Closing balance at December 31, 2016 74,861,108 722.0 266.8 988.8 Capital Increase 7,486,110 74.9 146.0 220.8 Issuance expenses new shares – (1.7) – (1.7) Closing balance at December 31, 2017 82,347,218 795.2 412.7 1,208.0 In February 2016, a capital increase was realized as part of the closing of the ‘Grupo Mabe Transaction’. The share capital increased by €27.2 million, and the share premium increased by €48.5 million pursuant, a capital increase in kind (Vendor Loan Note), resulting in capital of €988.8 million represented by 74,861,108 shares. In March 2017, a capital increase was realized in an accelerated bookbuilt placement. The share capital increased by €74.9 million, and the share premium increased by €146.0 million pursuant to a capital increase in cash, resulting in capital of €1,208.0 million represented by 82,347,218 shares. 122 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements 7.14. Earnings per share In accordance with IAS 33, the basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. The number of shares used for 2016 was 74,407,405, which is the weighted average number of shares for 2016, given the capital increase in February 2016, see also note 7.13. The number of shares used for 2017 was 79,661,317, which is the weighted average number of shares for 2017, given the capital increase in March 2017, see also note 7.13. Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent (after adjusting for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. In case of Ontex Group NV, dilution relating to the share-based payments (see note 7.26) affect the weighted average number of ordinary shares. The table below reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: Full Year Full Year In € million 2017 2016 Basic Earnings Profit from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent 128.4 119.7 Adjustment dilution – – Profit from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent, adjusted for dilution 128.4 119.7 Adjusted basic earnings Profit from continuing operations attributable to owners of the parent 128.4 119.7 Total Non-recurring income/(expenses) 4.5 12.9 Tax correction (1.4) (0.9) Adjusted Basic Earnings1 131.4 131.7 Adjustment dilution – – Adjusted Basic Earnings, adjusted for dilution 131.4 131.7 1  djusted basic earnings defined as profit for the period plus non-recurring income/(expenses) and tax effect on non-recurring income/(expenses), attributable to A the owners of the parent. Full Year Full Year Number of Shares 2017 2016 Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period 79,661,317 74,407,405 Dilution 239,792 233,593 Full Year Full Year Earnings per share (€) 2017 2016 Basic Earnings per share 1.61 1.61 Diluted Basic Earnings per Share 1.61 1.61 Adjusted basic earnings per share 1.65 1.77 Diluted Adjusted earnings per share 1.64 1.77 A weighted average number of 18,716 options were not included in the denominator of the diluted earnings per share as they were out-of-the-money at year-end 2017. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 123 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued 7.15. Interest-bearing debts Year ended December 31 in € million 2017 2016 Non-current Borrowings: Senior Secured Notes 2014 – 246.4 Facility A Loan 2014 > 1 year – 375.7 Syndicated Term Loan A > 1 year 584.7 – Facility C Loan – 124.3 Term Loan 2017 > 1 year 150.0 – Total return swap 25.6 22.3 Financial lease and other liabilities 11.7 10.4 Interest–bearing debts non–current 772.0 779.1 Current Borrowings: Senior revolving Facility B 30.0 – Interests: Bonds – 1.5 Other borrowings 1.0 0.8 Financial lease and other liabilities 38.9 20.7 Interest–bearing debts current 69.9 23.0 Total interest–bearing debts 841.9 802.1 Reconciliation to statement of cash flows: Non-cash movements Opening Closing carrying Business Fair value Exchange carrying December 31 in € million amount Cash flows Acquisition combination changes differences Reclasses Other amount Non-current interestbearing debts Borrowings 768.7 (15.5) 7.1 760.3 Financial lease and other liabilities 10.4 2.2 (1.1) 0.2 11.7 Current interest-bearing debts Borrowings 2.3 28.7 31.0 Financial lease and other liabilities 20.7 1.2 17.1 (0.2) 38.9 Total liabilities from financing activities 802.1 16.6 – 17.1 – (1.1) – 7.1 841.9 Presented in the statement of cash flows (financing activities) as follows: Proceeds from borrowings 1,108.2 Borrowing expenses paid (3.9) Repayment of borrowings (1,087.7) All borrowings are denominated in € as of December 31, 2017 and 2016. On November 14, 2014, Ontex Group NV closed the offering of €250.0 million 4.75% Senior Secured Notes due November 15, 2021 for an issue price of 100%. On November 15, 2017, the Group redeemed all outstanding Notes. As a result of this early redemption, the Group incurred a redemption expense of €5.9 million, which is presented in ‘Net finance cost’ in the consolidated income statement. 124 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements On September 26, 2017, the Group entered into a syndicate credit facilities agreement (Syndicated Term Loan A) in an amount of €600.0 million, and a revolving credit facility (Senior revolving Facility B) in an amount of up to €300.0 million. The Syndicated Term Loan A of €600 million due 2022 is carrying an interest rate of EURIBOR 3 months + margin of 1.25%. the Senior revolving Facility B of €30 million due 2022 is carrying an interest rate of EURIBOR 3 months + margin of 1.05%. Furthermore, the Group has also closed a Term Loan of €150 million due 2024, carrying an interest rate of EURIBOR 3 months + margin of 1.40%. This agreement also includes an accordion option of €100 million, carrying an interest rate of EURIBOR 3 months + margin of 1.40%. At year-end 2016, the Group had a senior facilities agreement, comprised of a euro-denominated Senior Term Loan Facility (Facility A Loan 2014) in an amount of €380.0 million and a euro-denominated Senior revolving Facility B (Facility B Loan 2014) in an amount of up to €100.0 million. The euro-denominated senior term loan facility in an amount of €380.0 million carried an interest rate based on the EURIBOR 3 months plus a starting margin of 275 basis points, which was largely hedged. Furthermore, the Group had also a euro-denominated Senior Term Loan Facility C in an amount of €125.0 million. The euro-denominated senior term loan facility in an amount of €480.0 million had an interest rate based on the EURIBOR 3 months plus a margin of 225 basis points. The Senior Term Loan Facility C had an interest rate based on the EURIBOR 3 months plus a starting margin of 125 basis points. On March 1, 2017, the Group entered into a Senior Term Loan Facility D in an amount of €125 million, carrying an interest rate of EURIBOR 3 months + starting margin of 0.50%. All these facilities have been refinanced through the 2017 syndicate facilities agreements mentioned above. The refinancing resulted in a gain upon refinancing as a consequence of the application of the amortized cost for an amount of €8.8 million, presented in net finance cost in the consolidated income statement. As of December 31, 2017, €270.0 million of the Senior Revolving Facility is undrawn (2016: €100.0 million). On July 29, 2015, a full hedging program (total return swap) for the share-based payment arrangements (LTIP) was implemented. For more information we refer to note 7.4.6 and 7.26. On July 1, 2017, this program was extended and the total return swap increased to an amount of €25.6 million (2016: €22.3 million). 7.15.1. Collateral for borrowings The Group is subject to regular information covenants, and certain financial ratios are monitored. No assets have been pledged in the context of the syndicated term loans. However, certain subsidiaries act as guarantors for these loans. 7.15.2. Other information • HSBC Turkey has granted a line of credit to Ontex Tuketim A.S. for USD 1.0 million. • Isbank Turkey has granted a line of credit to Ontex Tuketim A.S. for TRY 11.5 million and one for USD 3.4 million. Over this line of credit in USD, 0.2 million has been utilized for letters of guarantees given to one of the suppliers. Over the line of credit in TRY, 0.1 million has been utilized as letter of guarantee given to one of the suppliers. • Yapi Kredi Turkey has granted a line of credit to Ontex Tuketim A.S. for TRY 9.5 million for which the cash limit is TRY 2.1 million, Direct Debit system Limit TRY 1.0 million and a guarantee letter of TRY 6.5 million (of which TRY 1.5 million has been utilized for a letter of guarantee to one of the suppliers). • Akbank Turkey has granted a line of credit to Ontex Tuketim A.S. for TRY 6.3 million and an additional credit line for USD 1.0 million. Over this line nothing has been used. • Garanti Turkey has granted a line of credit to Ontex Tuketim A.S. for TRY 2.9 million and an additional credit line for USD 0.5 million. Over this line of credit of TRY 2.9 million, 0.1 million has been utilized for a letter of guarantee given to one of the suppliers. • Ontex bvba has given bank guarantees for an amount of €10.2 million in favor of the Italian VAT authorities and €2.0 million in favor of the Italian Custom Agency as at December 31, 2017. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 125 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued 7.16. Employee benefit liabilities The Group grants its working and retired personnel post-employment benefits, long-term benefits, and termination benefits. These benefits have been valued in conformity with IAS 19. The related IAS 19 liability recognized in the statement of financial position can be analysed as follows: Year ended December 31 in € million 2017 2016 Post-employment benefits 19.3 20.1 Long-term benefits 2.3 2.4 Termination benefits1 0.1 0.1 Employee benefit liabilities 21.7 22.6 Short-term employee benefit liabilities 44.7 39.0 Net liability 66.4 61.6 1 Pre-pension included in termination benefits. The calculation of the liability is based on actuarial assumptions that have been determined on the various balance sheet dates. They are based not only on macro-economic factors valid for the dates in question but also on the specific characteristics of the various schemes evaluated. They represent the Group’s best estimate for the future. They are periodically reviewed in accordance with the evolution of the markets and available statistics. Post-employment benefits Ontex makes payments on a defined contribution basis to both state and private pension arrangements across our operations. In addition, Ontex operates a defined benefit insurance scheme in Belgium and Ontex also has an obligation to make severance payments to employees upon their retirement in France and Turkey. Ontex also operates several unfunded pension arrangements in respect of our German operations. The German operations do not fund the pension arrangements but reflect pension scheme liabilities in company accounts on an IAS 19 basis. The pension benefits are paid by the relevant company as they fall due. The Group operates a couple of defined contribution (DC) plans which receive fixed contributions. The Group’s legal or constructive obligation for these plans is limited to the contributions. The expense recognized in the current period in relation to these contributions amounts to € 4.1 million (see also note 7.20 below; 2016: € 3.6 million). In Belgium the defined contribution (DC) plans are subject to a minimum guaranteed rate of return by law and are hence treated as defined benefit (DB) plans. In practice this guarantee is mainly covered by insurance companies. As there is no deficit as per December 31, 2017, no liability has been recognized (2016: nil). The accumulated reserves of these plans are equal to the assets. There are no risks to which the plan exposes the entity, focusing on any unusual, entity-specific or plan-specific risks, and of any significant concentrations of risk. 126 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements Reconciliation of the post-employment employee benefit liabilities: Post-employment employee benefit liabilities in € million 2017 2016 Recognition of the obligation Defined benefit obligation (DBO) at end of period (28.1) (27.8) Fair value of plan assets at end of period 9.4 8.1 Funded status (18.7) (19.7) Net (liability) asset in statement of financial position (18.7) (19.7) Defined benefit cost Current service cost 1.7 1.6 Past service cost (0.3) (0.3) Service cost recognized in Income Statement 1.4 1.4 Interest expense on DBO 0.5 0.7 Interest income on plan assets – Net interest cost 0.5 0.7 Remeasurement of other long-term benefits – – Pension (expense) profit (employer) 1.9 2.1 Reconciliation of the obligation Defined benefit obligation (DBO) at beginning of year (28.1) (24.9) Business combination – (1.3) Other significant events (transfers) – – Current service cost (1.7) (1.6) Past service cost 0.3 0.3 Service cost (1.4) (1.3) Interest expense on DBO (0.5) (0.7) Remeasurement of other long-term benefits – – Participant contributions (0.1) – Administrative expenses included in the DBO 0.1 – Taxes included in the DBO 0.1 0.1 Other significant events (transfers) (0.3) (0.1) Benefit payments from plan 0.1 0.4 Benefit payments from employer 0.5 0.5 Effect of changes in financial assumptions (0.7) (2.1) Effect of experience adjustments: 1.6 1.4 Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates 0.3 (0.1) Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 127 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued Post-employment employee benefit liabilities in € million 2017 2016 Defined benefit obligation (DBO) at end of year (28.4) (28.1) Reconciliation of plan assets at fair value Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 8.1 7.6 Interest income 0.2 0.2 Employer contribution 1.5 1.3 Plan participants’ contributions 0.1 – Other significant events (transfers) 0.3 – Benefit payments from plan (0.1) (0.4) Benefit payments from employer (0.5) (0.5) Administrative expenses included in the DBO (0.1) – Taxes paid from plan assets (0.2) (0.1) Return on plan assets (excluding interest income) 0.1 – Fair value of plan assets at end of period 9.4 8.1 Reconciliation of net (liability)/asset in statement of financial position Net (liability)/asset at start of year (19.8) (17.3) Business combination – (1.3) Other significant events (transfers) – – Defined benefit cost included in the income statement (1.9) (2.1) Total remeasurements included in OCI 1.0 (0.6) Employer contributions 1.7 1.5 Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates 0.3 – Net (liability)/asset at end of year (18.7) (19.8) Unfunded versus funded Part of DBO from plans that are wholly unfunded (18.9) (19.7) The plan assets consist of insurance contracts. Expected contributions to post-employment benefit plans for the year ending December 31, 2018 are €1.9 million. 128 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements 7.16.1. Significant actuarial assumptions Country As at December, 31 2017 Belgium Germany France Turkey Italy Mexico 1.20% / 1.50% / Discount rate 1,5%* 1.25%* 1,5%* 9.7% 1,35%* 7.5% 1.20% / 1.50% / Expected Interest Income 1.5% 1.25% 1.5% 9.7% 1.4% 7.5% Salary increase rate (on top of inflation) 3.3% 0.00% / N/A / N/A 2.5% 5.0% N/A 4.5% 1.75% / 1.75% / Rate of inflation 1.8% 1.75% 1.8% 5.0% 1.8% 4.0% MR/FR with age correction minus INSEE 2012/2014 RG48 Italian Mortality table 3 years Heubeck 2005 G par sexe C.S.O. 1980 tables EMSSA09 Based on Company company Turnover table/rates None N/A Table 1 specific 3% flat experience Disability table/rates N/A Heubeck 2005 G N/A N/A N/A N/A Weighted average durations 14.1 10.9 13.0 4.6 12.4 11.0 Country As at December, 31 2016 Belgium Germany France Turkey Italy Mexico 1.30% / 1.40% / Discount rate 1.8%* 1.30%* 1.3% 10.2% 1.4% 6.6% 1.30% / 1.40% / Expected Interest Income 1.8% 1.30% 1.3% 10.2% 1.1% 6.6% Salary increase rate (on top of inflation) 3.0% 0.00% / N/A / N/A 2.3% 5.0% N/A 4.5% 1.00% / 1.50% / Rate of inflation 1.5% 1.50% 1.5% 5.0% 1.5% 4.0% MR/FR with age correction minus RG48 Italian Mortality table 3 years Heubeck 2005 G INSEE 2011-2013 C.S.O. 1980 tables EMSSA09 Based on Company company Turnover table/rates None N/A Table1/Table2 specific 3% flat experience Disability table/rates N/A Heubeck 2005 G N/A N/A N/A N/A Weighted average durations 13.1 11.2 13.9 5.0 12.6 12.2 * Plan durations < 12: 1.3%; plan durations <= 15: 1.4%; plan durations > 15: 1.8%. There are no unusual entity-specific or plan-specific risks to which the plan exposes the entity, neither are there any significant concentrations of risk. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 129 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligation as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. As at December, 31 2017 in € million Belgium Germany France Turkey Italy Mexico Discount rate –0.25bp (13.3) (9.3) (2.7) (0.4) (2.0) (1.2) Discount rate +0.25bp 12.4 8.8 2.5 0.4 1.8 1.2 Salary increase –0.25bp (12.7) (2.9) (2.5) (0.4) (1.9) (1.2) Salary increase +0.25bp 13.0 2.9 2.7 0.4 1.9 1.2 As at December, 31 2016 in € million Belgium Germany France Turkey Italy Mexico Discount rate –0.25bp (12.2) (9.7) (2.9) (0.4) (2.0) (1.2) Discount rate +0.25bp 11.4 9.1 2.7 0.4 1.9 1.2 Salary increase –0.25bp (11.7) (4.3) (2.7) (0.4) (1.9) (1.2) Salary increase +0.25bp 11.9 4.3 2.9 0.4 1.9 1.2 7.16.2. Post-Employment Benefits by Country As at December, 31 2017 in € million Belgium Germany France Turkey Italy Mexico Total Recognition of the obligation Defined benefit obligation (DBO) at end of period (12.9) (9.1) (2.6) (0.5) (1.9) (1.2) (28.2) Fair value of plan assets at end of period 9.4 – – – – – 9.4 Funded status (3.4) (9.1) (2.6) (0.5) (1.9) (1.2) (18.7) Net (liability)/asset in statement of financial position (3.4) (9.1) (2.6) (0.5) (1.9) (1.2) (18.7) As at December, 31 2016 in € million Belgium Germany France Turkey Italy Mexico Total Recognition of the obligation Defined benefit obligation (DBO) at end of period (11.7) (9.4) (2.8) (0.6) (1.9) (1.4) (27.8) Fair value of plan assets at end of period 8.1 – – – – – 8.1 Funded status (3.6) (9.4) (2.8) (0.6) (1.9) (1.4) (19.7) Net (liability)/asset in statement of financial position (3.6) (9.4) (2.8) (0.6) (1.9) (1.4) (19.7) 130 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements 7.17. Deferred taxes and current taxes Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset and when the deferred taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following items: 2017 2016 In € million Deferred tax asset Deferred tax liability Deferred tax asset Deferred tax liability Intangible assets – (1.9) – (3.6) Property, plant and equipment – (42.9) – (42.6) Inventories 0.2 – 0.4 – Financial instruments 0.4 – 1.1 – Employee benefits 2.5 – 2.0 – Accrued expenses and other payables 4.3 – – (0.9) Others – (1.6) – (3.3) Tax losses 109.1 – 128.0 – Tax credit 0.6 – 0.9 – Total deferred tax assets and liabilities 117.1 (46.4) 132.4 (50.4) Net deferred tax assets not recognized (95.2) – (119.2) – Reclass (net deferred tax position by company) (3.6) 3.6 (4.5) 4.5 Total recognized deferred tax assets and liabilities 18.3 (42.8) 8.7 (45.9) Deferred tax assets are recognized on temporary differences, tax attributes carried forward and tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realization of the related tax benefit through the future taxable profits is probable. The Group did not recognize deferred tax assets of €95.7 million (2016: €119.2 million) on the tax losses carried forward (see also note 7.3.1). The tax losses carried forward mainly relate to France, Belgium, Brazil and Spain. In Spain this relates to tax losses at the level of the Spanish subsidiary acquired as part of Grupo Mabe. In Brazil this relates to tax losses at the level of the Brazilian subsidiary acquired from Hypermarcas. In both countries, tax losses can in principle be carried forward indefinitely but the current profit levels in the relevant entities are such that no deferred tax asset has been recognized per December 31, 2017, bearing in mind that in Brazil no tax consolidation is allowed and that in Spain pre-acquisition tax losses cannot be offset against profits of legacy Ontex entities. The Group did not recognize deferred taxes associated with investments in subsidiaries. There is currently no policy or detailed plan in relation to the payment of dividends within the Group. In € million 2017 2016 Current tax assets 7.1 10.6 Current tax liabilities (50.9) (55.3) The current tax assets mainly relate to the excess of pre-payments made compared to the actual income tax payable for the year. The current tax liabilities include an amount of €36.8 million actual corporate taxes payable (2016: €43.2 million) and €14.1 million of provision for uncertain taxes (2016: €12.1 million). Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 131 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued 7.18. Current and non-current liabilities Other current liabilities (excluding provisions, income tax liabilities, financial liabilities and liabilities directly associated with non-current assets intended for sale) can be presented as follows: Year ended December 31 (In € million) 2017 2016 Accrued expenses and other payables 32.8 30.1 Less: Non-current portion – – Current accrued expenses and other payables 32.8 30.1 Other current financial liabilities 20.8 49.3 Trade payables 473.3 366.8 Employee benefit liabilities 44.7 39.1 Total current liabilities 571.7 485.3 Other non-current financial liabilities – 26.4 The Other current financial liabilities as per December 31, 2017 include the deferred consideration payment for the acquisitions of Grupo Mabe (€15.8 million; 2016: €44.3 million) and Serenity (€5.0 million; 2016: €5.0 million). The Other non-current financial liabilities as per December 31, 2016 relate to deferred consideration payments for the acquisition of Grupo Mabe (€26.4 million). 7.19. Provisions In € million Legal claims Restructuring Total Opening Balance 7.4 0.8 8.2 Additional provisions 0.4 0.1 0.5 Unused amounts reversed (0.5) – (0.5) Used during the year (0.2) 0.2 – Other changes – – – At December 31, 2017 7.2 1.0 8.2 Of which non-current 0.4 – 0.4 Of which current 6.8 1.0 7.8 The Group recognizes a provision for certain legal claims filed against the Group by customers, suppliers or former employees. The most significant item is a provision of €5.2 million in relation to the Spanish Competition Authorities (CNMC) case. Please also refer to note 7.27 on the contingencies. 132 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements 7.20. Employee benefit expenses For the year ended December 31 in € million Note 2017 2016 Wages and salaries (243.7) (197.0) Social security costs (61.1) (48.3) Defined benefit plans – Service cost 16 (1.4) (1.4) Defined contribution costs (4.1) (3.6) Other employee benefit expenses (26.5) (15.3) Total employee benefit expenses (336.7) (265.6) 2017 2016 Average number of total employees (in full-time equivalents) 11,013 7,770 Of which: – workers 7,475 4,772 – employees 3,431 2,907 – management 107 91 The 2016 figures include Grupo MABE average number of total employees since March 1, 2016; while the 2017 figures include Ontex Brazil average number of total employees since March 7, 2017. 7.21. Other operating income/(expenses), net For the year ended December 31 in € million 2017 2016 Gain on sale of assets (0.1) 0.6 Foreign exchange differences on operating activities (0.5) 3.6 Losses on sale of assets (0.6) (1.9) Other income/(expenses) 0.7 2.3 Total other operating income/(expenses), net (0.5) 4.6 7.22. Non-recurring income and expenses Full Year Full Year For the year ended December 31 in € million 2017 2016 Factory Closure (0.1) (0.1) Business restructuring (4.2) (2.5) Acquisition-related expenses 2.1 (10.9) Change in fair value of contingent consideration (2.2) 6.6 Income and expenses related to changes to Group structure (4.4) (6.9) Impairment of assets (0.1) (0.8) Anti-trust claim Spain – (5.2) Other – – Income and expenses related to impairments and major litigations (0.1) (6.0) Total non-recurring Income and Expenses (4.5) (12.9) Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 133 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued Items classified under the heading non-recurring income and expenses are those items that are considered by management not to relate to items in the ordinary course of activities of the Company. The Group has adopted this classification to allow a better understanding of its recurring financial performance. These items are presented as follows in the consolidated income statement as follows: • income and expenses related to changes to Group structure; and • income/(expenses) related to impairments and major litigations. 7.22.1. Income and expenses related to changes to Group structure Business restructuring: The Group undertook a number of projects to optimize the management of its business. In 2016 and 2017 the expenses related to the move of the two existing factories in France into one new site. The 2017 costs further include the costs for the move to a new production facility in Russia and the start-up of a new entity in Ethiopia, hosting both production and commercial activities. Acquisition-related expenses: In 2016 the Group had expenses related to the acquisition and integration of Grupo Mabe (€8.6 million) and incurred €2.3 million expenses for the acquisition of the Hygiene business of Hypermarcas. In 2017, an income of €10.0 million was realized as the performance target set for the additional deferred consideration for the acquisition of Grupo Mabe relating to 2017 EBITDA was not achieved. Cost for integration of Grupo Mabe totalled €1.8 million in 2017. The expenses for the acquisition and integration of Ontex Brazil amounted to €6.1 million in 2017. Change in fair value of contingent consideration: Gains from revaluation of the deferred consideration payments expressed in MXN were €6.6 million in 2016, whereas in 2017 a loss was realized of €2.2 million. 7.22.2. Income/(expenses) related to impairments and major litigations Asset Impairment: The asset impairment charge is a non-cash item and relates in 2016 and 2017 to an impairment as a result of the move of the two existing factories into one new site in Dourges, France. Anti-trust claim Spain: Provision of €5.2 million in relation to the Spanish Competition Authorities (CNMC) case recognized in 2016. Please also refer to note 7.27 on the contingencies. 7.23. Expenses by nature Expenses by nature represent an alternative disclosure for amounts included in the Consolidated Income Statement. These are classified under ‘Cost of Sales’, ‘Distribution Expenses’, ‘Sales and Marketing Expenses’, ‘General Administrative Expenses’ and ‘Other operating income/expense (Net)’ in respect of the years ended December 31: in € million Note 2017 2016 Changes in inventories (58.3) 21.8 Raw materials and consumables purchased (1,307.5) (1,174.6) Employee benefit expenses 20 (336.7) (265.6) Depreciation and amortization 8-9 (53.5) (42.3) Rendered services (345.8) (297.2) Operating lease payments 9 (40.2) (33.3) Other gains/(expenses) 21 (0.5) 4.6 Total cost of sales, distribution expenses, sales and marketing expenses, general administrative expenses and other operating income/(Expense) (2,142.5) (1,786.6) 134 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements 7.24. Net finance cost The various items comprising the net finance cost are as follows: Full Year Full Year in € million 2017 2016 Interest income on current assets 3.5 1.5 Exchange rate differences 43.4 41.9 Gain on refinancing 8.8 – Other 0.1 0.2 Finance income 55.7 43.6 Interest expense on bonds and TLA (including commitment fee) (21.3) (21.4) Fair value adjustment deferred consideration 2016 (1.2) (1.8) Amortization borrowing expenses (5.9) (2.7) Interest expense on other loans (7.3) (5.7) Interest expense (35.6) (31.7) Exchange rate differences (51.2) (35.1) Banking cost (8.9) (2.3) Factor fee (1.5) (2.4) Losses on derivatives and deports forward contracts (2.3) (1.5) Finance cost (99.5) (73.0) Finance income as per income statement 55.7 43.6 Finance expense as per income statement (99.5) (72.9) Net finance cost as per income statement (43.8) (29.3) Reconciliation to Statement of Cash Flows: Full Year Full Year in € million 2017 2016 Total interest expense (27.1) (25.4) Movement in accrued interest and accreting interest (1.2) (0.2) Interest paid (28.3) (25.6) Full Year Full Year in € million 2017 2016 Total interest income 3.5 1.6 Movement in accrued interest (0.2) (0.1) Interest received 3.3 1.5 Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 135 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued 7.25. Income tax expense The income tax (charged)/credited to the income statement during the year is as follows: in € million 2017 2016 Current tax – (charge)/credit (43.1) (42.6) Deferred tax – (charge)/credit 7.0 (1.9) Total income tax expense (36.1) (44.5) The income tax expense can be reconciled as follows: in € million 2017 2016 Profit before income tax 164.5 164.2 Income tax expense calculated at domestic tax rates (44.3) (48.5) Disallowed expenses (4.4) (4.4) Use of previously unrecognized tax losses 5.1 – Use of previously recognized tax losses 0.8 1.6 Effect of unused tax losses not recognized as deferred tax assets (4.7) 1.4 Effect of previously unrecognized tax losses now recognized as deferred tax assets 6.9 0.2 Adjustments in respect of prior year (1.5) 3.2 Effect on deferred tax balances due to change in tax rates 4.8 – Other 1.2 2.0 Total income tax expense (36.1) (44.6) As mentioned in note 7.3.1, tax rates in Belgium, France and the US have been adapted. The impact of these changes on the deferred taxes recognized on temporary differences, tax losses and other tax credits amounts to €4.8 million as presented in the table above. 7.26. Share-based payments Since September 2014 the Company implemented yearly Long Term Incentive Plans (‘LTIP’), which are based on a combination of stock options (further ‘Options’) and restricted stock units (further ‘RSU’s’). The Options and RSU’s are accounted for as equitysettled share-based payments. The options and RSU’s can only vest and options giving the right to receive shares of the Company (further ‘Shares’) or any other rights to acquire Shares can only be exercisable as from three years after the grant. The RSU and Options will vest subject to the condition that the participant remains in service. The share price has been considered to be the relevant performance indicator and the vesting of the award will not be subject to additional specific performance conditions. The Articles of Association authorize the Company to deviate from such rule, as allowed under the Belgian Companies Code. The exercise price of the Options will be equal to the last closing rating of the Share immediately preceding the option grant date. For the Options, the exercise period will start on the vesting date. The Shares underlying the RSU’s will be granted for free as soon as practicable after the vesting date of the RSU’s. Upon vesting of RSU’s, the Shares underlying the RSU’s are transferred to the participants, while upon vesting, Options may be exercised until their expiry date (eight years from the date of grant). On or about September 26, 2014 a total of 242,642 stock options and 49,040 RSU’s were granted, 54,282 options and 49,040 RSU’s have forfeited, expired or have been exercised as of December 31, 2017. The stock options and RSU’s are exercisable between September 2017 and September 2022. On or about June 26, 2015 a total of 159,413 stock options and 38,294 RSU’s were granted, 19,746 options and 4,743 RSU’s have forfeited, expired or have been exercised as of December 31, 2017 The stock options and RSU’s are exercisable between June 2018 and June 2023. 136 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements On or about June 15, 2016 a total of 322,294 stock options and 75,227 RSU’s were granted, 30,605 options and 7,143 RSU’s have forfeited, expired or have been exercised as of December 31, 2017. The stock options and RSU’s are exercisable between June 2019 and June 2024. During the period, the Group granted a new LTIP plan consisting of 299,914 stock options and 69,023 RSU’s. No options and/or RSU’s have forfeited, expired or have been exercised as of December 31, 2017. The Board of Directors of the Group has decided on June 1, 2015 to implement a full hedging program (total return swap) for the share-based payment arrangements starting July 1, 2015 and renewed on July 1, 2017. The following share-based payment arrangements were in existence during the current and prior years: # stock # stock Exercise options/ options/ Price per RSU’s RSU’s stock Fair value December December Expiry Date option (€) (€) 31, 2017 31, 2016 LTIP 2014 Options 2022 17.87 3.57 184,666 224,489 RSU’s 2017 N/A 15.97 – 45,369 LTIP 2015 Options 2023 26.60 6.39 139,667 150,867 RSU’s 2018 N/A 24.45 33,551 36,241 LTIP 2016 Options 2024 28.44 6.64 291,689 311,074 RSU’s 2019 N/A 26.48 68,084 72,608 LTIP 2017 Options 2025 33.11 7.62 299,914 – RSU’s 2020 N/A 30.45 69,023 – Total outstanding stock options 915,936 686,430 Total outstanding RSU’s 170,658 154,218 The following reconciles the options outstanding at the beginning and end of the year: Average exercise price per stock option (€)1 Stock options RSU’s As at January 1, 2017 24.58 686,430 154,218 Granted 33.11 299,914 69,023 Forfeited 24.39 (46,426) (10,415) Exercised2 17.87 (23,982) (42,168) Expired – – – As at December 31, 2017 27.56 915,936 170,658 of which vested and exercisable 17.87 184,666 – 1 The average exercise price mentioned in the table above relates only to the stock options, as the RSU’s do not have an exercise price. 2 The weighted average share price of options exercised during the year ended December 31, 2017 was € 29.08. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 137 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued The fair value of the stock options has been determined based on the Black and Scholes model. The expected volatility used in the model is based on the historical volatility of peer companies (as no volatility was available for the Company). Below is an overview of all the parameters used in this model. LTIP 2014 LTIP 2015 LTIP 2016 LTIP 2017 Exercise Price (€) 17.87 26.60 28.44 33.11 Expected volatility of the shares (%) 23.58% 26.32% 26.56% 27.12% Expected dividends yield (%) 2.94% 2.14% 1.98% 2.31% Risk free interest rate (%) 1.13% 1.02% 0.37% 0.60% The fair value of the RSU’s has been determined by deducting from the exercise price the expected and discounted dividend flow, based on the same parameters as above. Social charges related to the LTIP are accrued for over the vesting period. 7.27. Contingencies The Group is involved in a number of environmental, contractual, product liability, intellectual property, employment and other claims and disputes incidental to our business. On September 2, 2014, Ontex received a notification that the Spanish Competition Authorities (CNMC) opened infringement proceedings against 15 companies in the sector (including three subsidiaries of the Company: Ontex Es Holdco, S.A., Ontex Peninsular, S.A.U. and Ontex ID, S.A.U.) with respect to alleged conduct of fixing prices and other commercial conditions in the Spanish market for heavy adult incontinence products. On May 26, 2016, following the investigation, the CNMC issued its decision. In its decision it has found eight companies, including Ontex’ Spanish subsidiaries guilty of being part of a cartel. For its involvement from 1999 to 2014, Ontex was fined €5.2 million. Ontex initiated an appeal against the decision and this appeal is pending. As per December 31, 2016, a provision amounting to €5.2 million has been accounted for (which was recognized through “Income/ (expenses) related to impairments and major litigations” in the consolidated income statement, see note 7.22 on the non-recurring income and expenses). The provision has not been adjusted per December 31, 2017. The Group currently believes that the disposition of all other claims and disputes, individually or in aggregate, should not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 138 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements 7.28. Commitments 7.28.1. Capital commitments The Group has contracted expenditures for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2017 of €40.1 million (2016: €27.1 million). 7.28.2. Capital commitments resulting from operating lease contracts in which the Group is the lessee The Group has also contracted a number of property leases that can be terminated by respecting the notice period which is different in each jurisdiction. The Group leases machinery used in the production. The typical lease terms vary depending upon which country the lease agreement is entered into. The majority of lease agreements are renewable at the end of the lease period at market rate. The lease expenditure charged to the income statement during the respective years is disclosed in note 7.9 ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’. Commitments in respect of future minimum lease payments that may be claimed under simple non-cancellable leases break down as follows: In € million 2017 2016 Within one year 18.4 19.9 From 1 to 5 years 42.4 44.2 Beyond 5 years 20.3 22.8 81.1 86.9 7.28.3. Bank guarantees As indicated in note 7.15 ‘Interest-bearing debts’, no assets are pledged as security for these borrowings. The entire amount of the Group’s bank borrowings and accrued interest are secured according to collective pledge agreements. The Group has given bank guarantees for an amount of €29.2 million in order to participate in public tenders as at December 31, 2017 (2016: €39.5 million). 7.29. Related party transactions As part of our business, Ontex has entered into several transactions with related parties. 7.29.1. Consolidated companies A list of subsidiaries is given in note 7.6 ‘List of Consolidated Companies’. 7.29.2. Relations with the shareholders There are no shareholders that are related parties per December 31, 2017 (nor in 2016). 7.29.3. Relations with non-executive members of the Board of Directors For the year ended December 31 in € million 2017 2016 Remuneration 0.7 0.5 7.29.4. Relations with the key management personnel Key management personnel include those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group. The key management for the Group are all the members of Management Committee. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 139 7. Notes to the consolidated financial statements – continued 7.29.5. Key management compensation Remuneration of the CEO in € million 2017 2016 Remuneration 1.3 2.1 Remuneration of the Executive Team in € million 2017 2016 (excluding the CEO) Fixed remuneration 4.3 4.5 Variable remuneration 1.2 3.0 Other remuneration 0.5 0.3 Total 6.0 7.8 Following the IPO, the Company implemented Long Term Incentive Plans (‘LTIP’), which are based on a combination of stock options and restricted stock units (see note 7.26). The number of stock options and restricted stock units granted to the CEO and the Executive Management Team is summarized below: For the year ended December, 31 2017 Number of RSU’s Number of Stock Options LTIP 2014 CEO 7,868 38,930 Executive Team (excluding CEO) 21,163 104,720 LTIP 2015 CEO 6,884 28,661 Executive Team (excluding CEO) 15,786 65,718 LTIP 2016 CEO 14,522 62,220 Executive Team (excluding CEO) 37,496 160,65 LTIP 2017 CEO 10,368 45,052 Executive Team (excluding CEO) 36,982 160,699 140 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements 7.30. Events after the end of the reporting period The Board of Directors will propose to the Annual General Meeting to approve the distribution of a gross dividend of €0.60 per share (2016: €0.55 per share). In accordance with IAS 10 ‘Events after the Reporting Period’, the proposed dividend has not been recognized as a liability at year-end. No other significant events have occurred after the end of the reporting period which would affect the information mentioned in these consolidated financial statements. 7.31. Audit fees Year ended December 31 December in € thousands 2017 2016 Audit Fees 1,090.0 1,077.0 Additional Services rendered by the auditor’s mandate: Audit-related fees 48.0 251.0 Tax advisory and compliance services 639.0 1,804.0 Due diligence fees – 662.0 Total 1,777 3,794 For non-audit services of 2016, a specific exemption on the one-to-one rule was approved by the Audit Committee. Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 141 Summary of the statutory financial statements Statutory balance sheet after appropriation Year ended December 31 In € million 2017 2016 Assets 3,231.8 3,152.3 Fixed assets 3,036.2 2,867.8 Formation expenses 2.2 3.8 Intangible assets 72.0 99.0 Tangible assets 2.6 1.5 Financial fixed assets 2,959.4 2,763.6 Participating interests 1,908.0 1,908.0 Amounts receivable 1,051.3 855.5 Other financial fixed assets 0.2 0.1 Current assets 195.6 284.5 Amounts receivable within one year 119.4 94.3 Treasury shares 29.3 22.3 Cash at bank and in hand 43.4 162.5 Deferred charges and accrued income 3.5 5.4 Equity and liabilities 3,231.8 3,152.3 Equity 2,032.4 1,857.0 Capital 823.6 748.7 Share premium 412.7 266.8 Reserves 321.3 359.2 Accumulated losses 474.7 482.3 Provisions and deferred taxes 7.1 7.0 Amounts payable 1,192.3 1,288.3 Amounts payable after more than one year 793.6 834.2 Financial debt 793.6 834.2 Amounts payable within one year 397.6 451.8 Financial debt 184.1 150.4 Trade debts 6.3 5.2 Taxes, remunerations and social security 3.5 4.6 Other amounts payable 203.8 291.6 Accruals and deferred income 1.0 2.4 142 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements Statutory income statement Year ended December 31 In € million 2017 2016 Operating income 46.4 30.6 Operating charges (68.8) (61.2) Operating loss (22.4) (30.6) Financial result 27.5 25.4 Profit/(loss) for the period before taxes 5.1 (5.2) Income taxes (1.1) (0.8) Profit/(loss) for the period 4.0 (6.0) Financial Statements Ontex Integrated Report 2017 143 Extract from Ontex Group NV separate (non-consolidated) financial statements prepared in accordance with Belgian GAAP The preceding information is extracted from the separate Belgian GAAP financial statements of Ontex Group NV and is included as required by article 105 of the Belgian Company Code. The separate financial statements, together with the annual report of the Board of Directors to the general assembly of shareholders as well as the auditors’ report, will be filed with the National Bank of Belgium within the legally foreseen time limits. These documents are also available on request at Ontex Group NV, Korte Keppestraat 21, 9320 Aalst (Erembodgem). The statutory auditor’s report is unqualified and certifies that the non-consolidated financial statements of Ontex Group NV prepared in accordance with Belgian GAAP for the year ended December 31, 2017 (full financial year) give a true and fair view of the financial position and results of Ontex Group NV in accordance with the legal and regulatory dispositions applicable in Belgium. 144 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Financial Statements Investor Relations and financial communications Our aim is to provide reliable, consistent information on a Performance of the Ontex share compared with market indices timely basis about the strategy, goals and progress of Ontex and hygienic disposable manufacturers: to all financial market participants. Since our IPO in June 2014, we are continuously building our investor relations program. 20 During 2017, we met with investors in roadshows and 15 conferences in several locations across Europe and North America, hosted several site visits and participated in retail 10 investor events. 5 Shareholder structure The shareholding of Ontex Group NV based on the declarations 0 received in the period up to December 31, 2017, is as follows: -5 Shareholder -10 Number of shares %1 -15 Groupe Bruxelles Lambert 11,239,897 19.98% Jan-17 Feb-17 Apr-17 Jun-17 Aug-17 Oct-17 Dec-17 Janus Capital Management LLC 3,424,055 4.75% Pamajugo Irrevocable Trust 2,722,221 3.64%  ntex O  ssity Class B E Euro Stoxx HPC Kimberly Clark Allianz Global Investors GmbH 2,521,427 3.06% Euro Stoxx 600 P&G AXA Investment Managers SA 2,053,236 3.02% Bel20 Kimberly Clark – Mexico Black Creek Investment Management 2,612,528 3.17% Analyst coverage Share performance Ontex was covered by 16 analysts as at December 31, 2017. Our share is listed on Euronext Brussels. After the very Seven of these analysts had a positive2 rating on the Ontex strong progress made since the initial listing, Ontex’s share share, eight analysts had a neutral rating and one analyst had price performed relatively in line with relevant indices and peers a negative rating.2 in the first ten months of 2017, before declining to €27.57 on 29 December 2017. Overall, the share price decreased by 2.39% Financial calendar in 2017, and increased by 47% since the IPO. Quarter 1 2018 May 9, 2018 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders May 25, 2018 Half Year 2018 July 26, 2018 Quarter 3 2018 November 7, 2018 Investor contacts Philip Ludwig Head of Investor Relations and Financial Communications +32 53 333 730 philip.ludwig@ontexglobal.com Press contacts Gaëlle Vilatte Head of Corporate Communications +32 53 333 708 gaelle.vilatte@ontexglobal.com Sustainability contacts Elise Barbé Group sustainability specialist +32 53 333 756 1 At the time of the declaration. elise.barbe@ontexglobal.com 2 Positive indicates buy, accumulate, or overweight depending on the terminology of the broker institution. Neutral indicates that the stock should Send us your feedback: sustainability@ontexglobal.com be held in the portfolio. Negative indicates sell, reduce or underweight depending on the terminology of the broker. Additional Information Ontex Integrated Report 2017 145 Glossary Adjusted Basic Earnings: Adjusted Basic Earnings are Non-recurring income and expenses: Non-recurring defined as profit for the period plus non-recurring income income and expenses are those items that are considered and expenses and tax effect on non-recurring income and by management not to relate to items in the ordinary course expenses, attributable to the owners of the parent. of activities of the Company. They are presented separately as they are important for the understanding of users of the Adjusted Basic Earnings per share: Adjusted Basic Earnings consolidated financial statements of the ‘normal’ performance per share are defined as Adjusted Basic Earnings divided by the of the Company due to their size or nature. The non-recurring weighted average number of ordinary shares. income and expenses relate to: • acquisition-related expenses; Adjusted EBITDA: Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA plus • changes to the measurement of contingent non-recurring income and expenses and excluding nonconsiderations in the context of business combinations; recurring impairment of assets. • business restructuring costs, including costs related to the liquidation of subsidiaries and the closure, opening Adjusted EBITDA margin: Adjusted EBITDA margin is adjusted or relocations of factories; and EBITDA divided by revenue. • impairment of assets. Adjusted Free Cash Flow: Adjusted Free Cash Flow is defined Non-recurring income and expenses of the Group are as Adjusted EBITDA less capital expenditures (Capex, defined composed of the following items presented in the consolidated as purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible income statement: assets), less change in working capital, less income taxes paid. • income/(expenses) related to changes to Group structure; and Adjusted profit for the period: Adjusted profit is defined as • income/(expenses) related to impairments and major profit for the period plus non-recurring income and expenses litigations. and tax effect on non-recurring income and expenses, attributable to the owners of the parent. Pro-forma revenue at constant currency: Pro-forma revenue at constant currency is defined as revenue for the 12 months Adjusted diluted earnings per share: In accordance with IAS period ending on the reporting date at prior year foreign 33, adjusted diluted earnings per share amounts have to be exchange rates and inclusive of impact of mergers and calculated by dividing adjusted basic earnings (after adjusting acquisitions. for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding Working capital: the components of our working capital are during the year, plus the weighted average number of ordinary Inventories plus Trade, pre-paid expenses and other receivables shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive plus Trade payables, accrued expenses and other payables. potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. EBITDA: EBITDA is defined as earnings before net finance cost, income taxes, depreciations and amortizations. Like-for-like (LFL) revenue: Like-for-like revenue is defined as revenue at constant currency excluding change in scope of consolidation or M&A. LTM adjusted EBITDA: LTM adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA plus non-recurring income and expenses and excluding non-recurring impairment of assets for the last twelve months (LTM). Net financial debt: Net financial debt is calculated by adding short-term and long-term debt and deducting cash and cash equivalents. Net financial debt/LTM adjusted EBITDA ratio (leverage): Net financial debt divided by LTM Adjusted EBITDA. 146 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Additional Information Appendix 1 Statutory auditor’s report for non-financials Independent Limited Assurance Report on the Energy Consumption and Carbon Emissions Data of 2017 This report has been prepared in accordance with the terms of our engagement contract dated 11 January 2018, whereby we have been engaged to issue an independent limited assurance report in connection with selected indicators of the Integrated Annual Report as of and for the year ended 31 December 2017 (the ‘Report’). Responsibility of Board of Directors The Board of Directors of Ontex Group NV (‘the Company’) is responsible for the preparation of the selected indicators presented in the summary table ‘Sustainability Performance Addendum’, marked with a Greek small letter beta (β) on page 150 of the 2017 Integrated Annual Report of Ontex Group NV and its subsidiaries (the ‘Subject Matter Information’), in accordance with the criteria disclosed in the page 45 of the Report (the ‘Criteria’). This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods for the preparation of the Subject Matter Information, for ensuring the reliability of the underlying information and for the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures which are reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility of the Board of Directors includes the design, implementation and maintenance of systems and processes relevant for the preparation of the Subject Matter Information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an independent conclusion about the Subject Matter Information based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. This standard requires that we comply with ethical requirements and that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance as to whether nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Subject Matter Information is not fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the Criteria. The objective of a limited-assurance engagement is to perform the procedures we consider necessary to provide us with sufficient appropriate evidence to support the expression of a conclusion in the negative form on the Subject Matter Information. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. The selection of such procedures depends on our professional judgment, including the assessment of the risks of management’s assertion being materially misstated. The scope of our work comprised the following procedures: • assessing and testing the design and functioning of the systems and processes used for data-gathering, collation, consolidation and validation, including the methods used for calculating and estimating the Subject Matter Information presented in the Report as of and for the year ended 31 December 2017; • conducting interviews with responsible officers; • inspecting internal and external documents. We have evaluated the Subject Matter Information against the Criteria. The accuracy and completeness of the Subject Matter Information are subject to inherent limitations given their nature and the methods for determining, calculating or estimating such information. Our Limited Assurance Report should therefore be read in connection with the Criteria. Appendices Ontex Integrated Report 2017 147 Appendix 1 – continued Our Independence and Quality Control We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA), which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. Our audit firm applies International Standard on Quality Control (ISQC) n° 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, as described in this Independent Limited Assurance Report, and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected indicators presented in the summary table ‘Sustainability Performance Addendum’, marked with a Greek small letter beta (β) on page 150 of Ontex Group NV’s Integrated Annual Report 2017, is not fairly stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the Criteria. Restriction on Use and Distribution of our Report Our assurance report has been made in accordance with the terms of our engagement contract. Our report is intended solely for the use of the Company, in connection with their Integrated Annual Report as of and for the year ended 31 December 2017 and should not be used for any other purpose. We do not accept, or assume responsibility to anyone else, except to the Company for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions that we have reached. Sint-Stevens-Woluwe, 4 April 2018 PwC Bedrijfsrevisoren BCVBA Represented by Marc Daelman* Registered auditor Marc Daelman BVBA *  Member of the Board of Directors, represented by his permanent representative, Marc Daelman 148 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Appendices Appendix 2 Sustainability performance addendum This is the Sustainability Performance Addendum to Ontex’s 2017 Integrated Report and a supplement to the sustainability section of our website. In it you’ll find an overview of our sustainability performance over the past three years. Important to note when interpreting the data: In 2016, Ontex acquired two production sites in Mexico. In 2017, two Brazilian production sites were acquired and a new plant was launched in Ethiopia. The change in scope needs be taken into account when doing trend analyses on the data. Materials Goal(s): By end 2018, all cotton used in tampons to come from more organic resources. By end 2017, 100% of our fiber came from certified or controlled sources. Unit 2015 2016 2017 Comment Reduction in materials For the majority of product groups we see a used compared with 2014 good decrease in material use. The change in core specifications reduces the amount of fluff Baby diapers % (4) (5) while improving performance in the baby diaper group. The reduction of raw materials in the Baby pants % 0 0 incontinence product groups is due to a shift in the mix of products and sizes. The increase External feminine care % 3 6 in raw materials for the external femcare group Light incontinence % (1) (3) is due to consumer preferences, i.e. increased sales of fluff towels, and increased sales of fluff Heavy incontinence % (4) (7) towels and ultratowels with wings which use more raw materials. Renewable raw materials A major trend is to make hygiene products thinner. Therefore, we replaced part of the Share renewable product % 51 50 48 (renewable) fluff by (non-renewable) SAP. By raw materials using SAP we reduced the absolute amount of materials used. Share renewable packaging % 81 80 80 raw materials Recycled content ton 0 0 0 In order to ensure the safety of our products, we opted not to use recycled materials. Organic cotton % 99 100 All cotton used in tampons is organic cotton. Wood sourcing All our fiber comes from certified or controlled sources. The difference in proportion is due to Certified sources (FSC/PEFC) % 43 35 enlarging the reporting scope from 52% of our sites to 100%. Controlled sources % 57 65 Appendices Ontex Integrated Report 2017 149 Appendix 2 – continued Emissions Goal(s): By end 2030, we have carbon neutral operations (Scope 1-2). Unit 2015 2016 2017 Comment Direct scope 42,145 64,288 68,957 (β) Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions are calculated 1-2 GHG emissions based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol definition. The carbon emissions reported in this table for the year 2017 do not include: • The transport of goods via owned trucks. • The energy consumption of the plants in Brazil. GHG emissions gCO2/EUR 24.9 32.3 32.0 (β) intensity ratio In absolute values, we increased our carbon footprint. The main reason is the acquisition of new sites since 2016. The emission intensity ratio slightly dropped compared with last year. We foresee a further decrease in the course of 2018 as a result of continued investment in green electricity. (β) Subject to PwC Limited assurance (Refer to page 147). Energy Goal(s): By end 2020, all our manufacturing sites are powered by 100% renewable energy. Reduce the electricity consumption by 10% by end 2020 compared with 2015. Unit 2015 2016 2017 Comment Electricity Note that the scope for energy consumption does not include the two plants in Brazil. Electricity consumption MWh 231.456 331.377 354.107 (β) In addition, the plants in Mexico and Brazil are Share renewable electricity % 48 54 60 (β) excluded from the scope of the electricity intensity ratio. Electricity intensity ratio Electricity makes up 89% of our total energy Baby diapers kwh/1000 FG 12.24 12.12 12.13 (β) consumption and is mainly used to power our production lines. The overall electricity Baby pants kwh/1000 FG 18.03 19.93 19.54 (β) consumption increased by 7% in 2017, partly due to the start up of our new Ethiopian plant. Internal feminine care kwh/1000 FG 5.90 6.03 6.16 (β) Many successful measures to improve electricity External feminine care kwh/1000 FG 5.70 5.75 5.82 (β) efficiency were implemented in 2017. These electricity savings were overbalanced by factors Heavy incontinence kwh/1000 FG 42.13 42.14 43.41 (β) such as further automation, which led to a slight Light incontinence kwh/1000 FG 23.29 24.01 25.39 (β) overall increase in electricity consumption per product in several product categories. Car fuels (diesel/gazoline) MWh 9,445 9,651 10.831 (β) 60% Of our global electricity consumption is renewable. All European sites have now switched Fuel oil MWh 8,855 2,693 3.537 (β) to 100% green electricity. A further roll-out is planned for 2018. LPG MWh 506 1,125 1.416 (β) (β) Subject to PwC Limited assurance Natural gas MWh 19,808 23,443 27.610 (β) (Refer to page 147) Wood pellets MWh 576 925 (β) 150 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Appendices Waste Goal(s): By end 2020, we aim to have zero production waste to landfill Unit 2015 2016 2017 Comment Non-hazardous 86% of our waste is sent to recycling or incineration with energy recovery. Sent to recycling ton 19,886.05 23,759.31 24,135.76 13% of our waste is sent to landfill. This is a slight increase compared with last year, Sent to incineration for energy ton 2,004.63 2,307.65 1,768.52 despite our goal of zero landfill by 2020. generation/recovery The main reason is the increased production in countries with a poorer recycling infrastructure. Sent to incineration without ton 11.06 205.54 464.53 Different programs have been launched to set energy generation/recovery ourselves on the road to reach the target. Sent to landfill/storage ton 2,291.56 3,505.66 5,022.26 Hazardous waste makes up a small amount of our waste, i.e. 3% of our total waste volume. Hazardous The waste data cover all production sites, except Sent to recycling ton 2,467.37 2,469.67 500.81 our Ethiopian plant. Sent to incineration for energy ton 309.87 226.74 25.67 generation/recovery Sent to incineration without ton 0.17 11.92 24.42 energy generation/recovery Sent to landfill/storage ton 1.06 8.04 398.40 Water Unit 2015 2016 2017 Comment Ground water m3 38,361.00 Although water has not been flagged as a material for Ontex, we started measuring Surface water m 3 24,161.00 our water consumption in 2017. Urban water m3 115,175.50 Rainwater m3 247.00 Deep well m3 20,242.00 Appendices Ontex Integrated Report 2017 151 Appendix 2 – continued Health and safety Goal(s): By end 2020, our accident frequency rate is lower than 6.5. By end 2020, 50% of our production sites are OHSAS 18001 certified. Unit 2015 2016 2017 Comment Worker representation in formal % 82 95 The frequency and severity rate are calculated joint management – worker by comparing the total lost workdays to the total health and safety committees in number of hours scheduled to be worked by the our plants employees. The lost days count begins the day after the accident. The figures do not include Accident frequency rate ratio 19.89 21.41 14.39 one sales office. The reporting was optimized in 2017 to now also Severity rate ratio 0.51 0.44 0.17 include our non-production sites. The reduction in the accident frequency rate can be attributed Fatalities nr 0 0 0 to a change in reporting scope and several internal campaigns and actions taken to reach OHSAS certified plants % 0 8 15 the target. Four production sites have already reached the 2020 target of a frequency rate below 6.5. In 2017, our plant and sales office in Italy were OHSAS certified. In order to reach our target of having 50% of our main production sites OHSAS certified, five more sites are commencing the OHSAS certification in 2018. Environmental systems Goal(s): By end 2020, all main production sites have the ISO14001 and 50001 certificate. Unit 2015 2016 2017 Comment ISO14001 % 56 69 We are on track to reach our goal to have all our main production sites ISO 14001 and 50001 ISO50001 % 38 62 certified by end 2020. Sustainable products Unit 2015 2016 2017 Comment Products with one or % 60 Eco and health labels, such as SWAN and more ecoor health label of turnover Asthma & Allergy, often are a prerequisite for our Nordic customers. 60% of our turnover from the Nordic countries come from products with one or more ecoor health label. Products with a forestry % 22 32 36 36% of our products sold have an FSC or PEFC label (FSC or PEFC) of turnover label. 152 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Appendices Training and education Unit 2015 2016 2017 Comment Average hours of training hours 26 19 The scope of the reporting changed from only per employee (FTE) plant data in 2016 to data for the entire Group. Main training focuses in 2017 were health and safety, code of ethics, Ontex values and English classes. Employees receiving % 85 All employees have the opportunity to have a regular performance performance evaluation talk. For the white collar and career development employees, an online performance review tool was set up in 2017. 85% of all white collar reviews employees had a performance review. Local community involvement Goal(s): By end 2020, all plants have selected a local community project. Unit 2015 2016 2017 Comment Investment in local € 168,146.16 139,744.94 In 2018, the framework for an Ontex Foundation communities will be developed to develop a solid structure for community involvement. Supplier accountability system Goal(s): By end 2017, all direct spend suppliers signed the Code of Conduct. Unit 2015 2016 2017 Comment Supplier code of conduct % 59 93 93% of our raw material and packaging suppliers signed signed the supplier Code of Conduct. In 2018 we’ll continue setting up a solid supplier social accountability system by introducing BSCI, a social audit scheme aimed at our suppliers in high-risk countries. Appendices Ontex Integrated Report 2017 153 Appendix 3 Index table GRI and non-financial disclosure Page number(s) GRI Standard Disclosure NFD and/or URL(s) GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization IR cover 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services IR p. 2-3 102-3 Location of headquarters IR p. 45 102-4 Location of operations IR p. 2 102-5 Ownership and legal form 102-6 Markets served IR p. 3 102-7 Scale of the organization IR p. 2 102-8 Information on employees and other workers IR p. 21 102-9 Supply chain IR p. 24 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain IR p. 45 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach IR p. 29 102-12 External initiatives IR p. 8, 17, 19 SDGs 102-13 Membership of associations Our partners Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker IR p. 4-5 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities IR p. 66-69 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior IR p. 22 Our values 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics IR p. 25 Governance 102-18 Governance structure Sustainability governance Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups IR p. 16-17 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements IR p. 20 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders IR p. 16-17 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement IR p. 16-17 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised IR p. 16-17 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements IR p. 108 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries IR p. 45 102-47 List of material topics IR p. 19 102-48 Restatements of information N.A. 102-49 Changes in reporting IR p. 45 102-50 Reporting period IR p. 45 102-51 Date of most recent report IR p. 45 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-52 Reporting cycle IR p. 45 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Inside back cover 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance IR p. 45 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index IR Appendix 3 102-56 External assurance IR p. 144 IR – Integrated Report SPA – Sustainability Performance Addendum N.A. – Not Available 154 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Appendices Page number(s) GRI Standard Disclosure NFD and/or URL(s) GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures Material Topics GRI 200 Economic Standard Series Direct economic impacts GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: 3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, IR p. 42-44 management approach, its components and evaluation GRI 201: Economic performance 201-1: Direct economic value generated and distributed IR p. 70-137 201-2: Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due IR p. 68 to climate change Anti-corruption GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: 3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, x IR p. 25 management approach, its components and evaluation GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies IR p. 25 and procedures Anti-competitive Behavior GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: 3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, x IR p. 25 management approach, its components and evaluation GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and IR p. 134 2016 monopoly practices GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series Materials GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: 3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, x IR p. 28 management approach, its components and evaluation GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume IR p. 28 SPA 301-2 Recycled input materials used SPA 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials N.A. Energy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: 3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, x IR p. 28 management approach, its components and evaluation GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization SPA 302-2 Energy consumption outside of SPA the organization 302-3 Energy intensity SPA 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption SPA 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements SPA of products and services Emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: 3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, x IR p. 28 management approach, its components and evaluation IR – Integrated Report SPA – Sustainability Performance Addendum N.A. – Not Available Appendices Ontex Integrated Report 2017 155 Appendix 3 – continued Page number(s) GRI Standard Disclosure NFD and/or URL(s) GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions IR p. 28 SPA 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions IR p. 28 SPA 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions N.A. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity IR p. 28 SPA 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions IR p. 28 SPA 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) N.A. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other N.A. significant air emissions Waste GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, IR p. 29 management approach, its components and evaluation GRI 306: Waste 2016 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination N.A. 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method IR p. 29 SPA 306-3 Significant spills N.A. 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste N.A. 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff N.A. GRI 400 Social Standards Series Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, IR p. 22-23 management approach, its components and evaluation GRI 403: Occupational Health and 403-1 Workers representation in formal IR p. 22-23 Safety 2016 joint management – worker health and safety committees SPA 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, IR p. 22-23 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities SPA 403-3 Workers with high incidence of high N.A. risk of diseases related to their occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered N.A. in formal agreements with trade unions Training and Education GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1: 3 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary, IR p. 22 management approach, its components and evaluation GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year IR p. 22 per employee SPA 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition IR p. 22 assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and SPA career development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 – 3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, x IR p. 20 management approach, Diversity policy its components and evaluation GRI 405: Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees IR p. 21, p. 52 Opportunity 2016 Human rights IR – Integrated Report SPA – Sustainability Performance Addendum N.A. – Not Available 156 Ontex Integrated Report 2017 Appendices Page number(s) GRI Standard Disclosure NFD and/or URL(s) GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General Disclosures GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 – 3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, x IR p. 8, 24 management approach, Human rights policy its components and evaluation GRI 407: Freedom of association & 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of IR p. 24 collective bargaining association and collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 408: Child labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of IR p. 24 child labour GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labor 409-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of IR p. 24 forced or compulsory labor GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous people 411-1: Incidents of violations involving rights N.A. of indigenous people GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 412-1: Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews IR p. 24 or impact assessments 412-2: Employee training on human rights policies or procedures N.A. 412-3: Significant investment agreements and contracts that N.A. include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Local Communities GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 – 3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, IR p. 24 management approach, its components and evaluation GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact IR p. 24 assessments, and development programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual N.A. and potential negative impact on local communities Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 – 3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, x IR p. 24 management approach, its components and evaluation GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria IR p. 24 2016 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions N.A. taken Customer Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 – 3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, IR p. 29 management approach, its components and evaluation GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and IR p. 29 2016 service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and N.A. safety impacts of products and services Marketing and Labeling GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 – 3 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary, IR p. 33 management approach, its components and evaluation GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and IR p. 33 labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service N.A. information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing N.A. communications IR – Integrated Report SPA – Sustainability Performance Addendum N.A. – Not Available Appendices Ontex Integrated Report 2017 157 This Review is printed on material which is derived from sustainable sources. Both the manufacturing paper mill and printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC) chain-of-custody certified. CPI Colour is Ontex Group NV also a Carbon Neutral Printing Company and reduces its CO2 omissions Korte Keppestraat 21 to net zero in accordance with The CarbonNeutral Protocol. This carbon 9320 Erembodegem off setting supports the Uchindile Mapanda reforestation programme Belgium in Tanzania, an environmental project to establish commercial forests at two locations in Africa. This Review is recyclable and Bio-degradable. www.ontexglobal.com If you have finished with this document and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
