UN Global Compact Communication on Progress July 2018 UN Global Compact | Team Relocations 1 About the United Nations Global Compact The United Nations (UN) Global Compact is a call to companies The Commitment everywhere to voluntarily align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in • Make the UN Global Compact and its the areas of human rights, labour, principles an integral part of business environment and anti-corruption, and strategy, day-to-day operations, and to take action in support of UN goals, organisational culture; including the Millennium Development • Incorporate the UN Global Compact Goals. and its principles in the decisionmaking processes of the highest-level The UN Global Compact is a leadership governance body (e.g. Board); platform for the development, • Take actions in support of UN goals implementation and disclosure of and issues, including the Millennium responsible corporate policies and Development Goals; practices. Launched in 2000, it is • Communicate annually with its the largest corporate responsibility stakeholders on progress made to initiative in the world, with over 10,000 implement the principles, ideally signatories based in 140 countries. integrated into the annual report or Team Relocations has been following similar public document (known as the these principles since 2007 and, in Communication on Progress – COP); 2013, formally afﬁrmed its commitment and to, and integration of, the principles. • Advance the UN Global Compact and the case for responsible business practices through advocacy and active outreach to peers, partners, clients, consumers, and the public at large. www.unglobalcompact.com 2 Team Relocations | UN Global Compact 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles are derived from: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human Rights Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Labour Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-Corruption UN Global Compact | Team Relocations 3 A Message from our Chairman 4 Team Relocations | UN Global Compact To All Stakeholders, Throughout our forty-year history, Team Relocations has owed its growth and success to a strongly held set of core business values. Much has changed in our journey, from our beginnings as a path-ﬁnding corporate mover to where we are now as one of Europe’s leading global mobility service providers, but our dedication to these values have been steadfast. Excellence, Responsibility, Integrity, Security, Synergy and Resourcefulness. These are the core values that constitute our Excalibur programme, values that are hardwired in every action, interaction and process. Our dedication to these six values is our commitment to the highest professional and ethical services possible. Excalibur unites our values into one clear integrated strategy by which we drive the pursuit of our goal to provide our clients with excellence in global relocation and move management services. The success of this mission is further supported by our commitment to, and support of, the United Nations Global Compact, to which we formally subscribed in August 2013. The ten fundamental principles of the Global Compact align with our corporate values and concerns that affect all businesses. I am delighted to submit this Communication on Progress, which affords us the opportunity to reﬂect on what we have achieved to further the causes of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption within our organisation. We eagerly look to the future, to what else we can achieve, by further allowing our strategy, culture and operations to be shaped by these paramount principles. As Chairman, I am pleased to conﬁrm that Team Relocations will continue to support the United Nations Global Compact in the coming year. Yogesh B. Mehta Chairman UN Global Compact | Team Relocations 5 About Team Relocations Team Relocations is a leading company specialising in the delivery of fully integrated global relocation services within the corporate market place, supporting in the region of 60,000 cases per annum. We deliver end-to-end services that span policy consultation, predeparture counselling, destination and moving services, assignment management, expense reporting, repatriation, and transition. Our partner network is central to our goal of delivering excellence in mobility solutions and supports our ability to maintain consistently high service standards from home to host location, even in the most remote and inhospitable regions. Team remains privately owned and our portfolio of clients includes some of the industry’s largest contracts currently in operation within the marketplace. A substantial percentage of our major corporate relationships have come about due to numerous contract extensions over many decades, as these companies have recognised our unique ability to handle their most challenging mobility requirements, whilst remaining small enough as a company to really care about what we do. Our Mission To provide our clients with excellence in global relocation management through: Recruiting Creating Delivering Applying Partnering Being and developing relocation levels of vigorous cost with only the very excellent talented people solutions which service which controls to the best corporate citizens meet the needs exceed client mobility process of each client expectations 6 Team Relocations | UN Global Compact Our Core Values: Excalibur Excellence Resourcefulness Responsibility Quality Environment Health & Safety ISO 9001:2015 ISO 14001:2015 OHSAS 18001:2007 Quality FAIMplus Carbon Neutral Health & Safety Traning & Competence Recycling & Refuse Risk Assessment Customer Satisfaction UN Global Compact Client Policy Integration Integrity Security Synergy Social Responsibility Information Security Supply Chain ISO 26000 ISO 27001:2013 OHSAS 28001:2007 Diversity Risk Management AEO Certiﬁed Community Data Protection Security Processes Transparency & Trust Business Continuity Monitoring Supply Flows Ethics & Compliance UN Global Compact CSR UN Global Compact UN Global Compact | Team Relocations 7 Human Rights Team recognises its responsibility under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to promote and protect human rights throughout its business operations Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Team Relocations is committed to respecting and supporting international human rights throughout our business operations, and ensuring that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. This is reﬂected in our Integrity policy, which also expresses our commitment to uphold the Principles outlined in the UN Global Compact and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Although already enshrined within our core values declaration policy document, Excalibur, Team has effected several changes to further embody the two essential human rights principles within the fabric of its everyday operational working. 8 Team Relocations | UN Global Compact Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Investors in People As part of our HR and staff awareness Our Investors in People taskforce will be criteria, we have committed to achieve involved in taking the IiP Silver project Investors in People Silver accreditation for forward and reviews of progress will be the UK ofﬁces. While the European countries conducted during this year and early next do not have this accreditation available year for compliance and the progress of to them, we are committed as a Group to application. impart and set the same standards and values. Group Compliance Team The requirement for greater client account We have in place a master umbrella compliance has necessitated greater compliance programme that covers the sharing of the varied account compliance many different client account compliance agreements. requirements, thus removing the need to set up individual programmes. Supply Chain The team is now a smaller more cohesive The number of Suppliers have been looked unit focussing on quality based on data and at and have been narrowed down in are able to implement the business criteria numbers, allowing us clearer oversight as more effectively. We are also setting up a to whom we partner with across our Group, continual training module allowing targeted which provides better strategic as well as Suppliers to be trained on the various commercial outcomes. Compliance components. UN Global Compact | Team Relocations 9 Our People At Team Relocations, we believe that the We value every one of our people in ofﬁces diversity amongst our labour force is one of our across the world on their merits as individuals greatest assets. To that end, we are committed and their ability to carry out their work to the to providing an inclusive environment where we highest standards. We therefore strive to attract, retain, train and advance the very best ensure that everyone at Team Relocations has people without regard to their race, religion, access to career development and training sex, nationality, age, marital status, sexual opportunities in line with their abilities and orientation or disability. skills. This is monitored and measured in annual staff appraisals. Our ‘Integrity’ policy constitutes a key part of our Excalibur programme that promotes our We place a high priority on employee core values throughout the organisation. Our communications and are currently redesigning commitment to mutual respect, responsibility our company Extranet, to better provide a wide and teamwork is embedded throughout all range of company information and news, and to our recruitment and workﬂows. We believe it promote knowledge sharing and best practice enables us to hire the best talent, build the exchange. We continue to develop the Extranet most effective teams, deliver the highest level as a source of information to all employees. All of client service and be effective contributors to company policies, including the Excalibur Core our local communities. Values, are available on Extranet. Team is a diverse company, entirely BMEowned, with a valuable mix of nationalities, cultures and expertise; 35 different languages are spoken in our ofﬁces. Team’s human and intellectual capital is one of our most valuable assets. It can be measured by our overall staff turnover rate, the investment in training and development and ultimately in our ability to innovate. 10 Team Relocations | UN Global Compact Our Suppliers Team Relocations rigorously upholds the Additionally, to further strengthen the supply UN’s principles concerning Human Rights, chain, our SUREFAST management team has by promoting safe, fair and ethical working introduced rigorous performance targets and conditions and practices not only within standards for all our accredited SUREFAST the organisation, but within the SUREFAST partners. supplier network. As part of a number of Key Performance Our robust programme for administrating, Indicators, Team monitors feedback accrediting and monitoring all of our global from all sources and in order to maintain suppliers means that we are able to ensure accreditation, all suppliers must consistently with some certainly that respect for the four reﬂect outstanding or above average service key rights and principles in the International delivery. Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work: Throughout 2017, we have continued to pursue ISO 28001 and AEO accreditation • Freedom of association and the effective across all Team operational facilities, whilst recognition of the right to collective maintaining the improvement in supply chain bargaining performance as shown by the data below. • Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour Our Clients • Effective abolition of child labour • Elimination of discrimination in respect of Our clients are at the very heart of our employment and occupation. business; we strive to achieve excellence in everything we do for them as described Supporting the ISO standard, Team’s process in the ‘Excellence’ chapter of our Excalibur for supplier selection, management and, core values programme. Consistent with most importantly, ongoing quality control this approach, we are taking steps to further measurement, is effected under the develop our expertise to support our clients’ SUREFAST programme which covers all Team respect for human rights through our advice services and suppliers within the supply on client matters (e.g. integrating policies), chain. providing client seminars about our core values and any community projects we can All new strategic suppliers sign up to our carry out collaboratively with them. SUREFAST programme and complete a selfassessment questionnaire to enable us We have continued to provide further to appraise their performance. Supplier Business and Human Rights Training for our partners must comply with all Team policies, staff to help them to understand and respond processes and procedures at all times, and all to the expectations of the United Nations staff working on Team cases must be trained Guiding Principles on Business and Human to Team standards. Rights, which outline the responsibilities of businesses in relation to upholding human rights such as privacy, particular in regard to UN Global Compact | Team Relocations 11 compliance with the GDPR regulations set in Integrity place in May 2018. We are constantly working on further integration of systems and ﬁne-tuning of Team also successfully achieved renewal of process templates to reduce the risk of data our ISO 27001 certiﬁcation for Information integrity issues. Security Management Systems with certiﬁcation running through to 2019. This Availability international standard provides guidelines for A priority is managing our centralised server organisational information security standards farm in such a way that downtime of any and management practices including the component is reduced as much as possible. selection, implementation and management of controls, taking into consideration our security risk environment. We have upgraded Our Communities our accreditation to adhere to the 2013 revision standard. Our community affairs strategy is to make a positive contribution to all the communities Part of this process includes the collection worldwide that we work with. of relevant data to evaluate performance year-on-year. With the help of a new intensive Our commitment to global issues and training programme, knowledge and supporting community needs through pro awareness of Information Security will be bono is underpinned by our Integrity Policy. further improved amongst all our employees. We are seeking to consistently expand the Throughout 2017, we will continue to reach, scale and engagement of our pro bono pursue ISO 28001 and AEO accreditation and sustainability programmes and in 2018 across all Team operational facilities, whilst we will be continuing to work with colleagues maintaining the improvement in supply chain at every ofﬁce across the international Group performance. to further improve participation and the adoption of proactive practices Moving forward, our focus will remain on three areas: Conﬁdentiality Continued training of staff both in class and online, whilst working with our clients to align risk management programs. 12 Team Relocations | UN Global Compact www.teamrelocations.com www.teamrelocations.com Security Ensuring the best practice management of information security Integrity Incorporating corporate social responsibility in everything we do UN Global Compact | Team Relocations 13 Labour Team aims to create a working environment that allows the full potential of employees to be realised Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 14 Team Relocations | UN Global Compact Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Training We have continued to invest in both white We use questionnaires to measure the and blue-collar training for all our staff. We effect that our policies have on our labour have two full-time members dedicated to the force. Our dedication to training has been personal and professional development of all shown to improve job satisfaction, as well our employees. as give us an opportunity to understand the development of our people. HR Team continues in its commitment to Team continues to enjoy a very diverse diversity, and to upholding the Global employee demographic. The company Compact principles in its everyday work. is entirely BME-owned, and our diversity includes a comprehensive range of ethnicities and backgrounds (22 different languages are spoken in our UK ofﬁces alone), sexual orientation and disability, and a strong split between genders (68%:32% women:men). Project Saksham In 2017, our 3-year commitment to a major Project Saksham was an undisputed fundraising initiative in support of Plan, the success, and Team’s support enabled global children’s charity came to a close. 582 young men and 823 young women to receive vocational and entrepreneurship The Project’s objectives were to provide training. Fundraising efforts exceeded training and education for young people and all expectations and Plan were able to empower them to participate in the workforce. provide training for 15 more students than projected. UN Global Compact | Team Relocations 15 Assessment, Policy and Goals The Responsibility chapter of our Excalibur We have invested much attention and time in core values programme lays out our training both employees and suppliers in our commitment to creative a safe working supply chain with regards to our health and environment for all of our employees. We safety standards and policies. New training recognise and accept all the moral and materials and processes have been developed legal obligations under applicable European and a strong awareness programme regarding regulations to ensure the health, safety and hazardous situations has been established. welfare of all employees, persons in training, This has resulted in more detailed directors, contractors, visitors and anyone registrations in the Group database, leading affected by our work. to a better analysis and understanding of root causes, thus furthering and developing the We have been working throughout 2017 and continuous improvement cycle. 2018 to consolidate Team’s approach to the wellbeing and safety of clients, staff and Our dedicated compliance team has set suppliers alike across our global operations, rigorous targets for 2018/19, including those whilst also incorporating client-speciﬁc for the performance of our partner network initiatives on HSSE as has been required on under SUREFAST membership. three occasions. Our OHSAS 18001:2007 certiﬁcate, renewed by an accredited external party in 2017, runs through to 2020 while we also continue to roll out this internal standard across Team Relocations at Group level. We take pride in providing a safe environment for employees and visitors on our premises. By adopting this standard, we continue to demonstrate our commitment to our employees, their families and all interested parties that may be exposed to health and safety risks associated with the activities and operations of our organisation. 16 Team Relocations | UN Global Compact We actively promote a culture that is inclusive We have recently concluded our 3-year of all, where everyone has the opportunity to commitment to Plan International’s Project further their career and where pathways to Saksham, which aimed to empower young career progression are transparent. Managing people through education, training and diversity and inclusion means valuing and vocational opportuninities. utilising the differences our people bring to the business, and ensuring that no one is Project Saksham was an undisputed success, disadvantaged. and Team’s support enabled 582 young men and 823 young women to receive vocational We recognise that one size does not ﬁt all and entrepreneurship training. Fundraising when it comes to diversity and inclusion, and efforts exceeded all expectations and Plan actively welcome the thoughts and feedback were able to provide training for 15 more of all our people. Each of our regions operate students than projected. within different demographics, culture, sociopolitical and legislative frameworks, The results have been outstanding: so our approach centres around regional • 93% course completion rate diversity and inclusion action plans. Each • 72% job placement rate (surpassing an action plan is developed locally, focusing anticipated 60%) on gender and at least one other under• 816 young people have been empowered represented group in that particular to start their own businesses geography. www.teamrelo cations.com Modern Sla ve ry Statemen INTRODUCT ION t For the pur pose of this trafficking, pol and child lab icy statement the our. term “mode rn slavery” Team Reloca includes: sla cost-effective tion s Lim ited (Team very, forced Relocation or coerced delivering inte gra ted s) labour, hum these servic relocation solutions. are at the forefront an organisation es For nearly of the indust s and govern on a global, national four decade ry, consisten ment agenci and region s, tly providing es. al basis for the Group’s specia inn ovative and We have a many of the list brands proud histor wo rld’ s leading mu hav e bee n y dating bac k to 1977 ltinational Team Reloca . tions is a priv ately owned Team Reloca company reg tion s is ow istered in the Bailiwi England and ck of Jersey ned by Zenic Interna Wales. in the Cha tion nnel Islands al Holdings Limited SUPPLY CH . which is a AIN privately ow ned compan y registered Team Reloca in use our ow tions operates out of n a number where Tea staff and a network of locations m of reputable Relocations does not approved partners’ around the globe. For shipping line and sub-co hav s and air car e its own services ntractors. services provided wit go specialist faciliti Where hin the glo OUR POLIC s, approved es, we use our sup the services are pro be, we Y sub-contract ply chain con vided in pla ces ors and age sis nts, known ting of established Team Reloc as SUREFAS ations are T network. our supply committed chain or in to ensurin We will not any part or g that the knowingly at re a blind eye use partne any level of our bus is no Modern Slaver to the evil rs, sub-contr ine y or scope of Modern Slavery. actors, sup ss. for Moder n Slavery pliers or age in COMPLIANC nts who dis regard Mo E dern Slaver y or turn We expect our emplo practices at yees, partne rs, sub-contr 2015 and all levels and to acc actors and to ept withou agents to We have sys follow through with t reservatio n act ethica the expect lly • Identif tems in pla ce to; ations of our the terms and the spi and to promote goo policy to the rit of the Mo d wo • Educat y and assess the potent letter. dern Slaver rking e and info ial risk are y Act risk of Mo rm those wit as within our hin supply cha • Monito dern Slavery within our our supply chain as in; r our partne to our exp • Monito rs, sub-contr supply chain; ectations in regard to r the potent actors, sup eliminating • Protec ial pliers and t whistle blo risks in the supply agents; the wers chain This policy sta directors of tement has been app our parent roved and company. endorsed by all the dire “It is my aim ctors of Tea ity m Relocatio Responsibil , and those and trainin of the Sen ns and by g staff in a ior Manag the culture wh em identifying practices wh ere Staff and ent, to continue enc the Senior ich constit Managers ouraging init rkplace Managem ute Modern Sla are aware of the iati ve, adoptin fety in the wo ent.” very and to ir individual g best pra ctic e alth and sa bring them responsib to my attent ilities in Prioritising he ion and the Signed: attention of …… ……………… ……… Yogesh Me hta Managing Director, Tea Date: m Relocation 30th June s Ltd 2017 MKT0064 3 UN Global Compact | Team Relocations 17 Environment Our activities are designed to reduce our harmful impact on the environment and everyone working for Team Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 18 Team Relocations | UN Global Compact Implementation Measurement of Outcomes HR Team continues in its commitment to the The company has continued its effort to environment, and to upholding the Global be as close to paper-free as feasible. We Compact principles in its everyday workings, continue our efforts to recycling in both with the speciﬁc goal of reducing wastage on an ofﬁce environment, and with regard to site by a further 2-5% in 2018. packing materials, for which we have a special facility for compacting cardboard to prevent wasteful use of recycling bags. ISO 14001 We are concluding our transition from ISO The 2015 revision of ISO14001 has a greater 14001:2004 to ISO 14001:2015, which is emphasis on Risk and Opportunity, the due to be ﬁnalised by September 2018. context of the organisation and interested parties, and we have been restructuring our approach to environmental policy accordingly. Reducing emissions As a matter of policy, all trucks purchased or We are actively reviewing our emissions leased going forward are to comply with the and aiming to reduce our impact on the latest Euro 6 emission standard. environment. Our goal is to to reduce by 2% year-on-year. We have also continued to roll-out the use of video surveys, which saves on emissions from transport to the client home, as well as being more convenient for our customers. UN Global Compact | Team Relocations 19 Assessment, Policy and Goals Environmental Sustainability within our Company Team Relocations strives to be a leader in We have a global Environmental Policy that environmental sustainability. We undertake applies to all of our ofﬁces and requires initiatives to reduce our own operational every employee to take reasonable care of environmental impact and we believe that the environment. Our employees also receive our greatest contribution to a sustainable training on our environmental approach as environment is the advice and support we part of their induction when joining the ﬁrm. provide to our clients – both in managing their own environmental impacts and assessing We work to reduce our environmental and responding to climate-related risks and impact in four strategic focus areas: energy, opportunities. procurement, travel and waste/resource use. Throughout the last few years, we have Our global sustainability initiative is governed undertaken activities to improve our energy by a committee of senior leaders from across efﬁciency and lessen our impact on the the Group that meets quarterly to discuss environment. progress against the strategic focus areas. In addition to each country representatives, We have increased the number of video the committee includes representatives from surveys that we undertake, which effectively the most relevant functions of our business reduces our carbon emissions by avoiding for implementing change – Corporate unnecessary travel to our clients’ homes. Responsibility, Procurement, IT, Risk and Facilities Management. Our policy now dictates that all new vehicles purchased or leased will be compliant with the In an effort to further drive our commitment to latest Euro 6 emission standard. the environment and energy conservation, we set a new challenging range of goals for the Each year we calculate our carbon footprint upcoming year at Group level. One of these with the assistance of the Climate Neutral commitments is to phase out all lease cars Group (CNG), providing a total C02 output. that do not meet the latest CO2 standards, This total is offset 100% by paying CNG, which and roll out a paperless operation across invests the revenues in projects that make Team. a measurable contribution to sustainable development. We also make an active contribution to international climate policy discussions and the development of an investment in lowcarbon technology and infrastructure. 20 Team Relocations | UN Global Compact Our Environmental Footprint Key Goals Energy www.teamrelocations.com Further reduce energy consumption: Encourage staff to switch off lights, computers, photocopiers and other electrical equipment at night Enable energy-saving features on all computers and copiers Procurement Appraise Supplier’s sustainability performance and identify key areas for engagement and improvement Travel Further increase the use of IT Resourcefulness Respect for nature and the environment communications systems as an alternative to travel Waste Further reduce paper and card consumption and increase the level of recycling taking place across the group UN Global Compact | Team Relocations 21 Anti-Corruption Integrity is what we do, what we say, and what we say we do Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 22 Team Relocations | UN Global Compact Implementation Measurement of Outcomes Supply Chain We have tightened our control of clean Team is pleased to report that it has not been working practices throughout our supply involved in any legal cases, rulings or other chain, embedding a robust anti-bribery events related to bribery or corruption. and corruption policy into all our supplier relationships. Whistle Blowing Our ‘Whistle Blowing’ procedure has been Our ‘Whistle Blowing’ procedure has not kept in place and promoted within the raised any issues by members of staff company, so as to allow any member of staff concerning anti-corruption during the to raise an issue or concern with respect to reporting period. corruption without fear of recrimination. Audit Our ﬁnancial accounts are routinely audited Such ﬁnancial reports are publicly available by a leading independent ﬁnancial specialist and again we are pleased to report that they annually and audited reports submitted as show a clean bill of health with no signs of legally required. impropriety. UN Global Compact | Team Relocations 23 Assessment, Policy and Goals Good corporate governance is at the core of We also have a Whistle-blowing Policy and our Integrity Policy and is best encapsulated associated procedures which may be used by our approach to transparency and for reporting breaches on a conﬁdential or trust. As a result of recent well publicised anonymous basis. corporate scandals, public opinion on the honesty of ‘business’ has taken a knock. These procedures include: Within Team, we have a clear framework for a code of business ethics which we believe Training and communication – mandatory will demonstrate greater transparency and e-learning which must be completed by all of accountability, not only in our ﬁnancial our people and forms part of our new-starter reporting, but in all areas of activity touched induction programme; – training delivered by our business. to members of the Board and Executive; – training incorporated into the company’s With legislation as the backdrop, Team management academy and other formal is committed to conducting itself in an training programmes; atmosphere that is open, fair and transparent with the aim of enhancing trust in all Incorporating consideration of bribery and its business activities. Unless there are corruption risk into our new client due compelling reasons to the contrary, Team diligence and on-going monitoring processes will provide clients, directors and staff, and procedures; external bodies and the general public, relevant information affecting them and the A clause in our standard terms of business actions of Team, speedily and in a manner with clients which sets out our anti-bribery consistent with our overall Corporate Social and corruption policy and our expectations of Responsibility statements as deﬁned within our clients; our ethical values programme. Supplier due diligence processes operated As a global relocation company, we adhere by our central procurement team, and a to the highest regulatory and professional clause in all our supplier contracts setting standards in order to protect our business, out our anti-bribery and corruption policy and our reputation and our clients. expectation of our suppliers; and Our global anti-bribery and corruption policy is Procedures and controls which address: an integral part of Team’s risk management – working with Governments and public and compliance framework, which ofﬁcials; – the giving and receiving of gifts incorporates policies, procedures, guidelines and hospitality; – the giving of political and and a Compliance Handbook covering a charitable donations; and – working with third wide range of issues, including anti-money parties. laundering, sanctions and ethics. 24 Team Relocations | UN Global Compact Table of contents Note ......................................................................................................................................................... 3 Introduction to Procedures ..................................................................................................................... 4 Glossary of Terms ................................................................................................................................... 5 Business Integrity .................................................................................................................................... 6 Note Charitable Contributions ......................................................................................................................... 7 This An Gifts, Hospitality and Travel for Government Officials .......................................................................... 8 contra ti Bribery an ctors an d Corr Contractors and Suppliers ...................................................................................................................... 9 docu d subuption ment. contra Man General Rule ..........................................................................................................................................10 ctors fo ual is base r our ac d on ou Appendix A .............................................................................................................................................11 counts r Ex , you ar calibur do Appendix B .............................................................................................................................................14 e requ cu ired to ment and ou Appendix C .............................................................................................................................................15 obtain r the stan 6 core busi dards ness as defin principles ed in th . As is ts emen Requir s ABC R e location Team V.4 MvN 25022015 2 V.4 M vN 25 022015 15 250220 V.4 MvN 3 UN Global Compact | Team Relocations 25
