CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVE COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. Corporate Profile 2. President’s Statement of Continued Support 3. Brief Support Statement 4. Introduction 5. Communication on Progress report 6. News Section CCC Bulletin 7. Appendixes CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 CORPORATE PROFILE Consolidated Contractors Company (CCC) is a leading contracting company formed in 1952 and incorporated under the laws of Lebanon. The managing office is presently located in Athens, Greece. In more than 60 years of operation, CCC has grown to become a company transcending geographical and cultural borders with a distinctive competence for challenging projects and remote areas. CCC currently operates in 40 countries across 5 continents and it is the largest construction company in Gulf Cooperation Countries and ranks among the top 25 international contractors, building some of the most challenging and complex facilities. Drawing on its long and successful experience, CCC which has always remained in private ownership with a family culture, can provide a full range of projects services, from Project Development, through detailed Engineering, Procurement and Construction, to Start-Up, Operation and Maintenance pertaining to the following:  Buildings and Civil Engineering Works  Oil and Gas, and Water Pipelines  Oil and Gas, and Petrochemical Plants and Refineries  Power Plants  Marine Works  Offshore Installations  Maintenance of Mechanical Installations and Underwater Structures CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 WE SUPPORT The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles Brief support statement As part of the requirements of the UN Global Compact’s Initiative, submission of an annual Communication on Progress report is needed. CCC has approached this response in relation to the following four key areas – Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. CCC’s ongoing commitments display constant focus on core values and principles such as the development and growth of staff on all levels, the sense of belonging and harmony for all manpower, continuous propagation of innovation, sustainable commitments to the environment and anti-corruption ideals as well as the utmost respect of cultural identities on company projects. This report was created and developed by a select taskforce composed of staff stemming from diverse departments such as human resources, renewable energies and innovative solutions, construction support and development, health and safety and corporate social responsibility. The objective of this taskforce is to examine and access the sustainability impact of the company across all facets of its operations. Meetings are held every month in order to conduct discussions and assessments of various parameters in order to constantly filter information that will eventually be utilized to compile the report using the contribution and input on all members of this taskforce. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 Introduction In CCC we closely follow the global discussion and developments in CSR and Sustainability. We realize that UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for 2030 expect private businesses to play a major role in combating global issues that were never before associated with their mission. We understand that previous models of demonstrating corporate social responsibility through philanthropy and charity have been unable to disrupt the root causes that made philanthropy and charity necessary in the first place. We recognize that our responsibility towards society is ultimately demonstrated by the way we go about performing our main business activities. We comprehend that our social license to operate comes from integrating social and environmental considerations into all aspects of business operations, as well as into relationships with stakeholders such as employees, suppliers, clients (in the B2B context we operate), end users of our projects, and local communities. We appreciate that CSR policy functions as a self-regulatory mechanism whereby a business monitors and ensures its active compliance with the spirit of the law, ethical standards and international norms in Human Rights, Labor Standards, the Environment and Anti-Corruption. Labor Rights are widely understood as Human Rights, Environmental Degradation and Global Warming have created climate refugees, while the negative footprint of corruption on Human Rights has been substantiated beyond doubt. The injunctions of Global Compact’s 10 principles are designed to safeguard respect for fundamental Human Rights from the business world. The agreement of GC’s principles with CCC’s core values as established by our founders, which place paramount importance to respecting and supporting Human Rights, greatly facilitate the alignment of our business practices with civil society’s demands and defend our strong commitment to be a force for good in our world. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 HUMAN RIGHTS UN GC Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Honoring our commitment to respect and support Human Rights starts from investigating our corporate impact on human rights issues. Understanding first what the salient human rights to our industry and the different locations where we operate are, allows us to scrutinize our practices and establish suitable corporate responses. Measuring our performance against our social and environmental performance goals allows us to swiftly act upon constantly improving those metrics and prevent or mitigate potential impacts. The use of the GRI Sustainability Reporting framework at the core level, permits detailed tracking of our performance and its eventual communication to our stakeholders. ICESCR’s (International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights) Article 7 “Right to enjoy just and favorable conditions of work” and Article 11 “Right to an Adequate Standard of Living”, which incorporates the “Right to Adequate Housing”, “Right to Food” and “Right to Water” are salient human rights for CCC. As a company that provides housing, food and water to our workforce we can impact directly, positively or negatively, on the enjoyment of these rights. Work safety is relevant to two of the most fundamental human rights, ICCPR’s (International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights) Article 6 “Right to Life” and ICESCR’s Article 12 “Right to Health” in that inadequate standards of occupational health and safety resulting in danger or loss of life to workers or others along our supply chain, may directly harm the right to have one’s life protected. CCC firmly believes that dignified living and working conditions including improved standards of health, safety and welfare are essential to unlocking human potential and indispensable to its mission of raising the quality of life for all our stakeholders. CCC shall ensure that adequate arrangements are in place to safeguard the health, safety and welfare of all employees in its projects and operations. CCC recognizes that quality welfare facilities are essential to achieving our Target Zero Harm goal and helping our clients build a better and more sustainable world. CCC shall be in full compliance with all client HSE and Welfare requirements as well as all local regulations and international best practices that aim to protect and preserve the dignity of workers throughout the entire service cycle which includes recruitment, mobilization, living and working conditions. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 CCC achievement of “world class” welfare management is demonstrated through several themes and practices:  CCC ensures the availability of potable water, sanitary facilities (toilets and washrooms) and welfare facilities (rest facilities, protection from sun/rain and changing rooms) throughout the project sites and during all working hours.  CCC provides the workers with a high standard accommodation, catering and recreational facilities, easing the harshness of living in remote locations. We ensure that all workers have access to proper relaxation and rest which is fundamental in maintaining safety as tiredness or exhaustion have been proven to be major contributors to LTIs.  CCC goes one step further to offer in-camp entertainment and facilities.  CCC ensures that all it workers shall be compensated on time for all efforts exerted in the execution of the work and never deprived from any entitlements for benefits or subsidies in full compliance with the Client HSE requirements as well as CCC HR procedures.  CCC ensures that adequate medical and emergency facilities are operated within the project facilities and that all labor laws governing health and medical treatment for workers are fully enforced on our construction sites. It is worth mentioning that CCC’s Welfare arrangements and accommodation are of high standard and well regarded by its clients as CCC has implemented the clear guidelines and procedures stipulated in the Corporate Camp Sanitation and Hygiene Manuals as well as in our Welfare Management Plan and Health Management Plan. The above-mentioned plans define the specifications and procedures of Camp and Welfare in our company. Pertinent standardized procedures that detail our action plans include:  Camp Hygiene  Pest Control  Welfare Specification  Catering  Food Safety  Potable Water  Camp Medical Facilities  Indoor Recreation Facilities  Outdoor Recreation Facilities  Camp Services CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 Our relevant manuals also address Food Handling and Preparation:  Food Hygiene Training  Duties Of Food Handlers  Routine Inspection and Reporting  Cleaning Temperature Control  Kitchen  Refrigerators and Cold Stores  Freezers  Defrosting  Cold Buffet Display Unit  Dry Goods Store  Mess Medical/Health Culture CCC has made great strides in introducing the concept of a “Culture of Health” at its projects and areas of operation. The HSE Group well realizes that the main approach to excellence is through an empowered workforce that achieves and sustains optimal levels of health and well-being. One of the main tools in achieving this is raising awareness of occupational health hazards by assessing associated risks and promoting actions to improve employees’ general health. CCC’s “Culture of Health” initiative aims at the creation of a working environment where employee health and safety is valued, supported and promoted through workplace health programs, policies, benefits, and environmental supports. Building a Culture of Health involves all levels of the organization and establishes the workplace health program as a routine part of business operations aligned with overall business goals. A Wellness Lifestyle is a positive lifestyle for achieving wellness. The target is for our employees to be in good enough shape to do what they like without difficulty, to manage stress without being overcome by it, to understand food as a healthy pleasure and not a daily obsession, to maintain physical activity and exercise as an integral part of our week. To achieve the above goals, CCC has a Health / Medical Policy that might be concisely outlined as follows: 1Prevention:  Weekly Occupational Health and Hygiene Inspections (including catering facilities Food Safety Inspections and Audits).  Monthly Water Tests. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017  100% of CCC staff must be appropriately vaccinated.  100% of CCC staff must be screened and their “Medical Fitness to Work Certificates” must be up to date.  1% of CCC staff in safety-sensitive positions undergoes random testing for alcohol on a weekly basis.  Zero Tolerance alcohol and drugs policy.  100% of CCC staff is trained in first aid.  2% of CCC staff is trained in advanced first aid. 2Health Reporting:  Zero Occupational illnesses and injuries policy.  Zero Infectious Diseases Policy.  Health Report is submitted to Top Management on a monthly basis. 3Health Management  Weekly Medical Equipment Maintenance Checks.  1 Medical Emergency Drill monthly. 4Health Promotion  Weekly Health Awareness Sessions. The above is achieved through proper implementation and full compliance with CCC Health / Medical Procedures like:” Medical Fitness to Work, Pre and Post Employment Medical Examinations”; “Influenza Management Procedure”; “HIV/AIDS Management Procedure”; “Human Resources HIV/AIDS Procedure”; “Malaria Management Procedure”; “Medical Case Management Procedure”; “Medical Emergency Evacuation Procedure”; “Management of Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) Procedure”; “First Aid and Medical Facilities Procedure” and others. Wellness Program In line with our commitment to CCC Family Culture and our continuous efforts to establish a strong bond with each and every employee, CCC recently announced the “Wellness Program” Initiative. It was launched to explore ideas aiming at improving the welfare of CCC employees, to ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for every one of its employees. Wellness programs include activities such as company-sponsored exercises, weight-loss competitions, educational seminars, tobacco-cessation programs and health screenings that are designed to help employees eat better, lose weight and improve their overall physical health. Employees can benefit from wellness programs through lower health insurance premiums, decreased outof-pocket medical expenditures and an increased sense of well-being. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 During 2017 we were honored with important Safety awards that demonstrate our commitment to the wellbeing of our staff. Please see Appendix 1 – Awards HSE Incentive Scheme Program: CCC applies an Incentive Scheme and Motivation Plan on all its Operating Projects; this plan will promote the commitments towards HSE Culture and enhance the implementation of HSE Rules and procedures. The Incentive Scheme incites the project’s management to conduct on a monthly basis a generous Incentives and Awards ceremony in order for acknowledging and rewarding good HSE behavior and performance. These incentive schemes shall greatly help in fostering an Incident and Injury Free culture in our construction sites. Please see Appendix 2 –Welfare Practices. Camp Accommodation and Team-Building activities We have also included in this report a selection of photographs demonstrating two of our camps in Qatar and UAE which best reflect our intentions towards providing our employees with suitable accommodation, high standards of health and safety services and teambuilding activities. Please see Appendix 3 Mesaieed Camp and HLV Camp. UN GC Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Wanting to address the risk of having our business partners expose us to human rights violations we have developed and started using a “Suppliers and Subcontractors Sustainability Assessment Form”. Please see Appendix 7 Supplier Subcontractor Sustainability Assessment The scope of the assessment form is appropriately wide, spanning across a wide range of indicators that reflect human rights, accommodation, health and safety, labor practices, environmental management and bribery and corruption. By introducing an assessment of our suppliers and subcontractors through the newly introduced form, we have increased our confidence in our capacity to avoid being complicit to human rights abuses. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 LABOUR UN GC Principle 3 – The support of freedom of association and the recognition of the right to collective bargaining CCC continuously strives to maintain an open door policy which encourages open lines of communication and constant access of staff to their superiors at any time, so that they are able to voice their opinions, concerns or complaints. Employees can discuss issues of concern at any time that is convenient for them. This is facilitated through offices located in the camps and suggestion boxes at area offices. Complaints or suggestions are reviewed by project administration and can be escalated to higher management if deemed necessary. No distinction is made between grievances, complaints and suggestions and corrective measures are taken and conveyed to the party/person concerned where needed. We strive to continuously promote engagement and development of staff as these practices are considered of paramount importance to the holistic approach of a successful business. Taking this into consideration the company advocates open communication between all levels of staff and this is supported though the open channels that are in place. UN GC Principle 4: The elimination of all forced and compulsory labor As a devoted upholder of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), CCC adheres to the labor laws of each country and provides its staff with the relevant and applicable compensation. All suppliers used by CCC have provided the company with straightforward and descriptive licenses for their scope of work and supplying of materials and services. We also check that suppliers utilized by the company adhere to federal labor laws of each reciprocal country for avoidance of unbecoming business practices. UN GC Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor CCC is adamant in the international directives of not employing persons below 18 years old at all projects, areas and offices. This notion has been a core ideal and procedure of the company since its inception. UN GC Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation At end 2017, the company employed over 119,000 staff from over 85 nationalities around the world, once again reflecting a minute increase of staff compared to the end of the previous year. The manpower CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 movement observed in the management, daily skilled staff, commercial staff and the daily unskilled staff is not of significant interest as these fluctuations are not as representative as other years have been in the past, where the company had more projects. The distribution of work force for 2017 is shown below: Similar trends are observed in the male/female ratios in areas of operation where social setups allow for female employment, in a total of 15 countries in Europe, MENA and CIS regions. 2017 was a rather slow year due to the fact that not many new projects were awarded to the company and that had an immediate effect on manpower trends, as the company “recycled” existing staff members in vacancies that opened rather than hire new staff. The low prices of gas in 2017 impacted the big producers of oil to put on hold their extraction refineries which in turn, indirectly affected CCC by cancelling major contracts throughout the Middle East. This is predicted to change in 2018 which will therefore mean that new projects will be acquired and manpower will recommence its usual movement. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 ENVIRONMENT UN GC Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Integrating Sustainability CCC aims to integrate advanced environmental management when performing our main business activities. With this at mind our scope as a construction company falls under three main categories: A. Project Development When we operate either as the main property developer or as part of a Public Private Partnership (PPP). In this context, we have the greatest opportunity to maximize environmental management, as we can set relevant targets in the early concept stages. We are empowered to benefit from the principles of sustainable construction by proactively reducing our environmental impacts and decreasing maintenance and operation costs. As an example, we build CCC’s Head office in Oman according to the standards of green design and technology and achieved a LEED-2009 certification. B. Design and Build Contract Under this type of contract we translate the client’s requirements into project specifications. We still maintain an opportunity towards preventing environmental degradation at a reasonably low cost by offering smarter design solutions to optimize sustainability. C. Build Contract In this situation, CCC’s involvement as a main contractor begins after the design phase has been settled. At this point, our influence in pursuing solid environmental solutions is limited. Nevertheless, whilst carrying out our construction operations we implement numerous environmentally friendly initiatives aligned with our commitment to sustainability. CCC wins MENA Green Building Award The confirmation for our achievements typically comes from the outside. CCC has participated in many open international Sustainability competitions and has been repeatedly recognized and awarded several prestigious awards. In 2017, CCC was conferred the award for “Contractor of the Year” at the MENA Green Building Awards (Please see Appendix 4 Award Certificate). The awards honor organizations for their innovative and outstanding sustainable building practices and were organized by strategic regional organizations. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 Specifically, the Emirates Green Building Council (EmiratesGBC) in partnership with JordanGBC and LebanonGBC and supported by WorldGBC. With record submissions from six nations across the MENA region, the awards highlighted the growing focus of industry stakeholders to promote sustainability through innovation and best practices. CCC received this award for being a contractor whose achievements and priorities align with improving the sustainability of the built environment. Also, in recognition of demonstrating high green standards on project sites and within the company, with adherence to national and international regulations and codes. Green Contractor of the Year Award-2017 CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 CCC Executives receiving the Award on behalf of CCC Once again, CCC is confirming its worldwide leadership in construction this time by setting the example as green contractor. The award comes to seal CCC’s commitment towards sustainability, by integrating it with our core business activity: construction. UN GC Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility CCC’s Sustainability Objectives 2017 In 2017, with the intention to keep sustainability at high momentum within our organization “CCC’s Sustainability Objectives 2017 One Stop Information Sheet” was developed and shared throughout the organization. Concentrating on integration, business cases, education, reporting and risk management the sheet embedded a wide range of supporting information. It proved to be very helpful for our busy Project Management teams as a concise resource to the main items of sustainability. The objectives included consist of 8 points which were identified through lessons learned, recorded KPI’s and client interactions as strategic areas for improving the understanding of sustainability within CCC. Our commitment to sustainable development and particularly the responsible management of our environmental impacts is key to CCC’s success. Consequently, increasing awareness and making all relevant material easily accessible elevates CCC’s sustainability maturity. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 CCC’s Sustainability Objectives 2017 (Please see Appendix 5) Life Cycle Analysis A solid pledge to environmental responsibility comes from shifting the discourse on Sustainability from being an overhead item to becoming a corporate and economic advantage with proven business cases and a heightened sense of social responsibility. Introducing and implementing sustainability measures is high on CCC’s agenda. The majority of these initiatives are cost effective and commercially viable solutions, aiming to reduce the economic and environmental impact of daily operations. A strong business case for most of the initiatives is supported by Life Cycle Cost Analysis (LCCA) demonstrating proven lifecycle costs and paybacks. CCC’s life-cycle cost analysis cover the below: • High efficiency HVAC units (Please see Appendix 6) • Solar street light • Solar tower light • Solar water heating system • LED light fitting (new installation and replacement) • Low-flow aerators • Electric timers CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 UN GC Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Off-grid Solar Unit We have a long-term plan to invest in renewable energy and battery technologies. Developing off-grid solar-powered accommodation units is just the start. The off-grid solar powered facility was developed to support power demands at offices and camps such as air-condition units, lights and IT material. Using an existing cabin as a basis we carried out several modifications to transform it into the PV powered cabin we had envisioned. This initiative yields time and cost savings for construction projects in remote areas. Specifically, a project’s mobilization period varies from one to three months depending on the availability of the services at the remote area. At CCC’s projects Bausher Wastewater-Madinat Sultan Qaboos and Al Amerat Wastewater in Oman we tried to find a solution to minimize this time by setting up a mobile (off-grid) power unit fit for operation upon installation. Also, traditionally remote construction areas and sites depend on generators to produce electricity. However, after investigation we realized that between PV modules and generators, the latter would in fact cause higher running costs to perform the same job. Apart from generating electricity with no associated air pollution emissions the cabin, has been developed with a holistic environmentally friendly approach. The ecological footprint is decreased through the reuse of resources and the use of materials contains low Co2 emissions. This cabin can completely cover the power needs of CCC’s projects in remote areas, especially in the gulf region that is exposed to optimal sunshine nearly all year round. In addition, since it works on renewable CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 energy it minimizes running expenses because there is no dependence on biofuel or any source of electricity. In conclusion, CCC emphasizes environmental excellence as being an integral part of our construction operations. One of the ways to achieve this is by using environmentally friendly technologies -such as this off-grid solar powered unitto mitigate our environmental impact. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 Supplier and Subcontractor Sustainability Assessment At CCC we recognize that in order to successfully manage sustainability impacts it is necessary to ensure that our suppliers and subcontractors are following suit. There is a growing need for vendors to recognize their responsibility to safeguard the environment and nurture positive relations with their workers and local communities. As a result, a significant number of organizations are engaging with their supply chain partners to address sustainability related subjects and encourage them to improve their performance. Clients are consistently evaluating CCC on key themes such as quality, health and safety, resource efficiency and anti-corruption. Therefore, it is only natural for CCC to expect from its suppliers and subcontractors to sufficiently respond to these matters and monitor their performance accordingly. Recognizing that suppliers and subcontractors are business partners that hold a significant role in the execution of CCC’s projects and can also influence public perceptions of our social and environmental responsibility, an assessment tool was developed. Based on established standards (Global Reporting Initiative) and our internal knowledge platform (Fanous), an assessment checklist was formulated collectively involving CCC’s Sustainability Taskforce and Community of Practice (CoP) members. The objective of this assessment form is to help suppliers and subcontractors understand CCC’s performance expectations. Specifically, the logic is to ensure that CCC’s suppliers and subcontractors comply with all domestic legislation as well as all applicable international regulations and protocols. Additionally, the intention is for supply chain partners to abide by corporate principles and commitments. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 CCC’s Supplier and Subcontractor Sustainability Self-Assessment Form (Please see Appendix 7) CCC’s Suppliers and Subcontractors Sustainability Assessment Form covers the categories below:  Environment  Labor Practices  Human Rights  Local Community  Compliance  Anti-Corruption Specifically related to environmental impacts the assessment aims to find out how CCC’s business partners address the below issues: Environmental Management System Environmental Management Environmental Policy Environmental Awareness Program Greenhouse Gas Energy and Fuel conservation programs and Energy Use Reporting procedures Water conservation program Water Reporting procedures Materials Procurement of environmentally friendly materials Green Solutions Proven experience in using environmentally friendly technologies CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 Anti-Corruption UN GC Principle 10 The promotion and adoption of initiatives to counter all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery The following information outlines the development and progress of activities related to the Company’s Ethics and Anti-Corruption Program (EACP): 1. EACP was developed and launched as a Quality Management Procedure at the end of 2008. Implementation of the EACP is mandatory to all the areas, projects, employees and related parties who should all adhere to the strict compliance and enforcement of its terms and directives. 2. EACP is based on the Company’s “Core Values, Guiding Principles and Code of Practice” which was revised in 2015. In addition, EACP complies with the Company’s existing Procedures as detailed in the context of the Program. 3. Bearing on the ongoing global changes applicable to compliance laws and regulations, revisions of EACP were issued in 2014 (Revision 2) and 2016 (Revision 3) to meet the respective changes. 4. In compliance with the requirements of EACP, periodical reviews have to be conducted to ensure the currency of the Program. In December 2016, EY were commissioned to undertake this review which was completed and the report was submitted to Management. 5. In compliance with EACP, ongoing training workshops and face-to-face awareness sessions are regularly conducted to senior staff in positions of authority and those who are exposed to compliance situations. Completion Certificates are issued to each participant, copies of which are filed in their respective personal files with HR Department. 6. From 2014 till today, close to 450 Senior Staff have been trained by the undersigned, being accredited as a Certified Ethics and Anti-Corruption Compliance Trainer. 7. In order to expose the highest possible number of employees to the EACP, in 2014 an Online Ethics and Anti-Corruption e-Learning Program was developed in cooperation with two International Specialist Consultants (Idox Compliance and Pohlmann and Company) that was tailored specially for CCC. It was launched in May 2015 and was sent to about 5,500 employees; close to 5,000 employees have completed the program and received their individual completion certificates, copies of which automatically were sent to their respective personal files with HR Department. 8. Both the Classroom Training Workshops (introductory, advanced and refreshers) and the Online Training Program are ongoing. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 Tone from the Top CCC Founders and Senior Management have set the “tone at the top” through a visible and active leadership commitment to zero tolerance for corruption in all its forms. A few of their long term commitments and support are demonstrated by being members and supporters of the following international organizations:  United Nations Global Compact One of the first 50 members to join the launch of the Compact in 2001.  World Economic Forum – Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) Founding members of the Forum since 2004  Pearl Initiative in GCC Founding members of the Initiative since it was launched in 2011 and board members of the Founding Committee. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 CCC’s BULLETIN Corporate Social Responsibility News Section January until December 2017 D. NTALACHANI CSR News Contribution to CSR Initiative to our colleagues who donated blood, as well as to all those who initiated and participated in the CCC Staff are encouraged to come up with preparations which as usual added value to the ideas and activities related to CCC’s CSR success of the campaign. Initiatives including Going Green and community involvement events. Please send your ideas, Annual Iftar Event initiatives and achievements to “CSR-CCC” email CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY address csr@ccc.gr. SAUDI ARABIA Beach Cleaning Activity at Baysh City The annual Iftar event organized by KDO was held on 10 June 2017 in Al Khobar, attended by a number of employees located at Khobar locations. All the attendees were happy and expressed their thanks and appreciation to the CCC owners and area management and wished As part of our CSR agenda, around 120 CCC them many happy returns. employees from the JRUP Project-EPC 13 Hepatitis A a Preventive Campaign in CCC gathered at the beach of Baysh City which is monitored and controlled by Saudi Aramco in order to create an environmental awareness event on how to protect the environment while participating in cleaning the beach. This awareness day was led by Mrs. Abdallah Attari, Abbas Said & Methqal Qallab, CSR representatives with the participation of 120 employees: daily workers and staff from different nationalities including Saudis. It was in cooperation with our client HITACHI and our main contractor Saudi Aramco. As part of its CSR programme, JSRU held a CCC’S awareness event was organized by Abdul Hepatitis A preventive campaign, through Ghani Ghorabi who arranged for the kayak with awareness training sessions, at the project two divers who cleaned the adjacent seawaters. mess hall for Food Handlers & Housekeeping The 2.5km long beach was totally cleaned within employees. The sessions were organized and four hours. conducted by Modassir K. Ekhlaquie (the HCCP Coordinator & Food inspector). Blood Donation at Khobar Camp Cooked Food Distribution A successful Blood Donation was organized at Khobar Camp. Many thanks and appreciation go As part of RMP’s CSR initiatives and in C C C Bulletin Issue 122 | 2nd Quarter 2017 Sub Title CSR News association with ETTAM (a charity organization By bringing in manufacturers and distributors to CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY in Riyadh) food parcels are prepared from the share new products that we can offer a client, surplus cooked food at the South Camp mess we are working toward a better solution and halls, for the purpose of distributing the parcels savings. to needy people by ETTAM. The packing process is handled in a very professional way and under Learn @ Lunch with USA LED Lighting Solutions, hygienic conditions. Danbury, Connecticut USA MORGANTI AGC Second Annual Safety Excellence Awards Lunch, West Palm Beach, Florida USA LED Lighting Solutions came in for Part 3 of our Learn @ Lunch series, showing us their technology and products so we can better serve Several members of our West Palm Beach team our clients. recently attended the Second Annual Safety AIA Houston Chapter Sandcastle Competition, Excellence Awards Lunch sponsored by the Galveston, Texas Associated General Contractors of America Inc., Florida East Coast Chapter, in West Palm Beach, Florida. We wish to extend a job well done and congratulations to our MWBE Construction Partner Cooper Construction Management for receiving a Safety Award of Excellence. It is welldeserved, recognizing their continuous attention to detail and high caliber in construction safety protocols. Congratulations to all involved! Learn @ Lunch with TMS Structures, Danbury, Connecticut Our Texas team had a blast at Galveston’s East Beach at the AIA Houston Chapter 2017 Sandcastle Competition. Teammates included employees from FS Group Architects, Infrastructure Associates, and Isani Consultants. TMS Structures came in for Part 2 of our Learn @ Lunch series, showing us their technology and products so we can better serve our clients. TMS offers prefabricated building structures, specializing in wood framed and light gauge steel walls, wood and light gauge steel trusses, structural steel and concrete, and metalwork. Bulletin Issue 122 | 2nd Quarter 2017 C C C 39 T. AWAD CSR Volunteers of the Quarter We are pleased to acknowledge the participation and continued support of volunteers towards CSR Initiatives in their respective areas during the Second Quarter of 2017. GREECE Omar Alfatyan CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Whether you call them refugees, migrants or asylum seekers for us they are just humans seeking safety away from all the madness in the conflict zones. As I always believe “no one puts their children in the boat of death unless the water is safer than the land”. Everything started in December 2015 when I and my friend Naim Trabelsi responded to the urgent need for volunteers in Lesbos, Greece. In six days we managed to help countless families in the front-line to survive the Refugees Have No Choice: We Do freezing weather with shelter, warm clothes and some food. Our life changed since that day and volunteering became our beautiful addiction. We mainly aim to help vulnerable families with housing projects and with basic needs (food, clothes and toys) and most importantly to give them the feeling of safety they lost since the day they became refugees. We wouldn’t have been able to continue our efforts if it hadn’t been for generous donations from our colleagues who helped us from the beginning. Now we have expanded our work to support the refugee crises in Lebanon, and north and west Iraq. Omar Faouri I started my volunteering work back in 2013. I used to visit refugee camps that accommodate unaccompanied children ranging from approximately 8 to 15 years old of age. The visits were coordinated with NGOs operating in Athens and Europe such as IASIS & NOSTOS. The children were of different backgrounds and origins such as the Middle East, North Africa, West Africa and Afghanistan. The majority of my work was related to translation from Arabic to English and vice versa when Spending Quality Time with Unaccompanied Arabic speaking children had to attend weekly meetings Refugee Children in Mellon House Refugee Camp with assigned lawyers and psychotherapists. This was very helpful to both; the children themselves and the camp administration who faced a challenge dealing with the language barrier between them and the children. In addition to translation, spending some quality time with children by playing games and engagement in simple conversations helped them overcome their feeling of discomfort due to the new environment they had to adapt to in a very short period of time as well as the language barrier they had with the administration and the other children they shared the camp with. I also managed to coordinate between CCC’s CSR group and one of the NGOs that was operating at the Eleonas refugee camp located in Athens. CSR thankfully donated 200 sleeping bags that were a necessity for the big number of refugees suffering from the shortage in the number of beds in the camp. The CSR members were very helpful and acted promptly and efficiently when informed about the need for such a commodity. On a personal level, this experience gave me a feeling of purpose and achievement. It also helped influence my peers and colleagues to contribute in fulfilling their humanitarian social responsibilities towards less fortunate people who suffered from the tragedies of war and / or social injustice. I encourage every person to spend some time and effort in attempting to improve the lives of other human beings in this world, not only through fiscal aid, but also by engagement, effort and direct contact with people in need. C C C Bulletin Issue 122 | 2nd Quarter 2017 A. MUSHTAHA Nauryz 2017 Charity Event, Kazakhstan CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY On the occasion of Nauryz 2017 and in the spirit of The CCEP Management wished all the people of Solidarity and Cooperation, CCIC/CCEP Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan a prosperous future and a life full of in line with the CSR initiative, continued its charity happiness. Mr. Kawash said programme in different cities and villages. “It was very important to support and help people In Kulsary City the Head of the Labour Department who are in very hard life conditions. Even a slight & Social Programme, Serik Hamedulalh together help makes people feel happy.” with the Area General Manager of Consolidated Gylsari residents, who received the vouchers, Contracting Engineering & Procurement SAL – expressed their appreciation to the organizers of Offshore CCEP in Kazakhstan. Hisham Kawash, the event and in particular to the donations made Mohammad Jabr (Project Manager), Amin by CCEP. Mushtaha (Head of PR) and Farukh Ismailov (Head of IR) organized a charity event for disadvantaged The Deputy of Akim, Serik Hamedulalh, and all people, pensioners and low-income people at the the disadvantaged families appreciated CCEP Social Programme Association. Management and their help, especially at that time and during of the celebration of the great Nauryz. Mr. Kawash alone distributed 100 vouchers (each voucher valued at 10.000 Tenge) to those people in order to help them to purchase the required products. Bulletin Issue 122 | 2nd Quarter 2017 C C C 41 W. MOUJAES LFP Basketball Tournament, Kuwait On 16-17 February CCC LFP basketball team participated in the Red Bull Reign Basketball Tournament organized at the Marina Outdoor CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Court, Salmiya. As part of our CSR campaign and in a bid to create harmony between the CCC workforce and the local community, four of the best basketball players joined forces and created the team. Konstantinos Alevizopoulos, Bahaa El Dbaisy, Moussa Khairallah and Anastasios Papavasileiou started training Fans the best in the competition as they gained in the LFP camp basketball court weeks before the approval of all attendees. At the end of the the tournament to ensure that they would be tournament CCC LFP had won seven games and ready to compete against other teams. Moreover, lost only four as they ended in the top 10 ranking their colleagues joined the training sessions and teams. helped the team with their practice games. A special thank you goes to the CCC LFP Confidence, team spirit, management and management team and especially to Hamzi coworkers’ support were the secret weapons of Nasser El Deen for his continuous team support. our team. During the tournament and despite In conclusion, our four talented players made us the 90 minute road trip, 30 passionate fans were proud and succeeded in their CSR mission. We present at the Marina Courts to cheer on their will definitely look forward to cheering for them players. A great ambiance was created and many in upcoming sports events. neutral fans joined us in cheering the boys. As a reward, the tournament organizers named LFP C C C Bulletin Issue 122 | 2nd Quarter 2017 J. YOUNAN The Corps Africa Model, Morocco Corps Africa responds to the basic needs of African communities and offers opportunities for personal and professional development for young people by mobilizing them in order to fight poverty and facilitate community development. Corps Africa offers ambitious and brilliant young Africans the opportunity to serve their own CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY countries (and possibly other countries) as volunteers, like the Peace Corps model. Corps Africa believes that development efforts should be focused on the needs of the community. It gives volunteers the opportunity to determine what needs to be done and take the initiative to accomplish it. To do this, we aspire to exploit the idealism of young women and men to achieve it, while giving them the opportunity to experience something new. In addition, Corps Africa aims to help these young volunteers shape their vision of the world and their own future. Volunteers will be the transmission lines between communities and development partners. Their mission will be to raise awareness of each other’s concerns and priorities. This will enable them to acquire skills and experience CCC CSR through working in partnership with international organizations and focusing on development. We As part of CCC’s contribution to Corps Africa and recruit young African university students and at 70 kilometres from the city of Marrakesh, in send them to well-chosen locations with strong addition to our corporate social responsibility for training, focused on participatory development better education, CCC Morocco was one of the and with the necessary resources. We have a main sponsors to donate construction material clear model and process in place to ensure the from available material at CCC stores for the success of the programme. refurbishment and furnishing of two rooms, one for a kindergarden and the second a room for programmes in overcoming illiteracy. Bulletin Issue 122 | 2nd Quarter 2017 C C C 43 J. YOUNAN Hospital Upgrade, Errachidia, Morocco This is a very old hospital located in Errachidia, Morocco. Upon the commencement of Phase 3 of the CCC EMAG Project CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY which included the material supply only of two complete common patient rooms and realizing that the existing rooms are not available to receive of the modern and Before up-to-date material supply, the CCC Morocco team and under our area CSR activities decided to do the necessary work to upgrade the two rooms including all finishing works and standard MEP work in addition to an adjacent toilet facility which was also upgraded, full finishing activities with toilet accessories. After The result was two new rooms renovated at a minimal cost as we managed to use some surplus material available in our stores and staff from our existing workforce. After C C C Bulletin Issue 122 | 2nd Quarter 2017 J. YOUNAN Overcoming Illiteracy in Errachidia, Morocco As part of our CSR activities, specifically in trying to help provide a better grounding for a better education for all, we raised the subject of CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY overcoming illiteracy in Errachidia, Morocco. After we felt the interest of our labour force, we recruited two young instructors at the minimum wage who were looking forward to this new type of challenge. We started this programme by giving Instructors private lessons after work for several This programme was carried out for five months hours in both the Arabic and French languages. successfully and we had to stop it when the Whoever needed education from the CCC sites’ project came to an end. It was a good experience staff was welcomed. Groups were formed and we might hopefully do it again in future accordingly. projects. J. YOUNAN Morocco without Plastic Bags On the 1 July 2016 The Moroccan government started applying the law prohibiting the fabrication, importation, selling and use of all kinds of plastic bags that are used extensively in Morocco since they are not recyclable and do a lot of harm to the environment. Each bag may live in the environment for up to a hundred years before breaking down. Moroccans use 26 billion plastic bags annually, making the country the second-largest consumer of plastic bags in the world, after the United States. The Moroccan government and nonprofit organizations have repeatedly attempted to raise awareness in Moroccan society of the negative impacts of using plastic bags. Mawarid organization was behind Morocco without Plastic Bags a nationwide awareness campaign that sought to halt the circulation of non-biodegradable plastic bags in Moroccan cities. The campaign promoted the adoption of fair-trade, ecofriendly bags instead. Bulletin Issue 122 | 2nd Quarter 2017 C C C 45 W. ARAFEH CCC Oman Sports Tournament 2017 On 2 April 2017 we launched the 2017 sports DMIA Project team A. The White Camp team won tournament. This year, in addition to football, we the final by three goals to nil. included other sports in the tournament in order In the volleyball tournament four teams played to increase the involvement of the employees as a league and the winner was DMIA Project in such an event. The new added sports are team A. volleyball, billiards and table tennis. As for the billiards, 16 players competed in a CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Two groups formed in the football tournament, knock-out game and the winner was Hussain each group contained three teams playing in a Taha. In the table tennis 12 players competed in league system in the first round. a knock-out game and the winner was Joel Silva. The first and the second teams from each group On 18 April 2017 the football match took place, qualified to the second round. The winners from followed by the final ceremony where Mr. Bassam the second round qualified for the final. The final Addada distributed the trophies and medals to match was between the White Camp team and all the winners from all the sports. C C C Bulletin Issue 122 | 2nd Quarter 2017 W. ARAFEH Bowling Tournament CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY At the beginning I wasn’t sure that what I we started to add more players for some of the declared as “Bowling for Fun” was going to be a teams, upon their request to be a maximum of six successful event, because a week passed after in each team. the declaration and no one registered for the Knowing the size of the event and that I couldn’t event and I thought it would end by canceling the manage it by myself, four employees volunteered whole idea. to share the responsibility of managing it with Then I decided to follow a different strategy by me. personal communication to promote the idea and We rented the entire bowling club facility for that the event is all about fun, group and families three hours. On the day and at the time of the gathering; even if you do not know how to bowl, event which was Wednesday 26 April 2017 at7 come and enjoy yourself because there are other pm, everything at the bowling club was ready. things to do other than the bowling such as billiards, air hockey, PlayStation and baby foot, The employees and their families started to and even if none of the above appeals, just come come and it took us 15 minutes to organize the and share the fun with us. teams and assign them to the lanes, then they had 10 minutes to warm up by making some The new strategy started to pay off and I began bowl shots. to receive requests to join. The idea was that the registration should be by teams and in the At 7:30 pm the competition began. Each team beginning each team was formed by four players. had to play three games and the teams with 12 teams were registered, which is the maximum the highest scores were the winners! During because the bowling club has only 12 lanes. Then that time the bowling club hall was filled with the employees and their families and they were enjoying themselves and playing the other games available. Just before 9 pm all the teams finished their three games and during the time that we were checking the teams’ scores, we invited everybody to enjoy the snack buffet we prepared for them. The results of each team were calculated and the winners were announced. Our Area General Manager, Bassam Addada, who shared the night with us, distributed the trophies and medals to the winners amidst a lot of fun and laughter: everybody was celebrating. The event night “Bowl for Fun” thus ended and everybody left after they had a very nice night and they all asked me to repeat such nights more frequently. Bulletin Issue 122 | 2nd Quarter 2017 C C C 47 W. ARAFEH Ramadan is the Month of Charity CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY A few days before the holy month of Ramadan we launched a campaign to collect donations Foodstuff Donation from company employees for charity during the That was the first activity we undertook and holy month. we intended to do it before the start of the holy month of Ramadan in order to be beneficial. We The original idea was to encourage the bought the foodstuff and packed it in carton employees be involved in charity activities and boxes. to let them feel with the people and families in need. Our target in the beginning was to donate In coordination with the Muscat Volunteering foodstuff for the families in need. team and with a group of volunteer employees we distributed the foodstuff boxes on Thursday When the donation email was circulated, we 25May 2017 and that was over a wide area from started to receive donations from each project Riyam to Seifah. To cover that wide area we and department in Oman. The amount of the divided ourselves into two groups. It took us donations was beyond our expectations and it more than four hours for each group to complete was very generous. Total donations amounted to their assignment. around $23,000. With this generous amount in hand, we started Seniors’ Home to consider widening our donation activities to cover more than the foodstuff to the families in For the seniors’ home we donated the following need and we donated the money to the following items: charity activities: • One heavy duty washing machine. • Eight wheel chairs. 1. Foodstuff for 220 families in need in Muscat • Five water dispensers. area. • Fifteen electric insect killers. 2. Items as requested to the Omani Cancer Association (Dar Al Hanan). We visited the senior home at Ristaq on Wednesday 14 June 2017 with a group of 3. Items as requested to the seniors’ home. volunteer employees and there were nine of us: 4. An amount to cover some of the Dar Al Aata three men and six women. Association’s needs. We met with the seniors, chatted with them and 5. An amount to go to the Al Rahma Association gave them simple gifts of personal items. for Motherhood and Childhood Care. C C C Bulletin Issue 122 | 2nd Quarter 2017 Ramadan is the Month of Charity CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Oman Cancer Association We visited Dar Al Hanan with a group of volunteer employees on 18 June 2017 to give (Dar Al Hana) them the donated material and a cheque for the Dar Al Hanan is a hosting home for children with medical equipment. cancer who cannot afford to stay in hospital to For Dar Al Aata and Al Rahma Associations, we take the required treatment, and in some cases just prepared cheques in the amounts we wanted they host the children’s mothers as well. to donate to them to be used in their many We donated to Dar Al Hanan, as per their charity programmes. request, special types of bed sheets and covers Furthermore, we plan to donate some money to and an amount of money to cover the cost of Al Amal School for Deaf Children but that will be special medical equipment. at the beginning of the coming academic year. Bulletin Issue 122 | 2nd Quarter 2017 C C C 49 D. NTALACHANI CSR News Contribution to CSR Initiative villages. CCC Staff are encouraged to come up with On 2 September 2017 in Kulsary, Kushugul (Near ideas and activities related to CCC’s CSR to Tengiz) and Atyrau, the CCEP team visited Initiatives including Going Green and community the disadvantaged families association and involvement events. Please send your ideas, orphanages in the presence of the representative initiatives and achievements to “CSR-CCC” email of Kulsary Akim, Serik Hamedulah (Head of the CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY address csr@ccc.gr. Labour Department in Kulsary). The CCEP team distributed 31 fresh lambs for those who could not purchase them. GREECE We wished all people of Kazakhstan a Donation of Milk to Eleonas Camp prosperous future and a life full of happiness especially the children at the orphanages. Mr. Hamedulah and all the disadvantaged families appreciated CCEP management for the help and support, especially at this time of the Adha Eid celebration. Establishing English Classroom Eleonas is a state run accommodation centre that hosts refugees (mainly families) until they leave Greece. In addition to the government, a good number of volunteers are trying to improve the living conditions of these people. CCC with the intention of supporting the camp donated 1,100 litres of milk. Donation to the Greek Multiple Sclerosis Society CCEP Kazakhstan Area in line with its CSR (GMSS) programme, continued implementing the rules and goals of CCC’s culture: on 1 July 2017 we The Athens Office CSR Committee organized a were instructed by our Area General Manager donation of food to the Greek Multiple Sclerosis Hisham Kawash to establish classes for English Society (GMSS) in order to support families with language courses and to invite the best teachers members who suffer from multiple sclerosis. from the local staff in the CCC Area office.The GMSS is a non-profit and non-governmental purpose of the English courses is to add one organization dedicated to improving the lives of more language for the local staff, improve the patients and their families. It supports those who communications between the expat and local are facing financial problems and also provides staff and to build new skills and confidence. psychological support by organizing social gatherings and therapy groups. The classes are working at three levels of learning: Introductory, Advanced and Donation to Frontida Masterclass. The courses are not focusing on a The Athens Office CSR Committee organized specific area of learning the language but some a food campaign to support Frontida which is focus on important and fascinating academic a pan-Hellenic association for the prevention, subjects related to business and how to develop information and support of people with mental skills which are required to the employees for retardation and Downs syndrome. Oil and other study or work. necessary food supplies were delivered to them. The English courses have been proven to increase confidence and develop skills that are KAZAKHSTAN needed to improve productivity at work and the possibility of entering higher education. Donation on the Occasion of Adha Eid (Kurpan Aid) On the occasion of Adha Eid (Kurpan Aid) CCEP Kazakhstan, in line with its CSR programme, continued giving charity in different cities and C C C Bulletin Issue 123 | 3rd Quarter 2017 Sub Title CSR News SAUDI ARABIA • Trees help prevent soil erosion. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Indian Independence Day Workers’ Welfare As an employees’ As part of the workers’ welfare and happiness welfare programme, two workers were nominated initiative, BACS from Dubai Projects Jabel Ali Camp to perform management has the OMRA pilgrimage in Saudi Arabia, during invited the Indian the holy month of Ramadan. The nominated Embassy Delegate workers were from a low income group and Anil Nautiyal were exceptional performers in their respective (Vice Chancellor, fields. The pilgrimage trip to Saudi Arabia was Cultural Attaché) fully paid for, including the visa fees, travel and for the Indian accommodation in Mecca and Medina. Independence Free OMRA trips as gifts to excellent performers Day Celebration with our BACS employees on from a low income group of workers were 16 August 2017 at South Camp which was also introduced during 2016. Since then nine workers attended by Jack Hume a PMT member and have been selected for this gift. This unique other management team members. Mr. Nautiyal welfare and happiness initiative has engendered was overwhelmed by the hospitality shown by considerable positive energy among the the BACS employees and management. workers, an indicator to better performance During the event Jack Hume expressed and productivity. We are hopeful of increasing Independence Day greetings to the BACS the number of nominees during 2017. OMRA employees followed by the Vice Chancellor’s gifts are extended to us by the Islamic Affairs speech with some interactive session from the Department of Dubai for the community support camp residents all contributing to an uplifting, and volunteering services rendered by UAE Area happy occasion. CSR Department and free of cost to projects. UAE USA World Planting Day Laureate Park Barbecue, West Palm Beach, Florida APM HH project celebrated World Planting Day on 23 March 2017. The project manager, construction manager, engineers and supervisors all participated in the event. The trees were planted in front of the site offices for several reasons: • Our site staff where complaining about the dust generated inside their offices. • Trees absorb CO2, removing and storing the carbon while releasing the oxygen back into the air. • Trees absorb odours and pollutant gases (nitrogen oxides, ammonia, sulfur dioxide and Morganti held a BBQ for the grand opening of ozone) and filter particulates out of the air by our latest school in Orange County Florida: trapping them on their leaves and bark. Laureate Park Elementary School. Jim Inman and • Air quality is improved through the presence of Susan Vasquez worked through the night to get trees, shrubs and turf. Leaves filter the air we everything ready. breathe by removing dust and other particulates. It was Jim’s 35th Morganti job BBQ! Bulletin Issue 123 | 3rd Quarter 2017 C C C 29 T. AWAD CSR Volunteers We are pleased to acknowledge the participation and support of volunteers towards CSR Initiatives in their respective areas CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY during the third quarter of 2017. DUBAI Mohammed Kamran Yehya Wehbe The following two employees have dedicatedly volunteered during and after their working hours to start the English Language learning programme “Smart Reading” at Jabel Ali Camp, Dubai. They have been responsible for personally meeting all aspiring students (workers), explaining the study programme, distributing the course material and have engaged personally in the screening process. They will continue to volunteer for this programme until its successful completion in March 2018. C C C Bulletin Issue 123 | 3rd Quarter 2017 A. MUSHTAHA Prime Minister Visits CCEP Training Camp Kazakhstan On 15 September 2017 the Prime Minister of An important aspect of the training, which made Kazakhstan, Mr. Bakhitzhan Sagintaev, arrived in the VIP visitors happy to hear, was that the the Atyrau oblast with his ministers and team. trainees are getting a monthly salary by way of a scholarship during the training. At the same time, The Prime Minister, the oblast Akim of the trainees have a good chance of joining our Atyrau and many ministers visited the CCEP CCEP projects in Tengiz once they complete the Training Centre in Atyrau City which prepares required courses. professionals for the oil and gas industry and CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY projects after testing and technology of oil and At the meeting with the trainees the participants gas production. discussed the issues of training and retraining of personnel, as well as the formation of skills and The CCEP Training Centre is the first project qualifications for the future. in Atyrau established six months ago and was opened officially by Mr. Samer Khoury and Akimat of Atyrau Oblast in the presence of many local authorities and the media. The Prime Minister during his visit talked to the trainees and trainers in class and heard their appreciation for the management of CCEP. The CCEP training programmes are in accordance with universal standards and meet TCO requirements. There are currently approximately 100 people studying at the training centre and some 115 persons have graduated. After graduation, trainees receive two diplomas, the Kazakh diploma and the international one. Classes are conducted by qualified teachers. Bulletin Issue 123 | 3rd Quarter 2017 C C C 31 W. ARAFEH Wellness & A Healthy Life Style in Oman In line with our President’s wellness programme initiative, and to improve the employees’ health and life style, we at Oman Area succeeded in negotiating a corporate rate for our employees with one of the best health clubs in the Sultanate. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY With the support of our Area General Manager and to encourage the employees to join this wellness programme, he offered to pay 25% of the basic corporate fee, also he made it easier for them by having the company pay the full amount to the health club and deducting the remaining amount from the employee’s monthly salary in instalments. The company offer includes the employees’ family members but without the 25% deduction. This wellness program and its tempting offer encouraged more than 60 employees to join and some of them have also enrolled their wives. Meanwhile, our Area General Manager requested that we look into the quality of the food we are serving to our employees in our camps in order to make it healthier without affecting the flavour of the food served or to offer our employees a healthy food alternative in the daily menu. This healthy food initiative required the involvement of a professional nutritionist. We got in touch with such a specialist and invited him to visit our Area camp kitchen facilities and to look into our daily menu to find possibilities to improve it and make it healthier. The nutritionist requested the recipes of some of the menu items in order to study them and submit his suggestions. The subject is still in process and not implemented yet, but we are planning and looking forward to putting it in place before the end of 2017. C C C Bulletin Issue 123 | 3rd Quarter 2017 W. ARAFEH Ramadan Football Tournament, Muscat CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY After the completion of our internal sports event In the semi-final we won the game again Bahwan we selected the best football players in order to Engineering 4 1. form a CCC team to participate in the Ramadan The final game was against Oman Air on Monday Football Tournament of the company unions in 12 June 2017, the game being under the care the Muscat area. of His Excellency the Under Secretary of the The team started its usual training under Ministry of Manpower. the supervision of Suliman Al Hatmi as team The game started around 10 pm with two halves manager. The tournament this year was tougher each of 20 minutes. The score in the first half and had more teams and groups. In the first was 1 0 and no matter how hard the Oman Air round there were four groups, each group team tried to equalize they failed as our team consisting of five teams playing in a league was very organized in defense. In the second system in each group. The first and the second half we scored the second goal and that was the from each group would qualify for the quarter game result 2 0 in our favour. final. On 19 June 2017 the Area Management held an In the first round we played four games; we Iftar party to honour the winning football team, won three and lost one and we qualified as the and on 20 June 2017 the CCC Labour Union threw second from our group for the quarter final. another Iftar party to honour the winning team In the quarter final we won the game against as well. Sohar Bank in penalty kicks 3 2. Bulletin Issue 123 | 3rd Quarter 2017 C C C 33 CSR QATAR TEAM Blood Donation Campaign in Qatar As part of the 2017 initiative, the Wellness Programme, CCC CSR Qatar confirmed its continuous dedication to corporate social responsibility by successfully hosting two voluntary blood donation CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY campaigns during May and July. These campaigns were organized by the CCC Qatar Medical Department in coordination with and under the supervision of the Hamad Medical Corporation, Blood Donation Unit, whose team of medical experts ensured the drives were operated in a safe and professional way. More than 300 CCC employees volunteered to support hospitals and healthcare centres to maintain blood bank stocks and to contribute to the health of the people of Qatar. Blood donation is a core activity of the CCC Corporate Social Responsibility Programme as it is the most precious gift that anyone can give to another (the “gift of life”): a decision to donate blood can save lives. CCC Qatar management would like to thank all employees who generously participated in these blood donation campaigns. C C C Bulletin Issue 123 | 3rd Quarter 2017 M. K. EKHLAQIE Water Conservation in Jazan, Saudi Arabia Water is a precious natural resource and it is an important factor for the survival of life on earth. Normally the desert area faces an acute water shortage due to the arid climate and the absence of permanent lakes and rivers. It is necessary to conserve and safeguard water on a sustainable basis by devising and employing environmentally CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY friendly technologies for the benefits of mankind. Usually in a workers’ camp it is a challenging issue to control water consumption on a dayto-day basis. Apart from all possible control measures, an awareness programme through training and displaying informative posters has played a vital role in minimizing water consumption to 210 litres per day per person, which is far less than the approved standard consumption per capita per day. The following sustainable water conservation practices have recently been implemented at the JSRU/SARU Project: Drip Irrigation This is a type of micro-irrigation that has the potential to save water by delivering water slowly, at low pressure, at or near the root zone. It is often referred to as targeted or precise watering, because drip irrigation allows us to target the precise area that we want to irrigate. This system typically operates between 15-50 psi, and flow rates are measured in gallons/hour (GPH) versus gallons/ minute (GPM). Reuse of Treated Sewage Water for Dust Control and Irrigation The treated effluent of a sewage treatment plant is used for dust control at the site and the camp as well as for plant irrigation throughout the camp, thus fulfilling the idea of water reuse. Bulletin Issue 123 | 3rd Quarter 2017 C C C 35 S. AL QAHTANI Opening of the CCC Jazan Training Centre Saudi Arabia Consolidated Contractors Company W.L.L • SIR. Training Centre was opened on 17 July 2017 • Life Support. at the CCC Jazan Projects. Our grand opening • Defensive Driver Training. event was an incredible success, with CCC’s Area • Fire Extinguishers. General Manager Imad K. Khaled, management, • Quantitative Risk Assessment (QRA). staff and especially our guests Saudi Aramco • Job Safety/Hazard Analysis. directors and managers in attendance. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY • Emergency Preparedness (Fire.) This training centre will grow in the coming • Electrical Safety Training (Electrical). months to train around 1,000 employees per • Safety in Pre-commissioning. month. We have gradually expanded this • Scaffolding Safety (Construction). training as a result of the growth of CCC and as • Gas Cutting, Welding and Grinding Safety a result of the rising level of complexity of our projects. Specialist subjects will be offered to (Construction). respond to project needs and to raise employee performance. This training centre utilizes CCC Management Systems Training Examples expertise and engages employees in both the delivery of and participation in these seminars • Time Management. and courses facilitated by Sulaiman Al Qahtani, • Your Role In Quality. along with the Training Committee. The yearly • Communication Skills. programmes are based on CCC project needs • QIR. and the coming year’s programme is planned accordingly. We encourage the certification of Vocational our employees since it enriches their knowledge, increases their potential performance and • Welding. innovation. We will always aspire to grow in both • Pipefitting. quantity and quality in order to keep CCC a top • Electrical. rated company. • Plumbing. The following courses are planned for the • Shuttering. upcoming months. • Steel fixing. • Scaffolding. Health & Safety Training Examples • Masonry. • Safety Induction. Environmental Training Examples • Introduction to Health & Safety at Work. • Construction Safety • Environmental Awareness. • First Aid Skills. • Advanced EMS. • CPR. • Hazardous Waste Management. • Health & Safety Management Systems. • Environmental Impact Assessment. • Safety Audit / HSE Audit. • Environmental Auditing. • Fire Safety. • Construction Safety. • Accident Investigation. Opening Ceremony Photos C C C Bulletin Issue 123 | 3rd Quarter 2017 Opening of the CCC Jazan Training Centre, Saudi Arabia The approach used CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY at the training centre is incremental i.e. it responds to needs as they arise and at the same time tries to project future needs and prepare employees for these new ventures. Thus, the Technical and Project Management Training Programme has been developed gradually from specialized distinct courses to a comprehensive and specialized programme. CCC continuously develops its Health & Safety, Management Systems, Vocational & Environmental Training. Key Facts & Statistics The graphs illustrate all three projects of CCC employees who attended the Technical Training Programme from nearly 630 in July 2017. The number has increased as more projects in the Jazan area have been requesting training to support their operations and to develop their staff. This growth can also be attributed to the Training Centre Strategic & Plan Building of Training Centre Classrooms Training Course Photos Bulletin Issue 123 | 3rd Quarter 2017 C C C 37 Opening of the CCC Jazan Training Centre, Saudi Arabia CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY increased interest in acquiring new technical attitude control, public speaking, presentations, skills by CCC employees in upcoming months. team building and customer service) that achieve measurable, visible and reliable results by Philosophy providing the most comprehensive professional and personal growth training. The goal is to deliver excellence in all training and learning solutions in order to meet and exceed the CCC community’s expectations by Our Values means of superior content, professional delivery, Health, safety, environment and quality are the mutual trust, constant dedication, organizational values which must come first in everything we synergy and the utmost quality service. do at the Training Centre. We will conduct the training at all times with integrity, transparency, Vision strong ethical values and a commitment to serve. We believe that the most important asset To develop the employees to achieve unlimited of this company is its employees. Trust, respect, success in their professional/personal lives fairness and dignity will be how we treat each and grow our clients bottom line through other within the spirit of working together. professional skill development. • Experiential learning. • Creation and dissemination of new knowledge Mission and practice. Delivering skills and developing a diverse • Continuous learning. workforce for the sustainable future to the • Organizational excellence and quality. employee, to become the first choice/solution • Integrity. for organizations/individuals who are looking to • Respect. develop soft skills (communications, leadership, management, human relations, self confidence, C C C Bulletin Issue 123 | 3rd Quarter 2017 V. MAMUNNI Internship Programme for Zayed University Students CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Students are presented with certificates As part of the UAE Area CSR Programme and knowledge gained in the University to practical in pursuit of our ongoing memorandum of training and real life operations. understanding with Zayed University, three The program was planned, scheduled and female UAE national students from the College successfully completed under HSE Group. of Natural & Health Sciences were included in Students were awarded their internship the internship programme under the auspices of certificates at completion of their internship the HSE Group, UAE. programme. The three students who have completed the The internship programme relates to UN SDGS, internship of seven weeks gained necessary goals 4 and 17. skills and expertise needed to enter the work field upon completion of their graduation. They were given the opportunity to achieve real-life work experience in an international company, develop necessary skills needed for every job through proper coaching and correlate the theoretical environmental and sustainability Students together with trainers from the HSE Group Bulletin Issue 123 | 3rd Quarter 2017 C C C 39 V. MAMUNNI English Classes for Workers As part of our happiness and positivity initiative educational background of each aspiring worker. for workers, we have started an educational A students’ screening process and selection programme to teach the uneducated blue collar formalities followed thereafter. workers how to write, read and speak the All workers have shown great interest in learning English language. The programme is conducted and the overwhelming response was astonishing. jointly with the SmartLife Foundation, Dubai However, due to the limit of teachers and and supported by the Community Development CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY classroom facilities available, 110 workers of Authority of Dubai. Educating blue collar workers various Asian nationalities were enrolled for is also part of the Year of Reading & Year of the first batch and classes were launched on 15 Giving initiatives declared by the UAE Prime September 2017. Minister and Ruler of Dubai. This programme helps improve on-site This is a one year programme with exams after communications between workers and their six months and a graduation ceremony attended supervisors: it will also help the workers to by members from Government departments, achieve higher goals in life, be more positive and embassies and others. ambitious. Workers living in Jabel Ali camp have been The programme is in compliance with UN SDGS identified for this programme. A survey among Goal 4. the workers was conducted by CSR volunteers to determine workers learning tendencies and the Launching of English Language Classes for Workers C C C Bulletin Issue 123 | 3rd Quarter 2017 V. MAMUNNI Alleviating Hunger in the UAE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The aim of this project was to provide Iftar Meals for 3,000 needy people during the last ten days of Ramadan, the social issue involved being the alleviation of hunger and combating malnutrition. The relevant UN SDGS are Goals 1 and 2. We were fortunate to have been partnered in this project with Global Food Banking Network (GFN), a global non-profit organization that works towards a hunger-free future in more than 30 countries and Dar Al Ber Society, a 37 year old regional charity organization established in Dubai under the Ministry of Social Affairs. The project was carried out during the last ten days of the Holy Month of Ramadan, which is a demanding period for needy people who require more energy to combat physical exhaustion and sustain spiritual resoluteness. The meals were served in keeping with all the hygienic and nutritional requirements of the authorities. The dedication of our camp and catering employees to meet daily cooking and preparatory target was appreciable and the volunteering efforts of those involved in packing, loading and delivery of the packed food to the designated area was a reflection of their devotedness. The input cost of this project involved monetary, time and in-kind support. The initiative leveraged additional contributions from associating organizations benefiting a larger number of target beneficiaries. The project manifests a local perspective with a global outlook and conforms to UNSDGS. It has generated much positive PR and substantial positive impact among the community. Bulletin Issue 123 | 3rd Quarter 2017 C C C 41 T. AWAD Ethics & Anti-Corruption Idox Compliance Interview Idox Compliance, the company that developed and are hosting our Ethics & Anti-Corruption Online Training Program, had carried out this case study interview with me regarding the program, its development and implementation. Leading Engineering & Construction Corporation Who is the target audience of this program? Introduces E-Learning to Address Compliance in Approximately 150,000 people are working High-Risk Countries for CCC, but most of them are working on CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The following is an interview conducted by construction sites where they are not being Carsten Gerz, Senior Account Manager at Idox exposed to compliance risk and/or do not have Compliance and is reproduced from their on-line regular access to the internet. Finally, we were magazine: reaching out to 6,000 white-collar employees who have a relevant risk profile. As such we used a risk-based approach. At a glance • Client: Consolidated Contractors Company “Many people have their individual certificate (CCC) printed out and displayed in their office, clearly • Target group: 6,000 whitecollar employees showing they are very proud of it. Management with a relevant risk profile was also very impressed; we exceeded their • Solution: implementation of e-learning to expectations.” raise awareness of compliance risks and to Tony Awad, Corporate Ethics Compliance Officer provide information about CCC’s ethical and anticorruption guidelines. What are the key program features and benefits for Consolidated Contractors Group S.A.L (CCC) the learner? is the largest engineering and construction The program is very user-friendly and attractive company in the Middle East. CCC embraces for the learner. It does not bore people. The the ambitions and welfare of over 150,000 information is presented in a very clear way and employees composed of over eighty nationalities it serves its main purpose, i.e. to raise people´s in almost every country of the Middle East, awareness of potential compliance risks and how Africa, Europe (including Russia), CIS countries, they can behave responsibly. the Caribbean, Australia and Papua New Guinea. At the end of 2012, CCC’s total revenues were in What were the challenges when developing and excess of US $5 billion. distributing the program? In an interview, Tony Awad, Corporate Ethics What solutions did you find? In terms of content Compliance Officer at CCC, describes how development, the challenge was to cover as e-learning helped to address the organisation’s much as possible but in a concise way. We had increasing compliance requirements. to find a good balance, select important cases, etc. Then we had to make sure that it would be Idox Compliance: What were the main reasons for understood and accessible for employees across rolling out this online training program? all levels of seniority and IT literacy, whilst also Tony Awad: There are increasing compliance being sensitive to the reality that the target requirements from our clients, partners and group consisted of people from diverse cultural stakeholders. We had to address this and set up backgrounds. We were able to find a common a training program to familiarise our workforce language and find the right level of complexity. with the company’s ethics and anti-corruption What are the reactions of management and the guidelines. We decided to launch an e-learning employees after having completed the online program to reach as many employees as possible training? within a reasonable timeframe and in an efficient way. We received very good feedback at all levels; there weren’t any negative comments. Our What were the main objectives you were looking to employees have not typically been involved achieve and do you feel that you achieved them? with e-learning and whilst there was scepticism The project is still ongoing but we have already and reluctance in the beginning, this quickly achieved a completion rate of 90% which is disappeared when they realised that it was excellent given the fact that this is the first straightforward and helpful to their daily online program ever launched within the business. They appreciate the e-learning organisation and compliance is new to most concept. The rest was internal promotion. Many people. people have their individual certificate printed C C C Bulletin Issue 123 | 3rd Quarter 2017 Sub Title Ethics & Anti-Corruption Idox Compliance: Interview out and displayed in their office, clearly showing of compliance risks and to help them make CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY they are very proud of it. Management was also confident and informed decisions. The company very impressed; we exceeded their expectations. needs to find a way to promote the compliance concept to their workforce in a positive way, What was your experience of working with Idox which needs to start from the top! Compliance and Pohlmann & Co? What do you especially value about this cooperation? What compliance training and communication The cooperation and communication with both initiatives are you planning in the near future and Pohlmann & Co and Idox Compliance went why? very smoothly. The communication with all Compliance is not a one-off effort. We are team members was very good. Thomas Lüthi of looking further into online refresher programs Pohlmann & Co. is very knowledgeable and a next year and will continue delivering classroom great help to develop bespoke and appropriate training to our business. Besides training and content. And whatever I asked Idox Compliance communication, which remains an important part for, I got it. Since compliance at CCC is still a of our program, we continue to improve our risk one-man business (me) and although there was assessment and due diligence standards. Clients excellent technical support in-house, it was even are more and more demanding in that respect. more important to have reliable partners! We will also look to set up an in-house global compliance organisation. What are the key learning points you have taken from this project? What advice would you give other companies that are planning similar online compliance training programs? You have to base your training on a solid compliance program. Your employees need to be aware of the group’s guidelines, relevant laws and regulations to raise their awareness Bulletin Issue 123 | 3rd Quarter 2017 C C C 43 D. NTALACHANI CSR News Contribution to CSR Initiative than 36,000 men, women and children of all ages gathered this year, driven by the message for CCC Staff are encouraged to come up with prevention and early diagnosis of breast cancer. ideas and activities related to CCC’s CSR CCC was there once again. We are proud to be Initiatives including Going Green and community among the very few organizations that have involvement events. Please send your ideas, been supporting this continuously since 2008. initiatives and achievements to “CSR-CCC” email Our enthusiastic participants ran or walked two CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY address csr@ccc.net. beautiful routes to support the women currently struggling to overcome the disease, to celebrate GREECE the survivors but also to honour those that are no longer with us. Christmas Factory KAZAKHSTAN New Year’s Party for Children The Athens CSR Committee organized for CCC employees and their children a visit to the Christmas Factory in Athens. The children were able to meet Santa in his house, to explore the sweet and toy factory and enjoy carousel rides. The CCEP Atyrau Camp organized a New Year’s The big attractions of the year were the iceparty for the children of CCEP employees skating rink and the Magic School where the (implemented by the Atyrau IT Team). families had the chance to be entertained for a whole day. All CCEP employees’ children as well as parents and guests were invited on 25 December 2017. Greek and Arabic Classes The programme included games, dancing and Continuing the Athens CSR Committee’s efforts gifts (special New Year’s packages) for all the to promote inter-cultural relations between children. They were also served with cake and communities, Greek and Arabic language classes drinks and a special programme with Santa Claus are consistently organized for CCC employees and his animators was put on for them. and their families and are now running for the Special wishes were extended by Yousef El Rifai, seventh year in a row. Mohammad Saadat and Tlek Nigmetov. Race for the Cure At the end of the programme all children received gifts from Santa Claus. The children and their The Hellenic Association of Women with Breast parents were very happy and enjoyed the party. Cancer “Alma Zois” in collaboration with the Susan G. Komen for the Cure Association organized the ninth Greek Race for the Cure on SAUDI ARABIA Sunday, 1 October. A vast assembly of more Community Cleanup Campaign C C C Bulletin Issue 124 | 4th Quarter 2017 Sub Title CSR News the patronage of the Governor of Al-Darb on 27 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY September 2017 at Al-Darb Blood Bank. The occasion was reported by the local media. UAE Recycled Garden Environmental sustainability helps prevent global warming and climate change. One example for sustainability is simply through cleaning. Cleanliness in the environment contributes a lot to maintaining clean and green surroundings. On 22 November 2017, as part of CCC’s Corporate Social Responsibility efforts, the JRUP EPC13 Project initiated an environmental awareness campaign in the form of a community cleanup The recycled garden initiative was established on drive along the corniche road and seaside at 12 December 2017 by Dana Mahboobeh. Baysh City, Jazan. This campaign was led by Abdallah Attari , Methqal Alqallab and Ameen She came up with a creative way of reusing the Al-Aid in cooperation with our client Hitachi and waste generated by the Al Zahia City Center Saudi Aramco with 160 volunteers comprising Project located in Sharjah by providing an area JRUP employees, workers and staff of different for social and recreational activities where the nationalities, including local staff. employees can enjoy the nice weather and take a break from work stress. JRUP EPC13 Blood Donation Drive at Al-Darb Blood Bank This initiative fulfills an environmental, economic, social and health purpose. A brief description of the initiative is as follows: • The chairs were made from chemical drums. • The waste bin was made from chemical drums. • The washing basin was made from chemical drums (wastewater being reused for watering the plants). • The table was made from a cable tray. • The planters were made from tyres. Much appreciation goes to PMV staff for their support and time for making this initiative come In continuation of our CSR agenda, we would like to life. to thank the JRUP Camp staff who responded to the call and took the time to donate blood during the CCC Blood Drive. The event took place in celebration of the 87th anniversary of the Saudi Arabian National Day. You never know when blood will be needed and this is why having a ready blood supply is so vital for our community. Blood donations are needed every day and we need to encourage all CCC employees to continue or start donating blood for future eventualities. Derham Asser, Dr. Hisham Atieh and Methqal Alqallab led the event by bringing awareness to our community with the of 40 Camp team member blood donors. The event was held under Bulletin Issue 124 | 4th Quarter 2017 C C C 41 T. AWAD Volunteers of the Quarter As we all know, volunteers are the heart of any community. We are so fortunate to have so many individuals who take time out of their busy schedules, to help their neighbours and their community. As a small token of our appreciation, at least once per quarter volunteers are CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY recognized as Volunteers of the Quarter. For this quarter two CCC Oman employees, Wafa Salaam Obaid Al-Qadhi and Aisha Maskari are nominated. ΟΜΑΝ Aisha Maskari Wafa Salaam Obaid Al-Qadhi Aisha joined CCC Oman in 2005 and is working in the Logistics Department, while Wafa joined CCC Oman in 2008 and is working in the Public Relations Department. They have something in common: their willingness to serve and improve their community, besides their love for charity work. They started in 2014 with the idea of having a Labour Union for CCC Omani workers and they worked hard, as volunteers, to achieve this target as they succeeded to register the union in 2015 with 400 members in one year. Both Wafa and Aisha are in the CCC Oman Labour Union administration and both have been recognized and honoured by the General Federation of Oman Trade Unions. During this year 2017, Aisha and Wafa have been very active especially before and during the holy month of Ramadan. They initiated the donation campaign from the company employees: initially it was just for providing support for the families in need by giving them the required food basics for the month of Ramadan, in which they succeeded to support 200 families. As the employees’ donations were beyond expectations and were more than required for the families’ support, Wafa and Aisha started to think to expand their charity work to another direction and they managed to give support for the following: • Submit support to the Oman Cancer Association (Dar Al Hanan). • Submit support to the seniors’ home at Rustaq. • Donation to the Oman Association for the Hearing Impaired. Wafa and Aisha even managed to extend their volunteer activities to include arranging sports events for the CCC Oman female employees. They also arranged the celebration for the company female employees on the occasion of Oman Women’s Day on 17 October. On 31 October both Aisha and Wafa were the first to participate in the Oman Cancer Association 14th Walkathon. C C C Bulletin Issue 124 | 4th Quarter 2017 S. EL KREIDLI School Renovations in Almaza, Cairo Not far from the location of Majid El Futtaim City Center Almaza Development Project (CCA) lies an extremely underprivileged and highly populated area of 4.5km2. There are two local very poorly maintained government schools which rely mainly on donations and local nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) to keep their CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY doors open for the children of that area. The CCA Project Joint Venture (consisting of CCC, Hassan Allam Construction & CCC/Hassan Allam Technologies) along with the client (Majid El Futtaim) pooled efforts to improve educational conditions for the children as part of our CSR contribution to the local community. With the support and follow up of the Egyptian NGO Maaref, the project team visited the schools a few times to assess the required renovations and contributions that could be made to make the school a better place for the children, the teachers and the parents. The CCA team selected the El Moataz Bi Allah Elementary School due to the high degree of deterioration and the need for immediate support. The contributions made were as follows: • The payment of school fees for 450 children who were unable to pay (being orphans or of divorced parents). • The supply of new school desks that can accommodate 600 students. • The replacement of 100 damaged aluminum windows ensuring that all school windows are fully functional before the start of the winter season. • The installation of lighting fixtures for all the school classrooms and public areas. Bulletin Issue 124 | 4th Quarter 2017 C C C 43 CSR COMMITTEE The Greek Charity “Friends of the Child” The following is the transcript of a recent questions and answers session with Yianna Panagiotidou, President of the Association “Friends of the Child”. What is the “Friends of the Child” Association? The charitable association “Friends of the Child” CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY was founded in 1987 in Athens with the aim of protecting and supporting children from families that face severe problems (financial, social or health related) so that they can grow up with dignity and create a more promising future for themselves and for society. Over the past 30 years, we have been able to offer valuable help to more than 13,600 children and 5,692 families, giving them the opportunity to face the future with optimism. Through multifaceted support (psychological, moral and material), families are supported and empowered to better cope with their needs, especially regarding their responsibility towards the because they come from a family environment with proper development and education of their children. serious financial and social problems. “Friends of the Child” is a non-profit organization At the nursery children have the opportunity to that operates without state subsidies. Our spend several hours of the day in an organized, programmes are implemented by highly specialized safe and calm environment doing creative activities, staff with experience, long-term focus and great under the guidance of specialized teachers who sensitivity for children and their needs, the ultimate use specific methods and a variety of educational goal being to provide the conditions that will allow activities tailored to the children’s needs and them to attain a better future. We make every effort limitations. We provide speech therapy, music to ensure that our association should represent a therapy and psycho-pedagogical programmes home, a family, a great warm hug. focused on emotional and cognitive difficulties. In addition, we offer breakfast, lunch and an afternoon Please tell us something about the nursery operated by snack to cover in full the children’s daily dietary the “Friends of the Child” association. needs. Also, daily personal care is ensured with There are not enough words to stress the value bathing and clean clothes. We closely monitor of proper childhood education that begins at an the children’s physical and mental development early age. Therefore, the “Friends of the Child” with regular pediatric follow-ups, vaccinations, Association created a place where children and dental check-ups. Additionally, we aim to can learn to love learning and receive the care offer a variety of recreational programmes to they have been deprived of. These children are positively affect children’s cognitive skills. Finally, experiencing serious developmental difficulties a psychologist supports our work by empowering C C C Bulletin Issue 124 | 4th Quarter 2017 Sub Title The Greek Charity “Friends of the Child” includes visits to theatres and museums as CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY well as outdoor activities. In addition, the transportation to and from the nursery is also covered to facilitate each activity. The objective of the educational and recreational programme is to strengthen the children’s mental and emotional capacities. Delivering stimuli through these diverse programmes offers them the chance to enrich their imagination and contributes to their normal development. Such experiences are important for the children, who would otherwise have little or no opportunity to engage in such activities due to their problematic family environment. What are the Association’s future plans? The children cared for by the “Friends of the Child” Association usually grow up without a well-defined family background. Their parents are financially and mentally devastated and often neglect their parents and educating them in managing serious upbringing and care. Effectively the children grow issues affecting their children’s development. up without proper parental supervision and as a It is noteworthy that since 2007, our nursery has result they do not manage to make use of their provided substantial support to more than 320 full potential minimizing their chances of personal children. development and social inclusion. The children usually experience family neglect, drop out of How has CCC’s contribution made a difference? school prematurely and are likely to be socially CCC has been supporting the “Friends of the Child” isolated and marginalized as youngsters and nursery since 2013. Initially the support began with teenagers. the provision of food supplies and household items In order to prevent this development, our necessary for the daily preparation of the children’s’ association’s aspiration is to extend the significant meals, a substantial contribution that enabled us to work conducted at our nursery for children who help children with serious nutritional needs. complete their term there. For this reason we As of 2015 CCC has been backing the nursery’s are planning to create a youth centre where we educational and recreational programme which will carry on offering youngsters the necessary resources for their cognitive, emotional and physical development. Through this centre we will provide children guidance with their schooling and offer them additional educational benefits such as remedial courses, speech and/or occupational therapy, special education, a library and so on. At the same time, we will support parents and children with counseling to ensure that the children’s education is not impacted by major family problems. The objective is for children to complete their school years and be in a position to claim the future they deserve. The underlying purpose is to embrace children during the critical tender ages and prevent them from being trapped in harmful conditions that will accompany them throughout their life. Bulletin Issue 124 | 4th Quarter 2017 C C C 45 W. ARAFEH Omani Women’s Day Oman’s women’s day is celebrated annually on 17 October. The last forty years or so have seen the role of women in the CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY workplace go through leaps and bounds as perceptions change for the better. Women in Oman are no longer held to household confinement but are now presented with greater freedoms to choose their own destiny. Women can now pursue careers in top administrative positions. In fact, the women of Oman have experienced a tremendous amount of growth in practically all sectors of society. This year, CCC Oman in cooperation with the CCC However, this was not always the case. PreLabour Union celebrated this day by making an 1970, women in Oman were historically excluded entertainment and sports event for the Omani from society in the sense that their main role women working in the company at one of the was to support their husband and bear his prestigious women clubs in Muscat. During that children. event they enjoyed the sports event and they were honoured for their continuous achievement In the year 2000, an estimated 17% of women in the company. The event was under the care of made up the Omani workforce. In 2011, that Tayba Al Huseiniah from the General Federation percentage increased to 30%. However, this is of Oman Trade Unions. not to disparage any Omani women who choose to work at home. Choice is the important factor in this scenario. That is, having the choice to do so or not. Omani Women’s Day is observed with many grand events and award ceremonies that give praise and highlight the great achievements of Oman’s women. Omani Women’s Day celebrates the achievements of the nation’s women whilst also acknowledging the obstacles and challenges that have been thrown their way over the years. The day also serves as a reminder of the nation’s progression as a whole. Since CCC’s first projects in Oman in 1971 the company has always been aware of its role in developing Omani society, including giving Omani women the opportunity to work in the company, wherever possible. Currently, CCC Oman employs 33 Omani women in various departments and projects. C C C Bulletin Issue 124 | 4th Quarter 2017 W. ARAFEH Oman Cancer Association 14th Annual Walkathon Oman Cancer Association (OCA) 14th Annual Walkathon. The gathering for the event started in the early afternoon on Tuesday 31 October 2017 at the event location, Al Qurum Natural Park. Inside the Park everything was ready to start this CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY wonderful day. Participants were from different nationalities, men, women and children forming groups and representing different institutes and companies. Volunteers were everywhere organizing the event and guiding the participants, while others were forming awareness groups to educate the participants about breast cancer and cancer in general, even the mobile mammogram unite was at the location ready for any lady who wanted to know about this test as an early warning for any When it comes to our health, prevention is much possible breast cancer. better than cure. Several diseases and injuries All participants gathered at the stage to listen are preventable and can be managed much to speeches from the organizers, where they better if identified earlier on. thanked everybody for joining them in this It is common for people only to go to the doctor walkathon and what it means to support the when they are feeling unwell. A regular check-up Oman Cancer Association (OCA) and their with your doctor helps to assess your overall ambitious programmes. health and to identify your risk factors for After the speeches the walkathon began and disease. By knowing what’s normal for you early we went around the lake and back to the stage on, you’ll be able to detect any serious changes where everybody enjoyed some performances of later. cultural dances and singing and at the end there An estimated two-thirds of all cancers are was a raffle draw. preventable. Information and education are key As for the CCC Oman team, they enjoyed the to cancer prevention, early detection and to event and they were looking forward to repeating sound decision making about treatment options. it next year with a bigger team and more Normally when we hear the “C” word “cancer”, it involvement in the event. is something that we do not like to talk about as it affects the lives of so many people; however, it is so important that we do talk and raise awareness. If we do not talk about it, how are we going to fight cancer? The proportion of cancers caused by inherited faulty genes is small. Experts estimate that only about two or three in every hundred cancer cases are linked to inherited gene faults. It is estimated that four out of ten cancers can be prevented by making simple lifestyle changes. Early diagnosis relies on people being aware of their risk for any type of cancer and communicating with their doctor about different screening options and how often the required tests should be done. Accordingly, due to our belief in the importance of the awareness to prevent cancer and in line with our President’s wellness initiative to improve employees’ health, a group of employees from CCC Oman participated in the Bulletin Issue 124 | 4th Quarter 2017 C C C 47 M. SAID Football Tournament at the ATD Project The CSR Committee at Dualization of AdamThumrait Project (ATD Oman) recently organized a football tournament for the project’s employees with the full support of the project management. The main aim of the event was to create and motivate a competitive and sporting spirit as well as to boost the morale of the CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY employees at the ATD Project. The tournament started on 4 November 2017 and included the participation of six teams. It was a very exciting, challenging and amazing tournament. The two teams that made it to the final game and played on 15 November 2017 were “Almot’a” and “The Eagles”. The match was very interesting, tense and full of excitement and fun. Afterwards, the project management presented the champions and runners-up with trophies and medals as follows: • Champions: ALMOT’A • Runners-Up: THE EAGLES • 3rd Place: AMIGOS • Best Player: Nasser Abdullah Al Hashmi • Top Goal Scorer: Fahad Abdullah Al Hashmi • Top Fair Player: Mazin Said Rashid Al Kalbani. (The Top Fair Player Award or Medal is given to players as recognition of exemplary behaviour that promotes the spirit of fair play.) Finally, we thank all personnel who contributed to the success of the tournament as well as the CCC ATD project management for providing the facilities including the trophies and medals. We also would like to congratulate the winning teams and all those who participated and played in this tournament, and all our team members for their support. C C C Bulletin Issue 124 | 4th Quarter 2017 M. K. EKHLAQUIE Jazan Region Football Tournament As a part of 2017 Wellness Initiative we recently organized an inter-project football tournament at the camp football ground. A total of ten teams participated from different CCC projects in Jazan region (JRTF, JRUP, JSRU and SARU). After a month-long series of league matches, the final match was played between CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY JSRU and JRUP. Both teams put up a good fight, the matching ending in a draw with a penalty goal deciding the outcome of the match: JSRU won the trophy 3-2. The event finished with flying colours thanks to the great support of management and the organizing committee. A huge number of camp residents witnessed and enjoyed the magnificent moment. During a thanksgiving address, the organizing committee expressed appreciation for all the cooperation and support of management which made this event successful. As management representatives, camp manager Khoder Hodroj and Engineer Ziad Abu Sharar attended the event and handed over trophies to the winning team, the runner-up team, the best player of the match and the best player of the tournament and gave medals to both team members and the tournament organizing committee. During the award ceremony, the camp manager showed his appreciation for the efforts of the tournament organizers and repeated his commitment to promote wellness activities in the workers’ camp and stated that such activities will be always supported. Bulletin Issue 124 | 4th Quarter 2017 C C C 49 CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 Appendix 1 – Awards -.^. uruJs>9jlb -IUUaJ) rABU DHABI AIRPORTS t* 3J.q . ^SJa6Jl^_-':,^ ~\ ^/^~~~^ ^ ~~ ~ ;5^-^ 5--iS!C-' appreriationanbAecogpBJion'(Certificate ^:-^<^ y-> . .*..< 1 ~ ^^. i:^-. -:^ebmary2017 = r^_ ^ ^^isr. ^^T^S^ ^/'.. y^..,. Abu DhabiAirport's1vianagemenr^tendTi|iir. ^^ T^!^^ .^^^ ^^ ^J^ °j^! ?,g ^?^3Bhtff L * ... sincere thanks and appreciation to <w^^^^^'-?®«s~ . <^1:; ' '~S'^ ^ ^-L Consolidated Contractors Company *'frA-... ; F^ ,' >. ^. 'y . > Jj.1 (_)^c<C. ^-u JjAa 2 LAUaJi.sa Jj^^l ;aS-:^-?-^ The'recognition of your contribution in g^ULAll <-l3j J^-l i-l^J^-a] 4-1^ achievingTKlilli'onjyian-Hours without Lost Time Injury. '^ ' ' . '< . ..». If g , 4^' ^ry NaderAl Khatib <y Al^dulla Al Dharif Sulaiman Al Siksel VP MTC Infrastructure Head of HSE & Security Chief Programs Officer , 31 fc~'ss» »... * . »-*.! ->)-. i-TuJa^jlt -jljUaj) 'ABUDHABI AIRPORTS .^ ^i. . . . N^** . <^ ^ .* ^. -^^ ;T.. ' 'JJJlaJJ J^:16^ It^-S*-^. ^ . ' . /'. ~\ -^ '. '^^' _, ~^^y, »<y' ^ ^>^. Ly. %iipreaatfonjtni3L3Sletosnition.JDeirttficftt^ . J-^-r-T^-^^_. -:.. ^ ^.-^^^^> <-=, -« < ^> /^. -' .. *''. -^^i^rvioi? *^ N^ v^1 . T-*A-^ Abu Dhabi Airports Management extends their ^fj ;-ffillj j^ii o^Tj^^i ^uu °j^! ^ ^ ', f/ heartfelt congratulations to ^ -' c *> Consolidated Contractors Company ^** ^<-. li. For being the top performer^ofthe Safety League in c-iLuijLu^i jS^a tjJc-i ijjl^-i ^ Jj^l ^^-J Ijj^ the 100, 000 and above man-hours per month . J^4^Lu, loo, 000 t> j:£i JIA» ^'^ Ll! A-«';UIJ category ;^'»^a 't-* . t^Jfr^1 k 'J'l'^^ >J * . -~~^fc ,' . &<;: T11Nader. AI Khatib / AbdullaAlDharif Sulaiman Al Siksek, VP MTC Infrastructure Head of HSE & Security Chief Programs Offi??^ -^' CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 Appendix 2 – Welfare Practices HSE&S EXECUTION PLAN: CCC INCENTIVE SCHEME HSE Incentive Scheme Program: Purpose  To encourage employees’ safety participation  To develop proactive safety culture Awards Safety winner • Each month one supervisor from each The criteria for choosing • discipline The number and quality of tool box talks Setting a good example by wearing their PPE • Award of certificate and prize Having a good safety attitude and encouraging their workers to work in a safe manner. Safest worker • Award of certificate and prize. The criteria for choosing • Bulletin for monthly HSE awardee At all times wearing their PPE. The number of attendance in tool box talks. Encourage their fellow workers to wear their PPE and to carry out their work safely. Accident free milestone award to subcontractor • Pre-determined HSE target according to work volume. • Award ceremony and issue of certificate. CCC INCENTIVE SCHEME Project Awards Ceremonies Motivation is the driving force behind a person needed to achieve their goals. At CCC we motivate our staff with the provision of cash incentives, Gifts and Certificates of Recognition. The picture of those awarded cash sums and Certificates is taken in poignant places to encourage all employees to work safely. CCC INCENTIVE SCHEME Project Awards Ceremonies CCC INCENTIVE SCHEME Project Awards Ceremonies CCC INCENTIVE SCHEME Project Celebrations & Activities (Miles Stone Achievement) On the occasion of Millions Man hours LTI free, Project Management arranged an musical program at the camp for all employees CCC INCENTIVE SCHEME Project Celebrations & Activities (Miles Stone Achievement) CCC CAMPS INITIATIVES & ACTIVITIES To ensure that CCC camps are complying with public health requirements and that personnel housed therein are provided with safe, secured and clean living facilities, the camp administration, project management and HSE are working together to improve the living situations inside the camp by doing initiatives and activities. Here are some of the initiatives and activities that were done in the camps: CCC CAMPS INITIATIVES & ACTIVITIES “Green Camps” CCC CAMPS INITIATIVES & ACTIVITIES CCC CAMPS INITIATIVES & ACTIVITIES CCC CAMPS INITIATIVES & ACTIVITIES Another initiative from the camp is providing fence under the cabins to ensure that animals will not use the space as breeding grounds. CCC CAMPS INITIATIVES & ACTIVITIES “Camp Accommodations ” CCC CAMPS INITIATIVES & ACTIVITIES “Kitchens & Food Preparations” CCC CAMPS INITIATIVES & ACTIVITIES “Mess Halls” CCC CAMPS INITIATIVES & ACTIVITIES “Camps Laundry” CCC CAMPS INITIATIVES & ACTIVITIES “ATMs & Canteens” CCC CAMPS INITIATIVES & ACTIVITIES “Camps Gyms & Recreations” CCC CAMPS INITIATIVES & ACTIVITIES “Camps Playgrounds ” CCC CAMPS INITIATIVES & ACTIVITIES To encourage team work and sportsmanship, games were held during Sports Day. CCC CAMPS INITIATIVES & ACTIVITIES CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 Appendix 3 – Mesaieed Camp and HLV Camp HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ABU DHABI-UAE HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY CERTIFICATES 2 HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY CERTIFICATES 3 HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY APPRECIATION CERTIFICATES Hameem Living Village was awarded three out of four categories during award ceremony for the “Safety in Heat Program Competition” organized by “Abu Dhabi Occupational Safety and Health (OSHAD)” in collaboration with Zonescorp & Musanada. 4 HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY APPRECIATION CERTIFICATES 5 HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY APPRECIATION CERTIFICATES 6 HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY VILLAGE FACILITIES & SERVICES  Security (24 hours/7 Days) –supported with CCTV and cameras  Recreation Facilities  Indoor Gym  Out door Gym  TV Rooms & indoor games (billiard, Ping Pong…)  Basket ball playground  Volley ball playground  Green Areas  WIFI  Medical Services (Clinic)  Housekeeping Services  Central Kitchen  Firefighting System  Laundry Services  Catering Services 7 HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY GREEN AREAS HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY SECURITY (24 hours/7 Days)  Approved 3rd party Security Guards are available to prevent unauthorized entry to the village  To prevent materials that are not allowed inside the village such as alcohol, drugs… HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY ACCESS CONTROL SYSTEM HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY CCTV ROOM HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY SMOKING AREAS Smoking is allowed only outdoors designated area, to ensure healthy and safety environment to all village employees & residents. HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY KITCHEN HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY DINNING Halls ( 1 for Senior Staff, & 1 for workers) 15 HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY SUPERMARKET: operated by 3rd party available inside the village 16 HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY RECREATION FACILITIES Outdoors Gym 17 HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY RECREATION FACILITIES 18 HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY RECREATION FACILITIES Recreation facilities for employees with TV arrangement CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY-Hameem Camp 19 HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY PLAY GROUNDS 20 HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY ATM AND CHARGING PHONE MACHINE HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY CLINIC HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY Clinic & First Aid Room HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY Laundry HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY MOSQUE 25 HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY 26 HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY Free medical screening during Labour Day HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY Workers Awareness Day, presented by Abu Dhabi police HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY RAMADAN MONTH DECORATION HAMEEM LIVING VILLAGE CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY ADVANCED CATERING COMPANY Flag Day CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR MESAIEED CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR MESAIEED CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR MESAIEED CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR MESAIEED CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR MESAIEED CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR MESAIEED CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR MESAIEED CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR MESAIEED CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR MESAIEED CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS GROUP S.A.L. (OFFSHORE) (CCC) QATAR MESAIEED CAMP CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 Appendix 4 Award Certificate │ CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 Appendix 5 CCC’s Sustainability Objectives 2017 CCC SUSTAINABILITY OBJECTIVES 2017 Economy “One Stop Information Sheet” Environment Society INTRODUCTION 5. PERFORMANCE REPORTING (SUSTAINABILITY KPI’s) Sustainability means living within the resources of the planet without damaging the environment now or in the future. Within a business context, Periodic Reporting sustainability involves using the assorted assets of the company efficiently, to allow it to continue functioning profitably over the longer term. Commitment to monitor performance via the below options: • Monthly Basis (trend identification and performance measurement) (Link to Example) CCC Sustainability Induction Video available here: https://youtu.be/5U-wFQVJ-20 • Annual Basis (comprehensive sustainability report) (Link to Example) 1. SUSTAINABILITY IN OPERATIONS Corporate Reporting Process The Central Sustainability Group consolidates the various individual reported KPI’s, as a means of continued monitoring, development and CCC is committed to using natural resources responsibly and strives to minimize the environmental impact of our operations. We emphasize improvement. CCC follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. environmental excellence as being an integral part of our construction and camp operations. 6. RISK MANAGEMENT Cost effective and commercially viable solutions have been developed to facilitate the fulfillment of CCC’s Sustainability goals. Our main sustainability risk relates to ensuring that sustainability is embedded into our services and achieving our corporate sustainability objectives. Listed below are established business cases for further development and transferability to CCC operations: 1. Solar PV Power Plant (Link to Case Study) It is very important that project teams understand their contractual responsibilities on a green project in order to control associated risks and ensure 2. Solar Water Heating System (Link to Case Study) a successful project. (This is applicable to a green certified project such as LEED, ESTIDAMA, GSAS, etc.) 3. Various Environmentally-friendly Initiatives (including certain Life Cycle Cost Analysis) (Link to Initiatives & LCA) TENDERING CCC Projects are committed to: • The estimation team shall thoroughly review conditions ensuring all general and special requirements of the contract and addenda are well• Carbon Footprint Reduction defined. Particularly, specifications and drawings ought to be carefully examined and all green requirements identified along with their cost and Enforce implementation of energy saving practices such as the use of both fuel efficient or alternative fuel vehicles (whenever possible), time impact. utilization of mass transit, solar power and heating and many others. • A list of all related green requirements with corresponding costs shall be prepared and kept in the project’s records for future need. • Water Conservation CONSTRUCTION Reduce water consumed by CCC’s operations worldwide. Enforce using water saving mechanisms on projects and camps, utilizing water metering Contracting and reduce outdoor water use. • Project contract shall clearly state that CCC is responsible for credits related to construction activities and is not liable for the entirety of green • Waste Management certification. Also, CCC shall not be liable for any costs associated with credit appeal process of any Green credit(s). In design-build projects, the Increase construction waste reuse and recycling. Limit the environmental footprint of our camps and promote a culture of sustainable and team must carefully assess obligations and risks for the design-build of the concerned green project and ensure that the contract minimizes the environmentally friendly living. risks associated with green builds. • The contract team shall negotiate clear contract terms that do not unreasonably hold CCC responsible for the owner’s design, energy and CCC’s Sustainability Initiatives Checklist provides a detailed list of related practices applicable to CCC projects, camps and Offices. These checklist items efficiency goals. bear relevance to environmental and overall corporate responsibility (Link to Checklist). • Bearing in mind that a projects’ green rating status is often not achieved until 6 to 18 months after completion, projects are well advised to disassociate payment advances and milestones from certification ratings. 2. SUSTAINABILITY IN VALUE CHAINS Execution We seek better alignment of projects’ targets with CCC’s goal for greater sustainability in our value chain. Project Management should stimulate more efficient implementation of construction projects and drive change towards sustainable construction activities. • The project control team should identify the administrative requirements associated with green construction and include them in the project plan to avoid any impact on the project. 3. IMPACT INTEGRATION • The project team needs to review the specifications and drawings in detail to accurately determine the scope of work, including green construction requirements, and the rating level of the green building certification. During decision making, the full range of environmental, economic and social effects ought to be examined. CCC projects shall implement a holistic • The project team needs to make sure that applicable green project requirements are incorporated into subcontractor and supply agreements. assessment for the design and construction of temporary works, raw-material production, manufacturing, distribution, usage and disposal including all This will ensure that the party which is the most able to fulfil green project requirements and better control the associated risks is selected. necessary interim transportation steps. • Recruiting subcontractors and suppliers with validated experience and skills in green construction. • The Project Manager shall make sure that the entire team understands the requirements for each sought credit and that each team member has 4. LEADERSHIP AND COMMITMENT a clear role and responsibilities towards a successful implementation. Commitment is the first step for the successful implementation of sustainability. Increasing and maintaining a high level of commitment and 7. SUPPLY-CHAIN AND SUBCONTRACTORS MANAGEMENT (SCREENING) awareness from all site teams is required to successfully achieve our sustainability targets. Project Management is expected to encourage site personnel to discuss, improve and implement sustainable practices. Project Management ought to consider the environmental, economic, social and reputational impacts associated with supply chain decisions. The Project team is well advised to track subcontractor’s compliance with CCC’s sustainability standards towards: the environment, labor practices, human The CCC project team must be aware of emerging environmental and social trends, and the risks and opportunities they create for our business. rights and anti-corruption (Link to Assessment). A structured knowledge framework has been developed to increase awareness and drive behavior change among CCC employees. This awareness drive 8. SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION AND COMPETITION covers: posters (in Arabic, English, French, Hindi, Kazakh, Russian and Urdu language), videos and tool-box talks. Projects are encouraged to examine new advances in sustainable technology, question them, test them when viable and complete a detailed report on Project Control Managers are expected to ensure that: innovation or pilots thereof. Innovation shall be recognized and rewarded. • Posters are displayed throughout their relevant areas • All staff members are presented with the videos and tool box talks Specifically, in 2017, CCC will conduct the first annual Sustainability competition to further encourage sustainable behavior. Winning Projects and • Discussions are promoted on the topics covered Camps will receive prizes and recognition to implement sustainability-related upgrades and enhancements. The Sustainability Competition will take place in December 2017 and will recognize Projects and Camps that have made proven achievements in: energy use savings, water conservation, waste reduction and increased recycling. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 Appendix 6 High efficiency HVAC units Consolidated Contractors Company CAMP LAYOUT AND DESIGN MANUAL CM-CSQM-013 Rev.2 Electricity Tariff AED/Kw* 0.8 Cost of HVAC Standard Units is AED (Mitsubishi) 2223 LIFE CYCLE COST ANALYSIS FOR INSTALLING Cost of HVAC Hi-EER Units is AED** (General) 2717 HIGH-EFFICIENT HVAC UNITS PLUS ENERGY Total HVAC Units at Office 35 CONSUMPTION @ APM HEAD HOUSE PHASE 1 Total Daily Energy Use (Std) Kw*** 610.5 Total Daily Energy Use (Hi EER) Kw*** 514.8 TEMPORARY SITE FACILITIES Consumption Cost per month (Std) AED 12698.4 Consumption Cost per month (Hi EER) AED 10707.8 Monthly Saving due to use of High Efficient A/C (AED) 1990.6 Pay Back after 10.5 months Summary Initial Cost 1st Year 2nd Year Total Cost of HVAC Standard Units 77,800 230,181 382,562 Total Cost of HVAC Hi-EER Units 95,100 223,594 352,088 CUMULATIVE SAVING 'AED' 6,587 30,473 Investment Comparison 450,000 400,000 350,000 300,000 250,000 Total Cost of HVAC Standard Units 200,000 Total Cost of HVAC Hi-EER Units 150,000 100,000 50,000 Initial Cost 1st Year 2nd Year Life Cycle Cost Analysis 450,000 400,000 350,000 300,000 Pay Back 250,000 10.5 Months Total Cost of HVAC Standard Units 200,000 Total Cost of HVAC Hi-EER Units 150,000 100,000 50,000 Initial Cost 1st Year 2nd Year Assumptions: *) Cost of producing Electricity from generator is 0.8 (Aed/kWh) **) Hi EER means High Energy Efficiency Ratio **) Total daily energy based on 10 hours/day Mitsubishi Standard HVAC: power Input is 1.85 Kw/hr Total daily energy use Kw = 35 Units * 1.85 kw/hr * 10 Hrs/day = 610.5 Kw/day General Hi-EER HVAC: power Input is 1.56 Kw/hr Total daily energy use Kw = 35 Units * 1.56 kw/hr * 10 Hrs/day = 514.8 Kw/day Conclusion: Project period Saving in AED Saving in tCo2 Feasibility 15 Months 8858 62.8 Yes No Project director / Manager Approval: CM-CSQM-013 Rev.2 Appendix U Page 3 of 10 CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2017 Appendix 7 CCC’s Supplier and Subcontractor Sustainability Self-Assessment Form Consolidated Contractors Company Doc. ID: CCC-SUS-FRM-SCA-001 Revision No. 00 Suppliers & Subcontractors Sustainability Assessment Revision Date: Form Page 1 of 4 For CCC Use Only Allocated Budget US$ Project/Area (Name & Number): Subcontractor/Supplier: Scope Of Work: Agreement Status: (Prequalification, Tendering, Contract Signed etc…) Assessment By: (Name & Title) Assessment Date: Signature: Notes to user: 1. Assessment Form shall be completed following careful review of Subcontractors/Suppliers Input & Supportive Documents/Evidence. 2. Supportive evidence to be attached to this form. 3. N/A (Not Applicable) 4. Score: 5 = Yes, in place. 2 = inadequate or not in place; will be in place by Date xxx (insert date in 'comments and evidence section). Suppliers/ Subcontractors to provide an action plan on all items rated as 2 to CCC Procurement Management Team along with this survey. 0 = not in place, no plans to implement. Consolidated Contractors Company Consolidated Contractors Company Doc. ID: CCC-SUS-FRM-SCA-001 Revision No. 00 Suppliers & Subcontractors Sustainability Assessment Revision Date: Form Page 2 of 4 Assessment Comments & CCC Category Indicator Description Score Yes No N/A Evidence Comments Does the company have a management person responsible for Sustainability? If Yes, please provide name 1. Company & e-mail. 1.1 General Management Does the company publish a Sustainability Report / Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report? If yes, please provide web link or copy of the report. Does the company have a defined Environmental Management System, including (Recycling, Waste, and Hazardous Materials Management)? 2.1 Does the company have a written Environmental Policy Environmental with objectives that identify the environmental impacts of Management the business? Is there a training program for employees regarding Environmental Awareness? Does the company have programs to conserve Energy & Fuel? 2.2 GHG & Energy Usage Does the company have Energy, Fuel & Greenhouse Gas 2. ENVIRONMENT Emissions Reporting Programs in place? Does the company have programs to conserve water and reuse/recycle water? 2.3 Water Does the company have water consumption reporting programs in place? Does the company have Procurement Plans identifying the use of Green Products (recyclable, reusable, non-toxic, 2.4 Materials bio-degradable, and post-consumer recycled materials) and locally manufactured products? Does the company have research and awareness about identifying Green Products (recyclable, reusable, non2.5 Waste toxic, bio-degradable and post-consumer recycled materials)? Does the company have a proven experience in using and 2.6 Green implementing green solutions in sites & camps (examples Solutions in either: renewable energy, energy efficiency, water conservation or waste management? Consolidated Contractors Company Consolidated Contractors Company Doc. ID: CCC-SUS-FRM-SCA-001 Revision No. 00 Suppliers & Subcontractors Sustainability Assessment Revision Date: Form Page 3 of 4 Assessment Comments & CCC Indicator Description Rating Yes No N/A Evidence Comments 3.1.1 Do you abide with the legal requirements of local quota Employment hire, medical insurance and benefits regulations? practices Does the company have a certified Health and Safety 3.1.2 Health and Policy in place, that addresses fire protection, first-aid, Safety relevant training and recording work related accidents? Does the company have a system in place that ensures that employees understand their employment conditions, including the terms of their payments prior to entering into employment? Does the company provide employees with regular 3.1.3 Wages and written information (e.g. Pay slips) showing how their compensation pay is calculated, including basic, overtime, other benefits/bonuses and deductions? Does the company demonstrate compliance with national laws on the payments it makes to its employees for standard time, overtime, and employment benefits? Does the company have a written Code of Conduct for its employees, which it also enforces? 3.1 Labor Practices 3.1.4 Does the company have a procedure in place to ensure Disciplinary employees are free from physical or verbal abuse, or 3. SOCIAL Practices other harassment or threats, or any other forms of intimidation? Do workers have a mechanism to express grievances? Does the company have a guideline to comply with national laws on the working hours of its employees? 3.1.5 Working Hours Does the company have records to demonstrate compliance with national laws on the overtime hours of its employees? 3.1.6 Training Does the company have Training Programs for and Education employees and records it? Does the company provide all employees with a safe and healthy living environment in company provided accommodation? 3.1.7 Company Do all employees who reside in dormitories have access Provided to clean toilet facilities, running water, safe drinking Accommodation water, sanitary cooking facilities, and adequate private showers? Does the company provide appropriate health and safety information and equipment to employees who live in the accommodation facility? Consolidated Contractors Company Consolidated Contractors Company Doc. ID: CCC-SUS-FRM-SCA-001 Revision No. 00 Suppliers & Subcontractors Sustainability Assessment Revision Date: Form Page 4 of 4 Assessment Comments & CCC Category Indicator Description Rating Yes No N/A Evidence Comments Does the company have a written Child Labor Policy stating that it will not employ workers below the legal minimum age for employment? The policy should comply with the national laws and conforms with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, ILO Convention No 182, on the Worst Forms of Child Labor and ILO Convention No 138, on the Minimum Age of Admission 3.2.1 Child Labor to Employment and Work. 3.2 Human Rights Does Management verify the age of workers and establish minimum age restrictions for relevant work categories, paying particular attention to hazardous work? Does the company regularly monitor its business to ensure that no child labor is used? Does the company have a written procedure stating that 3.2.2 its employees are treated free from all negative Discrimination discrimination? Does the company have a training program addressing 3.2.3 Training 3. SOCIAL awareness on aspects of Human Rights Core Values? Evidence for Community Investments & Engagement Programs (scholarships, sponsorships, donations, 3.3.1 Local philanthropy, and habitat projection & restoration etc.) Communities Evidence of hiring locally based supply chain (suppliers & subcontractors) Does the company have a written policy stating that it will not tolerate bribery and corruption and will not 3.3 Society 3.3.2 Individual accept improper offers of payments to or from its Conduct (Bribery employees or agents? & Corruption) Does the company have a system in place that ensures its employees understand its policy against bribery and corruption? Has your company ever been cited for non-compliance 3.3.3 (Fines & Sanctions) of an environmental, safety or ethical Compliance issue (within the last three years)? If yes, please describe. (5 points for clean record, 0 points otherwise) Consolidated Contractors Company
