CJ LOGISTICS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017-2018 a WAREHOUSE & DISTRIBUTION PROJECT LOGISTICS FORWARDING & INTERNATIONAL EXPRESS PARCEL ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION STEVEDORING & www.cjlogistics.com TRANSPORTATION CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 Contents About This Report 04 CEO Message Overview OVERVIEW This report is CJ Logistics’ second published Sustainability Report. We will 08 Management Philosophy continue to provide sustainability reports each year to disclose our economic, 09 Introduction of CJ Logistics social and environmental activities and achievements. We also plan to 11 Business Divisions utilize this report as a communication channel that reflects the interests 18 Global Network and requirements of our stakeholders, as well as our efforts in the area of sustainability management. 2017-2018 BUSINESS Reporting Period and Scope HIGHLIGHTS This report is based on our sustainability performance between January 1 and 22 Creation of Logistics-based Social Jobs December 31, 2017. Its content includes quantitative data from the last three 26 Expansion of Logistics Infrastructure years, some of which includes information from 2018, for better understanding and Reinforcement of R&D of stakeholders. The scope of this report includes all Korean business sites and 32 Reinforcement of Competitiveness in some overseas business sites of CJ Logistics. Construction and Real Estate Business In addition, we partially disclosed the qualitative activities and performances of CJ Engineering & Construction, which was merged into our construction SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE division in March 2018. We plan to expand the scope of the report gradually. 40 Environment & Safety Reporting Standard 48 Social 64 Governance This report has been prepared 'In Accordance' with the Core Option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, which serve as the international standard of sustainability management reporting. For more details, please refer SUSTAINABILITY FRAME to the GRI Content Index on p.85-87. 73 Stakeholder Engagement 74 Materiality Test Reporting Assurance 76 UN SDGs This report was assured by an independent agency to secure the accuracy and reliability of information. The results of assurance can be checked on p.90-91. APPENDIX 79 CJ Logistics’ Declaration of Human Contact Information Rights This report can be browsed and downloaded from the CJ Logistics website. 80 Financial Information For more details and information on the report, please contact via information 81 Sustainability Management below. We welcome the diverse feedback and opinions of our stakeholders. Performance Data 84 Awards and Associations 85 GRI Content Index CJ Logistics 88 UN Global Compact 89 Verification Statement of Greenhouse Address CJ Logistics Co. Bldg., 53, Sejong-daero 9-gil, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea Gas Emissions TEL +82-1588-1255 90 Independent Assurance Statement E-mail sustainability@cjlogistics.com Website http://www.cjlogistics.com 4 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 5 CEO Message Dear Valued Stakeholders, Over the past 88 years, CJ Logistics has experienced the entire history of Korean logistics and possesses an accumulated track record of passion and challenge. As a leader of both the domestic logistics industry and Korea’s most prominent logistics company, CJ Logistics has taken the lead in spurring national economic growth and logistics development. Since 2016, we have been publishing a sustainability report every year and strengthened communication with stakeholders by making our environmental, social and economic achievements. With our first, best and different OnlyOne products and services, CJ Logistics aims to become a company that realizes customer happiness and fulfills its social responsibility. For this goal, we contribute to global sustainability development, including UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and make continuous efforts to create a better society. Amid the rapidly changing political and economic environment, including fierce protective trade and global economic instability, CJ Logistics is leading the advancement of the logistics industry through constant change and innovation. We will keep growing and going forward into the global market by establishing a global network and diversifying our business. First, CJ Logistics will leap forward into becoming a top-tier global company. Since 2013, CJ Logistics has made it a clear goal to become the top-5 logistics company and proactively implement global growth strategies from diverse aspects, such as M&A for logistics companies, and establish joint ventures and strategic partnerships throughout the world, including China, Southeast Asia, India, Central Asia and U.S. With continuous growth, we will expand the size of our global network and open a new chapter of logistics. Second, CJ Logistics will become a leader in the advanced logistics industry. Based on its unique R&D concept of TES (Technology, Engineering, System & Solution), CJ Logistics will strive to develop logistics into a cutting-edge industry based on innovation through advanced convergence technologies, engineering and consulting. We will endeavor to establish future strategies to respond to the Fourth Industrial Revolution, as well as differentiate our products and services to raise competitiveness based on our experience as Korea’s best logistics company with advanced TES technologies. Third, CJ Logistics will fulfill corporate social responsibilities as a global citizen. CJ Logistics leads CSV management to create shared value and a healthy industrial ecosystem based on the CSV (Creating Shared Value) principles, which is actively pursued by our company. In particular, our Senior Parcel Delivery was featured on the Fortune “Change the World” list for the first time among domestic companies and introduced in The Economist as a representative case of creating jobs for the elderly. Senior Parcel Delivery was also introduced in the world’s distinguished “2018 Shared Value Leadership Summit” this year and was praised by global opinion leaders. CJ Logistics pledges to go forward into the future through constant innovation and growth. We hope our stakeholders can provide unyielding support and interest to help make us the center of global logistics by becoming the top-5 logistics company. CJ Logistics will strive to make our customers happy Thank you. based on CJ Group’s philosophy of OnlyOne and leap October 2018 forward into becoming one of the global top five logistics CEO of CJ Logistics companies. Keun-Tae Park 6 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 7 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix OVERVIEW Management Philosophy 08 Introduction of CJ Logistics 09 Business Divisions 11 Global Network 18 8 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 9 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Management CJ Way Introduction of Introduction of Company Philosophy CJ Logistics CJ takes the lead in spreading our beautiful culture to people throughout the world. For this effort, we Established in November 1930, CJ Logistics has led the development of the Korean logistics industry strive to contribute to the nation and society by creating the best value through OnlyOne products for 88 years. Under the vision of “The Global SCM Innovator,” we have grown into a global total logistics and services based on the philosophy of “contributing to the growth of the national economy through company connecting the entire world into one via land, sea and air. In March 2018, we merged with business efforts.” CJ Logistics aims to become the best life and culture company to allow anyone to CJ E&C to expand the business area into construction, real estate, and resorts. CJ Logistics proactively enjoy daily happiness and convenience through new services and products for customers. pioneers into the advanced logistics market, establishes cutting-edge logistics and construction infrastructure and invests in R&D through constant innovation. We will strive to provide differentiated service for customers by creating synergistic effects between businesses. Business Contributing to the Philosophy global community by General Information Name of CJ Logistics Corporation CEO Keun-Tae Park, Kwan-Soo Shon, Company Chun-Hak Kim providing the best MISSION Founded November 15, 1930 Number of Shares 22,812,344 value with our OnlyOne products Head Office CJ Logistics Co., Bldg., 53, Number of 6,035 employees and services Sejong-daero 9-gil, Jung-gu, Employees (Based on Seoul, Korea Full-time employees) Business SCM, Parcel, Construction Sales 7.11 trillion Divisions (As of December 31, 2017) Credit Rating Korea Ratings Corporation: A1 Korea Investors Service Inc.: A1 (Commercial Paper) NICE Information Service Co., Ltd: A1 Global lifestyle * As of June 30, 2018 company inspiring VISION a new life of health, Core Business happiness and convenience The core businesses of CJ Logistics include warehouse & distribution, forwarding & international express, stevedoring & transportation, project logistics, parcel and construction. We provide services for Shared Talent OnlyOne Growth a variety of customers based on our business capabilities and experience and will make every effort to Core Values Exceptional Talent First, offer customized services to customers. Building Exceptional Best, Ecosystems Culture Different Shared Value Principles Integrity Passion Creativity Respect Warehouse & Forwarding & Stevedoring & CJ CSV Management Distribution International Express Transportation CJ Logistics aims to create social value based on CJ Group’s management philosophy of CSV CJ Logistics delivers total Smart W&D and SCM consulting CJ Logistics provides the (Creating Shared Value). Based on safety management, legal compliance management and ethical expertise allow CJ Logistics to logistics services in the import & optimized, unparalleled, and full provide advanced and optimized export market and international range of services from stevedoring management, CJ Logistics implements various businesses to create jobs and contribute to local logistics services. express services in the global to inland transportation. e-Commerce market. communities. We will endeavor to create social value by utilizing business capabilities. CJ CSV Management Contributing to the global community by providing the best value MISSION System with our ONLYONE products and services Sustainability Contribution to Job creation management local communities Project Parcel Engineering & Logistics Construction CJ Logistics provides a total real We have developed many EPC Excellent infrastructures and estate service based on real estate project experiences and advanced logistics technologies development and operation towards Safety Legal compliance Ethical professional engineering make CJ Logistics a game maximizing customer asset value management management management competencies for delivering changer in the parcel market. due to differentiated construction tailored-customer solutions. and engineering capabilities. 10 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 11 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Business Divisions Warehouse & Distribution “CJ Logistics supports systematic and efficient operation with cutting-edge logistics facilities and consulting capability.” The W&D (Warehouse & Distribution) Why we are different division provides customers with the best-optimized logistics service CJ Logistics contributes to improving on-site productivity and efficiency through automation and through Korea’s largest infrastructure Automatic unmanned technology for all processes, including storage, warehouse management, unloading logistics and delivery. The company provides a customized logistics process by utilizing advanced and customized solution capabilities. system automation facilities such as W-Navigator, MPS·PAS, big data-based logistics prediction and a The division stably operates a statistics analysis system. variety of freight storage, unloading The Global SCM Innovator and transport/delivery, based on the TES (Technology, Engineering, SCM consulting CJ Logistics owns the only SCM consulting specialized group in the logistics industry. We suggest customized solutions reflecting customer needs by combining Korea’s best consulting capabilities capability System & Solution)-based automatic and smart IT solutions. CJ Logistics will always maintain its relentless pursuit of logistics excellence around the world. logistics system and SCM consulting CJ Logistics is broadening its market base across the world with a global logistics network. CJ Logistics provides a customer-specialized service based on industry-specific characteristics such as capabilities, and leads the domestic Today, we aim to be not just Korea’s No. 1 but the world’s leading logistics company. food, distribution, fashion and cosmetics warehouse & distribution market. Industry Consumer : Providing customized automation facilities and services with Korea’s largest transport/delivery network and infrastructure -specific Retail : Providing differentiated services such as 3-temperature (chilled, frozen, room temperature) service integrated operation capability, on-time delivery and overnight delivery F&B : Retaining a transport/delivery platform exclusively for the fashion industry and developing a delivery control mobile application based on product location e-Commerce : Maintaining an exclusive center for global e-Commerce and full line-up service linked with domestic gathering/storage and international express delivery Major Achievements in 2017 Infrastructure W&D 158 centers / 4 complex logistics terminals / 5,000 logistical equipment units per day Domestic contract logistics 1 st Ranked Daily delivery quantity Operating client company 2.1 million boxes 700 companies 12 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 13 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE Business Divisions SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix FORWARDING & PROJECT INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS EXPRESS “CJ Logistics provides customized “CJ Logistics designs the solutions suitable for global best logistics process EPC* sites.” optimized for customers.” The forwarding & international Why we are different The project logistics division Why we are different express division provides a total provides global top-tier service logistics service for the entire import CJ Logistics provides one-stop service in the entire logistics process, including domestic and with experience spanning over CJ Logistics secures total transport know-how for machines, facilities and materials which are and export process, along with Total overseas inland transport, unloading/customs, air transport/shipping, and global SCM consulting 46 projects in 26 countries as Experience with used for diverse plant construction cases. This know-how is based on experience accumulated by Logistics such as transport/delivery rationalization, layout diagnosis and operational index management. conducting an international express service Service We also offer various competitive transport services such as special freight transport and complex well as professional engineering various projects performing over 46 project logistics cases in a total of 26 countries, including oil, petrochemical business, hydroelectric power generation and freshwater treatment facilities. connecting as many as 220 countries transport. capability. around the world. We conduct total systemic CJ Logistics is capable of responding to any abnormal symptom at an early stage by providing We design the optimal logistics real-time information for imported/exported freight. We provide freight tracking and quantity logistic services from shipping CJ Logistics accumulates know-how for the professional transport of super-heavyweight goods Single Possession of process for the characteristics of information through a mobile-based customized system and enhance work efficiency between and air transport to global inland based on essential transport equipment such as SPMT (Self Propelled Modular Transporter), Visibility core self-owned partners by providing shipment information through an overseas partner cooperation service. In barges and self-propelled barges. We also perform reinforcement work in local transport both regular freight and special Service transport and installation and are equipment addition, the company contributes to reducing logistics cost and improving work efficiency with a specialized in super-heavyweight transport. freight, and contribute to reducing global real-time location tracking system and logistics cost analysis support service. continuously expanding the global logistics costs and improving foundation through our own group CJ Logistics provides an international express service connecting as many as 220 countries around A group total of over 130 experts establishes a transport plan and provides systemic project operational efficiency by providing Global the globe with its global infrastructure and operation know-how. In particular, we not only provide of equipment and engineering logistics service considering the characteristics of freight, such as air & sea transport, as well Professional e-Commerce real-time tracking information of a one-stop logistics service, including inventory management, customs and delivery by owning GFC experts. engineering as customs clearance. We also retain independent multinational engineering personnel and Fulfillment (Global Fulfillment Center), but also differentiated services for customers by providing customized capability provide customized solutions, including the establishment of transportation plans, measures and imported/exported freight. Service services selected by customers in the entire logistics process. reinforcement work in local transportation. Major Achievements in 2017 Major Achievements in 2017 Domestic forwarding companies Infrastructure Ranked 1 st 2 barges / 192 SPMT units / 403 transport equipment units / Other multiple unloading equipment units Attracted a Global Distribution International parcel service Domestic project logistics market Center (e-Commerce) for the first time 1 st (25,400㎡/total ground area) in the market *EPC(Engineering Procurement Key competencies Construction): A business in which a From shipping to on-site installation Total Logistics Service / Single Visibility Service / business operator who wins the contract for a large-scale construction project or Global e-Commerce Fulfillment Service infrastructure project provides one-stop service from design to part and material Providing a Total Logistics Service procurement and construction 14 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 15 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE Business Divisions SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix STEVEDORING & Parcel TRANSPORTATION “The innovations of CJ Logistics “CJ Logistics provides the best have triggered a new paradigm of service considering freight the parcel industry.” characteristics.” The stevedoring & transportation Why we are different The parcel division deals Why we are different division provides customized service with loading and delivery for CJ Logistics not only operates 12 hub terminals and 270 sub-terminals across the country, but also through freight-specific solutions CJ Logistics provides efficient service suitable for each freight characteristic on a 24/7 basis by customer products in a safe and completed Asia’s largest megahub terminal in June 2018 that is 40 times bigger than a soccer field based on Korea’s largest logistics Korea’s largest utilizing 20 ports, including Gunsan Port, among 31 ports in the country, 101 berths and a total expedient manner based on Korea’s Korea’s largest in size. It is expected that the megahub terminal can significantly increase the number of daily logistics of 196 heavy machines. We are also ranked 1st in domestic market share in various freight bulk and most robust deliveries to 1.7 million boxes by adopting Korea’s first automation facilities such as an automatic infrastructure and industry-specific infrastructure unloading sectors, including ultra-heavyweight shipping, raw sugar and minerals, by utilizing leading infrastructure, concentration infrastructure loading/unloading, a complex cargo recognition system and a 5-side recognition barcode scanner. know-how. seven self-propelled vessels. in the delivery network and In addition, the company has the highest delivery concentration level within a 10-minute proximity from customers including 24,000 parcel agencies and 18,000 parcel delivery workers. We are also expanding the value advanced logistics technology. chain through diverse additional CJ Logistics will provide stable and TES-based FreightCJ Logistics suggests optimal solutions suitable for the characteristics of customer freight based CJ Logistics provides customized service by introducing a cutting-edge automation system values such as oil, distribution, faster customer service, not only by advanced based on TES (Technology, Engineering, System & Solution), including terminal classification specialized on industry-specific know-how, including steel, automobiles, hazard materials, large-scale weight automation automation, quantity prediction system, network simulation engine and automatic allocation maintenance and efficient solutions and military logistics. operating 270 sub-terminals, 18,000 system system. We also realize differentiated specialized services such as same-day delivery and stevedoring suitable for various types delivery vehicles and industry’s installation service, and contribute to reducing heavy workloads for delivery workers. of freight characteristics using heavy first mobile concierge service and CJ Logistics maximizes synergistic effects in businesses through various added-value businesses machines such as cranes, hawks such as oil, distribution and maintenance. We currently engage in direct trade with four domestic providing differentiated service, but Industry’s first CJ Logistics provides parcel reservation, refund and delivery tracking service with CJ Logistics’ Expansion of mobile and special equipment modules. major oil companies with a network featuring directly-operated gas stations based on major also by completing the construction parcel app. CJ also improves customer convenience by deploying an AI-based customer value chain concierge freight points across the country. In addition, we distribute automobile repair parts and Eurox, a consultation chatbot service and visible ARS for the first time in the parcel industry. With swift and efficient service, CJ catalyst which changes the nitrogen oxide of exhaust gases into nitrogen and water. of Asia’s largest megahub terminal service Logistics will become a logistics hub in 2018. in East Asia. Major Achievements in 2017 Major Achievements in 2017 Infrastructure Infrastructure 101 berths / 196 heavy machinery units / 7 vessels vehicles delivery inin total Korea 12 hub terminals / 270 sub-terminals / 18,000 delivery vehicles Domestic market share for bulk stevedoring Directly operated gas station Production capacity 1 52 2,019 st in the market share gas stations KRW billion Number of daily average transport vehicles Market share (based on volume) Maximum daily delivery volume 7,000 units 45.5 % 6.7 million boxes 16 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 17 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE Business Divisions SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Engineering & RESORT Construction “CJ Logistics leads the global leisure culture and creates value for “CJ Logistics leads tomorrow’s customers through having the best space culture with differentiated resort environment and technology and creating a special prestige services.” experience. The engineering & construction Why we are different The resort division creates a Why we are different division enhances its global new sense of dignity and pride CJ Logistics has a wide range of construction experience in various sectors based on infrastructure business capability based on through a world-renowned Specialized construction of domestic and overseas groups and successful performance of large-scale external CJ Logistics creates the best-quality bent grass, provides differentiated shot value and owns extensive construction experience business construction. In particular, we ensure a competitive edge by strengthening competitiveness in prestigious golf club. Best course facilities for customer convenience. We also maintain the best course condition by installing the and differentiated capabilities technology winning orders. We also continuously reinforce technology based on specialized business sectors The Club Nine Bridges (Jeju) and quality Sub Air, a device for ventilation and moisture removal, and a temperature adjusting Hydronics capability (logistics, remodeling, R&D and hotels) selected by considering trend changes and competition in System in the all greens for the first time in Korea. in various sectors, including the construction industry. Haesley Nine Bridges (Yeoju) raise distribution centers, remodeling, the dignity and value of Korea’s golf CJ Logistics creates space suitable CJ Logistics provides a total real-estate research facilities, hotels, golf for customers’ needs and trends, in service by extending the portfolio to a wide clubs with a beautiful course that CJ Logistics is recognized as a world-renowned and prestigious club by operating a strictly range of business sectors such as securing World-class courses, plants, work and addition to various profit models. exists in harmony with nature, where member-centered system as “A Private Members Club,” with a membership operating committee, Real estate prestigious We also provide differentiated a business site, establishing a development vitalization of community and various activities. In addition, the Timber Structure of Haesley Nine commercial facilities. Multi-contents development the clubhouse is recognized as an club services in combination with CJ’s plan and strategy, management of design Bridges Clubhouse was selected as one of the “most beautiful ceilings in the world” by BBC. service planning We are expanding business sectors diverse group content businesses, capability and licensing, construction management, art piece and member-centered including new distribution, food real-estate sales, marketing, operation from the existing constructionluxurious service. & food service, entertainment & and management based on construction CJ Logistics serves as a bridge in developing golf by holding a world’s top-tier championship. focused system to the development media and life science. capabilities. We also contribute to cultivating Holding an Since 2017, the company has held “THE CJ CUP @ NINE BRIDGES,” a regular PGA tour and operation of real estate. Our Asia’s golf industry by holding international championship for the first time in Korea, as well as WCC (World Club Championship), where club championship goal is to become a “constructionGlobal CJ Logistics has performed multiple food and biomass plant engineering business projects in “THE CJ CUP @ NINE BRIDGES,” a champions of the world’s top 100 courses come together for a match. engineering Vietnam, Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines to establish overseas group infrastructure. Based based total real estate company” experience on such experience, we are continuously boosting our global engineering capabilities. regular PGA tour championship,” and maximize customer asset for the first time in Korea. value. Major Achievements in 2017 Major Achievements in 2017 53 12 32 Construction rd in civil engineering th in non-residential nd in industrial Club Nine Bridges Haesley Nine Bridges capability and construction / construction / environment 4 9 4 41 26 evaluation in 2018(as of 2017) th th th st among the world’s th among the world’s in commercial in other architectural facilities / in accommodations / and construction sectors top 100 courses top 100 platinum clubs Development of apartment housing in Haesley Nine Bridges THE CJ CUP @ NINE BRIDGES Hwaseong-Bongdam 180,233 Certification of Held Korea’s first GEO of the U.K for PGA tour regular ㎡ (1,265 household units, 100% sales ratio) Sustainable Golf Courses championship Performance of large-scale Korea Green Management Awards 2018 Haesley Nine Bridges International Haesley Nine Bridges overseas engineering projects Architecture Awards 3 Award from the Triple crown winner of the Selected as having the International most beautiful ceilings in cases Minister of Environment Architecture Awards the world by BBC 18 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 19 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Global Global Business Sites Country City Overseas base Network CJ Logistics is capable of realizing a one-stop total logistics service with an extensive logistics network connecting the world as one. By vitalizing major overseas bases, we are taking a bold leap forward 33 143 262 into becoming one of the global top five logistics companies by 2020. countries cities bases Global Infrastructure U.K. Netherlands Distribution centers 715 Germany centers Turkmenistan Uzbekistan Transport vehicles 48,000 Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Georgia Tajikistan vehicles Canada Italy China Turkey U.S. Berths 101 Japan Mexico Laos berths Iraq Kuwait Brazil UAE Philippines Unloading devices 480 Vietnam Cambodia units Singapore Indonesia Malaysia Vessels Thailand 8 Myanmar India vessels Republic of South Africa Nepal Tanzania 20 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 21 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS Creation of Logistics-based Social Jobs 22 Expansion of Logistics Infrastructure and Reinforcement of R&D 26 Reinforcement of Competitiveness in Construction and Real Estate Business 32 22 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 23 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Creation of “Senior Parcel Delivery” as a Model for Social Job Creation Logistics-based CJ Logistics is actively creating social jobs based on our logistics Social Jobs capabilities. The “Senior Parcel Delivery” is a representative CSV business that utilizes our core capabilities. We will continue to create jobs not only for the elderly but also for the socially disadvantaged, based on successful cases and know-how of the Senior Parcel Delivery. Number of Participants among Beneficiaries Beneficiary Number of Participants Percentage class bases (unit) (person) (%) Senior 140 1,172 87.3 Low-income 23 132 9.8 people People with 4 38 2.8 disabilities Total 167 1,342 100.0 * As of March 2018 Job Creation for the Elderly – Senior Parcel Delivery Background In 2017, Korea became an aged society where the population at the age of 65 or over account for over 14% compared to the total population. According to the OECD in the same year, Korea had 42.7% of relative poverty rate* of the elderly between the ages of 66-75 and 60.2% of the elderly ages of 75 or over; these results are the highest among a total of 34 member countries. CJ Logistics recognizes the severity of the elderly poverty issue and proactively creates social jobs to contribute to dealing with the issue. In particular, “Senior Parcel Delivery,” one of our CSV projects, is a representative business model creating jobs for senior citizens. Currently, “Senior Parcel Delivery” is being developed as a job creating model as well as model for senior citizens. Background Significance and Impact of Issues Map of Core Issues * Relative poverty rate: Ratio of poor population whose income is less than the median income in the total population for Issue As Korea has rapidly become an aging society, the issue Selection of poverty among the elderly is emerging as a new social Business Model issue. CJ Logistics contributes to addressing social issues Contribution to vitalizing indirect economy through business The “Senior Parcel Delivery” by CJ Logistics is a parcel delivery model where elderly delivery worker Business impact by creating jobs for socially vulnerable people based on the at the age of 60 or over deliver items to a nearby region within 1㎞ by using an eco-friendly electronic logistics business. We continuously cooperate with various stakeholders such as the government, local governments Efforts to revitalize the economy of cart based on delivery bases in a residential area, including apartment complexes and houses. local community and private groups to provide social jobs for supporting the Expansion of employment and disadvantaged, including the elderly and vulnerable people. securing employment stability Stakeholders’ interest Delivery Base 40~50 Boxes per Within 1 ㎞ Senior Radius Delivery Man Response of ￭Establishment of cooperative system for creating ￭E  xpansion of a range of beneficiaries in the CJ Logistics jobs for elderly people with the government, local job creation business government and relevant institutions ￭S  earching for a new job model for the Major ￭Development of Senior Parcel Delivery as a job Plan and vulnerable in the overall parcel value chain Activities creation model for senior citizens utilizing a core Target 1 Service Master Senior ￭C  ooperation for job creation for the business model (SM) Delivery Man vulnerable and establishment of logistics Daily Volume Daily Volume ￭Creation and expansion of various social jobs based 250Box 50 Box / Senior ecosystem with clients/partners on the Senior Parcel Delivery model (people with developmental disabilities, low-income people) 24 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 25 2017 Fortune ‘Change the World’ : “Senior Parcel Delivery” 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Job Creation Performance “Senior Parcel Delivery”, has contributed to addressing the poverty issues among senior citizens by providing 1,000 and more seniors with sustainable and quality jobs. In comparison to other markettype jobs, the “Senior Parcel Delivery” earns a relatively high income based on the development of the parcel industry. The “Senior Parcel Delivery” will be conducted as a sustainable job business with the capability of providing stable jobs based on the continuous growth of the parcel delivery market. Job Creation Performance by Senior Parcel Delivery Recognition of Global Business Performance Base (unit) Personnel (person) for 2017-2018 168 167 132 1,319 1,342 75 1,007 Fortune ‘Change the World’ 27 529 In 2017, CJ Logistics was selected as 14 one of the companies for “Change the 172 150 World” by Fortune for the first time in Korea with the “Senior Parcel Delivery.” 2013.12 2014.12 2015.12 2016.12 2017.12 2018.03 The Economist article for the case Presentation of Cases for 2018 Shared Value Leadership Summit of “Senior Parcel Delivery” At the Shared Value Leadership Summit, the most prestigious summit in the area of CSV, CJ Logistics The Economist, an economy-specialized Social & Environmental Effect Expected newspaper of the U.K., published an presented the Senior Parcel Delivery as an exemplary CSV case. We discussed issues of creating shared value The Senior Parcel Delivery supplies and utilizes eco-friendly, fully electricity operated electronic article about the “Senior Parcel Delivery” with global leaders such as Michael Porter, professor of Harvard University and an authority on business carts to reduce physical burden for the elderly and minimize environmental impact. The delivery as Korea’s representative senior job administration, former U.S. Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, and Chief Content Officer of Time Inc., Alan creation case. service contributes to reducing potential GHG emissions from exhaust gases of delivery Murray. The presentation drew much attention during the session, which was attended by as many as 400 vehicles by utilizing a total of 370 eco-friendly electronic carts. In addition, delivery bases guests, including the management of major global enterprises such as IBM, Nestle and Walmart. across the country serve as a role of social space not only for the storage and classification of CSV Porter Award In 2017, CJ Logistics received the parcel items, but also for a sense of belonging between colleagues. “Project Effectiveness Prize” in the 4th CSV Porter Award. The company was highly recognized for the effectiveness of job creation from the “Senior Parcel Delivery.” CJ Logistics was also awarded in the Effectiveness category of the 2nd CSV Porter Award in 2015. Commendation by the Minister Registration as an Excellent Case for Receipt of UN SDGs Corporate of Employment and Labor for job UN SDGs and Certification of SMART Implementation Award creation In 2018, the achievement of the “Senior Parcel CJ Logistics “Senior Parcel Delivery” received the In 2017, CJ Logistics received the Delivery” was recognized for the contribution of “UN SDGs Corporate Implementation Award,” commendation by the Minister of Employment and Labor for contributing improving the job issue of the elderly by UN and an award for a company which implements to promoting the employment for senior registered as an excellent implementation case the best sustainable management for a year. citizens. With the Senior Parcel Delivery, the in the UN SDGs initiative on the UN’s official Through the Senior Parcel Delivery, we have company was highly praised for creating website. been recognized for contributing to creating jobs high-quality jobs for the elderly through agreements with major local governments. for seniors and creating social value. 26 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 2017 OVERVIEW 27 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Expansion of Logistics “Leading innovation in the global logistics Infrastructure and with a new global family” Reinforcement of R&D 2016 CJ Logistics implements diverse M&A cases and ensures the opportunity to take the lead in the logistics market of rapidly-growing emerging countries. • Company name: CJ Century Logistics • HQ: Malaysia • Business: Launched as a forwarding company, diversified into CL and FF • Subsidiaries: 13 / Bases: 6 bases, country-wide 2015 transport and delivery network • Business countries: Malaysia, Singapore • Company name: CJ Rokin Logistics • HQ: China • Company name: CJ Speedex Logistics • Business: Chinese local W&D, • HQ: China 2013 low-temperature logistics cases • Business: TCL group 2PL • Corporations: 11 / Branches: 28 / • CDC*: 7 / RDC**: 40 / T/S***: 154 Distribution centers: 41 • Business countries: China • Business countries: China * CDC: Central Distribution Center ** RDC: Regional Distribution Center • Company name: CJ Smart Cargo *** T/S: Transshipment • HQ: China • Business: Project logistics • Corporations: 4 / Branches: 9 / Distribution centers: 1 • Business countries: South Africa, China, Tanzania 2018 Background Significance and Impact of Issues Map of Core Issues for Issue With the expansion of the global value chain and emergence Selection of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, various changes in Expansion of business based on logistics and construction • Company name: CJ Gemadept Shipping CJ Gemadept Logistics the business environment are taking place. In the logistics 2017 • HQ: Vietnam Business impact industry, emphasis on the importance of expanding logistics • Business: Contract logistics, forwarding, shipping infrastructure and automation service through the realization of Strengthening infrastructure and R&D capability • Subsidiaries: 8 / Bases: 8 bases in 4 countries, smart logistics is taking place. CJ Logistics needs to make every country-wide transport, delivery and effort to secure global competitiveness by preemptively dealing coastal shipping network • Company name: CJ ICM Logistics with such market changes. To reinforce competitiveness • Business countries: Singapore, Malaysia, Cambodia • HQ: UAE in logistics, it is necessary to identify the needs of various Stakeholders’ interest • Business: Middle East/CIS local project logistics stakeholders such as partners and customers and support • Subsidiaries: 19 / 15 countries, 32 offices, employees to strengthen their R&D capabilities. 3 warehouses • Business countries: Germany, UAE, Azerbaijan, etc. Response of ￭ Reinforcement of global competitiveness ￭ Establishment of core infrastructure and CJ Logistics ￭ Establishment of future-oriented logistics bases development and dissemination of new • Company name: CJ Darcl Logistics ￭ Securing R&D infrastructure and human TES technology Major resources Plan and ￭ Reinforcement of core human resources • HQ: India Activities Target and technology in advanced logistics • Business: Indian local W&D • 182 offices, 1,361 vehicles ￭ Strengthening global competitiveness • Business countries: Nepal, India based on domestic core capabilities 28 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 29 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix “Asia’s largest Megahub Gonjiam induces a paradigm shift in the logistics process” “Establishment of innovative logistics convergence systems based on Technology (T), Engineering (E) and System & Solution (S)” CJ Logistics has expanded the advanced logistics infrastructure CJ Logistics aims for advancement and differentiation of services by realizing 4PL logistics solutions with the combination of Technology (T), by completing the establishment Engineering (E) and System & Solution (S) capacity to respond to ever-changing market environments and to lead the shift of logistics business of Megahub Gonjiam with TES paradigm. (Technology, Engineering, System T E S & Solution)-based advanced logistics system and operational equipment Technology Engineering System & Solution Realize advanced automation Provide predictable and stable by developing future logistics Provide solutions to optimize the end-to-end solutions based on technology and applying operation of customer logistics the logistics IT system technology to the operation sites Megahub • Approved for use in June 2018 Gonjiam • Total floor area: 300,000㎡, approximately 40 times larger than a soccer field • Number of floors: 2 underground floors, 4 ground floors • Capable of simultaneously accommodating 839 large-sized vehicles of 11 tons or over Core capabilities • Logistics resource sensing • Robot convergence • Network optimization service • Industry-specific service • High-speed digital picking technology • Transport/delivery optimization service • Platform service 1 Unmanned Classification System 2 Largest in Asia and 3 largest in the rd • Smart packaging • Autonomous vehicle • Distribution center design service • Integrated visibility service Due to its unmanned system in the overall process world • Loading/ delivery • Facility and resource planning • AI-based customer contact point service except loading and unloading, Megahub Gonjiam Megahub Gonjiam is the largest in Asia and 3 rd unloading automation • Specialized coldhas a total of 636 workers in loading/unloading, largest hub terminal in the world. The hub has chain service classification and on-site management sectors, the processing capacity of handling more than and the number of workers is less than 531 400,000 boxes than the 2nd largest distribution workers in comparison to Daejeon Hub. center in Asia. Digital Logistics 2020, CJ Logistics Challenge League 2018 3 Parcel delivery-type convergence 4 TES-based advanced logistics terminal system In 2018, CJ Logistics held the “CJ Logistics Challenge League 2018” to develop joint technology and invest in startups possessing excellent Megahub Gonjiam is capable of loading/ CJ Logistics will utilize automated parcel technologies through the open innovation platform. The Challenge League was planned to search for and cultivate tech startups with remarkable unloading work by 850 large-sized freight vehicles unloading equipment, freight recognition devices, technologies for the Fourth Industrial Revolution such as augmented reality (AR) and image recognition (vision), connect technologies to logistics of 10 tons or over simultaneously based on 5-side barcode scanners, Internet of Things service by developing joint technology and lead the advancement of the logistics industry based on differentiated solutions. facilities to classify 1.72 million boxes a day and (IoT) technology, and establish efficient logistics implementing the classification of parcel/freight systems by reducing logistics processing time and more efficiently in the metropolitan area. increasing the inventory turnover rate. Participating companies undergo documentation review and perform challenging tasks. A finally selected company is given the opportunity to develop joint technology with CJ Logistics worth a maximum of KRW 300 million and additional points in case of residing in the business space of Seoul UP Creative Economy Innovation Center. • Boost the capacity of processing delivery volume • Improve delivery efficiency in the metropolitan area Challenging tasks • Possible to increase daily returns by 95% • Automation of classification by 100% 1 Development of irregular product image sensing by AI technology • Reduce time for product classification and relay • Zero rate of product damage and pollution 2 Development of vision picking system utilizing AR-based technology DOWN 30 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 31 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix “Lead the logistics digitalization by developing cutting-edge logistics technology through Research & Development TES Innovation Center” R&D Capability In 2017, CJ Logistics launched the TES Innovation in Center China as an R&D Showroom, located at the headquarter of CJ Rokin, after the In 2014, CJ Logistics defined TES (Technology, Engineering, System & Solution) independently and 1st TES Innovation Center was established in Gunpo, Korea in 2016. has realized advanced logistics technology. In 2016, the company launched TES Innovation Center in Gunpo and opened another center in Shanghai, China. The major activities of researchers include developing/proposing business policies related to logistics through external cooperation activities, R&D activities based on logistics theory, development of new logistics technologies and corporate 9 consulting activities utilizing the specialized methodology (M-SCORE®) and engineering solutions 1 R&D Outcome CJ Logistics implements TES convergence-based cutting-edge technologies. In 2017, we applied 2 high-speed Intelligent Scanner (ITS), Ex-PAS and smart packaging to our several business sites and performed R&D projects and developed new logistics technologies with the Ministry of Land, 7 4 Infrastructure and Transport and Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. We also conducted logistics 8 and SCM consulting projects for various industries such as domestic and overseas CPG, distribution, textiles, electric/electronic and automobiles. We also continuously apply for patents and trademarks related to new logistics technologies and improve R&D capabilities. 3 1 W-Navigator 6 2 Mobile Robot Logistics Technology R&D Activities in 2017-2018 3 Ex-DPS/Ex-DAS/Ex-PAS 4 Intelligent Scanner (ITS) Date R&D activities 5 Automatic RFID inspection system 2017.01 Applied high-speed ITS to parcel sub-terminals (Ulsan, Gwangju 1, 2) 6 Smart Packaging 2017.02 Applied high-speed ITS to parcel sub-terminals (Namyangju, Namdong) 5 7 Cool Guardian 8 Smart Cube 2017.03 Applied high-speed ITS to parcel CP (Gochon, Wonsam, Bugok, Docheok) 9 CJ Sky-door 2017.03 Completed the third year of “R&D for the automation technology of worker-based storage facilities in the logistics site” (Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport) 2017.03 Completed the third year of “development of whole unloading equipment to reduce time for loading/unloading freight” (Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport) 2017.04 Applied high-speed ITS to the Dongan parcel sub-terminal Completed the second year of “development of high-wind resistance drone system capable of safe aviation under the maximum wind speed of 13m/s” 2017.05 (Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) Integrated 2017.05 Applied low-speed ITS to the Daejeon parcel hub terminal and high-speed ITS to 2 sub-terminals (Eunpyeong, Dobong) control Incoming Piling up 2017.06 Applied high-speed ITS to the Anseong parcel sub-terminal 2017.07 Applied high-speed ITS to 16 parcel sub-terminals (Sejong, Daegu, Uijeongbu, etc.) 4 2 1 3 2017.08 Applied Ex-PAS to the site of Hobeob return center (advancement of automated facilities) 2017.08 Applied high-speed ITS to 14 parcel sub-terminals (Cheonan, Bupyeong, Goyang, etc.) 2017.09 Applied high-speed ITS to 11 parcel sub-terminals (Jeju, Gangneung, Changwon, etc.) Picking 2017.10 Applied high-speed ITS to 17 parcel sub-terminals (Suncheon, Yeongtong, Junggu, etc.) Operate the main Recognize freight Freight loading and picking by Expedient release by utilizing movable picking 2017.10 Applied light-weight rolltainer to parcel CP (Console Point) site control tower, “Integrated information by mobile robot, an autonomous system W-Navigator and digital distribution 2017.10 Held R&D showcase control center (MCC)” Intelligent Scanner (ITS) driving robot system Ex-DPS/Ex-DAS/Ex-PAS 2017.11 Applied Ex-PAS to the site of Gunpo center 2017.11 Applied high-speed ITS to 15 parcel sub-terminals (Yeongdeungpo, Sokcho, Pohang, etc.) 2017.12 Applied 1-side low-speed ITS to parcel hubs (Daejeon, Chilgok, Jangseong) and sub-terminal (home shopping, etc.) 2017.12 Applied high-speed ITS to 21 parcel sub-terminals (Changwon, Songpa, Siheung, etc.) Deliver Package Inspection 2017.12 Applied smart packaging to the site of Baegam center 2018.01 Applied high-speed ITS to 6 parcel sub-terminals (Saha, Gyeongju, Asan, etc.) 2018.02 Applied high-speed ITS to 4 parcel sub-terminals (Gwangju, Seongdong, etc.) 7 8 9 6 4 5 2018.03 Applied high-speed ITS to 7 parcel sub-terminals (Yeongcheon, Seongju, Yeonsu, etc.) 2018.03 Applied smart packaging to the site of Deokpyeong center 2018.04 Apply high-speed ITS to 7 parcel delivery sub-terminals (Gangdong, Suwon, Gangbuk, etc.) 2018.04 Apply smart packaging (air cap packaging) to Wonsam center Deliver freight by utilizing Smart Cube, a constant temperature management Packing boxes by smart Recognize freight information by Intelligent device reinforcing the function of cushion and cold-chain insulation in packaging, a packaging Scanner (ITS) and conduct inspection by 2018.05 Apply high-speed ITS to 57 parcel delivery sub-terminals (Seongbuk, Gumi, Jeonju, etc.) combination of IoT, Cool Guardian, the temperature and humidity control solution realizing automatic attaching RFID tags to a freight box by 2018.06 Apply high-speed ITS to 3 parcel delivery sub-terminals (Andong, Chungju, Donggangwon, etc.) solution to manage the quality stability of temperature and humidity sensitive and safe packaging automatic RFID inspection system products, and CJ Sky Door, an unmanned drone-based delivery system 2018.06 Apply parcel automated rolltainer unloading facility to Gimpo terminal 32 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 33 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Reinforcement of Competitiveness in Construction and Real Estate Business “Secure differentiated competitive edge by cultivating construction-specialized business” To secure differentiated competitiveness in the construction market, CJ Logistics selects specialized businesses with a competitive edge by considering experience and trend change such as logistics, remodeling, R&D and hotels. It cultivates the business by securing core technology and strengthening sales power for winning orders. Major performance Competitive edge • Megahub Gonjiam • Integrated synergistic effect for logistics by CJ Logistics • Pyeongtaek-Poseung Distribution Center • Numerous experiences in the construction of large-scale advanced logistics • IKEA Goyang facilities (construction of Asia’s largest logistics center, etc.) • CS Yangsan Distribution Center • One-stop Total Solution Provider (securing a site, development, construction, Logistics etc.) Background Significance and Impact of Issues Map of Core Issues for Issue The construction market accelerates the rate of decline and • Hyundai City Outlet • Korea Remodeling Association member company network Selection market competition becomes intensified due to tightened real Expansion of business based on logistics and construction • Homeplus (Junggye, Gangdong) (current president company) estate regulations, policy on the advancement of construction • Solaria Hotel (Myeongdong) • Grand Prize for Korea Remodeling Construction Awards (Hyundai City Outlet) Business impact industry, increased interest rates and slowdown of the • Gangbuk Samsung Hospital • Special Prize for Korea Remodeling Construction Awards Remodeling domestic economy. Under these circumstances, it is necessary (Myeongdong Solaria Hotel) Strengthening infrastructure and R&D capability to reinforce business competitiveness and diversify business. CJ Logistics will boost competitiveness and ensure continuous • CJ Blossom Park • Planning and consulting capability with extensive experiences for the growth by expanding its business foundation through searching • Descente Global R&D Center construction of R&D facilities for competitive businesses and strengthening synergy effects Stakeholders’ interest • Kolmar Korea Integrated Technology Center • Construction of Korea’s largest food-bio convergence R&D center (CJ Blossom Park) by utilizing CJ Logistics' capabilities and assets. • TORAY Korea R&D Center • Construction capability for special exterior features such as Korea’s first R&D 3D-curved sunshade and curtain wall Response of ￭ Cultivate construction-specialized business ￭ Expand investment in R&D related to • Holiday Inn (Ingye-dong, Suwon) • Network of development and operation specialists for hotel consultant CJ Logistics ￭ Secure and carry out integration specialized business • Silla Stay (Seocho, Seoul) companies and hotels ￭ Execute the global group infrastructure ￭ Reinforce the value chain related to Major Plan and • Best Western (Seocho, Seoul) • Extensive experiences for the construction of major hotel brands EPC business real estate Activities Target Hotel • Ulsan Staz • Securing the capability for prestige service with experience in operating a resort ￭ Broaden global EPC business 34 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 35 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix “Secure competitiveness of winning bids through use of complex integrity by leveraging “Expansion of global engineering business” CJ brands” CJ Logistics has performed engineering projects in various sectors such as food, bio-plant, logistics and R&D by advancing into overseas countries in Vietnam, Malaysia, Indonesia and Philippines. We will take a bold step forward into becoming a competitive global engineering construction CJ Logistics has competitiveness for winning bids as OnlyOne providing added value differentiated from other construction companies by securing company by enhancing CJ’s synergy effect. business capability of complex integrity through CJ brands for merchandises suitable for the site and use of a building by owner. Global construction performance China Vietnam BIO Plant Distribution Fermented Soybean Meal Plant Homeshopping Entertainment Warehouse in Shenyang Hanam Feed Plant & Logistics & Media Binh Dinh Feed Plant Dong Nai Feed Plant China Ho Chi Minh Food Valley Mekong Feed Plant Expansion of Vung Tau Milling Plant Extension of Ho Chi Minh International School Malaysia·Indonesia·Philippines Construction and expansion of L-Methionine Plant, Malaysia Kalimantan Feed Plant, Malaysia Philippines Semarang Feed Plant, Indonesia Mindanao Feed Plant, Philippines Vietnam Construction of Arginine and Citrulline Plant, Indonesia Food & Food Bio & Indonesia services Pharma Malaysia Hyungji Art Malling Songdo Time Space Art Malling, a shopping landmark in Saha-gu, Busan, is a representative case CJ Logistics is currently constructing Songdo Time Square, which will be CJ BIO M/M3 PROJECT CJ FOOD VALLEY PROJECT where complex integrity is achieved by CJ contents such as CGV, Season’s completed by 2020 as a large-sized commercial facility in Songdo New In 2014, CJ Logistics completed the construction of a plant for producing The establishment of food cluster plant, which will be utilized as an export Table, Olive Young and A Twosome Place through the development of the Town. The inclusion of CGV was determined even before the construction. L-Methionine with the volume of 80,000 tons in the industrial complex of base in Southeast Asia, can handle food production of an annual volume of construction division of CJ Logistics. Terengganu for the bio business in Malaysia. With the expansion of 80,000 31,787 tons, including spring rolls, dried seaweed, dumplings and kimchi. tons in 2017, we established a bio-plant producing products amounting to 180,000 tons as of 2018. 36 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 37 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix “Establish one-stop, end-to-end real estate service by expanding business related to real estate” The construction division of CJ Logistics continuously expands the portfolio to various businesses related to real estate and establishes an end-to-end real-estate service by developing CJ-owned sites, expanding the sectors of asset management and strengthening network management. Operation and management • Asset management • Maintenance Establish a • Rental service development plan Manage design and Construction and Distribution and and strategies license management marketing • Needs & Seeds analysis • Basic and working design • Construction and construction company selection • Distribution and rental marketing • Business structure development • Rental and license • Business, quality and safety management • Distribution guarantee and approval Secure a • Feasibility review • Business expenses and • Design change and inspection • Maintain the anchor tenant business site • Plan for structured finance schedule management • Contract and compliant management • Site analysis • Market analysis • Relevant policy and law review Central Prugio (Hwaseong, Bongdam) Digital Dream Tower CJ Gimpo Plant Site Development Project (Bird’s-eye view) CJ ENM Center CJ Logistics provides a total solution from A to Z through developing CJ Logistics provides total service maximizing asset value by operating business responsibly. and managing real estate. CJ Logistics successfully carried out a large-scale apartment house development project with We conduct various tasks such as investment consulting, sale/disposal, rental, asset the floor area of 180,232㎡ by utilizing CJ’s unused site of Hwaseong-Bongdam Zone and and facility management and manage facilities of 379,547㎡ in total, including CJ distributed 100% of the lot (1,265 households). Based on the achievement, we are currently infrastructure such as CJ ENM Center and CJ CheilJedang Center. implementing a project for developing the sites of CJ Gimpo Plant and CJ Yeongdeungpo Plant. 38 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 39 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE Environment & Safety 40 Social 48 Governance 64 40 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 41 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Environmental Environmental Management System Management Environmental Management Vision and Strategy The logistics division of CJ Logistics makes every effort to prevent any elements of environmental risk in advance through eco-friendly logistics. The company establishes and manages the vision of “realizing global top-tier green management” and strategies in accordance with safety and health environmental management policies. The construction division conducts all business management in an eco-friendly manner from the perspective of environmental management as a total construction company. All the executives and employees, including the CEO, recognize the environmental impact of construction activities on society and continuously implement environmental management based on the core values of CJ, which are integrity, passion, creativity and respect. Organization in Charge of Environmental Management The logistics division operates a group in charge of environmental management that consists of the Safety and Environment Team of the head office, an environmental organization consisting of environmental officers and the environmental managers of each workplace. The Safety and Environment Team, which is the department in charge of environmental management, establishes the strategies and detailed guidelines for environmental management and integrates and manages the environmental performance of each business site. In addition, the company strengthens management to implement environmental management for overseas business sites based on the expansion of global business. Environmental Management System Certification Since the Incheon Branch acquired ISO 14001 certification in 1999, the logistics division has expanded the scope of the certification to all of our offices in 2010 and has maintained certification to this date. In accordance with certification standards, we have established environmental ENVIRONMENT management guidelines and implemented evaluation and management for environmental impact in actual business. In addition, the company provides training to reinforce the management capabilities of each business site manager to operate the management system and cultivate internal capacity & SAFETY for independent review. In the future, we will further internalize the operation of the environmental management system to minimize environmental pollutants from business activities in all business Significance and Impact of Issues Map of Core Issues sites. In addition, we will reinforce management to prevent environmental pollution accidents in Environmental issues such as resource depletion and the operation and management of environmental facilities and freight handling processes. climate change are emerging across the globe, and these In 2001, the construction division also acquired ISO 14001 certification for domestic and overseas Reduction of environmental impact of issues have an impact on corporate business activities. To 물류, 이동으로 인한 환경영향 저감 logistics and transport civil engineering, architecture, housing, electricity, industrial and environmental facilities, firefighting cope with global environmental issues, efforts for reducing Background construction, information communication construction and additional service, and has maintained Business impact environmental impact are required among companies. In for Issue addition, it is necessary to manage internal safety issues in Reinforcement of health and safety management 에너지 소비량 관리 및 효용 증대 the certification from that point on. Selection terms of reduction of corporate risk and cultivation of business system for employees capability. CJ Logistics aims to reinforce competitiveness Management and reduction of GHG emissions through proactive environmental management policies, 온실가스 배출량 관리 및 감축 recognizing the importance of eco-friendly logistics and safety Coping with Climate Change management in the environmental sector. Stakeholders’ interest Greenhouse Gas and Energy Management System Response of In the logistics division, the head office and business sites are registered in the National Greenhouse ￭ GHG emissions reduction and energy saving ￭ Advancement of the environmental management system ￭ Realization of eco-friendly green logistics ￭ Achievement of greenhouse gas and energy reduction targets CJ Logistics ￭ Implementation of safety assessment for ￭ Improvement of environmental pollution risks Gas Management System (NGMS) to monitor the amount of energy used, systematically calculate removing risks in advance ￭ Advancement of the safety and health management system and manage greenhouse gas emissions. Based on the NGMS, we have set a goal of reducing our Major ￭ Establishment of a safety management system Plan and ￭ Establishment of a safety-first culture GHG emissions by 2021 through the research and analysis of GHG data such as energy costs, GHG Activities for win-win relationships with partner companies Target ￭ Reinforcement of capabilities for safety and health risk management emissions and reduction targets for our business sites. 42 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 43 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix GHG Emissions and Energy Use Management Realization of Eco-friendly Logistics and Construction The logistics division operates a greenhouse gas management system, which documents the amount of energy usage in all business sites to automatically calculate GHG emissions. Each business site registers the amount of all energy usage of business activities, including monthly electricity consumption, vehicle fuel consumption and other energy usage for management and analysis. In response, the business site must Green Logistics align with the target of GHG emissions based on the implementation of the national GHG & energy target management system. In 2017, CJ The logistics division realizes green logistics by optimizing and utilizing distribution bases, facilities Logistics emitted 202,671tCO2-eq, which is lower than the GHG emission target of 236,728tCO2-eq by 34,057tCO2-eq. CJ Logistics will advance and systems in an eco-friendly direction. For instance, we reduced the number of transport vehicles the current greenhouse gas management system and effectively cope with climate change through efficient management of GHG emissions to realize the reduction of energy and carbon emissions through the optimization of transport routes, and energy use. large-scale transportation, complex and consistent transportation and joint logistics by utilizing * The amount of GHG emissions and energy use can be identified on p.81 connective transportation among different bases. CJ Logistics also realizes eco-friendly logistics through the purchase of freight vehicles in the form of low-pollution and high-fuel economy SCR Activity of Reducing Energy Usage (Selective Catalytic Reduction), enlargement of vehicles, green parcel delivery service utilizing electric The logistics division implements various education activities to reduce energy usage in business. We operate eco-driving training to improve bicycles and four-wheeled vehicles, and electric conversion for port crane energy and photovoltaic driving habits that waste energy such as rapid start, rapid acceleration, sudden braking and engine idling. We are also actively conducting energy generation utilizing the rooftops of distribution centers. We also enhance the efficiency of energy-saving activities such as reducing the amount of electricity use by installing and changing high-efficient LED and induction lamps in the vehicle operation by real-time vehicle control through an integrated logistics IT system, optimization interior lighting of buildings such as distribution centers. of transport routes using freight information-based transportation planning, integrated allocation of In the construction division, we have designed and constructed a building to allow natural ventilation and lighting of the clubhouse to save vehicles and improvement of cargo loading return rate. We are also promoting a modal shift from energy. As a result, bright indoor lighting is secured even without separate lighting during the day. In addition, about 70 golf carts in the club energy for road transport such as railroad and vessels to high-efficiency energy transport means by utilize electricity instead of fossil fuels and help to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. We also continuously review and implement measures for analyzing integrated freight volume. applying renewable energy such as solar heat and photovoltaic energy. Acquisition of Sustainable Golf Course Certification Activity to Offset GHG Emissions Haesley, a golf club of the construction division, acquired the certification of “Sustainable Golf The logistics division conducts activities for enhancing the awareness of the environment and environmental protection in local communities Course” from the GEO, a U.K. organization with a purpose of certifying sustainable eco-friendly to offset GHG emissions. In 2013, we signed the “Agreement for Energy Forest Project on Abandoned Highway Roads” with the Korea Forest golf courses, in 2014 and received recertification in 2017 as well. The GEO (Golf Environment Service, Korea Highway Corporation and Green Korea United. Annually, we contribute to the offsetting of greenhouse gas emissions by Organization) was established in the U.K. in 2000 and has become a prestigious eco-friendly golf participating in the creation of Energy Forests using abandoned roads and vacant rest areas. In addition, we conduct an urban greening course certification organization, which strives to ensure sustainability in golf facilities and improve Sustainable Golf Course Certification by GEO project and provide ecological experience education for children in local childcare centers. We will reinforce eco-friendly green logistics the environment. The organization has partnerships with 40 golf-related institutions in Europe activities to reduce GHG emissions, ensure energy saving in daily life and proactively prepare to introduce eco-friendly logistical equipment and and other parts of the world such as the R&A (Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St. Andrews) of the continuous exchange for high-efficiency lighting at the distribution center. U.K., European Tour and EIGCA (European Institute of Golf Course Architects). Evaluation items in the certification of an eco-friendly golf course according to GEO are composed of three items— Nature, Resources and Community. With detailed sub-items, a strict review process is followed. Resource Management The certification of GEO can be finally acquired through two rounds of verification by meeting the standards presented by GEO. Even after the certification is acquired, the certification can be maintained only through recertification every three years. Water Management The construction division manages the amount of water use and wastewater in all business sites. In 2017, we used 688,763 tons of water and Conservation of Biodiversity reused 56 tons by filtering muddy water. Due to the nature of the resort business in the construction division, most of the water usage was The construction division makes continuous efforts to take the lead in environmental protection focused on managing a wide area of grass and wood. Aside from the existing method to rely on automatic irrigation in the management of golf Yeoju Haesley Nine Bridges ① regarding biodiversity. We have strived to create a course with essential geographical features club courses, we proactively utilize hand watering and minimize the consumption of water resources by installing low-flow toilets and water while not undermining the nature. Thanks to these efforts, a total of 60 species of animals and tank storage compressors in all washrooms of the club. Jeju Nine Bridges uses an integral type of advanced wastewater treatment method and plants reside in the environments of Yeoju Haesley Nine Bridges, including the eagle owl (natural contributes to reducing water quality pollution and energy by removing organic substances, nitrogen and phosphorus by low-consumption monument), common buzzard, kestrel and small wrinkled frog (endangered species class 2). electricity. The club also provides members with conveniences through eco-friendly methods. In the spring of every year, we release pond snails into the pond and provide water plants on the floor of the Waste Management pond as feed to alleviate the growth of green algae. We also released snakeheads into the pond The logistics division promotes the reduction of any waste in business activities and efficient management by enacting the waste management to reduce the number of fruit flies and mosquitoes. As a result, the number of fruit flies and guideline. We manage the amount of waste in accordance with waste-related internal standards and properly and legally handle waste. mosquitoes were decreased, while the number of birds was increased as the fry of snakeheads The construction division manages the amount of waste by using the Allbaro System, which is the national total waste management system. By serve as the feed for birds. separating waste into each type, the system allows for a virtuous cycle of waste as well as recycling as a resource. Yeoju Haesley Nine Bridges ② 44 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 45 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Health and Safety Risk Management Safety CJ Logistics implements a safety design review (SDR) to prevent any health and safety risks in advance. Health and Safety System When investing in new construction, expansion of a building, and installation of logistics equipment, we Management conduct the SDR to check safety issues from the planning stage to ensure safety of facilities. Vision and Strategy for Health and Safety To prevent safety risk factors among business sites and facilities throughout the country, the logistics Based on CJ Group’s midto long-term safety master plan, CJ Logistics manages its safety division regularly conducts in-house or external safety inspections. Through these activities, we identify management in cooperation with the Safety Management Department, a department responsible risks found at each business site and implement measures to remove them. During severe weather for the group’s overall safety management. conditions, such as heavy rainfall, heavy snow, extremely cold weather, and typhoons, we conduct a preThe logistics division strives to prevent any health and safety issues in business under the health safety check. CJ Logistics will ensure immediate improvement of any severe risks through continuous and safety management vision of “contributing to business continuity through the management of analysis and evaluation of risk factors for its business sites. CJ Logistics will also reinforce its win-win safety business risk. management program and proactively prevent occupational accidents in business sites by supporting the The construction division operates an autonomous health and safety management system in order safety management capabilities of suppliers and encouraging various activities. to “establish an advanced bright and healthy safety culture” and proclaims safety guidelines for the The construction division not only predicts and evaluates risk factors in the construction site, but also compliance of all employees. CEO’s proclamation for the Safety Golden Rule establishes safety measures and intensively checks whether measures are conducted through the risk assessment process. We also apply the mobile smart safety system and perform more active and efficient Organization in Charge of Health and Safety health and safety risk management, including reinforcing two-way communication with partners, improving CJ Logistics checks overall safety management activities in the Safety Management Department risk factors immediately, streamlining paperwork and conducting real-time monitoring. where the CEOs of all affiliates of CJ Group attend and makes decisions on major issues (safety, environment, information). CJ Logistics inspects and makes decisions for safety management activities at RM (Risk Management) Activities for Reinforcing Logistics and Construction Safety meetings where all executives attend on a monthly basis. We also operate a company-wide safety management committee and reflect opinions from each business division for any issues regarding health and safety, including establishing a plan for preventing occupational accidents, selecting Introduction of Safety Golden Rule (Basic Safety Rule) CJ대한통운 The logistics division has enacted and adopted the Safety Golden Rule to ensure safety for all employees when items for health and safety education and checking and improving working conditions. In addition, performing management activities. The Safety Golden Rule, which is composed of nine major items, was Safety Golden Rule organizations in each business line designate a separate staff member in charge of safety. prepared by reflecting the intention of management, including company-wide health and safety environment 씨제이대한통운은 Global Top 수준의 안전경영체계 구축을 위하여 사업장 內 발생되는 모든 안전사고 예방을 위해 전 임직원 및 모든 출입자가 반드시 준수해야 할 안전기본수칙 (Safety Golden Rule)을 제정하여 선포합니다. management policies, government policies, legal requirements and statistical analysis of company-wide Group Safety Day accidents. In 2018, with the beginning of the proclamation of the CEO’s commitment to the Safety Golden CJ Logistics participates in monthly “Group Safety Day” events with all executives pursuant to the 사업장 일일 사업장 작업시작前 안전점검 및 안전패트롤 시행 철저 정리정돈 시행 철저 유해위험요인 확인/제거 Rule, we promoted and guided the rule and made a pledge for employee commitment. We also implemented spread of an on-site safety culture. We also support safety in business sites by making swift decisions monitoring to check status, as well as conducted a campaign for business sites to comply with the Safety Golden with regard to safety in sites by the management. The company also gives awards to excellent 안전환경 교육훈련 유해위험장소 및 지정된 보행자 적극 참여 장비 작업 時 안전보호구 착용 통행로 外 무단통행 금지 Rule autonomously. CJ Logistics expects to achieve the safety management target by introducing the Safety workers regarding safety and zero-accident cases in each business site. Golden Rule and faithfully implementing the rule, managing human errors by enhancing safety awareness 차량운행 時 지정된 흡연장소 外 사고발생 時 대응프로세스 준수 전방주시 및 양보운전 철저 모든장소 금연 실시 [RM 보고체계 준수] among employees and complying with basic principles. In the future, we will actively enforce the Safety Golden Advancement of Safety Management System 2017. 12. 21 씨제이대한통운주식회사 Rule for all employees, of all business sites and partners, and establish a safety-first culture at an early stage. 대표이사 박 근 태 Based on internal health and safety management regulations, the logistics division establishes health Group Safety Day ① and safety policies for employees and partner companies. In particular, we formulate and implement risk assessment and pre-safety evaluation guidelines to prevent any potential safety-related risks in Settlement of Clean 5 in the Construction Site Nine major items in the Safety Golden Rule The construction division has established five action items (Clean 5) to stabilize an on-site safety culture, which business operations. In addition, the company develops work guidelines for managing various risk include the participation of partners, compliance of safety regulations, strict equipment management, site factors and establishes a management system to operate safety management systems that exceed organization and removal of risk factors. We also launched a management system to conduct safety activities and legal requirements. In 2017, we renewed OHSAS 18001 system certification and reinforced the comply with the basics and principles based on the health and safety management system. Through these activities, capabilities of safety management of our global operations by revising the procedures and guidelines we pursue creating an enjoyable and pleasant working environment and expanding a mature safety culture. for the safety management manual and distributing English versions. In the construction division, we also revised work guidelines that exceed legal requirements to promote detailed safety management activities through the authorization of OHSAS 18001. We are Reinforcement of Health and Safety Capabilities The logistics division implements special education for industrial safety to prevent occupational Group Safety Day ② conducting safety risk prevention activities on a regular basis by analyzing risks related to health accident risks among employees and partners each year. As for a warehouse, we participated in a winand safety and creating an atmosphere where all employees can lead with the same mindset. We win cooperation program and established a safety management process for creating a safer working continue to cooperate in fulfilling autonomous health and safety management and corporate social environment by considering the characteristics of accommodating many employees. Based on these responsibilities. activities, we carry out safety management activities for win-win relationships by considering the safety of all employees and partners. In 2017, CJ Logistics implemented special industrial safety education, practical firefighting safety education and transportation safety education for the employees of partners. 46 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 47 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Prevention of Traffic Accidents through Advanced Safety Devices Establishment of Safe Transportation Management System for Hazardous Chemicals The logistics division installs rear-view surveillance cameras to prevent accidents that can occur while In 2016, CJ Logistics concluded the agreement of “Safety Partnership with Partners” and established delivery vehicles are driving in reverse. We also install and operate advanced driver assistance system a hazardous chemical transport management system with partners based on supply chain (ADAS) in our freight vehicles with the function of lane departure warning and forward collision alerts to management in 2017. As a project for mutual cooperation among CJ Logistics, our partners, prevent accidents caused by carelessness of drivers such as being drowsy and neglecting to look ahead. specialized external institutions and consulting agencies, the system develops and supplies safe transportation management manuals and solutions for partners and actively prevents accidents that Health and Safety Education and Training can occur while transporting hazardous chemicals. Advanced Driver Assistance System (ADAS) The logistics division conducts education and training related to health and safety to prevent accidents and made it possible to react in the event of an accident. We offer safety education to employees Hazardous Chemicals Transportation Management System who are exposed to the risk of accidents and teach skills to deal with accidents in logistics equipment and facilities by sharing safety accident cases through training. In addition, the company strives to Support Establishment reduce the occurrence of safety accidents and expansion of damage by providing training based on a Establishment for the Safe Performance of Partner of Partnership Transportation Spreading theoretical study on emergency procedures and methods to handle emergency. For instance, we offer Management Management of Activities system a group health and safety training for drivers; in 2017, 148 drivers participated in and completed the Partners training program nine times. The construction division operates job and class based education programs for all employees and managers of partners and provides systematic and effective customized education by developing Establishment of Reflection of advanced Strengthening Preparation of a way to partnership between partner management partners’ spread non-participating independent education contents with consulting advice from professional education institutions. We CJ Logistics and partners system capabilities partners also cultivate the potential of all employees to address health and safety management issues through • Partnership agreement • Developing checklists • Developing training • Finding/Supplying/ constant activities on reinforcing their skills and raising safety awareness to create a safe business site. between CJ Logistics and and procedures for partner programs through Spreading best practices partners management partners and transporting • Supplying partner training • Establishing support • Developing and associations materials and supporting Group Driver Training strategies through CJ disseminating a hazardous/ • Providing supports for programs Logistics’ internal toxic substance making hazardous chemicals partnership program management manual transport infrastructure Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 • Reflecting partner • Providing public relations evaluation and plans for accident response, Number of training sessions Times 10 11 9 management system safety management, etc. (Video, booklet, vehicle Number of trainees Person 164 246 148 supplies, etc.) Group Driver Training Safe Operation Management through Smart Integrated Logistics System Partner Safety Management – Safety and Win-Win Cooperation Program The logistics division has introduced the “Smart Integrated Logistics System” to manage freight The logistics division has established and operated a win-win cooperation program for joint vehicles and the status of operation. The Vehicle Control Center is capable of monitoring integrated participation of partners led by a parent company to prevent accidents among partners with lack of system by identifying the current situation of each vehicle on a real-time basis through a mobile information and investment capability for health and safety. The program aims to improve partners’ carrier communication network (WCDMA), including the location of the vehicle, route, transported capabilities for health and safety management, establishes and operates a sustainable health freight, fuel consumption and speed. We also manage ten major safety indicators presented by the and safety cooperation system between CJ Logistics and partners by carrying out technical and Korea Transportation Safety Authority, including sudden start, sudden stop and sudden acceleration, financial support activities. We established a cooperation system between CJ Logistics and partners by analyzing digital driving records on a real-time basis. Drivers can ensure safe and effective driving Win-Win Cooperation Group Meeting for Win-Win Cooperation Program for five hub parcel terminals and six W&D centers. We also conducted various activities to build an Health and Safety Education for Job and by identifying vehicle dispatching instructions, freight information, loading and unloading area maps, autonomous safety system for partners, including a health and safety win-win cooperation group, risk Class-based Employees in the Construction Division notifications, nearby traffic accident information and safe driving indicator information through a assessment and compliance with four core safety rules in industrial sites. The logistics division not mobile application. only seeks to secure the safety of partners at the same level of CJ Logistics, improve the capability of health and safety management, and reduce accidents, but also to solidify the implementation of Systemization of Safety Inspection in the Construction Site responsibilities for partners and promote a win-win development by strengthening responsibilities The construction division conducts continuous regular and periodic safety inspections to improve for health and safety. the level of health and safety management in the construction site. To strengthen safety inspection, we have adopted expert inspection practices from 2017 checking construction equipment every two Performance of Win-Win Cooperation Program Implementation Supply and Wearing of Personal Protective Gear months, examining consulting and installation, and dismantling and constructing of a tower crane every three months. We also enact and operate the top seven special safety rules (high-place work, Category 2016 2017 fire-related work, construction equipment, temporary power, temporary facilities, lifting work and Target Six hub parcel terminals Five hub parcel terminals Six W&D centers enclosed space work) to comply with the construction site focused on high-risk tasks, and advance to Evaluation Performance Expected Expected (Class A/B) Class B : Six Terminals Class A : Two Terminals Class B : Six Terminals accomplish safety management targets through strict implementation of basics and principles. Class B : Three Terminals 48 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 49 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Local CSV Implementation System Community Three Major CSV Implementation Sectors CJ Logistics fulfills social responsibility by connecting to the local community as a part of core CSV values. For this goal, we conduct various employee volunteer activities, encourage employees to participate in volunteer work and implement diverse social contribution activities. Contribute to the nation and society by creating the best value through OnlyOne products and services Three major sectors Sustainability Creating Contributing to management jobs local community Disclose environmental, social Create jobs continuously for the Expand social contribution and economic performance as socially vulnerable based on activities in connection of local the foundation of the publication logistics (Senior Parcel Delivery) community and employees of sustainability report “Employee Volunteer Group” as a Core of Spreading the Sharing Culture SOCIAL Significance and Impact of Issues Map of Core Issues Smooth communication with customers can serve as the basis to cope more swiftly with change in the management environments in a rapidly changing Efforts to revitalize the economy of society. In addition, executives, employees and supply Background local community Business impact chains play a key role in operating a company. Thus, a for Issue company is required to create an industrial ecosystem Expansion of employment and securing employment stability Selection to reinforce the capabilities of employees and grow Performance of social contribution activities with partner companies by creating a suitable corporate considering the characteristics of local community Volunteer Work Engagement of Employees in 2017 culture. Reinforcement of win-win growth policies and activities Stakeholders’ interest 3,032 97 7 Number of participants Participation rate Hours of participation per employee ￭ Expansion of social contribution connected to the ￭ Diversification of local community contribution by Response of local community expanding the cooperation with stakeholders % CJ Logistics ￭ Contribution to the development of local economy ￭ Continuous implementation of sports events to employees hours/person Major based on sports sponsorship Plan and connect and contribute to the local community ￭ Expansion of customer communication channels ￭ Improvement of customer communication/service Activities and reinforcement of response capabilities Target and reinforcement of information protection ￭ Selection and management of fair supply chain ￭ Expansion of win-win management with partners, ￭ Reinforcement of respect for human rights and SMEs and startups cultivation of global human resources ￭ Settlement of HR/cultural innovation system and continuous implementation of human rights management 50 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 51 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Eco-Friendly Social Contribution Activities Support for the Mobility Convenience for People with Severe Disabilities Since 2012, CJ Logistics has regularly conducted wheelchair cleaning and repair work to enhance mobility for people with severe disabilities. We regularly visit facilities such as special schools and Creation of Urban Forest to Improve Local Community Environment welfare centers for people with disabilities. CJ Logistics strives to improve convenience for people Since 2016, CJ Logistics has created the “Hope Sharing Forest” at Hangang Park with local residents. with disabilities through this activity. About 600 people participated, including employees of CJ Logistics and their families, composed of people with and without disabilities. Participants planted about 1,000 trees. The annually planted Support for Children in Local Communities forest is expected to remove 30,200kg of carbon dioxide and 135.3kg of fine dust a year. We also aim CJ Logistics operates various social contribution programs for supporting children in local communities. to contribute to improving the pleasant local community environment by absorbing vehicle emission All employees participate in regular donations through “CJ Donors Camp,” CJ online donation platform, and noise from the road near the Han River. and come together to address the educational gap in socially vulnerable children. We also operate other projects by considering situations in each region such as Coloring Book Support Project for children DIY Air Cleaner for Air Purification with tumors, CJ Logistics Superrace Championship Dream Nurturing Expedition in connection with the As the issue of air pollution is intensifying, such as fine dust, CJ Logistics began to implement a company’s sports support project and career program in connection with business sites. program called “DIY Air Cleaner” to improve employees’ awareness and encourage participation in reducing air pollution. With more than 80% of recycled parts, the DIY Air Cleaner can contribute to reducing environmental pollution when it is discarded. The product also provides a nearly zero burden of electricity charges as the annual fee is only KRW 500 (based on usage of 8 hours a day). DIY Air Cleaners are donated to the socially vulnerable. Support for the Vitalization of Global Motor Sports Recycling Soap and Crayons as an Activity for Virtuous Resources Cycle CJ Logistics operates a volunteer program to raise awareness of the importance of resource recycling among employees. Participants make new crayons by reprocessing crayons, which are left at kindergartens and daycare centers. We also collect and reprocess soap, which are used only once or twice, into a new soap set and deliver such products to developing countries. Wha Shoop (Forest) Project for Eco-Friendly Ecological Education Since 2015, CJ Logistics has supported the “Wha Shoop (Forest) Project,” a program to improve CJ Logistics Superrace Championship children’s ecological sensitivity of forests and raise awareness on environmental protection. We CJ Logistics Superrace Championship is Korea’s largest car race approved by the Korea Automobile Racing cooperate with professional institutions and local daycare centers to teach children the importance Association under the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA). Launched in 2006, this race has of nature and conduct ecological training to increase knowledge of ecosystem. In 2017, a total of 200 contributed to the growth and vitalization of domestic motorsports. The Superrace Championship, which children participated in the program. is currently held in Yongin, Inje and Yeongam, contributes to the local economy as an asset of tourism. It is a representative sports supporting project by CJ Logistics, which provides various cultural contents for local residents by connecting them to cultural events such as concerts in addition to motor races. Local Community Contribution Activities Participation in the Global Transport Safety Campaign Transport Safety Campaign for Children Protection Sections CJ Logistics actively participates in the “Action for Road Safety,” a global transport safety campaign CJ Logistics implements the “Transport Campaign for Children Safety” to ensure the safety of local by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) at the request of the UN as the supervising residents near the business site and reduce the rate of accidents. We conducted a campaign to company of the Korea Automobile Racing Association. We also signed the “Ten Golden Rules” for reinforce the safety awareness of drivers and improve compliance with safety regulations. We will supporting the global expansion of the campaign and disclosed our efforts to prevent traffic accidents continuously conduct our campaign to reduce traffic accidents for children. and reduce damage. We will provide more support to improve driver behavior and enhance public awareness for transport safety. Support in Connection with Local Senior Welfare Centers CJ Logistics conducts various kinds of volunteer work by connecting employees with local welfare “Dream Nurturing Expedition” for Cultural Experience centers for senior citizens on a regular basis. For instance, we operate the “Lunch Box with Love” to (Children and People with Disabilities) provide meals and greet elderly people living alone. Our employees and 100 local residents made CJ Logistics invites the socially vulnerable who are in need of help to the annually held “CJ Logistics kimchi as volunteer work and delivered it to about 150 households of senior citizens living alone in Superrace Championship” and gives them the opportunity to experience culture. In 2018, we invited Jung-gu, Seoul. We also implement kimchi-making volunteer work in major business areas and actively 36 delivery workers with developmental disabilities and 80 children in study centers near the event support the socially vulnerable people. site and gave them the opportunity to experience the racing culture with our employees. In 2017, 90 children from local childcare centers participated in the event and experienced various forms of cultural infrastructure. 52 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 53 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Support for the Vitalization of Golf Customer Reinforcement of Customer Communication Satisfaction Implementation Strategies To ensure smoother communication with customers and reinforce capabilities for customer service, CJ Logistics has established three major strategies (innovation of customer response structure, changing the role of the customer center and enhancing service capabilities) and derived and managed core related tasks. Operation of Customer Communication Channels CJ Logistics has established various channels to strengthen customer communication. In terms of individual customers, we receive and address customer inquiries through the online customer center and care line. For corporate customers, we operate the “client portal system” to make efforts to communicate with client companies. Management of Voices of Customers (VOC) The VOC is managed by the Customer Satisfaction Team, and received VOCs are classified and managed Searching for and Supporting Promising Golf Players in each type after providing customers with guidance depending on the characteristics of processing. In CJ Logistics proactively supports promising golf players to help them to become competitive global particular, in case of emergency VOC and severe claims, such case is immediately reported to the CEO players under the philosophy of sponsorship searching for promising golf players. The sponsored or director of a division after determining the level of emergency. Then, the director convenes a Risk golf players have exhibited great performance on the global stage and elevated the profile of CJ Management (RM) meeting depending on the case to establish and take measures. We also manage the Logistics as well as Korea. CJ Logistics began its support in 2015 and currently sponsors a total of ratio of having VOCs for complaints and claims, VOC processing lead time and share the materials for eight players in 2018. We have sponsored many golf players who went on to global fame, including analyzing the current status of VOC on a regular basis to the entire company. Kim Si-woo, the youngest champion in the PGA Tour THE PLAYERS Championship. Operation of AI Consulting System Golf Related Social Contribution Activities In 2017, CJ Logistics introduced a learning-type artificial intelligence (AI) Chatbot for the first time in CJ Logistics conducts volunteer work in connection with local children centers to support the hopes the parcel industry and allowed it to give responses to simple inquiries from customers at any time. and dreams of local children with sponsored golf players. We also invited promising Korean golf Chatbot based on learning-type AI is able to have a natural conversation with customers and give players to the U.S. Masters championship and provided them with the opportunity to see the match answers to the overall issues faced by parcels. CJ Logistics derives big data from various customer and participate in the event as a caddy. We will expand various social contribution activities for the opinions which are collected through the call center and makes chatbot to learn the data to give local community with golf players. proper answers to customer inquiries. The introduction of Chatbot is expected to enable real-time Learning-type AI Chatbot response for customer inquiries and vitalize two-way communication with customers. Sponsorship for The CJ Cup @ NINE BRIDGES Since 2017, CJ Logistics has actively supported Korea’s first PGA contest, “The CJ CUP @ NINE BRIDGES.” This contest is implemented to support Korean golf players to reach the global stage and Consumer-centered Management vitalize the Korean golf industry. It also contributes to vitalizing the local community based on new cultural content. We will strive to contribute to developing the local community through proactive support. Consumer-centered Management (CCM) Consumer-centered management (CCM) is led and implemented by the Customer Satisfaction Team under the Chief Customer Officer (CCO). The Customer Satisfaction Team operates CCM, manages improvement activities, conducts response efforts for customer complaints and collects, analyzes and processes VOCs through the call center. We also establish strategies for CCM, conduct regular monitoring with a target and share related activities to the entire company through the company intranet. Recertification of Consumer-centered Management (CCM) In 2014, CJ Logistics received the certification of consumer-centered management (CCM) led by Korea Consumer Agency and certified by the Fair Trade Commission. In 2016, we received the recertification of CCM, which verified continuous management focusing on consumers. CJ Logistics aims to acquire recertification in 2018 as well. 54 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 55 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Management of Customer Satisfaction Efforts to Protect Customer Information CJ Logistics conducts safety surveys for corporate and individual customers and finds any improvement issues to enhance customer service. For corporate customers, we hold a satisfaction survey through the partner portal system once a year, while conducting a service satisfaction Customer Information Protection System survey on mobile for individual customers. We also proactively participate in external evaluations As cases of personal information leakage are emerging as a social issue with the development and commit ourselves to improve customer service. CJ Logistics has received various awards from of IT technology, CJ Logistics has established a preemptive system to protect customer personal external institutions through various activities seeking the convenience of customers. information. To protect information, we comply with relevant laws such as the Information Protection Act, Act on Promotion of Information, Communication Network Utilization, Information Major awards related to customer satisfaction Protection and establish independent personal information processing guidelines. We also guide customers for safe information management, including using, managing and discarding personal Award Performance Award Performance information, so that their information is not used for other purposes. Korea’s Most Admired 1st for 6 Korean Service Quality Index 1st for 3 Companies consecutive years (KS-SQI) consecutive years Korea Brand Star 1st for 10 Korean Net Promoter Score 1st for 2 Certification of Information Protection System consecutive years (KNPS) consecutive years CJ Logistics has acquired the information protection system certification to establish a global-level National Brand 1st for 6 Service Quality Certification Certified information protection system and prevent information protection risks. In 2009, we acquired ISO Competitiveness Index (NBCI) consecutive years 27001, the international certification of the information protection management system, for the first time among total logistics companies. In 2017, we also acquired the ISMS, which is a domestic Customer Satisfaction-related Activities information protection management system certificate. We will continuously supplement and improve the system and more proactively manage customer information management by improving Selection as an Excellent Parcel Service Company information leak prevention solutions. In the “Parcel Service Evaluation for 2017” among 16 domestic parcel companies led by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport, CJ Logistics received the level of B++ in the general parcel group (C2C, B2C). As an evaluation was conducted on the expeditious service, kindness, safety • Derive internal/external security issues • Information protection goals and plans and differentiated characteristics of parcel service, CJ Logistics was evaluated as having the most • Stakeholder requirements • Risk assessment • Legal requirements • Measures for risks excellent general parcel service among private companies. • Review and revise security policies • Operational plan and control PLAN DO Cultivation of Parcel Experts ISO 27001 CJ Logistics focuses on cultivating parcel experts to ensure prompt response for customer requests. Certification We nurture professional parcel personnel by operating an education program utilizing actual best Information Protection practices and an offline, in-person training program such as “Maintain Service Basics.” Management ACT System CHECK Award and Reward for Excellent Service Employees CJ Logistics adopts and operates the “Service Certification System” to improve customer service. • Improve after checking • Check information security • Control and corrective action • Monitoring, analysis and assessment For excellent service employees, we give certification as well as incentive payments, which motivate • Continuous improvement • Review by management the employees for their service mindset. We also have 12 assessment indicators for the objective company-wide evaluation of customer satisfaction and continuously check and improve our service quality. Establishment of Information Management Standards Safe Delivery Culture Campaign To respond to internal and external security issues more swiftly, CJ Logistics amends and manages In 2018, CJ Logistics conducted the “Making Safe Transport Culture Campaign” to create a “secure information security regulations once a year and performs continuous improvement activities by parcel” culture with the Seoul Metropolitan Police Agency. We provided about 130 delivery personnel classifying the level of information assets and conducting a risk assessment. We provide employees with training for the Road Traffic Act, traffic laws, regulations and compliance for drivers and held with training to raise their awareness of the importance of personal information and make it a vehicle parade to cultivate the awareness of safe driving. In particular, as parcel workers deliver mandatory for partners to sign an agreement to comply with information security. We also store products in a designated section every day, those who first recognize any abnormal signs such as invoices based on the Information Protection Act to prevent the leakage and exposure of personal road fractures, damage to public facilities and unexpected accidents are these delivery personnel. information written in invoices in the process of loading and delivering products and discard invoices By utilizing these activities, it is expected to boost the effects of ensuring community security safely through a specialized shredding company. Only parcel data from the last three months can Safe Delivery Culture Campaign regarding crime prevention and transport safety. In April, the company concluded the “Agreement be searched through the business system, and the data are deleted after a 5-year backup period in for Community Security by Police-Private Partnership” with the Seoul Metropolitan Police Agency accordance with the Framework Act on National Taxes. and agreed to deal with mutual sharing of crime vulnerable elements, creating the environment to prevent crimes, reporting missing people, reporting transport violation cases/crime-prone regions and engaging in pedestrian safety campaigns. 56 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 57 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Information Protection Organization Win-Win Growth The information protection system is operated under the responsibility of the CISO (Chief Information Security Officer) and customer service executives with the supervision of the CEO. We also hold Supply Chain Management quarterly meetings for the Customer Service Council, which is attended by committee members and information protection staff members of each division to share information protection issues and Supply Chain Management System discuss measures for reinforcing the security system. CJ Logistics reinforces the competitiveness of partners and conducts shared growth management based on the CJ’s shared growth philosophy. In selecting a partner, we go through a fair and Information Protection Organization System Diagram transparent process. For a selected partner, we establish internal regulations regarding the supply chain such as partner management measures and implement various supportive activities to Chairman CEO establish a fair and transparent trade culture and reinforce partner capabilities. We will operate and Information Protection Committee Member manage sustainable purchase policies by setting and disclosing a target. Committee Executive (Personal Information CISO (Division/Department) Protection Committee) (Chief Information Security Officer) Fair and Transparent Selection of Partners Information Strategy The logistics division independently established the “Fair Trade Win-Win Operating Regulations” Manager to launch fair trade relationships with partners and employees and recognize the significance of win-win cooperation. We also comply with the “Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act,” “Fair Information Protection Transactions in Subcontracting Act” and “Three Major Guidelines for Fair Trade Win-Win Agreement” Manager to consider transparency and fairness in operating the supply chain. Information Strategy Information Team Leader The construction division continuously finds excellent and competitive partners based on the Protection Council partner registration process to secure the quality of construction and promote smooth construction Information Protection officer performance. Open recruitment is performed on the website of CJ Logistics and credit rating Main/Sub institutions once a year, and a new partner is finally selected through the final evaluation and review based on the comprehensive partner evaluation table. Review is carried out based on construction Human Security Technology Physics Headquarters’ and technical capability, financial stability and credit rating with additional points for sustainable Division Division Division Information Protection management items such as safety and mutual cooperation education. We also comply with the Human Resources IT Service Team Labor-Management Planning Team of Team Cooperation Team Each Business Division “Framework Act on the Construction Industry” and “Fair Transactions in Subcontracting Act” to strive to establish a fair and transparent trade culture with partners. Information Security Check Partner Sustainability Evaluation CJ Logistics implements regular security checks for the company and partners in cooperation with The logistics division evaluates existing partners as well as new partners for management and the CJ information security center. A security inspection is performed to check any technically financial aspects (technology, quality, price) and sustainability factors (safety, compliance). We collect vulnerable points on the website, server and database for partners and company-wide network as opinions from partners, share the direction of the company’s policies and make improvements to well as the inspection of the management and physical environment of business sites. We also check reflect collected opinions to the company’s policies. the level of compliance of the Personal Information Act among partners that are entrusted with the The construction division performs partner evaluation on a regular basis, including on-site evaluation personal information of our customers for the purpose of business such as delivery with the aim of and headquarters evaluation twice a year for partners with trade records for a certain period. In preventing any possibility of information leak outside. particular, we assess construction capability and on-site management capability on a half-yearly basis through on-site evaluation and evaluate comprehensive risks through the headquarters Activity to Raise Awareness for Personal Information Protection evaluation in addition to the identification of partners’ construction capability. Based on evaluation CJ Logistics provides education and training for employees to prevent information leaks in advance results, we select excellent partners and provide them with various benefits, including rewards and ensure a swift response in case of information protection issues. We also spread the awareness for excellent partners, expansion of the opportunities for bidding participation and exemption of of security to the entire company by posting security-related newsletters and quizzes on the intranet. contract implementation guarantee insurance. Meanwhile, partners which fail to meet the standard are given sanctions such as limitations in bidding, cancellation of registration as well as a written statement of warning. CJ Logistics continuously prepares measures to search for outstanding partners continually and organize remarkable partners. 58 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 59 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Support for Partner Win-Win Growth SMEs and startups which determine to be included in the Public Logistics Center are provided with various supports to enhance competitiveness in logistics such as reasonable rental fees and logistics operation. CJ Logistics aims to prepare a stepping stone for corporate growth in addition to increased sales among SMEs and startups, as well as actively participate in vitalizing the sharing-type market economy. Reinforcement of Communication with Partners CJ Logistics receive complaints and grievances from partners on the company’s website for smooth Support for SME Logistics Service communication with partners. Reported cases are immediately handled, and results are open to a In 2017, the logistics division signed various agreements to ease the burden of SME logistics. For instance, we signed an agreement with the Korea person who reports a case. Federation of SMEs to alleviate the burden of parcel fees among SMEs and merchants and provided not only business marketing and advice, but The construction division operates a committee which is composed of excellent partners and holds also one-on-one customized parcel service consultation considering the characteristics of SMEs and merchants. We also concluded the agreement various events such as CJ PARTNERS DAY, ACTIVITY DAY and partner meeting for each division for mutual with the Korea Chamber of Commerce and allow for 165,000 member SMEs to use logistics service at a discounted price. development between CJ Logistics and partners. Through these activities, we have opportunities for CJ PARTNERS DAY communication over technology, quality safety, trends, suggestions and pursue win-win growth. Support for Reinforcing the Competitiveness of Export by SMEs In 2016, the logistics division signed an agreement with the Small and Medium Business Administration to improve the logistics environment Financial and Technical Support for Partners in China for SMEs. CJ Logistics provides consistent logistics service and small-scale common freight logistics service to reduce the logistics cost Since 2012, the logistics division has established and operated a win-win fund worth of KRW 36 billion for exporting SMEs. We will also support exporting companies to advance into the overseas market by utilizing our global network and reinforce to support the financial stability of smalland mid-sized partners. In 2017, 00 partners were provided competitiveness in export for SMEs facing the difficulty of establishing independent overseas logistics systems by providing one-stop logistics with loans at reduced interest rates through the win-win fund. This achievement not only addresses service, including air transport, shipping, unloading, storage, customs and delivery. financial difficulties of partners, but also helps to strengthen their own competitiveness. We also strive to give partners financial support by providing scholarships for their children and operating the Searching for Outstanding Logistics Startups donation system for family events. In 2018, the logistics division held “CJ Logistics Startup Challenge League 2018” as an open innovation platform. The contest aims to search out The construction division supports joint technology and R&D to reinforce competitiveness by securing and to cultivate startups with remarkable technologies in the era of Industry 4.0 such as augmented reality (AR) and image recognition (Vision) and the future growth engines of partners. We proactively strengthen partners' independent capabilities for develop joint technologies. Through strict evaluation by internal and external panellists, four teams were finally selected and performed tasks, and technology development by conducting joint research and development for new construction-related the team who won the Grand prize were given the opportunity to develop joint technologies with CJ Logistics. technologies and products and providing grants. Support for Reinforcing the Competitiveness of Logistics Startups Education Support for Partners The logistics division proactively supports technology development for logistics startups to create an industrial ecosystem. For this activity, we provide The construction division operates education courses covering construction jobs, Fair Transactions in Subcontracting Act and Construction Industry Act to improve the job capabilities of employees. support for sourcing technologies, business cooperation, professional mentoring and investment for logistics startups. In particular, we have engaged Training was completed by 122 employees in 2016 and 112 employees in 2017. We commit ourselves in the creation of an ICT fund worth KRW 30 billion implemented by CJ Group for the growth of startups and actively cooperated with promising to ensure win-win growth with partners through continuous support for education. logistics startups and supported the search for technologies. Support for the Welfare and Benefits of Outsourced Delivery Personnel and Improvement of Working Environment The logistics division operates the welfare and benefit system and supports outsourced delivery “Long-term storage service after laundry” by unmanned laundry convenience CASE workers for the first time in the industry. For instance, we provide support for children’s school store startup Penguin House expenses and family events for partners’ employees, medical check-ups and capacity-building In 2018, CJ Logistics launched a project for “long-term storage service after laundry” with startup Penguin House. training. From 2014, we have operated the “Medical Checkup Bus” to support medical checkStartup With the service, customers’ laundry is stored for three years at a maximum and can be delivered by parcel when Partnership customers want. Laundry after being washed is moved and stored at the garment storage center of CJ Logistics ups and health management for outsourced delivery workers. We also support delivery for family and developed by parcel to customers at the time when customers want. Through our capability for storing and events. To improve the logistics site, we introduced the “wheel sorter (automatic sorting system)” Business by delivering products, we are able to cooperate with a startup and provide customers with new service. and reduced a significant amount of time for product classification. CJ Logistics will continuously Logistics Division “Last mile customized delivery” by logistics startup MeshKorea improve the quality of life and working environment for outsourced delivery personnel and strive to In 2016, CJ Logistics cooperated with logistics startup MeshKorea, which established a delivery service with improve customer satisfaction. two-wheeled vehicles. We have started service to move products to the logistics center of MeshKorea and deliver products with MeshKorea’s quick delivery service by motorcycle. This service will be the basis for securing differentiated competitiveness in delivery. Win-Win Growth with SMEs “Homepick Service” with logistics startup ZOOMMA CJ Logistics has operated the homepick service to pick up products at the time and place where customers want in cooperation with logistics startup ZOOMMA as well as SK Energy and GS Caltex. Homepick parcels Operation of Public Logistics Center for SMEs pick up parcels at the time and place desired by customers and deliver products to our delivery personnel. In 2016, the logistics division concluded the “Agreement for the Development of Public Logistics and Unused areas in gas stations across the country are utilized as a freight terminal. By introducing this service, it is expected to not only enhance customer convenience, but also have a job creation effect and reduce the Distribution” with the Gyeonggi Provincial Government to cultivate SMEs and startups. The agreement amount of work for delivery workers. covers the installation of the “Public Logistics Center” in a size of 2,000㎡ in the Gunpo Logistics Complex. 60 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 61 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Job Capacity-Building Program Human Resource CJ Logistics runs a job capacity-building program, which is composed of four stages in each level, to Respect for Human Rights boost the capabilities of employees. We operate the SCM Consulting Academy, which is made up of Management CJ Logistics respects the human rights of all workers and stakeholders, including our employees. three total stages at level 4, and nurture best-level consultants who have both theoretical expertise Thus, we prohibit any discrimination on gender, academic background, ethnicity and age and and practical experiences. We also operate a job circulation system for employees in the global provide support to ensure that all workers can freely work based on their aptitude and capability. division and support them to develop their job capabilities. We also systemically check and manage key issues regarding human rights protection such as the prohibition of child labor and gender discrimination. CJ Logistics recognizes that the issue of securing Global Human Resources Nurture Program diversity and complying with the principle of prohibiting discrimination is a crucial element in raising CJ Logistics operates overseas dispatch programs such as GE and GEP to reinforce global capabilities corporate competitiveness and strives to reflect this issue in our management system continuously. of individual employees and actively support the expansion of global business. We also operate global self-training programs such as Global Knock, Global Voyage and Global Insight Program in Employment of the Socially vulnerable in 2017 (based on accumulated data) order to support employees to build their global capabilities. Category Employees (person) Percentage(%) Global Human Resources Nurture Program People with disabilities 80 1.4 Female 822 14.8 Overseas Dispatch Program National veterans 70 1.2 GE • A program to nurture of candidates for overseas dispatching in advance to prepare for expanding business (Global in a strategic country such as M&A and establishment of a new branch * Including regular and contract workers Expert) • Discover and nurture excellent global talent through GE programs New Employees by Open Recruitment for High-School Graduates GEP (Global • Nurture a pool of candidates for overseas dispatching to nurture and manage human resources in advance Human Resource Recruitment Expatriate to prepare for expanding global business Pool) • Secure 150 employees a year Global Voyage Global Self-Training Programs Human Resource Policy Global • A global program designed by employees who want to experience global training and non-paid leave system Knock for language training, global job training and experience (continuous service approved) The human resources policy of CJ Logistics is operated based on the CJ Group’s HR system. With a • For employees working for 5 years or more and having the qualification of language (IM2 level of OPIc) or higher focus on the group’s philosophy of “top priority in human resources,” we recruit the best and most Global • An overseas business site experience program for three nights and four days days based on countries with major global talented human resources based on their capabilities. Through a fair and transparent recruitment Voyage business • For all employees who are promoted to a new leader process, we also prevent any potential discrimination in the selection process. Global • Program for obtaining and expanding global business insight in connection with overseas business trip Insight • For all employees going on an overseas business trip New Recruitment in 2017 Program Category Unit Employees (person) Total newly recruited employees Person 562 Type of employment Regular 381 Performance Evaluation and Reward Contract 181 Age Under 30 344 Focus on Job Performance 30 50 206 In a new business environment of the rapidly changing global competitive era, CJ Logistics seeks to adopt Over 50 12 a performance-centered culture to improve the performance of employees. We operate a promotion Gender Male 364 system without discrimination based on jobs and capabilities with reasonable rewards for job value and Female 198 contribution to job performance. Through the PMDS (Performance Management & Development System), we integrate the management with the process of goal setting, interim inspection and performance evaluation and ensure that the goals of both employees and the company can be achieved together. Human Resources Cultivation Performance-Based Reward System CJ Logistics implements a transparent performance evaluation and reward system to guarantee fair New Employees Cultivation Program evaluation and reward benefits. We provide new employees with the same wage regardless of gender CJ Logistics spares no effort and constantly invests in our new employees to become the best and determine the level of wage by applying five different levels of performance evaluation based on specialists possible. We provide a training course with a total of four stages composed of elementary the wage of each job level. In terms of evaluation, we assess a comprehensive long-term process of training, business idea proposal project, on-site training and camp for designing a vision two years conducting work rather than short-term job performance. In particular, the company operates GCP New Employee Training after joining the company. 2020* challenge incentive system, which not only achieves GCP goals, but also gives additional group incentives, and provides employees with opportunities for more active challenges and growth. * GCP 2020: Abbreviation of Great CJ Plan, which is the CJ Group’s management goal of 2018 62 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 63 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Improvement of Corporate Culture Reinforcement of Support for Employees Childcare In order to reduce the burden of childbirth and childcare for employees, and build a stable working environment, CJ Logistics strengthened support for the care of our employees. As this support system which targeted to all Creation of Interacting Corporate Culture employees, the company introduced various new systems in addition to the improvement of existing leave systems. With the aim of vitalizing communication among employees, CJ Logistics performs various communication activities with the CEO through on-site visits and meetings with employees. Since 2017, Childcare Reducing one working hour a day for employees who have a child Reducing two working hours a day for employees who have a child at Giving seven days of paid leave for Non-paid leave system for pregnant female employees who undergo female employees Support entering elementary school the age of three months or under infertility treatment we have been operating the “Customized Visiting Workshop for Change and Innovation” to reinforce System for the organizational power and establish a healthy organizational culture. We have a communication Employees New New New New Reducing channel between the CEO and employees by planning various contents and introducing cases of working hours Reducing working Leave for change and innovation through the internal broadcasting CKN on every Thursday. For employees in for taking care Leave for Go Food Truck hours for infertility of children going pregnancy taking care of support the distribution sites, we operate the programs of “Go Food Truck” and “Go Lunchbox” to boost their to elementary newborns school morale and provide warm breakfast by visiting local parcel branches and distribution centers on a Reducing regular basis. Children school Leave for working entrance spousal hours for childcare leave childbirth critical stage of pregnancy Selection and Operation of “ICON Leaders” for the Innovation of Organizational Culture ImproImproImprovement vement vement CJ Logistics operates ICON Leaders for the innovation of organizational culture based on Giving leave which can be separately used once before and after the child’s entrance of an elementary school Two-week paid leave is available when a spouse gives a birth Reducing two working hours a day as an employee designates a necessary period communication with employees. ICON represents innovation, communication, outcome and encouragement. ICON Leaders, who are selected in each organization of the headquarters and business sites, perform activities for change and innovation in each organization based on monthly Introduction of New Vacation System CJ Logistics has launched various vacation systems to create a culture where employees thoroughly take a rest ICON Leader Workshop selected themes to motivate employees. whenever they can. We adopted the planned annual leave system to increase the availability of individual annual leave by allowing employees to make a plan in advance for five or more days of vacation twice a year. We also help Career Development Coaching for Employees (Women and Juniors) and Support for employees to use more annual leaves by utilizing other days right before and after holidays. In addition, CJ Logistics the Establishment of Internal Network has adopted an hour-based leave system where employees can use leave at an interval of two hours and reinforced CJ Logistics operates “Change and Innovation Camp” to develop capabilities and motivate mobile-off campaign to prevent direction for work utilizing social media after leaving the office or during holidays. employees (women, workers in a junior position). We provide career development coaching for female and junior employees in each organization and implement a customized program for expanding the network. Labor-Management Relations Camp for Change and Innovation of Female Employees Vitalization of Employee Clubs Establishment of Sound Labor-Management Relations CJ Logistics supports the operation of clubs to boost employees’ morale and enhance work CJ Logistics prevents any unnecessary conflict and dispute based on mutual trust to establish win-win laborefficiency. As a total of 104 clubs are currently in operation, we give awards to excellent clubs to management relations and communicates with each other based on rationality and principles. As a result, we have encourage employees to participate in clubs and attract their attention. In May 2018, we held the “3rd continued 58 years of history without any dispute and conflict in all business sites and achieved the outcome of CJ Logistics Club Festival” for exchanging and communiting among divisions. concluding wage and collective agreement without negotiation for 19 consecutive years. Psychological Counseling for Employees and Grievance Handling System Operation of Labor-Management Council CJ Logistics operates a psychological counseling center for employees (Hyu Clinic Center) and CJ Logistics makes an effort to improve productivity and promote welfare for employees through engagement employee grievance counseling system (Tong Tong Tong) to address various issues internally and and cooperation by establishing the labor-management council. The labor-management council holds a quarterly externally experienced by employees. With such programs, we support counseling for various meeting as well as a temporary meeting in case issues arise. Agenda issues are determined with regard to management plans in accordance with the Act on the Promotion of Worker Participation and Cooperation, outcome themes from personal issues to difficulties with work. “Hyu Clinic Center” is connected to an external distribution based on improved productivity, welfare enhancement for employees and grievance handling. professional counseling center, while “Tong Tong Tong” is operated to give a reply within seven days when grievances are reported on the corporate intranet. Performance of the Operation of Labor-Management Council in 2017 Category Issues discussed Issues agreed Percentage of agreement Management 6 6 100% Labor union 4 4 100% Subtotal 10 10 100% 64 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 65 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Governance Board of Directors Structure Composition of the Board of Directors As of March 2018, the Board of Directors is composed of total seven directors, including three executive directors and four non-executive directors. The tenure of a director is three years, and when the tenure is terminated, a director is reassigned through evaluation for activities during his or her term of office. We also have separate committees in the Board of Directors such as the Audit Committee, the NonExecutive Director Candidate Recommendation Committee and the Reward Committee, all of which help to ensure efficient operation and a professional decision-making process. Current Status of the Board of Directors (As of March 2018, ●: Chairperson, ○: Member) Position Name Year of initial Major career Committee in the Board of Directors appointment Audit Non-Executive Director Reward Committee Candidate Recommendation Committee Committee Executive Keun-Tae Park 2015 Former Chairman of Daewoo International China ○ ● Director Kwan-Soo Shon 2014 Former Chairman of CJ GLS ○ Chun-Hak Kim 2018 Former Chairman of CJ E&C ○ NonDo-Yeop Kwon 2015 Current Advisor for Kim & Chang ● ○ ○ executive Former Minister of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs Director Gap-Yeong Jeong 2018 Current Honorary Professor of Yonsei University ○ ○ ○ Former Dean of Yonsei University Yeong-Seon Yun 2015 Current Non-Standing Director of Samsung Press Foundation ○ ● ○ Former Chairman and President of Kyunghyang Shinmun Yeong-Seung Song 2018 Current Non-Standing Director of Samsung Press Foundation ○ ○ ○ Former Chairman and President of Kyunghyang Shinmun Committees in the Board of Directors The Board of Directors has three subcommittees, including the Audit Committee, the Non-Executive Director Candidate Recommendation Committee and Reward Committee. Each committee performs monitoring to secure the independence, transparency and fairness in the corporate governance structure. GOVERNANCE Audit Committee | Secure the legitimacy and transparency of accounting and fairness of management to audit accounting and work, investigate property and appoint or change external auditors Non-Executive Director Candidate Recommendation Committee | Secure independence by selecting qualified people in accordance with legislation, articles of incorporation and regulations in the Board of Directors and recommending non-executive director candidates and composing all non-executive directors Reward Committee | Secure fairness in evaluating performance indicators for reward policies for executives and longBackground Significance and Impact of Issues term incentives of Issue Unfair practice and unethical issues in companies can undermine trust. Thus, it is required not only to ensure external Selection growth, but also to establish a law-abiding culture suitable for global standards for advanced corporate operation. CJ Independence and Professionalism of the Board of Directors Logistics will create a fair and transparent business environment based on a company-wide legal compliance culture. We A director is appointed in a general meeting of shareholders, and director candidates are selected by will also systemically manage risk factors in corporate business activities and leap forward into becoming one of the global the Board of Directors, the Non-Executive Candidate Recommendation Committee and determined top five logistics companies. by agenda. The Non-Executive Candidate Recommendation Committee has four non-executive directors among five directors to ensure the majority of non-executive directors among total directors. Non-executive directors are entitled only to work concurrently for one other company Response of ￭ Creating a transparent corporate ￭ Strengthening the board's than CJ Logistics in accordance with the Commercial Act. We comprehensively consider professional CJ Logistics management system independence and professionalism ￭ Strengthening risk management system ￭ Expansion of risk management and knowledge and practical experiences in various sectors when selecting a non-executive director to Major ￭ Expansion of compliance training Plan and monitoring enhance professionalism. As a result, non-executive directors are composed of experts in logistics, Activities Target and inspection ￭ Settlement of fair and ethical business administration, economics and laws and perform the function of practical monitoring and corporate culture checking in specialized sectors for company management. 66 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 67 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Activities by the Board of Directors Risk The Board of Directors holds a regular meeting based on an annual operation plan as well as a temporary meeting when necessary. In 2017, a total of 10 meetings were held, and 25 deliberations Risk Management System and reports were handled. The average attendance rate of non-executive directors was 90.0%, and Management the Board of Directors' major resolutions and attendance status are disclosed transparently on the Company-Wide Risk Management Organization website and in the business report. The company-wide risk management organization is composed of each business division director and business planning directors under CEO. We also deal with risks by organizing the risk response TF, BOD Operation which comprises the Business Management Division, including the CEO, Strategic Support Team and HR Support Team. Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 Regular BOD meetings Number convened 8 6 8 Company-Wide Risk Management Temporary BOD meetings Number convened 3 4 2 Organization Chart Total BDO meetings Number convened 11 10 10 CEO Agenda/Report Case 27 20 25 Attendance rate of non-executive directors % 98.0 90.0 90.0 •Business Management Division Legal Affairs Director, Safety Infrastructure Director •Strategic Support Team Activities by Committees in the Board of Directors •HR Support Team Three subcommittees hold a meeting when necessary. In 2017, a total of five meetings were held, and eight cases of agenda review and reports were handled. The average attendance rate of non-executive directors was 100%, and major resolutions and attendance status are disclosed transparently in the business report. SCM Division Parcel Division Construction Division Committee Operation Risk Response Process Category Unit 2015 2016 2017 CJ Logistics classifies and manages risks which have a crucial impact on business and establishes the Meeting convened Number convened 5 4 5 process for immediate response in case of an accident through internal sharing and swift spreading Committee agenda/report Number convened 3 8 8 in the group. In particular, we have launched a mobile reporting system where a case is immediately Attendance rate of non-executive directors % 95.7 93.8 100.0 reported at any time and place. This system allows immediate sharing and expedient response even for risks in overseas business sites. Evaluation and Remuneration Risk Response Process Evaluation of the Board of Directors CJ Logistics CJ Group Activities by non-executive directors are fairly evaluated based on individual performance, and evaluation results are reflected in remuneration and re-appointed decisions. The Board of Directors also designs remuneration policies for key management to be consistent with shareholder long-term Communication with the interests and disclose the details transparently. Management activities are evaluated by objective Risk response TF group situation room in CJ Logistics Crisis and comprehensive standards, including indicators of sales and operating profits, leadership, core case of Class R1 accident Rapid Response Headquarters • CEO capability level, CSV activities and other contributions to the company. • Business Management Division occurred/switched Information • CJ Logistics Emergency Legal Affairs Director, Sharing Situation Room (Operated at the Safety Infrastructure Center Class R1 Risk) Remuneration for Directors Director • Strategic Support Team The current status of remuneration for the Board of Directors of CJ Logistics in 2017 is as follows: • HR Support Team Rapid Risk response reporting TF operation suggested Remuneration for the Board of Directors in 2017 (R1, R2) (for critical issues) CJ Logistics step-by-step risk response • Response by responsible Category Unit Executive directors Non-executive director* Total departments in each division Class R1 Risk • Judgment of class by : Operate a risk response TF and report the case to the top Number of people Person 2 3 5 Strategic Support Team management (for critical issues) Rapid reporting Class R2 Risk Total amount of KRW 1,743 220 1,963 (R1, R2, R3) : Joint response by company-wide related departments or the remuneration million department of each division where a risk has emerged • Response to the incident Average remuneration KRW 871 73 392 Class R3 Risk occurring department and per person million : Independent response by the department of each division sharing reports rapidly where a risk has emerged *All the three non-executive directors concurrently work as a member of Audit Committee. 68 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 69 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Risk Management and Response Compliance Fair Trade Compliance Program Management Risk Management Types CJ Logistics classifies and manages financial risks, including operational risk, market risk and regulatory Operation of Fair Trade Compliance Program risk having an impact on business, and non-financial risks regarding employees and customers. In 2017, CJ Logistics launched the compliance program (CP). The CP presents concrete code Types and Elements of Risk Management standards for legal compliance based on the Fair Trade Act and Fair Transactions in Subcontracting Act and helps to prevent risks for violation of the Unfair Competition Prevention Act. Category Risk management types Risk factors Business Operational risk Organizational process design, etc. Seven key Market risk Exchange rate risk, interest rate, liquidity, etc. CEO’s statement Appointment and Creation and components of of compliance operation of the distribution Regulatory risk Changes in related systems and policies, etc. fair trade commitment and compliance of compliance compliance Employees Labor and management risk Strikes, labor conflict, etc. policy manager handbook program Illegal and unfair activity risk Unfair trade, embezzlement, bribery, sexual harassment, etc. Employee Safety and environment risk Personnel/equipment accident, environmental pollution, Establishment of sanctions for Establishment natural disaster, etc. Operation of internal violating of the of document Customers Customer relationship risk Complaints, objections, etc. employee training monitoring Unfair Competition management program Information security risk Information leak, system failure, etc. system Prevention system Act Taxation Risk CJ Logistics strictly manages taxation, complies with taxation-related laws and regulations and CP Operational Organization ensures full payment of taxes for all business activities. As we conduct business in various countries, CJ Logistics appoints the fair trade compliance manager under the CEO and organizes the we honestly and transparently comply with taxation laws in each country. In addition, if tax-related compliance department and committee to promote responsible CP operation. We also designate decisions need to be making during the course of business operation, a dedicated organization is compliance managers for each business department and management support division. working with related departments to make final decisions. CP Organization Chart Midto Long-term Risk Response CEO CJ Logistics continuously analyzes internal and external management environments, identifies risks which can have a crucial impact on overall business in the midto long-term perspective and establishes and implements measures for effective response through analyzing aspects. HR Committee Compliance Midto Long-term Risk Response manager Management Support Division Category Background Response direction Compliance management division Compliance Committee Increasingly •The market competitiveness of logistics companies •We expand our business scope to new global Compliance team competitive who offer transportation services based on markets including M&A deals while making global market networks will be affected by a range of factors continuous efforts to provide differentiated services including securing new bases, introducing advanced to our customers through R&D activities. We also technology and service innovation. Competition in strive to secure market competitiveness early, Each department of the SCM Division Each department of the Management Each department of the Parcel Division the industry is intensifying as global total logistics enhancing our consumer and brand credibility Compliance manager in each department Support Division Compliance manager in each department services improve, and for this reason, we need to through quality improvement. Compliance manager in each department establish a mid and long-term response strategy. Adaptation to CP Training •Responding to climate change has become a major •We are committed to managing greenhouse gas climate change issue in the international community. As government emissions at our business sites, and make efforts to regulations are changing including the GHG target reduce emissions through the economic operation CJ Logistics provides regular CP training to establish CP at an early stage and enhance compliance management system and emissions trading system, of transportation. In addition, we will focus on changes in the energy paradigm are also accelerating. reducing environmental impact by establishing capabilities among compliance managers of each department. In 2017, we designated 250 •For logistics companies that use various modes of midto long-term strategies to respond to the compliance managers for each department, and all compliance managers completed regular CP transport to conduct their business activities, there demand for eco-friendly logistics and strengthening is a growing need to manage the financial impacts environmental regulations. training. We also provided further, intensive training for all employees of departments with a high of environmental regulations. possibility of legal violation, including parcel delivery drivers. Customer •D ue to the advancement of the information •W e are strengthening the maintenance and information society, social interest in the protection of personal management of our personal information protection information is steadily increasing. management system (ISO27001, ISMS) certification Training for Compliance Program in Each Department Pre-CP Monitoring •In particular, legal regulations on the management to reinforce our customer information protection of personal information collected in business system and ensure compliance with government CJ Logistics conducts regular monitoring and checks the implementation of compliance management activities are expanding. The level of a company’s regulations. The Information Strategy Team, a to prevent risks related to fair trade more actively. In 2017, we conducted interviews and completed information management system becomes a crucial dedicated organization, focuses on monitoring and issue which can affect customer relations. reinforcing information access control continually checklists for monitoring targets in six business sites for the first and second half of the year. It so that we can preemptively respond to personal information leakage incidents. checked for any infringement of the Fair Trade Act and Fair Transactions in Subcontracting Act. 70 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 71 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Creation of Compliance Management Handbook Communication Channels Regarding Compliance Management In 2017, CJ Logistics prepared a compliance management handbook to reinforce law-abiding CJ Logistics receives reports and opinions on unfair trade practices and suggests improvements in awareness through easy access to compliance guidelines. After, we distributed the handbook to the process of contract and trade on the website. Personal information of a person who reports a all departments of headquarters and local business sites. The handbook includes compliance case is thoroughly confidential and protected to have no disadvantage. management guidelines and codes of conduct for employees to comply with relevant laws such as the Fair Trade Act, Fair Transactions in Subcontracting Act and Improper Solicitation and Graft Act. Report of unfair trade Cases are reported through the VOP (Voice of Partners), a channel to report grievances from partners with regard Creation of CP Letter to unfair and improper issues, unfair trade practices and improvements in trade relations with CJ Logistics. In 2018, CJ Logistics has started to create and distribute CP Letters to increase the interest in CP and Link https://www.cjlogistics.com/ko/utility/law-observance/counsel Compliance Management Handbook encourage autonomous participation in compliance management. The CP Letter covers the latest legal enactment and amendment news and policy trends by the Fair Trade Commission. Cyber Audit Office The Cyber Audit Office receives reports for unfair tasks, illegal requests using a position and personal corruption cases of the employees of CJ Logistics. Reinforcement of Communication for Compliance Management Link https://www.cjlogistics.com/ko/utility/law-observance/receipt CP Letter Establishment of Compliance Management Website Operation of Social Contribution Committee CJ Logistics has established a compliance management website to promote the company’s CJ Logistics operates the Social Contribution Committee to strengthen transparency in executing compliance management and CP activities, internally and externally both manage CP activities donations and respond to requests for reinforcing social ethics management. The committee is systemically. On the website, we encourage employees to share CP materials engaging in compliance composed of the CEO, CFO and compliance assistance director in addition to CSV management management autonomously. We expect to strengthen risk management with regards to compliance team leader as an assistant administrator. For transparent execution of donatiosn, we have made management as CP operation becomes more vitalized. it mandatory to conduct the review by the Social Contribution Committee for any donations with an annual sum of KRW 100 million or more from 2018. For donations with an annual sum of KRW 1 Win-Win Coordination Committee billion or more, prior review should be conducted by the Social Contribution Committee, followed In June 2017, CJ Logistics launched the Win-Win Coordination Committee to address conflicts by resolution as an agenda by Board of Directors (resolved in favor of two-thirds of the Board of between the company and partners in advance and built a long-term communication system with Directors). In the first half of 2018, donations with an annual sum of KRW 1 billion or more (2 cases) partners. The Win-Win Coordination Committee plays a role in addressing conflicts in advance were executed after the review and resolution of the Social Contribution Committee and Board of by suggesting a solution based on detailed rules before issues become worse when there is any Directors. Compliance Management Website difference in opinions for an agreement or problem in implementing with partners. The committee Link http://www.cjlogistics.com/ko/ also listens to grievances and opinions from partners and makes a suggestion to reflect such page/law-observance/will opinions. The Win-Win Coordination Committee has members consisting of the Business Support Director, Strategic Support Director and each division director under the leadership of Management Support Director, in addition to the Legal Affairs Director as an assistant administrator. Win-Win Coordination Process Different opinions in Implement contract relations the agreement Fulfillment of the Different opinions while In case of agreement by both contract relations are agreement companies maintained Partner online application Complete and submit an online application Review and Check determine agreement coordination Notify Determine whether measures coordination agreement is made Pre-coordination Review by the measures within seven days committee By post or direct after coordination Notify the issue to the and determine receipt measures are In case of relevant department and coordination received; if accepted, disagreement start discussion measures agreement is written 72 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 73 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix SUSTAINABILITY Stakeholder Engagement Definition of Stakeholder A stakeholder refers to a group or individual who has an impact on corporate management performance and activities or is affected by the results of corporate management activities. CJ FRAME Logistics predicts change in the future environment and engages stakeholders in the innovation process by considering it as part of corporate strategy. We also listen to the opinions from stakeholders and prevent potential risks in advance. Stakeholder Engagement Channel CJ Logistics implements stakeholder-based engagement management by expanding communication channels with stakeholders. We collect and accept feedback by securing communication channels for major stakeholders and reflect results in the Board of Directors and major management decisions. Major stakeholders Communication channels Major issues in 2017 Customers • Customer care center: online/call center • Diversification of customer • Customer satisfaction survey communication channels • Parcel application • Enhancement of customer • AI Chatbot and Visible ARS satisfaction • Improvement of customer inconveniences Partners • CJ Partners Club • Win-win cooperation • Cyber Ombudsman • Shared growth • VOP (Voice of Partner) • Fair trade compliance Shareholders • General shareholders meeting • Establishment of midand • Quarterly and annual IR activities long-term strategies • Participation in domestic and overseas • Business portfolio conference • 1:1 meetings, e-mails and conference calls Local communities • CSV/Local community contribution • Expansion of social contribution activities participation by employees • Partnership with NGOs • Diversification of programs for • Sports sponorships local community contribution • Social contribution connected with sports Employees • Labor union • Capacity building for employees • Channel CJ, CKN, Nim Newsletter • In-company communication and • In-house proposal section, Knowledge DB, networking ICON Plaza, Club (COP) • Work and life balance • In-house campaigns, member conferences, workshops, company-wide committee Stakeholder Engagement 73 Materiality Test 74 UN SDGs 76 74 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 75 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Results of the Materiality Test Materiality Test Materiality Test Overview CJ Logistics derived a total of ten core issues out of 39 issues as a result of the materiality test. The core issues are those issues that are of common interest to stakeholders and have an impact on management activities. Materiality Test Principle CJ Logistics conducted a materiality test by comprehensively reviewing the interest of internal and 1 1 Reduction of environmental impact of external stakeholders in sustainable management issues and business impact. The materiality test was logistics and transport carried out based on the “principles for selecting materiality issues” in the materiality test sustainable 2 Management and reduction of GHG emissions management GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Standards. For selected core issues, we considered their 3 Reinforcement of health and safety management 9 system for employees impact on the company and stakeholders’ interest and focused on reporting more details in the “CJ 4 Performance of social contribution 6 Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018.” activities considering the characteristics of 5 local community 5 Efforts to revitalize the economy of Materiality Test Process local community Business impact 10 8 3 2 The materiality test was conducted through the process of identifying issues, assessing materiality, 6 Contribution to vitalizing indirect economy 4 through business identifying core issues, and determining core reporting aspects. In selecting core issues, we 7 Reinforcement of win-win growth policies and 7 utilized media research, global company benchmarking, survey and export evaluation and actively activities reflected opinions from internal and external stakeholders for the sustainable management of CJ 8 Strengthening logistics infrastructure and R&D capability Logistics. 9 Expansion of business based on logistics and construction 10 Expansion of employment and securing employment stability Check a list of sustainable management issues Stakeholders’ interest •S  ecure 71 sustainable management issues by reviewing international standards Step 1. and indicators regarding sustainable management such as GRI, UN SDGs, ISO Check issue list 26000, UNGC, DJSI, SASB, etc. Through ongoing consultation with related departments, we have ensured the sustainability of • Select 39 major issues with high relevance to CJ Logistics in the checked issue list actual business activities by taking into account systematic management and reflection of future business processes. In addition, we will continue to develop the materiality assessment system by expanding participation in stakeholder assessment of materiality and listening to feedback. Conduct the materiality test No. Sector Core issues GRI Standards Topics Page Step 2. • Evaluate the impact (business impact) and social interest (stakeholders’ interest) 1 Environment Reduction of environmental Energy 40~43, 81 Conduct a on CJ Logistics based on 39 major issues impact of logistics and transport Water materiality test Business impact evaluation: Internal employees survey, benchmarking for Emission and derive key advanced logistics companies, review of CJ Logistics’ internal policies Wastewater and waste issues Stakeholders’s interest evaluation: Media research, international standard analysis, 2 Environment Management and reduction of Energy 40~43, 81 expert evaluation GHG emissions Emission 3 Health & Safety Reinforcement of health and safety Occupational Health 44~47 management system for employees and Safety 4 Community Performance of social contribution Local community 22~25, engagement and activities considering the 48~52, 83 development characteristics of local community Select reporting themes and plan a report 5 Community Efforts to revitalize the economy of Local community 22~25, Step 3. • Select core themes in connection with topics in the GRI Standards based on engagement and local community 48~52, 83 Determine key development core issues identified by materiality test issues to be 6 General economy Contribution to vitalizing indirect Indirect economic effect 22~25, • Prepare a report based on selected core themes and provide contents and and management economy through business 48~52, 83 reported data with actual interest among stakeholders by considering an area of 7 Supply chain Reinforcement of win-win growth Competition hindrance 57~59 stakeholders under significant impact policies and activities practice 8 General economy Strengthening logistics infrastructure Economic performance 26~37 and management and R&D capability 9 General economy Expansion of business based on Economic performance 26~37 and management logistics and construction 10 Labor and Expansion of employment and Diversity and equal 22~25, human rights securing employment stability opportunity 60~61, 82~83 76 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 77 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix CJ Logistics Statement of Support UN SDGs Efforts to Implement the SDGs for the Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) CJ Logistics proactively engages in the achievement of sustainable development goals (SDGs) selected by the UN to fulfill corporate responsibilities. SDGs offer 17 goals to address universal problems of human society such as economy, society and environment. CJ Logistics identifies opportunities and risk factors on a midto long-term basis and reinforces connection between SDGs and business. We will not only accomplish SDGs through existing activities, but also fulfill our responsibilities as a global corporate citizen by discovering new activities continuously. Expansion of Creation of Energy Eco-friendly Logistics Establishment of Senior Parcel Delivery /Urban Forest and Transport Compliance System Link to SDGs Link to SDGs Link to SDGs Link to SDGs Senior Parcel Delivery is a shared value creation model to ensure the The Energy Forest, which was created on abandoned roads and vacant CJ Logistics utilizes its independent integrated logistics system and CJ Logistics has launched a compliance program (CP) to form a sound growth of the company and handle job issues for senior citizens in the land, contributes to environmental protection in the local community by optimizes transportation to reduce GHG emissions from the logistics and transparent corporate culture by establishing a responsible aging society. CJ Logistics takes the lead in creating high-quality jobs reducing fine dust and carbon emissions. CJ Logistics strives to protect process. We also proactively participate in coping with climate change system for sustainable development. We will contribute to enhancing through cooperation with the government and local governments. We the local environment by implementing the project of creating an urban through eco-friendly logistics and transport through various activities corporate sustainability by realizing compliance management. also utilize eco-friendly electricity-powered delivery equipment and forest (Hangang Park)/energy forest (abandoned road, unused lot of a such as a modal shift to eco-friendly transport vehicles, introduction of expand eco-friendly green logistics to cope with climate change. rest area) to reduce fine dust and carbon emissions. We will make effort electricity-powered parcel vehicles and development of drone parcels. Current status of operation to improve the environment in cooperation with local governments, • Establish company-wide compliance management system by operating Current status of operation public institutions and local residents. Current status of operation CP and making CP training course, pre-monitoring and CP Letter • Establish a cooperative model with local governments such as Seoul, • Apply HELLO, intelligent active integrated technology, for the first time • Support the systemic operation of CP and autonomous participation of Incheon and Jeollanam-do Province and Korea Labor Force Institute for Current status of operation in the logistics industry and reduce empty running rate in which a employees by establishing a compliance management website the Aged under the Ministry of Health and Welfare • Conduct eco-friendly activities such as support for Children Forest vehicle is driving while a cargo section is empty • Expand the business to the process of job creation for the socially Experience Program and Donation for Resource Circulation • Implement innovation and growth by developing a commercialized vulnerable such as people with developmental disabilities and low• Expected to plant 3,000 trees by 2019 with the “Agreement to Create drone parcel service and adopting electric vehicles income families Carbon Offset Forest in Gangseo Hangang Forest” with Korea Disability • Establish eco-friendly delivery system by utilizing 100% electricityGreen Foundation and Korea Green Resources powered delivery equipment 78 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 79 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Appendix CJ Logistics’ Declaration of Human Rights CJ Logistics aims not only to achieve economic performance through creative management activities based on our founding philosophy of “Business Patriotism” in which we contribute to the nation and society through our business, but also to practice social responsibility as a corporate citizen. CJ Logistics has joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and is committed to its ten principles including human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. We also signed WEPs (Women’s Empowerment Principle) to declare compliance with global human rights standards. As we support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we prohibit child and forced labor and strive to prevent any kind of discrimination and unreasonable treatment due to nationality, race, gender, religion or school attended. In addition, we provide education and training for employees to ensure a safe and pleasant working environment and prevent safety accidents, and support our domestic and overseas business sites and partners in efforts to achieve human rights management. CJ Logistics has a variety of communication channels that aim to prevent potential human rights violations during our business activities. We are dedicated to listen to customer feedback through CJ Whistle, Tong-Tong-Tong, proactive HR services, Round Table, telephone consultations and online VOC for customers. CJ Logistics will always be a companion who contributes to a prosperous future for humanity by respecting life and acting as a global corporate citizen that contributing to society and fulfills its responsibilities. October 2018 CEO of CJ Logistics CJ Logistics’ Declaration of Human Rights 79 Financial Information 80 Keun-Tae Park Sustainability Management Performance Data 81 Awards and Associations 84 GRI Content Index 85 UN Global Compact 88 Verification Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions 89 Independent Verification Statement 90 80 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 81 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Financial Information Sustainability Management Performance Data Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (Unit: KRW million) Economic Performance Category End of December 2015 End of December 2016 End of December 2017 End of June 2018 Category Subject Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note Current assets 1,239,298 1,511,133 1,803,525 2,088,240 Sales by Division CL KRW million 2,141,279 2,432,617 2,513,688 Stevedoring, transport, storage, construction, maintenance, etc Quick assets 1,229,393 1,495,885 1,787,867 2,063,105 Parcel KRW million 1,496,365 1,752,050 1,989,154 Gathering, delivery Inventories 9,905 15,248 15,658 25,135 Global KRW million 1,418,122 1,897,279 2,607,549 Stevedoring, transport, storage Non-current assets 3,261,191 4,010,060 4,505,424 5,255,763 Construction KRW million 537,627 641,958 908,492 Investment assets 243,433 294,521 255,049 294,678 Total KRW million 5,593,393 6,723,904 8,018,883 Tangible assets 1,772,594 2,036,543 2,429,543 3,072,645 Distribution of Partners KRW million 13,000 13,000 Win-Win Fund Investment properties 139,383 152,831 124,867 103,973 economic value Shareholders and investors KRW million 53,170 50,726 55,337 Dividends, interest on borrowings Intangible assets 917,708 1,368,106 1,468,402 1,557,300 per stakeholder Local communities KRW million 32,175 36,220 29,396 Donation Other non-current assets 188,073 158,059 227,563 227,167 Employees KRW million 505,996 564,495 620,388 Wages, employee benefits, Total assets 4,500,489 5,521,193 6,308,949 7,344,003 retirement benefits Current liabilities 1,285,580 1,362,369 1,890,070 2,052,233 Government KRW million 17,096 22,809 34,248 Income tax expense Non-current liabilities 843,204 1,419,559 1,636,141 2,282,128 Non-current liabilities 2,128,784 2,781,928 3,526,211 4,334,361 Equity attributable to owners of 2,323,261 2,346,093 2,371,659 2,530,403 the parent entity Environmental Performance Current capital 114,062 114,062 114,062 114,062 Capital surplus 2,248,615 2,248,654 2,248,360 2,309,838 Category Subject Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note Retained earnings 485,479 541,606 573,527 610,255 Investment in Total expenditures KRW million 484 914 28 environmental and investments for Other capital (511,198) (511,196) (511,106) (459,149) protection environmental protection Other accumulated earnings (13,697) (47,033) (53,184) (44,603) Greenhouse gas Total GHG emissions tCO2eq 200,862 195,574 202,671 Non-controlling interests 48,444 393,172 411,079 479,239 Scope 1 emissions tCO2eq 145,250 134,957 137,978 Total equity 2,371,705 2,739,265 2,782,738 3,009,642 Scope 2 emissions tCO2eq 55,612 60,633 64,693 GHG intensity tCO2eq/ 4.7 4.0 3.9 Based on domestic sales KRW 100 million Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Unit: KRW million) GHG emissions reduction tCO2eq 6,834 5,636 2,282 Implemented the GHG target management system from 2016 Category End of December 2015 End of December 2016 End of December 2017 End of June 2018 Energy Total energy usage TJ 3,231 3,147 3,273 Revenue(Sales) 5,055,766 6,081,945 7,110,391 4,286,072 Electricity usage TJ 1,145 1,249 1,333 Operating income 186,634 228,444 235,651 102,420 Fuel usage TJ 2,086 1,916 1,958 Fuel consumption differs from actual usage according to the GHG Continued business income 63,217 68,210 38,888 41,565 and energy verification method. Discontinued business income (14,233) Energy intensity TJ/KRW 100 0.07 0.06 0.06 Based on domestic sales Net income 48,984 68,210 38,888 41,565 million Attribution of net income Energy reduction TJ 110 91 53 performance Equity holders of parent 45,943 55,791 31,483 37,547 companycompany Water Total water usage ton 12,929 12,798 11,654 Based on head office Non-controlling interests 3,041 12,419 7,404 4,018 Wastewater and Total wastewater emissions ton 12,929 12,798 11,654 Based on head office waste Total comprehensive income 60,692 30,984 (11,403) 74,593 Total waste emissions ton 173 177 133 Based on head office Continued business earnings 3,104 won 3,166 won 1,786 won 2039 won per share Discontinued business earnings (468 won) per share Basic earnings per share 2,636 won 3,166 won 1,786 won 2,039 won Number of companies included in 48 75 98 114 consolidated data 82 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 83 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Sustainability Management Performance Data Social Performance Category Subject Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note Category Subject Unit 2015 2016 2017 Note Current Total employees Person 5,393 5,412 5,543 Female Total managers Person 1,216 1,256 1,402 Higher position than manager status of managers Employment Management executives Person 39 46 55 Female managers Managers Person 79 96 109 Higher position than manager employees type Regular Person 5,007 5,050 5,126 Ratio % 6.5 7.6 7.8 Contract Person 347 316 362 Performance Number of employees subject to performance Person 4,926 4,945 4,906 Employees who have been working for evaluation evaluation less than three months in the year, such By gender Male Person 4,726 4,703 4,721 as employees who have been working Female Person 667 709 822 since October or who have been laid off, are not eligible for evaluation. New Total new employees Person 491 465 562 employees Regular (office workers) Person 2,932 3,059 3,135 Employment Regular Person 337 388 381 type Regular (site workers) Person 1,676 1,620 1,586 Contract Person 154 77 181 Excluding dispatched employees Contract Person 318 266 185 By age Under 30 Person 277 323 344 Employees subject to performance evaluation Person 4,926 4,945 4,906 30 50 Person 199 134 206 Ratio of performance evaluation % 100.0 100.0 100.0 Over 50 Person 15 8 12 Maternity leave Employees who took maternity leave Person 36 32 39 By gender Male Person 396 364 364 and parental Returning to work after Employees who returned Person 30 32 39 Female Person 95 101 198 leave maternity leave from maternity leave Employment People with disabilities Recruited people Person 73 74 80 Including contract employees Return ratio % 83.3 100.0 100.0 Ratio of employees who returned to work of socially compared to total employees taking Ratio of recruitment % 1.4 1.4 1.4 Including contract employees; ratio of vulnerablematernity leave recruitment of people with disabilities groups compared to the total number of employees Employees who took parental leave Person 56 40 57 Female Recruited people Person 667 709 822 Including contract employees Returning to work after Employees who returned Person 40 35 29 Ratio of recruitment % 12.4 13.1 14.8 Including contract employees; ratio of parental leave from maternity leave recruitment of female employees compared Return ratio % 71.4 87.5 50.9 Ratio of employees who returned to work to the total number of employees compared to total employees taking National veterans Recruited people Person 75 72 70 Including contract employees parental leave Ratio of recruitment % 1.4 1.3 1.2 Including contract employees; ratio of Maintained work for 12 Maintained employees Person 17 26 24 recruitment of national veterans compared months or over after Retention ratio % 54.8 65.0 68.6 Employees working for 12 months or to the total number of employees returning to work more compared to employees returning Turnover Total employee turnover Person 326 288 297 to work after taking parental leave in the previous year Employment Regular Person 240 231 235 type Employees Education expenses Total education expenses KRW 2,820 3,970 5,289 Contract Person 86 57 62 Excluding dispatched employees education million By age Under 30 Person 95 92 112 Education expenses per KRW 563 786 1,032 30 50 Person 195 188 167 employee 1,000/ person Over 50 Person 36 8 18 Education hours Total education hours Hour 249,203 271,951 277,553 By gender Male Person 254 229 232 Education hours per Hour/ 49.8 53.9 90.1 Female Person 72 59 65 employee person Total turnover rate % 6.0 5.3 5.4 Number of Industrial accident rate (Korea) % 0.25 0.33 0.22 Voluntary turnover rate % 5.3 3.3 3.6 Total job-transferring employees excluding accident Regular workers Person 9,249 9,742 9,780 employees of voluntary retirement and victims recommended retirement Number of accident vitims Person 23 32 22 Retirement Total retirees Person 421 491 463 Sexual Education for preventing Education hours Hour 5,274 5,386 5,472 harassment sexual harassment among Regular Person 297 377 338 Employees participating Person 5,274 5,386 5,472 prevention office workers in education Contract Person 124 114 125 Excluding dispatched employees education Sexual harassment Hour/ 1.0 1.0 1.0 Voluntary retirement Regular Person 38 107 81 prevention education person Contract Person 0 0 0 Excluding dispatched employees hours per employee Regular retirement Regular Person 3 1 1 Social Total participation hours Hour 11,658 5,607 21,329 contribution Contract Person 1 1 Excluding dispatched employees participation Total participants Person 1,943 1,620 3,032 Recommended retirement Regular Person 2 5 14 by employees (dismissal, disciplinary Contract Person 2 0 4 Excluding dispatched employees Social Total donations KRW 3,257 731 2,205 Different from data in the report of 2016 action, etc.) contribution million due to changing criteria for calculation Others (personal reasons, Regular Person 254 264 242 donations childcare, education, shift to other company, etc.) Contract Person 121 114 120 Excluding dispatched employees 84 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 85 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Awards and Associations GRI Content Index Major Awards Universal Standard 2017 Change the Most Admired Company for Tops KCSI GRI Standards Disclosure Page ISO 26000 Note World 50 5 years in a row for 8 years in a row Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization 9 6.3.10, 6.4.1-6.4.5, 7.8 Fortune Korea Management Association Korea Management Association 102-2 Acticities, brands, products, and services 9~17 6.3.10, 6.4.1-6.4.5, 7.8 102-3 Location of headqurters 9 6.3.10, 6.4.1-6.4.5, 7.8 102-4 Location of operations 18~19 6.3.10, 6.4.1-6.4.5, 7.8 Awards and Certification 102-5 Ownership and legal form 9 6.3.10, 6.4.1-6.4.5, 7.8 Awards 102-6 Markets served 18~19 6.3.10, 6.4.1-6.4.5, 7.8 2017-12 Citation by the Minister of Labor and Employment for the contribution of promoting job creation for elderly Ministry of Labor and Employment 102-7 Scale of the organization 9 6.3.10, 6.4.1-6.4.5, 7.8 2017-12 This Year’s App 2017 Contents Management Society, Maeil 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 82 6.3.10, 6.4.1-6.4.5, 7.8 Business Newspaper 102-9 Supply chain 57, 81 6.3.10, 6.4.1-6.4.5, 7.8 2016-12 Award by the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy for contribution in the 1st anniversary of partnership in Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 9, 27 6.3.10, 6.4.1-6.4.5, 7.8 Korea-China FTA 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 67~68 6.3.10, 6.4.1-6.4.5, 7.8 Certification 102-12 External initiatives 85~88 6.3.10, 6.4.1-6.4.5, 7.8 2017-09 World-Changing Innovative Company US Fortune 102-13 Membership of association 84 6.3.10, 6.4.1-6.4.5, 7.8 2017-01 Korea’s Most Admired Companies Korea Management Association Consulting (KMAC) Strategy 2017-01 Korean Customer Satisfaction Index (KCSI) Korea Management Association Consulting (KMAC) 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4~5 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 2017-11 Korean Service Quality Index (KS-SQI) Korean Standards Association (KSA) 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 67~68 4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2 2017-12 Consumer Centered Management (CCM) Korea Consumer Agency (KCA) Ethics and integrity 2017-08 Announcement of Remedies for Parcel Damage Korea Consumer Agency (KCA) 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 8, 69~71 4.4, 6.6.3 2017-01 Announcement of Comparison of Parcel Service Korea Consumer Agency (KCA) 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 70~71 4.4, 6.6.3 2017-09 National Brand Competitiveness Index (NBCI) Korea Productivity Center (KPC) Governance 2017-03 National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) Korea Productivity Center (KPC) 102-18 Governance structure 65~66 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 2017-04 1st in the parcel service sector in the Korea Purchase Ease Index (KPEI) 2017 Korea Marketing Association 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 65~66 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 2017-12 Korean Net Promoter Score (KNPS) Korea Management Association 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 65~66 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 2017-03 Korea-Brand Power Index (K-BPI) Korea Management Association 102-35 Remuneration policies 66 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 2017-02 Korea’s Most Admired Companies by KMAC Korea Management Association 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 66 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 2017-10 Korean Customer Satisfaction Index (KCSI) Korea Management Association 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 66 6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5 2017-04 Korean Service Quality Index (KSQI) for the call center Korea Management Association Stakeholder engagement 2017-03 Korea Brand Star Brand Stock 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 73 5.3 2017-11 Service Evaluation for parcel Industry Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport, Korean Standards Association 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 63 6.3.10, 6.4.1-6.4.5, 7.8 2006-06 Certificate for Total Logistics Company Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 73 5.3 2017-04 Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) Certificate – Warehouse Operator Korea Customs Service 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 73 5.3 2017-04 Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) Certificate – Transporter Korea Customs Service 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 74~75 5.3 2017-01 Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) Certificate – Customs Broker Korea Customs Service Reporting practice 2015-10 Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) Certificate – Cargo Handling Personnel Korea Customs Service 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 5.2, 7.3.2-7.3.4 Annual Report 2014-05 Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) Certificate – Freight Forwarding Personnel Korea Customs Service 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 74~75 5.2, 7.3.2-7.3.4 2016-11 Transportation, Stevedoring, Warehouse, Parcel Delivery, International Freight Forwarding, Shipping TUV NORD 102-47 List of material topics 74~75 5.2, 7.3.2-7.3.4 2016-07 The services of Customs clearance, General & Heavy Cargo Transportation, Stevedoring, Warehouse, TUV NORD 102-48 Restatements of information 83 5.2, 7.3.2-7.3.4 Shipping and International Freight Forwarding 2017-04 1st in the parcel service sector in the Korea Purchase Ease Index (KPEI) 2017 Korea Marketing Association 102-49 Changes in reporting 2 5.2, 7.3.2-7.3.4 2017-04 1st in the parcel service sector in the Korea Purchase Ease Index (KPEI) 2017 Korea Marketing Association 102-50 Reporting period 2 7.5.3, 7.6.2 2017-04 1st in the parcel service sector in the Korea Purchase Ease Index (KPEI) 2017 Korea Marketing Association 86 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 87 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix GRI Content Index Universal Standard GRI Standards Disclosure Page ISO 26000 Note GRI Standards Disclosure Page ISO 26000 Note Reporting practice Effluents and Waste 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 7.5.3, 7.6.2 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 42, 81 6.5.3-6.5.4 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 7.5.3, 7.6.2 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 42, 81 6.5.3 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 7.5.3, 7.6.2 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2 7.5.3, 7.6.2 Social (GRI 400) 102-55 GRI content index 85~87 7.5.3, 7.6.2 102-56 External assurance 90~91 7.5.3, 7.6.2 GRI Standards Disclosure Page ISO 26000 Note Management Approach Employment 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 74~75 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3, 7.7.3, 7.7.5 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 82 6.4.3 103-2 The management approach and its components 22, 26, 32, 6.3.6, 6.6.1-6.6.2, 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 62~63 6.4.4, 6.8.7 40, 48, 64 6.8.1-6.8.2 401-3 Parental 83 6.4.4 Occupational Health and Safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number 83 6.4.6, 6.8.8 Topic-specific Standards of work-related fatalities Economic (GRI 200) Training and Education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 83 6.4.7 GRI Standards Disclosure Page ISO 26000 Note 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career developmnt reviews 61, 83 6.4.7 Economic Performance Diversity and Equal opportunity 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 81 6.8.1-6.8.3, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 60, 65 6.2.3, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 41 6.5.5 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 61 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 Indirect Economic Impacts Non-discrimination 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 23~24, 49~52 6.3.9, 6.6.6-6.6.7, 6.7.8, 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 6.3.6.-6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 no such cases 6.8.1-6.8.2, 6.8.5, 6.8.7, Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 6.8.9 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and 63 6.3.3-6.3.5, 6.3.8, 6.3.10, Anti-corruption collective bargaining may be at risk 6.4.5, 6.6.6 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 69~71 6.6.1-6.6.3, 6.6.6 Child Labor 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 6.6.1-6.6.3 no such cases 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 60 6.3.3-6.3.5, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.6.6, 6.8.4 Forced or Compulsory Labor Environment (GRI 300) 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 60 6.3.3-6.3.5, 6.3.10, 6.6.6 Human Rights Assessment GRI Standards Disclosure Page ISO 26000 Note 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 83 6.3.5 Energy Local Communities 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 81 6.5.4 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 23~24, 49~52 6.3.9, 6.5.1-6.5.3, 6.8 302-3 Energy intensity 81 6.5.4 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 6.3.9, 6.5.3, 6.8 no such cases 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 41~42, 81 6.5.4-6.5.5 Supplier Social Assessment 302-5 Reudctions in energy requirements of products and services 41~42, 81 6.5.4-6.5.5 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social critera 57 6.3.3-6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.1-6. 6.2, 6.6.6, 6.8.1-6.8.2, 7.3.1 Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 42, 81 6.5.4 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 6.3.3-6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.1-6. no such cases 6.2, 6.6.6, 6.8.1-6.8.2, 7.3.1 Biodiversity Customer Health and Safety 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and 43 6.5.6 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 53~56 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.4-6.7.5, 6.8.8 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 43 6.5.6 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 4.6, 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7. no such cases 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 43 6.5.6 4-6.7.5, 6.8.8 Emissions Marketing and Labeling 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 81 6.5.5 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling 4.6, 6.7.1-6.7.5, 6.7.9 no such cases 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 81 6.5.5 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 4.6, 6.7.1-6.7.3 no such cases 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 81 6.5.5 Customer Privacy 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 41~42, 81 6.5.5 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 6.7.1-6.7.2, 6.7.7 no such cases 88 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 89 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix UN Global Compact Verification Statement of Greenhouse Gas Emissions In July 2016, CJ Logistics joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a voluntary corporate initiative that encourages corporate social responsibility. CJ Logistics is committed to the ten principles of UNGC including human rights, support for labor, preserving the environment, and anti-corruption. We will continue to promote the corporate sustainability management by participating in a global standard initiative on corporate social responsibility. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact and Relevant Activities Category Principle Relevant activities Page Human 1. Businesses should support and respect the 〮 CJ Logistics supports and adheres to international human rights declarations 60, 79, 83 rights protection of internationally proclaimed human such as the UNGC Principles for Enhancing Women’s Capacity (WEPs). rights; and 〮 We provide sexual harassment prevention education for all employees (office and technical workers) 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of 〮 Operation of Labor-Management Council 63 association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and 〮 Comply with child labor and forced labor regulations of International Labor 60, 79 compulsory labour; Organization (ILO) 〮 Comply with Korean labor standards 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of 〮 Performance Evaluation and Compensation based on job performance 61, 63 employment and occupation. 〮 Protect victims of sexual harassment by operating a confidential internal reporting system Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary 〮 Acquired and maintained company-wide environmental management system 41~43 approach to environmental challenges; certification (ISO14001) 〮 Implemented greenhouse gas and energy target management system through the greenhouse gas management system 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater 〮 Conduct eco-driving training for improving driving habits, which can cause 42~43 environmental responsibility; and overconsumption of energy 〮 Reduce CO2 emissions by utilizing electricity in operating golf carts 〮 Implement GHG emission reduction activities with the “agreement for creating a carbon offset wood energy forest” 〮 Support and transport eco-friendly wood pellets, which are produced in the energy forest along abandoned roads, to welfare facilities 〮 Conduct urban greening project and ecological experience education for children in local child centers 〮 Acquired the certificate of sustainable golf course from the Golf Environment Organization (GEO) 9. encourage the development and diffusion of 〮 Realize eco-friendly logistics through a modal shift 43 environmentally friendly technologies. Anti10. Businesses should work against corruption in 〮 Operate fair trade compliance program 69~71 corruption all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 〮 Introduce and operate the win-win coordination committee 〮 Introduce and operate the social contribution committee 90 CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018 OVERVIEW 91 2017-2018 BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABILITY ISSUE SUSTAINABILITY FRAME Appendix Independent Verification Statement To the Readers of CJ Logistics Sustainability Report 2017-2018: Our approach In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, the team has carried out an assurance engagement as follows: Foreword Korea Management Registrar Inc.(hereinafter “KMR”) has been requested by of CJ Logistics to verify the contents of its Sustainability Report 2017-2018 (hereinafter “the ▪ Reviewed overall report Report”). CJ Logistics is responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report. KMR’s responsibility is to carry out assurance engagement ▪ Reviewed materiality test process and methodology on specific data and information in the assurance scope stipulated below. ▪ Reviewed sustainability management strategies and targets ▪ Reviewed stakeholder engagement activities Scope and standard ▪ Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report CJ Logistics describes its efforts and achievements of the corporate social responsibility activities in the Report. KMR performed a Type 2, moderate level of assurance using AA1000AS (2008) as an assurance standard. KMR’s assurance team(hereinafter “the team”) evaluated the adherence to Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Our conclusion Responsiveness, and the reliability of the selected GRI Standards indices as below, where professional judgment of the team was exercised as materiality criteria. Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with CJ Logistics on the revision of the Report. We reviewed The team checked whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI Standards which covers the followings. the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been reflected. When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance with the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come to our ▪ GRI Reporting Principles attention that causes us to believe that the data included in the verification scope are not presented appropriately. ▪ Universal Standards ▪ Topic Specific Standards ▪ Inclusivity Management approach of Topic Specific Standards Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. Economic Performance: 201-1, 201-2 CJ Logistics is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment to be responsible for the  Indirect Economic Impacts: 203-2 stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder CJ Logistics left out during this procedure. Anti-Corruption: 205-2, 205-3 Energy: 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5 ▪ Materiality Water: 303-1 Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that will influence the Biodiversity: 304-1, 304-2, 304-3 decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. Emissions: 305-1, 305-2, 305-4, 305-5 CJ Logistics is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality evaluation process, and the  Effluents and Waste: 306-1, 306-2 assurance team could not find any critical issues left out in this process. Employment: 401-1, 401-2, 401-3 Occupational Health and Safety: 403-2 ▪ Responsiveness Training and Education: 404-1, 404-3 Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions, actions, and Diversity and Equal Opportunity: 405-1, 405-2 performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. Non-Discrimination: 406-1 The assurance team could not find any evidence that CJ Logistics’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the Report. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining: 407-1 Child Labor: 408-1 We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI standards. Forced or Compulsory Labor: 409-1 Human Rights Assessment: 412-2 Recommendation for improvement Local Communities: 413-1, 413-2 We hope the Report is actively used as a communication tool for stakeholders and recommendation for improvements. Supplier Social Assessment: 414-1, 414-2 Customer Health and Safety: 416-1, 416-2 ▪ CJ Logistics communicates with stakeholders through its sustainability report and strategically utilizes sustainable management. Still, the company is advised to Marketing and Labeling: 417-2, 417-3 continue to improve its indicators to fulfill GRI guidelines and reflect this into KPIs of related personnel. Customer Privacy: 418-1 Our independence This Report excludes a data sand information of joint corporate, contractor etc. which is outside of the organization, i.e. CJ Logistics, among report boundaries. With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMR is not involved in any other CJ Logistics’s business operations that are aimed at making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. Oct, 12th, 2018 CEO Ju Hwang
