SUSTAINABLE INTEGRATION E S Q U E L G R O U P S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 INTRODUCTION 00 INTRODUCTION SCOPE AND CONTENT We are pleased to present the first Esquel Group sustainability report. 08 FROM A SOLID FOUNDATION This report marks our progress to date in best practices for the environment, society and corporate governance, while reflecting our 15 ASPIRATIONS IN ACTION long-term commitment to sustainability, as well as the transparency 16 PLANET expected of our industry today. 24 PEOPLE For us at Esquel, this report extends beyond just communicating 32 PRODUCT our activities and initiatives—it fosters a deeper understanding of what 38 COMMUNITY we believe in and the impact we have on our business and industry, the 42 SHIFTING THE PARADIGM people we employ and communities in which we operate. This report summarizes our efforts to promote and implement 46 SUPPORTING INFORMATION sustainable development over the past five years (2010 to 2014). Reporting is limited to our immediate operations, except where stated. We report on all our globally-owned facilities and the activities where we have a significant influence on investment, operations or performance. This report uses the GRI G4 guidelines as a foundation for defining content and covers as many aspects as our data currently permits. STAKEHOLDERS AND MATERIAL ISSUES In preparation for this report, we conducted a formal stakeholder identification exercise in which our priority stakeholders were identified and confirmed by senior management. In the following chapters, we address our common interests through the lens of our sustainability strategy. Discussions cover the material social, environmental and economic issues that influence our organizational development. Several issues are specific to our integrated supply chain, while others are shared with peer organizations, regulators and industry standards bodies. We also address issues raised by our customers, as well as the NGOs that focus on our industry’s behavior and norms. How we manage risks—particularly those related to the people, natural resources and the institutions we rely on—is integral to our business development and is reflected in this report. In relation to our employees, we discuss the practices that ensure our ethical standards and fairness as an employer. For our customers and suppliers, we emphasize the advantages of partnerships that deliver value. For regulators and industry interests, we put ourselves on the line to demonstrate that there are viable alternatives to current market standards, practices and expectations. ABOUT OUR COVER We seek to create a sustainable future in harmony with nature. We safeguard and respect the resources and skills we rely on and innovate for optimal efficiencies, while conscious of our company goals and our role as an industy leader. For further information on activities, please contact our Corporate Communications Department: CorpComms@esquel.com WHAT WE BELIEVE IN Distinguished for our vertically-integrated supply chain, at Esquel we take an active role in the sustainable development of our operations, from cottonseed research to the production and retailing of our shirts. Our ethos of sustainability is shared by leading global fashion brands, for whom we produce cotton and cotton-blend woven and knit shirts. Our vision of “making a difference” is reflected in how we manage our impact on the environment, the society and the communities in which we operate. We look beyond mitigating immediate consequences to what we can do, and we think of long-term sustainable strategies that will benefit our future generations. To this end, we innovate using technologies and information systems and we invest in people to advance balanced social, economic and environmental development. At Esquel, we constantly strive to exceed stakeholder expectations. INTRODUCTION 02 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 110 MILLION A RECORD SHIRTS WERE PRODUCED BY ESQUEL IN 2014 ECONOMIC 6% A YEAR-ON-YEAR INCREASE OF THE GROUP MARKED US$1,398 IN SALES WAS ACHIEVED IN 2014 MILLION IN REVENUES FOR 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL 26% WE REDUCED OUR GLOBAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER UNIT 20% OF PRODUCTION BY REDUCTION IN WATER USE PER UNIT OF PRODUCTION FROM 2010–2014 BETWEEN 2010 AND 2014 SOCIAL 373,856 7% AVERAGE PRODUCTIVITY ROSE BY HOURS OF TRAINING WAS UNDERTAKEN ACROSS DURING 2014, THANKS TO THE OUR GLOBAL WORKFORCE IN 2014 CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT IN TECHNOLOGY AND PEOPLE SKILLS E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 03 FROM MARJORIE YANG CHAIRMAN, ESQUEL GROUP Since the founding of Esquel in tasks that are mechanized through 1978, our intention has always been industrial engineering. We are proud to ensure that our customers sleep to have created a talent-centered better at night. This means not only organization that focuses on valueproducing quality products on time, based leadership. Our vision of but also producing them ethically “making a difference” seeks to make and responsibly. My father taught tomorrow better than today. me the importance of long-term While we continue to pursue thinking in running a business. When a sustainable path across the I look back in later years, I want to company, I am excited by the know that we have helped “make a prospects of our new development difference” in the world. in Guilin. In this pristine and scenic Esquel aims to be more than environment, we are creating a shirtmaker. I like to think of a revolutionary manufacturing ourselves as pioneers, with the concept that puts nature, ability to demonstrate how to industry and people in harmony. manufacture with a minimal impact Complemented by the Integral on the environment. To us, caring Conversation—our annual forum about sustainability is not about where we bring like-minded thinkers compliance nor for promotional and practitioners together in Guilin purposes. Instead, it reflects our to discuss sustainability-related corporate vision and commitment, matters that affect every aspect of while at the same time it acts to life—we hope to build a new kind enhance our competitiveness. We of space, where we can live and become a true agent of change, breathe our dreams. providing quality employment, With this sustainability report, improving the livelihood of we wish to share our experiences the communities in which we and the values we hold dearly, as operate and achieving sustainable well as to illustrate how a player in organizational development. the traditional textile and apparel The textile and garment industry can transform itself through industry faces many challenges— technology, innovation and a fragile ecosystems, wastage in commitment to sustainability. This the supply chain and, of course, is not a performance benchmarking rising labor costs. However, these exercise per se, but rather a Yours sincerely, challenges also motivate us to documented set of concepts and pursue innovations in our production practices that forges the path ahead technologies and processes, as for us to inspire and be inspired. well as to reduce energy and water I hope that this report will serve to usage. Besides using technology to stimulate ideas and discussions, as Marjorie Yang increase productivity, we also devote well as playing its part in a journey Chairman efforts to “humanizing” the jobs and toward a better tomorrow. 31 August 2015 INTRODUCTION 04 FROM PROFESSOR HAU LEE CHAIRMAN, ESQUEL SUSTAINABILITY COUNCIL This report describes Esquel's systems, ranging from environmental sustainability journey over the attributes to labor compliance and past five years and documents our pay. Such monitoring is critical accomplishments. In the following for both evaluation purposes and pages, we share the challenges we for quick detection of potential face as a business and industry problems. A major task of Esquel’s player. We discuss our thinking and Sustainability Council is to review the initiatives that are transforming and synthesize the data from these Esquel into a leading organization measurement systems and to set the that grows and operates in today’s wheels in motion for action. sphere of societal expectations and While we are swift to employ in an environment of increasingly efforts and protocols to correct any restricted resources. “out-of-control” conditions, we look I have found that today’s beyond simple mitigation to the sustainability initiatives can be exploration and identification augmented by earlier quests for of systems for future prevention. quality rooted in the 1970s. The SixI proudly note that our colleagues Sigma process, for example, focuses across Esquel strive to do both— on product quality through reliable to respond swiftly with corrective measurement systems, which actions and to innovate to prevent lend themselves to the monitoring future occurrences, all the while of production systems and to setting even higher standards as we identifying any potential “out-ofimprove. control” conditions that need to be Taking up the challenges, mitigated. Careful analysis of cause innovating and improving our leads to innovation in solutions, systems has led to the creation of frequently involving redesign new materials and new production of the production process, and equipment, as well as the redesign sometimes to the complete redesign of our manufacturing processes of the product itself. This search for and the improvement of our work Yours sincerely, quality is an iterative process that environment. As a result, we have continuously sets higher standards been able to reduce both waste and as the cycle is repeated. This precious resource consumption, thinking captures our own quality improve the environment of our growth strategy as discussed in factories and our neighboring areas, this report. and ensure our employees are Professor Hau Lee At Esquel, our broader happier. Ultimately, our efforts have Thoma Professor of Operations, sustainability development follows ensured we contribute positively to Information and Technology at the a similar pattern, starting with society and to the communities in Stanford Graduate School of Business measurement. We have developed which we operate. 31 August 2015 very elaborate measurement E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 05 SUSTAINABILITY AT ESQUEL We have invested over Esquel’s sustainability strategy embraces four tenets of behavior— reducing our environmental impact, investing in our people, innovating our products and contributing to the communities in which we operate. US$150 MILLION Living up to these tenets involves making difficult choices that often require substantial financial and business resources. Our choices reflect our beliefs by first, creating long-term and sustained value for the business and, second, by recognizing our responsibility to cherish the environment since 2005 to manage our water and energy consumption in which the next generation will live. The US$150 million investment we have made over the last 10 years (2005–2014) toward managing our water and energy consumption has pioneered leading management processes and the infrastructures that address and mitigate the environmental “We established our concerns of China's textile industry. We apply a similar philosophy to our Sustainability Council global facilities and are now exploring the next generation of tools. to formalize and In 2013, we established our Sustainability Council to formalize and oversee strategy and oversee strategy and its implementation. The Council, chaired by an independent non-executive Board director, oversees four committees, its implementation.” each of which is tasked with one tenet of behavior. These committees are supervised by a combination of senior management and Board members, placing our sustainability strategy within the purview of the highest decision-making body. Our Sustainability Charter directs the Council in its delegation of relevant issues to management and employees. Under the Charter, the Council is responsible for defining and monitoring key measurements for the Group. ESQUEL SUSTAINABILITY COUNCIL PLANET PEOPLE PRODUCT COMMUNITY Our sustainability strategy continues to evolve and guide our future organizational development. It serves to stimulate the rethinking of how we manage our people, work with our stakeholders and influence the communities outside our factories. While a number of site-specific projects are being developed across the organization to put change into practice, the Integral project—included in this report’s discussions—best exemplifies the paradigm shift we seek. INTRODUCTION 06 E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 07 Seattle London Lindau Columbus New York Beijing Xinjiang* Tokyo Taizhou Shanghai Changzhou Ningbo Chengdu Fenghua Chongqing Xiamen Guilin Guangzhou Gaoming Hong Kong Macau Vietnam Sri Lanka Malaysia Mauritius ABOUT ESQUEL Founded in 1978, Esquel Group is one of the world’s leading textile and apparel manufacturers, with state-of-the-art production facilities in China, Malaysia, Mauritius, Sri Lanka and Vietnam. The group has an established network of strategically-located merchandising offices that services the key markets in the United HEAD OFFICE States, Europe, Japan and China. Esquel aspires to be the leader H Corporate Headquarters S Speciality Yarn Spinning Esquel Enterprises Limited among textile manufacturers in innovation and environmental M Merchandising Office F Fabric Mill 13/F, Harbour Centre 25 Harbour Road, Wanchai protection, as well as in aspects related to corporate social R Retail and Direct Distribution A Apparel Making Hong Kong responsibility. Esquel’s goal is to contribute positively to the C Cotton Farming, Ginning and Spinning P Accessories and Packaging www.esquel.com communities it operates in, while growing a sustainable business. * Kashi, Akesu, Changji, Urumqi and Turpan F R O M A S O L I D F O U N D AT I O N 08 FROM A SOLID FOUNDATION A sustainable organization is one that develops its competencies within a framework that combines strengths to create value. At Esquel, we apply the strengths of our integrated supply chain, prudent commercial practices, corporate culture, stakeholder learning and the innovations of technology and science to continually transform our business. “Our business VERTICALLY-INTEGRATED development strategy SUPPLY CHAIN focuses on quality Our vertically-integrated supply chain offers a distinctive advantage. growth, giving clarity The value we deliver distinguishes us as a global industry leader. Control to our business of core processes—from cottonseed research to product retailing— enables the critical end-to-end thinking on where and how we can deliver objectives and the such value. development of our Being vertically integrated enables the holistic understanding of risks potential.” and their impact. We are well positioned to identify, prioritize and manage cross-supply-chain consequences. This allows the efficient allocation of resources and provides the framework for efficient process flows and productive work practices. Through partnerships with stakeholders, we explore opportunities afforded by disruptive thinking to redesign and innovate. We are, for example, currently working with a major supplier to develop a waterless dyeing process applicable to the dyeing of cotton yarn. E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 09 The supply chain also gives visibility to the spectrum of talent and REVENUE GROWTH 2010–2014 skills needed for business growth. As we grow, our human-resources Sales 1,400 (US$ million) 1,398 requirements can be efficiently forecast at all stages of production. Importantly, promising talent from across the supply chain can be 1,315 1,300 identified for career opportunities within the wider organization. 1,234 1,200 1,191 PRUDENT COMMERCIAL PRINCIPLES 1,100 Our business development strategy focuses on quality growth, giving 1,000 clarity to our business objectives and the development of our potential. 970 This is about expanding and diversifying our market presence. This 900 translates to securing more customer orders that optimize asset utilization, production capacities and worker productivity. We achieve 800 this through developing a more focused, partnership-oriented 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 customer base. INFORMED DECISION-MAKING From a US$33 million installation of reverse-osmosis technology that BOARD DIVERSITY turns wastewater into clean, drinkable water, to improving dormitory living Gender Total standards, business decisions are based on generating positive value. Male 4 Supporting this is our longer-term view on investment returns that allows Female 2 us the opportunity to explore more diverse options when considering best solutions. Decision-making is taken within an established risk management framework that is economically sensible and which ensures the best “Our business allocation of resources. We mitigate against risks and implement the management tools necessary to address exposures such as currency decisions are based fluctuations, geopolitical events and unexpected production interruptions. on generating Our risk approach also considers preventive actions. Our seed technology research produces strains that are more droughtand pest-resistant. measurable net When assessing supplier risk, we refer to organizations and programs positive value.” such as the China-specific “Green Choice Alliance” for supplier ratings in environmental performance. To align with the quality growth strategy and manage external market risks, we periodically rebalance our customer portfolio. Overseeing this decision-making framework is our Board of Directors, comprising executive and independent non-executive directors. The Board observes high standards of governance in keeping with our overarching philosophy of delivering value to our owners and stakeholders. The Board uses a comprehensive set of management systems, procedures and practices to monitor operations effectively and to safeguard internal controls. F R O M A S O L I D F O U N D AT I O N 10 INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY : QUALITY GROWTH Process Efficiencies Sales & SEED Farming Spinning Fabric Manufacturing Trims Merchandising Retail SHIRT Business Redesign As our quality growth strategy evolves, the increased interplay with stakeholder interests advances organizational sustainability. Standardized and large-volume orders improve process management through better forecasting, procurement and resources planning. Efficiencies are realized through subsequent capacity management and integrated supply-chain production flows. Established long-term partnerships introduce new service models and collaboration within the supply chain, to which our business—along with its constituent processes—then gets redesigned appropriately, in order to improve learning, technologies, skills and fabric science. It is the continuous and cyclic interaction between efficiencies and redesign that differentiates us, improves our competencies and enhances integrated sustainability. E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 11 FARMING MANUFACTURING >9,200 TONS OF PREMIUM EXTRA-LONG-STAPLE (ELS) COTTON GINNED IN XINJIANG IN 2014 110 MILLION SHIRTS WERE PRODUCED BY 20 FACTORIES WORLDWIDE IN 2014 SPINNING TRIMS (ACCESSORIES & PACKAGING) >281,000 SPINDLES WORK 24/7 TO PRODUCE HIGH-COUNT AND SPECIALTY YARN ~60% OF ACCESSORIES AND PACKAGING IS PRODUCED INTERNALLY FABRIC SALES & MERCHANDISING 140 30 WE HAVE AN ANNUAL CAPACITY OF CORE CUSTOMERS ARE SERVED BY 12 OFFICES MILLION LOCATED IN KEY GLOBAL MARKETS RETAIL PYE YARDS OF WOVEN FABRIC AND 24,000 TONS OF KNIT FABRIC 6 RETAIL SHOPS OPERATE IN LANDMARK LOCATIONS IN MAINLAND CHINA AND HONG KONG Our vertically-integrated supply chain allows for efficient cross-supply-chain planning to meet capacity demand and ensure optimal asset utilization. Selected efficiencies and value gained in 2014 are highlighted on page 2 of this report. F R O M A S O L I D F O U N D AT I O N 12 CORPORATE CULTURE At Esquel, we believe that every employee has the potential to be an agent of positive change. Our 5E-Culture—defined as Ethics, Environment, Exploration, Excellence and Education—puts this into practice. We are committed to ethical behavior. Each individual is expected to maintain our high standards and respect others in all circumstances. We are passionate about the environment and we work tirelessly to safeguard the health of this planet for future generations. We explore possibilities and seek new ways of doing Ethics, Environment, Exploration, Excellence and Education things by being curious and questioning the status quo. We strive for excellence in all that we do and we deeply value education, which leads to further discovery and knowledge in this digital age, so that we can be the best in ourselves, our industry and our community. We see our corporate culture at work every day across the organization. For example, for Environment and Exploration, we are experimenting to develop better vegetable dyes and use of natural pest controls in cotton fields. In our offices, guided by Excellence and Education, the Skywalker program engages 250 volunteers from across the company to mentor over 7,000 staff on the use of Microsoft Office 365 as our primary office productivity suite. E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 13 Inspired by the 5E-Culture, the annual Creativity 2000 competition (page 30) solicits creative ideas and invites teams from across the company to showcase their efforts to achieve improvements in the workplace. This competition inspires the can-do spirit that energizes our workforce. STAKEHOLDER FOCUSED In preparation for this report, we conducted a priority stakeholder identification process. The outcome corroborated the general alignment of prioritized groups with previously acknowledged top stakeholder categories. These are business owners, management and employees, customers, regulators, suppliers and the communities in which we operate. We also take into consideration our relationships with external Board members and the financial institutions with which we work. Stakeholder engagement looks beyond the business proposition. It Partnership with our suppliers stimulates the innovation that transforms fabric research into is about building relationships that share common values and creating real-world applications. synergy. Our business owners and managers guide our sustainability, while employees help to develop workplace practices that engender trust. Our suppliers share new thinking that enables mutual growth. “Stakeholder Customers introduce product innovation and broaden our market intelligence. Governments and regulators provide us with the baselines engagement looks for our social and environmental behavior. Communities give us our beyond the business license to operate and our financial partners align us with prudent proposition. It is about commercial practices. building relationships SUPPLIERS — CULTIVATING PARTNERSHIPS that share common Cultivating long-term partnerships with suppliers promotes innovation values and creating and shared values related to business sustainability within the supply synergy.” chain. Interaction transfers technical skills, improves efficiencies and enhances productivity. This leads to stronger, more resilient and more profitable operations. We undertake joint research and development with our suppliers, leveraging our strengths for better outcomes. One example of this is the development of new technologies for sewing machines. Among the many activities we undertake with our supplier partners, our supplier-specific forums share the latest industry developments and stimulate internal R&D, in particular for best environmental practices. The switch to biodegradable enzymes in washing generates positive results for both the business and the environment. We are recognized as a partner who seeks to innovate products. F R O M A S O L I D F O U N D AT I O N 14 INNOVATION: TECHNOLOGY AND SCIENCE Technology empowers us to be a highly-efficient organization that learns and grows. We listen and respond better to our workforce. We incubate and develop ideas collectively and we form virtual communities to disseminate new practices. Such connectivity enables mobility and collaboration, as seen with our internal customers who use the EsquelPass mobile app. With migration to the Cloud platform, the whole company is present on a single online window, facilitating the ability to crowd-source and innovate in new ways. Yammer, the enterprise social network we use, facilitates peer-to-peer “Our testing gives interaction and education. It enhances our 5E-Culture and popularizes credible feedback social interaction through platforms such as Reading Club, where people and encourages share their thoughts on topics of interest, or Green Trade, where users trade and donate new and used items. our research specialists Within our factories, advanced technologies significantly improve to look beyond a production and process flows. Computerized systems closely manage specific purpose toward order traceability, while automation boosts productivity and enhances overall business the workplace skills that lead to quality employment. Our use of data and impact and benefit.” deployment of robotics and the AI (artificial intelligence)–enabled Baxter robot hold promise for further efficiency gains, while maintaining our cost competiveness. SCIENCE Some 3% of our annual sales budget funds research and development. This enhances our capabilities in developing eco-solutions. We have professionally-trained talent for the development and application of new fabric science, eco-processing and better work methodologies. Our testing gives credible feedback and encourages our research specialists to look beyond a specific purpose toward overall business impact and benefit. When developing our patented Esquel Durable Press (EDP) wrinkle-free treatment, we engineered a new process introduced at the fabric-finishing stage, using less water and energy while eliminating a more time-consuming process at a later stage of garment production. Collaboration and partnerships with other parties in scientific research enables us to be better informed about the latest developments and scientific breakthroughs that might impact our business. Working with tertiary research institutions and global suppliers, breakthroughs have been seen in advanced water-treatment infrastructure, automation on the factory floor and the nanotechnologies that serve us well in today’s increasingly-competitive operating environment. E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 15 ASPIRATIONS IN ACTION Latest data places China’s textile industry third among all other domestic industries for its 3 billion tons of wastewater discharge and second for its chemical oxygen demand (COD) loading. Some 17% to 20% of the nation’s industrial water pollution is from textile and dyeing treatment. The industry is also among the most energy-intensive industries nationally, consuming some 110 million tons of coal in 2012 alone.* While we cannot improve these statistics single-handedly, we hope to introduce an alternative to how to operate the business. Using our sustainability strategy’s four focus areas of Planet, People, Product and Community as the compass points for action, we employ our talent, technology and relentless curiosity to seek innovative solutions. * The Textile Industry Leaps Forward with Clean by Design: Less Environmental Impact With Bigger Profits, NRDC (p.2); ChinaWaterRisk.org A S P I R AT I O N S I N A C T I O N E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 17 PLANET As a cotton grower and textile manufacturer, we have directly witnessed the environmental degradation accumulated over 40 years due to the rapid economic development in China. We respond actively to some of our industry’s biggest environmental challenges, specifically in relation to energy, water, air quality, chemicals and waste. A S P I R AT I O N S I N A C T I O N PLANET 18 “As a China-based OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH operator, we support To promote the ground-level sustainable development of operations, and join national we have designed internal environmental management systems initiatives such as the that outperform national and international standards. Each facility’s environmental impact and potential consequence are closely Corporate Information measured and managed to understand what works well and what can Transparency Index be improved. (CITI) developed by We actively participate in industry initiatives to benchmark the Institute of Public & performance. We pilot-tested the Sustainable Apparel Coalition Environmental Affairs (SAC) Higg Index 2.0 in 2013 and continue to use it as a performance measurement across our global operations. Importantly, the Index helps (IPE) and the Natural us to identify cost-saving opportunities and catalyzes internal education Resources Defense and collaboration. Council (NRDC).” As a China-based operator, we support and join national initiatives such as the Corporate Information Transparency Index (CITI) developed by the Institute of Public & Environmental Affairs (IPE) and the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC). Their 2014 Greening the Global Supply Chain report evaluated 147 international brands for supply-chain environmental practices. Esquel ranked third overall and was the only textile and apparel manufacturer among the top ten. We see this ranking as the fruit of our past hard work, yet a strong reminder that more is required. E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 19 ENERGY Progressive applications of energy-efficient technologies and the upgrading of machinery and equipment have significantly reduced our global energy consumption by 20% per unit of production since 2010, while our global garment production has grown by more than 22% in the same period. Significantly, we have reduced energy consumption by 43% from 2005 to 2014, while garment production increased by 75% over the same 10 years. With most major refurbishments, retrofitting and improvements having now been completed, gaining additional energy efficiency is even more Careful management of our thermal power plant contributes to emissions reduction. challenging. However, improvements are continuously being made, as seen with our year-on-year use reduction. We currently focus on additional production process improvements, renewable energies and innovative technologies. We have introduced a broad range of initiatives that target process improvement and the reduction of energy use along our supply chain. Management teams at all production plants oversee implementation and monitor progress. Programs include promotion of environmental awareness and a new energy management system to systematically collect and analyse data. At our textile manufacturing center in Guangdong Province, we have set a stringent target of 15% energy savings for 2014–2016, against our 2013 baseline. We realize that gaining signifi cant additional energy savings at this center will be more diffi cult due to maturing effi ciencies and the wider variety of product mixes. However, with the introduction of the Energy Management System (EMS) in Guangdong and our continued focus on energy management, we anticipate progressive improvements. In Sri Lanka, our biomass boiler project demonstrates our further energy-saving initiatives. The boiler consumes cotton fabric waste as renewable fuel and has reduced our carbon footprint there by half since its adoption in 2014. Energy consumption per unit of production GLOBAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION REDUCED reduced globally (2010–2014) PER UNIT OF PRODUCTION 100% 100% 90% 86% 80% 0% 78% 76% 71% 68% 65% 0% 60% 61% 57% 0% 40% 0% 20% 0% 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 A S P I R AT I O N S I N A C T I O N PLANET 20 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE Gov allowable Esquel COD WATER Clean water is a scarce resource in China. As an early mover in 2014 72 100 sustaining natural resources and the environment, Esquel has 2013 taken aggressive action in applying technologies and investing in 82 infrastructure to protect our water resources and mitigate the impact 2012 84 on the local water environment. 2011 In Guangdong Province, where our water use is concentrated, water 86 is sourced from and returned to municipal supply, potentially exposing 2010 84 us to shared community-use issues in future. At our main complex there, we have installed one of China’s textile industry’s largest wastewater Average concentration of COD treatment plants, capable of processing up to 38,000 tons per day. Designed as a total-solutions treatment center, the quality of water returned to source ranks well above required standards. It significantly reduces processing odors and completes treatment with a separate process for efficient sludge dewatering and drying, ready for disposal by approved waste operators. Treatments are monitored and tracked in real time to enhance transparency and benchmark activities for future improvements. The utilization of wastewater is seen as a viable solution to existing clean water shortages. Wastewater recycling is an important step in the textile industry's future operations, in which water use will be regulated by permits for volume and wastewater quality. In 2011, with supplier collaboration, we developed and installed a reverse-osmosis recycling Our wastewater treatment plant is designed as a total-solutions treatment center. system capable of processing 5,000 tons of wastewater per day into potable quality that we subsequently reuse in production. During 2014, this recycled water replaced 10% of the total water consumed at the “We have installed main complex in Guangdong Province. Reducing water consumption within our manufacturing processes one of China’s textile is also a challenging goal. We achieved a 26% water consumption industry’s largest reduction per unit of production from 2010–2014 on a global basis. wastewater treatment On a ten-year measurement basis, we reduced water consumption by plants, capable of a strong 57% per unit of production. Similar to energy management, processing up to water management is a continuous effort involving identification and use of water saving technologies, next-generation equipment, process 38,000 tons per day.” improvements and research and development. Our water management solutions extend beyond textile and garment production. Better farming and crop practices, including drip irrigation, that are now widely adopted in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, safeguard scarce groundwater supplies. Internationally, equipment upgrades and a planned new water treatment plant are in progress at our Sri Lanka factory. In Malaysia, we replaced underground water pipes, improved washroom facilities and implemented other solutions, achieving more than 50% savings in 2014. E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 21 Group water consumption continues to decrease, albeit at a slower pace. Maturing efficiencies coupled with the increased water demand needed for fast fashion production challenges our way forward Confident in our continued innovation and advanced processes, we have committed to an internal global target of a 20% reduction over the next three years, from our 2013 baseline. All facilities are closely monitored for savings opportunities and managed for better efficiencies, with appropriate programs progressively enacted. Water consumption per unit of production GROUP WATER CONSUMPTION REDUCED reduced globally (2010–2014) PER UNIT OF PRODUCTION 100% 100% 83% 80 73% 63% 60 60% 58% 51% 47% 44% 43% 40 20 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 ECO-WASH INNOVATION When seeking improved water and energy efficiencies on the Green Machine uses no more than 40 liters of water per load, against a Zero wastewater factory floor, Esquel realized a better-than-market alternative was conventional wash that uses 1,000 liters. There is zero wastewater discharge discharge possible when working with the and the process time is shortened by light washing process. Tasked with an average of approximately 39%, thus Approximately the eco-wash challenge, the Green capturing lean production advantages. Machine was internally developed The process is structured to reduce to not only reduce resource use, both manual handling and garment but also to enhance lean production movement, supporting a worker-friendly through the reduction of manual environment. handling at this stage of the garment The machine was piloted at our liters of water saved per load manufacturing process. main production facility in China in This revolutionary light washing process is used for approximately 50% of the wash programs at Esquel involving a basic wash cycle. The 2011. With its proven savings in costs, resources and time, Green Machines are now at work in all our washing plants globally. US$3.50 saved per load A S P I R AT I O N S I N A C T I O N PLANET 22 “Globally, rooftop EMISSIONS solar panels are being Air quality is beyond crisis point in urban China. The 12th Five Year Plan sets planned for selected rigorous targets to control emissions that impact all industries, with the textile factories, while natural industry among the top 13 industries cited by the Chinese Government. The robust energy management systems across our global facilities lighting and LED light are the main control mechanisms for carbon and other greenhouse sources are already gas (GHG) emissions. The GHG Protocol and ISO 14064 are used to common fixtures at track and measure emissions from all our China operations and keep us all facilities.” abreast of global standards. At our thermal power plant in Guangdong Province, we use low-sulfur coal, desulfurize waste lye onsite and use electrostatic precipitation to reduce air pollutants. For ongoing energy needs, we are increasing our use of alternative energy technologies. A pilot 1-megawatt solar energy project is scheduled to commence service in late 2015. Globally, rooftop solar panels are being planned for selected factories, while natural lighting and LED light sources are already common fixtures at all facilities. Carbon emissions cap and trade—now coming of age in Southern China—offers a timely avenue for further managing our CO2 emissions. The textile manufacturing sector of Guangdong is in preparation for inclusion in future trading, with no date of commencement so far announced. We are following developments closely and are internally preparing for participation. CO2 EQUIVALENT EMISSION DATA AVERAGE CONCENTRATION OF NOx 2013 2014 Standard BASED ON ISO 14064: 500 (mg/nM 3) 450 400 Year CO 2 Emissions (Tons) 300 2010 696,668 200 200 100 238 247 252 247 231 2011 666,794 148 0 95 91.3 2012 645,003 2013Q1 2013Q2 2013Q3 2013Q4 2014Q1 2014Q2 2014Q3 2014Q4 2013 631,285 AVERAGE CONCENTRATION OF SO2 2014 628,671 450 (mg/nM 3) 400 360 Includes all operating plants in Guangdong 270 Province. Includes internal transportation but 200 180 excludes transportation by external companies. 90 102 110 107 98 93 91 97 95 0 2013Q1 2013Q2 2013Q3 2013Q4 2014Q1 2014Q2 2014Q3 2014Q4 AVERAGE CONCENTRATION OF FLUE GAS & DUST 60 (mg/nM 3) 48 50 36 24 20 40 12 16.7 19.5 18.5 18.6 19.1 0 13.5 11.5 2013Q1 2013Q2 2013Q3 2013Q4 2014Q1 2014Q2 2014Q3 2014Q4 Includes all operating plants in Guangdong Province. E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 23 CHEMICALS MANAGEMENT STANDARDS / AFFILIATIONS With chemicals, our goal is not just to eliminate pollutants and toxins at the end of the production process, but also to reduce, substitute and eliminate chemical additives from the outset. Our challenge is to keep pace with the continuous variety of chemicals and new formulas available and to understand their potential impact. Our two research centers are strategically located, one at our Xinjiang operations and the other at the Guangdong production complex. Each center undertakes rigorous research and testing in the actual operating arena to develop eco-efficient solutions. We formulate new mixes from chemicals for better eco-performance, reengineer wet processing to reduce chemical use, study new enzymes and develop natural and organic dyes. We recently introduced a garment pretreatment and finishing that uses only biological and biodegradable products. We cooperate with international suppliers, university research centers and standards organizations to develop and set more stringent guidelines for chemicals use. We operate our own Restricted Substance List (RSL) that is monitored and enforced through a rigorous system of testing and verification. All suppliers must comply with the list’s requirements. We take a preventive approach to the people–chemical interface. Strict protocols in labeling, use, transport and storage are in place at all facilities where chemicals are used. Protective clothing is provided and specialist training for staff is undertaken. Those handling chemicals undergo annual health checkups. In Guangdong, we stage an ammonia-gas-explosion emergency drill annually involving 30 staff members, as well as local emergency services such as fire departments and hospitals. The drill prepares staff for the rapid and correct response should an accident occur. UP TO TEXTILE WASTE Prevention drives our textile waste management. We employ a high degree of automation and computerization to reduce errors and improve precision 3,000 across our fabric and garment manufacturing processes. In parallel, we work with customers to plan and manage their orders for a better supplyand-demand match. Recent initiatives engage our customers for upcycled solutions. Some 2,000–3,000 tons of left-over cotton and fabric have been recycled into blankets, sports shirt lines for retailers and fiber content for a tons of textile waste are now upcycled into project partner's staff uniforms. We also continue the useful life of leftover blankets, sports shirt collections and staff garments in cooperation with World Vision, through which 30,000–40,000 uniforms for our customers and recycling partners. shirts are distributed annually to needy users globally. Challenges remain. Recycling fibers is technically demanding, while imports of left-over materials into China are restricted. We continue to address these issues and attempt to find solutions going forward. A S P I R AT I O N S I N A C T I O N E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 25 PEOPLE We foster a culture and working environment that respect each of our colleagues and offer a future in skills and career advancement. We practise a work–life balance that is essential to today’s social aspirations at the workplace. A S P I R AT I O N S I N A C T I O N PEOPLE 26 HUMAN RESOURCES STRATEGY Esquel employs over 57,000 staff globally, with close to 100% on a full-time basis. The health and safety, job satisfaction and quality of life of each of our Esquel colleagues are priorities. To this end, we foster a culture and working environment that respect the individual and offer of vacant management positions were filled a future in skills and career advancement. We also actively promote a internally in 2014 healthy work–life balance approach to employment. We believe in building local operating strengths, workforce skills and mutual trust among workers, managers and the community. Fundamental Locally hired individuals filled to our business is the decision not to chase cheaper labor locations as wages rise. Rather, we commit to improving competencies in the countries where we have an established presence. This is supported by our policy of progressive localization of management and staff, augmented by training and mentoring of talent so that our people can confidently assume greater job responsibilities as we grow in each country. of management positions in global operations This is challenging as worker demographics and social expectations in 2014 rapidly change. We balance the impact through productivity-enhancing automation, lean practices and competencies enhancement. Through these steps, we open employment opportunities to the growing strata of WORKFORCE DEMOGRAPHICS 2014 the technically-skilled younger generation and to qualified professionals. Gender Total New Hires Our strategy of progressive localization of management and staff Male 16,080 5,887 promotes in-country job creation and, importantly, development and Female 40,961 14,261 training in international management skills. Recruitment prioritizes internal candidacy. We offer career pathways to promising talent and ensure well-rounded exposure to both company and industry through job rotation and personal mentoring. In 2014, to fill the 47 “Recruitment prioritizes corporate management vacancies, we promoted 37 internal employees. internal candidacy. Planning for our future company leaders is guided by a formal We offer career succession system. Potential candidates are nominated by their department pathways to promising heads and related gaps in position requirements are identified. Candidates talent and ensure wellare mentored and agreed targets are set under the GAIPE (Global Annual Incentive Plan at Esquel) program. A parallel process is in place for rounded exposure to additional internal manager nomination, while alternative consideration is both company and given outside our industry to find the right fit with our shared values and industry through job broader market experience. Complementing this is our GOAL (Growth rotation and personal Opportunity for Accelerated Leaders) program, tailored to middlemanagement career advancement. GOAL uses tiered training and mentoring.” cross-functional exposure to prepare managers for their future roles and responsibilities. Annual performance reviews and bonus assessments are conducted for all staff using a set of agreed personal and corporate targets, as well as core and functional competencies specific to the position. With the expansion of managerial planning, we are now strengthening our performance-assessment methodologies to achieve more standardized and systematized metrics. E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 27 WORKPLACE CODE OF CONDUCT Our Workplace Code of Conduct*, established in 2005, sets out our commitment to providing good working conditions and fair wages for all employees. It confirms our position on international human rights and ethical behavior. While specific to Esquel, the Code aligns with the Fair Labor Association’s (FLA) Code of Conduct and international standards. Esquel’s Code is posted prominently at all our operating sites and is translated into the languages of all employees at each location. * http://www.esquel.com/CodeOfConduct.pdf HEALTH AND SAFETY Providing a healthy and safe environment for our employees is Our standards fundamental to how we operate. Following a stringent management framework, operational heads track all accidents and incidents, conduct are aligned with safety reviews and provide training. Significantly, safety performance is international labor, linked to annual bonus assessments. All Esquel factories have an Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) health and safety committee chaired by the director of operations at that site. A safety and environmental officer is assigned to monitor and report on performance against internal targets and works with the corporate EHS team and all key managers at standards. the facility. All factories are monitored regularly and undergo stringent safety systems inspections biannually. Audits related to EHS are conducted by internal teams and external organizations, as well as by customer representatives. Areas of importance include fire and building safety, emergency preparedness, dust and noise control, indoor air quality and chemicals management. The majority of workplace accidents are minor, usually involving interface with machine moving parts, such as in sewing machines, and are addressed systematically. A S P I R AT I O N S I N A C T I O N PEOPLE 28 LABOR PRACTICES AND HUMAN RIGHTS 159 110 NUMBER OF EXTERNAL AUDITS In 2005, Esquel established an internal oversight system to monitor compliance with local labor and environmental regulations and international standards and practices. Managed by the Corporate (2006) (2014) Social Responsibility (CSR) team, at least one person is allocated to each site to monitor and support system implementation. Under the system, operations managers are trained in labor and environmental “In cooperation with compliance and in understanding external stakeholder perspectives customers and industry related to these areas. The CSR department’s primary role is to work with operations to stakeholders, we align with corporate culture, identify real and potential gaps and drive seek better auditing continuous improvement. This is facilitated through internal audits efficiencies to reduce conducted jointly with the Internal Audit Department. Esquel also hosts non-value-added audits numerous customer audits and participates in various projects with customers and other stakeholders. In cooperation with customers and and build consensus industry stakeholders, we seek better auditing efficiencies to reduce on a common industry non-value-added audits and build consensus on a common industry standard for auditing.” standard for auditing. External audits have been reduced from 159 in 2006 to 110 in 2014, during which time Esquel also added several new factory sites. E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 29 The impact of our efforts to ensure better labor practices is most visible when addressing material workforce issues on the factory floor: “All employees WORKER AND MANAGEMENT COMMUNICATIONS are trained in their We encourage a proactive and open environment in which employees workplace rights can directly communicate with their supervisors, while also having a clear alternative choice, if needed. In Mauritius and Malaysia, for example, and expected where contracted foreign labor is a workforce necessity, translators ethical behavior.” are employed to serve as conduits for communications in all areas, including training in employment rights, living environments, wage calculations and performance expectations. ALIGNMENT WITH Open workplace communications allow workers to raise issues MAJOR LABOR ORGANIZATIONS without fear of retribution and with the confidence that their concerns AND RELEVANT ASSOCIATIONS will be properly addressed. As a top priority for how we manage grievances, we continue to use the rights-based grievance mechanism defined in the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs), which was developed by Dr. John Ruggie. While effective, we continue to work with and refine each mechanism to fit cultural sensitivities and challenges at each work site. In 2014, we tracked and addressed 734 grievances raised throughout our 20 garment factory sites, which employ a total of 42,000 people. No violations of indigenous rights were reported. OVERTIME AND WAGES In line with trends in worker lifestyle aspirations and competition from growing service sector employment opportunities, Esquel closely tracks all employee wage levels to ensure we are competitive and that work hours at the factory level are appropriate. This is balanced by creating efficiencies in customer order planning and management, productivity at our factories and better quality controls. The inherent business issues of seasonal product demands and pressure for shorter lead times continue to create challenges in managing work hours at certain times throughout the year. Other challenges are related to both internal and external supplychain performance and unavoidable events such as power outages, which sometimes trigger the need for overtime to meet schedules. A wellestablished system is in place to track and monitor instances that may require overtime requests. In our review process we make every effort to avoid any negative impact on our employees. We continue to study root causes and to work with our business partners along the supply chain to deal with these needs and to reduce their occurrence. DIGNITY AT THE WORKPLACE All employees are trained in their workplace rights and expected ethical behavior. This includes awareness of and appropriate response to discrimination, corruption, harassment and abuse of employees. In collaboration with the HR and CSR departments, managers cascade this training throughout the organization and monitor and report any breaches to the respective teams. All remedial actions are tracked and reported. A S P I R AT I O N S I N A C T I O N PEOPLE 30 TOTAL GROUP TRAINING HOURS 2014 SKILLS TRAINING AND ENHANCEMENT Category Total Average Hours All employees undergo mentored training for their job-specific per Employee functions. Further training in general safety and health, first aid Staff 161,795 21 and safe road-travel practices is conducted regularly. Specialist or Workers 212,061 4.2 hazardous occupations require specific training to manage exposure Excludes on-the-job training and direct hands-on training for workers on the factory floor. to chemical use or for work in high-risk environments. All workers in hazardous occupations are issued appropriate equipment and undergo a mandatory annual physical examination. Facility managers, in addition to job-specific responsibilities, are trained to manage advanced technical processes within their portfolio. They are also expected to enhance their leadership skills through further training in worker communications, managing the younger generation and mentoring workers under their supervision. Through these added proficiencies, we are transitioning our management teams to lead our next-generation workforce. “We offer training in WORK– LIFE BALANCE financial literacy, as The diversity of cultures and generational aspirations among our workforce well as health and keep us young and innovative. We encourage a well-rounded lifestyle hygiene, and we provide by offering a broad spectrum of activities that cater to local cultures and tastes. As a strong supporter of exercise and team sports, at most of our maternity and paternity factories we have built facilities for activities such as soccer, table tennis, leave that allows ample basketball and badminton. We sponsor inter-factory league competitions time for adjustment for and host the annual Esquel Sports Weekend at our main Guangdong the family.” facility. In daily work life, our canteens offer healthy and balanced food, Family days at our offices and factories celebrate families and friends aim to foster a sense of community among our employees. E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 31 mindful of ethnic preferences and choice. We regularly stage family and community fun days and celebrate local festivals. A significant portion of our workforce is women. We offer training in financial literacy, as well as health and hygiene, and we provide maternity and paternity leave that allows ample time for adjustment for the family. In factories where we track such rates, we achieve a high rate maternity leave return rates in 2014 of return (84% in 2014). We also encourage new parents to share their family joy with fellow workers on Yammer. Augmenting these programs, we offer self-improvement and lifelong learning opportunities. The Esquel University offers a structured curriculum for the training and development of our staff, which is conducted through traditional classroom settings, on-the-job training and online formats. The EsquelPass is a mobile app developed to give every employee, including workers, access to company-wide content. We also encourage staff to volunteer in community activities organized by the Esquel–Y.L. Yang Education Foundation and thereby to extend our “family” beyond the factory sites. CREATIVITY 2000 Creativity 2000 was established in 2000 as an annual competition better water management and process improvements. Telling stories open to our global operations that selects creative projects best The winning team from Sri Lanka chose Education, with their “Express and sharing illustrating how our 5E-Culture influences and improves Yourself to Fly” submission, which explored the promotion of social experiences organizational behavior. Approximately 60–80 projects innovation though industrial harmony. Four factories participated in a create empathy are submitted each year under one group competition to encourage Approximately 60-80 of the five categories that represent direct communication and build our 5E-culture (Ethics, Environment, trust. Participants submitted their Exploration, Excellence and personal stories and experiences that Education). After two rounds of demonstrated how trust and mutual preliminary review and judging by commitment build harmony. A sixprojects are submitted each year senior management, a winner is step program was developed, with selected for each category. The results measuring substantial growth 2014 winners hailed from Vietnam, in the personal choice for direct Sri Lanka and China and covered worker communications. such areas as staff empowerment, A S P I R AT I O N S I N A C T I O N E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 33 PRODUCT The luxury, comfort and durability of our cotton shirts are the hallmark of customer satisfaction. Technology enables us to streamline production processes, yet maintain the personal identity that each shirt offers. A S P I R AT I O N S I N A C T I O N PRODUCT 34 Having a reliable supply of Extra-Long-Staple (ELS) cotton is a core competency of Esquel. Our two ginning mills in Xinjiang have an annual supply capacity of over 10,000 tons, which meets over 60% of our demand for this premium grade of cotton. Our presence there has given us a unique market insight into seasonal supply and demand, as well as an understanding of the fluctuations caused by market YEARS and regulatory conditions. To address these supply risks, Esquel has developed long-term relationships with pima cotton growers and suppliers in the United States and in other countries. operating in Xinjiang Our 20-year presence in Xinjiang has also given us direct experience in farming constraints and risks. Esquel’s investments have modernized local farming practices for better crop yield and quality. We share expertise on water conservation and responsible use of chemicals, plastics and pesticides. We are careful to ensure that communities benefit economically to continue a thriving regional farming culture. Since 1998, we have been buying directly from farmers at open market prices. We also employ internal tracking systems with farmers to ensure traceability of procured cotton. E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 35 Recent efforts have expanded the capacity to grow premium cotton and improve the robustness of our ELS seed stock. Through our research “Having a reliable in genome sequencing, we have engineered seed varieties for pest supply of Extraresistance and cultivation in arid conditions, anticipating severe weather disruptions as well as the emerging global issue of crop competition. Long-Staple (ELS) We pay for manual picking to ensure better raw cotton quality and have introduced technologies into our ginning factories to improve fiber quality. cotton is a core We practice a no-waste culture, selling by-products for oil and noncompetency of garment use, as well as recycling waste from harvesting and ginning to subcontractors for their own use. Esquel.” INTELLIGENT INNOVATION Fabric science is a key focus of innovation at Esquel. We explore new functions, construction and material aspects of fabric to engineer best performance. This also applies to ELS 700-yarn-count development to produce the finest cotton yarn. We also produce specialty blends using cotton and other natural fibers, as well as developing environmentally-friendly dyes, treatments and finishes for value-added textile products. Collaboration is a strategic component of our focus on innovations. With our partners, we explore new ways to operate and develop better product and machinery. In recent years, our work with international partners such as Novozymes and Chemical Dynamics, Inc., has “Our recycled yarns developed dyeing technologies and processes that save water, energy and fabrics find new and chemicals use. We also cooperate with our industry colleagues in life as garment tags, China. Together with Shanghai Weishi Machinery Co., Ltd., we designed eight new types of presser machines over two years, which have been in while our teams have operation since 2009. engineered production Our product line extends to accessories and packaging materials of organic cotton trims designed to keep pace with market and consumer trends. Our and upcycled woven recycled yarns and fabrics find new life as garment tags, while our fabric waste to labels teams have engineered production of organic cotton trims and upcycled woven fabric waste to labels and bags. We also recycle and bags.” buttons and use 3D printing for new ones. In 2014, eco-friendly products contributed to approximately 9.3% of total sales revenue from the accessories division. A S P I R AT I O N S I N A C T I O N PRODUCT 36 WORKER PRODUCTIVITY 2010–2014 WHOLE SYSTEM MANUFACTURING Revenue per employee US$ thousand 23.9 Today’s efficient textile and garment production is about managing the disruption that fast fashion brings to the traditional manufacturing 22.5 22.3 process. The challenge is to redesign for efficiency and productivity, while 22.2 22 responsibly managing resources and assets. We devote substantial efforts to research and development. In 20 addition to fabric performance, we focus on opportunities in process automation and lean manufacturing. Esquel holds over 100 patents in 18.9 automation, many of which are for machine adaptations and materials 18 handling. The Technical Development Center conducts cross-functional analysis of the production path to achieve best practices. Our integrated 16 supply chain encourages process-interface control for optimal efficiencies and, significantly, for notable error and waste reduction across the 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 manufacturing process. Training of workers for multi-skilling and technical proficiency go hand-in-hand with productivity-enhancing automation and the upgrading of plants and equipment. Aided by our Management of Change procedures, we ensure safe human-to-machine interface, while training for optimal productivity. This people-plus-technology approach has significantly improved productivity. VALUE-ADDED SERVICES We maintain close relations with our customers to exchange ideas on market intelligence. This close engagement catalyzes competency improvement, stimulates new working processes and, importantly, fuels the redesign within the supply chain for better environmental performance. Our vertically-integrated supply chain brings the value of sustainable manufacturing to the customers. E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 37 Sharing their fashion experience inspires learning. We codevelop “We choose to move product designs that consider the most efficient construction beyond expectations processes. Guided by our quality growth strategy, we optimize asset utilization and long-term capacity planning with customers to ensure and cultivate a retail timely delivery and better cost management. culture that values In 2014, we introduced the online portal for the 24/7 Collection quality materials and program. By creating an interactive platform for this product offering craftsmanship.” introduced in 2007, our customers can select their chosen design and color of shirt from our extensive range of in-house fabrics on a more timely basis. The option of a never-out-of-stock fabric, combined with inhouse garment production, provides the quick production response and one-stop shopping valued by our customers. Our own retail brand, PYE, does more than educate us on customer expectations. While we stand by our reputation for quality, traceability, cost and delivery, we choose to move beyond expectations and cultivate a retail culture that values quality materials and craftsmanship. Through PYE, we demonstrate that sustainable design and manufacturing are viable and profitable. The PYE shirt is about the future of fashion itself. THE ECOLOGICAL SHIRT Our ECOLOGICAL shirt, a concept water consumption—even at the cropManufacturing of the product in our retail brand, PYE, growing phase—and in better managing ECOLOGICAL shirt consumes 84% less water, boasts an impressive environmental each shirt’s carbon footprint. We believe footprint. Its manufacturing process that style, quality and responsible uses 85% less chemicals, 84% less manufacturing go hand-in-hand in the water and 17% less energy than for clothing industry. comparable products. These quantum As a pioneer in the art of shirt making, leaps in garment manufacturing have Esquel has reengineered the production been achieved by reengineering the pipeline to reduce water and energy entire shirt-production process to consumption per shirt by an average of be more ecological. It begins with 57% and 43%, respectively, over the past less chemicals and 17% less choosing only the whitest raw cotton 10 years. Innovation continues with our that requires less chemical additives to ECOLOGICAL shirt leading the way. achieve the shirt’s brilliant hue. In crafting our PYE shirts, we have the Thinking about how we produce discerning customer in mind—one who energy than for comparable products. the luxury, hand feel and durability appreciates high quality along with an of premium cotton shirts does not eye for style. With each shirt purchased, stop with a single shirt concept. We the customer makes a conscious step continuously pursue new horizons forward in caring for our planet, without in fabric science, developing ecocompromising his or her individual enzymes and chemicals, reducing fashion identity. A S P I R AT I O N S I N A C T I O N E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 39 COMMUNITY When a community thrives, we thrive. From early days, Esquel has understood this intimate link between business and society and has established channels through which to cultivate this bond. A S P I R AT I O N S I N A C T I O N COMMUNIT Y 40 The Esquel–Y.L. Yang INVESTING IN COMMUNITIES Education Foundation Esquel creates a strong local relationship between factory employees was established in 2003 and their community. From the farming communities that grow premium and is guided by its cotton in Xinjiang, to local women employed as our sewers in Southeast Asia, Esquel’s economic and social benefits extend to the immediate mission to “Encourage communities in the form of jobs, education, skills enhancement and the the Spirit of Learning.” many small-business support services that enable our factories and facilities to function smoothly. We have also invested in local infrastructure projects such as roads and schools to aid local community development. THE ESQUEL–Y.L. YANG EDUCATION FOUNDATION The Esquel–Y.L. Yang Education Foundation was established in 2003 and is guided by its mission to “Encourage the Spirit of Learning”. The Foundation aims to provide a caring response to those in need in the area of education, as well as to facilitate and enhance learning for children and teenagers. The Foundation started its first projects in the rural areas of Xinjiang. Since then, efforts have expanded to other locations where the Esquel Group has operating presence, including Guangdong and Guilin in China, Sri Lanka, Vietnam and Mauritius. The Foundation believes it is important to address the needs of the local community while developing projects with sustainability in mind. The needs of communities have changed over time, in response to local development—from school refurbishments and the donation of library books to over 1,100 schools, to a current focus on facilitating and enhancing student life and learning. The Vision Screening program, undertaken in collaboration with the Hong Kong Polytechnic University’s School of Optometry, for example, has provided free screening and prescription of lenses to over 2,000 students in Xinjiang and Guangxi since 2012. E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 41 In addition to financial support, the Foundation encourages Esquel’s staff to participate in charitable causes. Through sponsorship from staff, the Hongzhi “The Foundation Students program currently provides subsidies to over 160 high school marked its 10th students in Xinjiang, Guangdong and Guilin to cover their tuition fees and living expenses. The Foundation also partners with businesses and brings anniversary in 2013.” in outside expertise and resources to improve project effectiveness. The Esquel–CLP Green Studio, a collaborative effort with CLP Power Hong Kong Limited, is a classroom-on-wheels that promotes environmental education. Over 12,000 students in the greater Foshan area have benefited from this project since its launch in 2012. Another initiative is the Esquel–Novartis Jian Kang Kuai Che (Health Express), which has worked with schools to develop the health-education curriculum that is often lacking in rural areas of China. To date, it has reached a total of 161 schools and 110,000 students. The Foundation marked its 10th anniversary in 2013. Based on what we have learned from our first decade of activities, as well as the obvious benefits, we remain aligned with our mission and will continue to dedicate Over 2,000 students in China benefited from efforts that make a genuine difference in the area of education. the Vision Screening program. MICRO-FINANCING IN XINJIANG Farming conditions were less than encouraging when Esquel was Through this program, each farmer received an average of RMB 15,000 to Some 1,500 looking to secure its cotton supply in Xinjiang to meet demand from its purchase the needed seed and planting materials early in the season. Along with households two ginning mills located there. The need to improve farmers’ livelihoods the lending facilities, Esquel introduced training programs for financing and have benefited and production capabilities were at the center of the supply issue. To income management, as well as for sustainable farming practices that from the project ZERO address this directly, Esquel, initially in saved water, reduced pesticides and partnership with Standard Chartered fertilizers, while improving crop yield Bank, established a micro-financing and cotton quality. program for the cotton farming Since its launch in 2007, some 1,487 communities close to its operations. households have benefited from the bad debt since launch The program focused on low-income project with zero bad debt incurred since farmers who encountered difficulty inception. Today, with farming incomes with their loan applications. The framework for the program requested rising across the region, our work moves further afield to identify others RMB 15,000 no mortgage and relied on the local in need of financial assistance. In 2014, average loan amount credit cooperatives to distribute approximately 250 households in the funding, once Esquel had screened an Awati area of Xinjiang received financing applicant’s request. through the project. S H I F T I N G T H E PA R A D I G M 42 “New thinking for SHIFTING THE PARADIGM development and Our industry is at a critical juncture. Compliance-driven improvements, business behavior is while helpful, do not bring the structural changes needed to address the needed, underpinned core issues of pollution, waste, resources mismanagement and social by a mind-set that injustice. New thinking for development and business behavior is needed, underpinned by a mind-set that values fashion and respects the resources values fashion and used to produce it. At Esquel, we have developed a blueprint that respects the resources demonstrates that such thinking is both achievable and profitable. used to produce it.” FACTORY OF THE FUTURE Our blueprint for the future starts on the factory floor. Observing the use of disruptive technologies in other industries inspires us to rethink our manufacturing. We envision a facility where technology transforms the factory into a knowledge-intensive and integrated manufacturing hub. The use of artificial intelligence and robotics coupled with computational thinking enhance our production capabilities. Workers with experience and technicians with expertise manage our operations. We provide staff training to help develop technical versatility, knowledge and skill-sets. We also recruit from the growing population of tech-savvy and critical-thinking graduates and diploma holders. The outcome is the shift from being traditionally labor intensive to being leaner and more automated. We are currently piloting such practices in factories in China, Vietnam and Malaysia. We developed our people strategy to accommodate rising social expectations, market dynamics and the changes incurred from being more automated. Employment encompasses a broad range of age groups and considers their generational needs to achieve a healthy work–life balance and, for us, an engaged workforce. Job arrangements include flexible­hours and pay incentives, as well as an open working environment. The Integral Conversation serves to inspire new thinking for the textile and manufacturing industries. E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 43 A NEW DEVELOPMENT MODEL Integral positions Complementing innovation on the factory floor, we advocate computational thinking across the organization. By refocusing our business as a collective goals through better resource allocation, the shift toward positive industry development can become a reality. positive force for society and the THE INTEGRAL CONCEPT Integral is a concept that brings together the aspirations and practicalities planet. of doing business as a sustainable organization operating within a global context. It inspires a new thinking on how China’s textile industry and the wider manufacturing sector can develop. Integral values and respects social and environmental resources as inherent drivers to organizational development. It positions business as an agent for positive change for society and the planet. Applying this thinking internally resets the context of how we operate. How do we raise the bar in sustainable practices and maintain profitability? How do we move beyond the factory when managing our operating impacts and, importantly, how do we steward and share the increasingly scarce environmental resources? Consumer choice is increasingly driven by a CREATING THE PERFECT SHIRT retail-brand’s social and environmental practices. Our PYE luxury shirt brand puts this thinking into practice. It defines a new space within fashion for aspiration and action. PYE identifies with the growing global culture of consumer choice driven by ethics, environmental awareness and retail-brand social and environmental practices. It is the conduit for telling our story and communicating our beliefs regarding quality and sustainability directly to consumers. It embodies the business choices, corporate values and sustainable manufacturing processes needed to ensure our industry’s future. GUILIN: SUSTAINABILITY IN ACTION Our investment in Guilin to build a new facility embodies the Integral concept. It is an education and learning center, an eco-tourist park, a regional industrial hub and our factory of the future. In one of China’s most ecologically-sensitive and treasured areas, we are creating a destination where industry, the environment and local communities can thrive together. For us, it is an exciting challenge and an opportunity to build a complex that reflects our strategy for harmonizing resources. While ambitious, our investment is grounded in practicalities with the aim of demonstrating to the global industry, governments and our peers how a traditional shirtmaker can initiate the paradigm shift to a clean, technologydriven enterprise that is competitive and profitable. Our goal is to be a positive participant in China’s 21st-century economy. S H I F T I N G T H E PA R A D I G M 44 How can we live INTEGRAL on earth while With the public acknowledgment that China’s traditional textile manufacturing practices are increasingly unsustainable, how do we incorporating move forward as an industry and reposition ourselves as a positive sustainability into development force? Esquel envisions this redesign through Integral, a visionary yet our lives, so that pragmatic development model for the future that extends beyond the textile industry to encompass a broad spectrum of traditional we can make the manufacturing industries. Integral starts with a dialogue to foster world better than change. From supply-chain efficiencies to urban planning to public health, the dialogue deliberately disrupts the status quo to inspire it is today? alternative thinking in development. The Integral Conversation, an annual sustainability conference established by Esquel in 2014, is the platform for like-minded people to discuss and exchange ideas. Staged largely for industry stakeholders, government bodies and non-governmental organizations, the conference explores new and viable social and environmental practices and behavior. Through collective thinking around national events and discussion of the latest global developments, a rich resource for innovation is shared. The Integral Conversation taps the expertise of leading Chinese and international experts to present the different thinking and practices that E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 45 are changing how industry operates. Our next meeting, to be held in the autumn of 2015, is themed “Sustainability and Living”. It explores the question of how we can live on earth while incorporating sustainability into our personal lives, business operations and communities so that we can make the world a better place than it is today. Esquel puts Integral into commercial reality. Set in the inspiring landscape of Guilin, the company is building an integrated factory complex that uses resource harmony as its core development principle. Early-stage planning has restored hectares of natural habitats and ecosystems. Structural design elements are guided by nature to preserve the landscape, while utilizing natural ventilation, light, water bodies and planted fields to create a model hub where industry complements the environment and the community. Spacious grounds accommodate an industrial complex, education and research facilities, gardens and public eco-tourism and cultural zones. At the heart of this hub are Esquel’s factories of the future. Structurally designed to take advantage of the contoured landscape, the state-of-theart production facilities employ advanced automation managed by skilled technical teams. Use of water recycling, recyclable building materials and other green features create eco-friendly facilities that demonstrate how a traditional industry can transform, be sustainable and remain profitable. S U P P O R T I N G I N F O R M AT I O N 46 GRI G4 INDEX GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Section Further Information Strategy and Analysis G4-1 From Marjorie Yang, Chairman, Esquel Group G4-2 Sustainability at Esquel/ Aspirations in Action/ Shifting the Paradigm Organisational Profile G4-3 About Esquel G4-4 Integrated Sustainability: Quality Growth G4-5 About Esquel G4-6 About Esquel G4-7 About Esquel G4-8 About Esquel G4-9 About Esquel/ Performance Highlights/ Integrated Sustainability: Quality Growth G4-10 Human Resources Strategy No significant variations in employment occurred during the year. G4-12 Vertically Integrated Supply Chain/ Integrated Sustainability: Quality Growth G4-13 First report G4-14 Prudent Commercial Principles G4-15 Our Management Approach/ Chemicals Management/ Labour Practices and Human Rights G4-16 Our Management Approach/ Chemicals Management/ Labour Practices and Human Rights Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-18 Scope and Content G4-19 Stakeholders and Material Issues G4-22 First report G4-23 First report G4-24 Stakeholder Focused G4-25 Stakeholder Focused G4-26 Stakeholder Focused G4-27 Stakeholders and Material Issues/ Energy/ Water/ Emissions/ Chemicals Management/ Workplace Code of Conduct/ Labour Practices and Human Rights/ Health and Safety/ Work–Life Balance Report Profile G4-28 Introduction G4-29 First report G4-30 First report G4-31 Introduction G4-32 This report contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Governance G4-34 Sustainability at Esquel G4-35 Sustainability at Esquel/ Prudent Commercial Principles G4-36 Sustainability at Esquel/ Prudent Commercial Principles G4-37 The Board's Finance and Internal Audit committees, the CSR oversight committee and the energy management committee report to the Board of Directors on topics and progress on a regular basis. G4-39 The positions of Chairman and CEO are held by two different people within the organisation. G4-45 Prudent Commercial Principles G4-48 Publication of a sustainability report is a KPI for the Sustainability Council. The report is reviewed and approved by the Council. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Workplace Code of Conduct/ Corporate Culture G4-57 Labour Practices and Human Rights The CSR oversight committee oversees the mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behaviour. G4-58 Labour Practices and Human Rights Mechanisms for reporting concerns include but are not limtied to the internal grievance mechanisms, Internal Audit Committee and CSR oversight committee. E S Q U E L S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 4 47 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Section Further Information Economic G4-EC6 Human Resources Strategy G4-EC7 Investing in Communities G4-EC8 The Esquel–Y.L. Yang Education Foundation Environmental Materials G4-EN1 Group Environmental Chart G4-EN1 Energy G4-EN3 Group Environmental Chart G4-EN3 G4-EN6 Energy Group Environmental Chart G4-EN6 Water Water Emissions G4-EN15 Emissions Group Environmental Chart G4–EN15, EN16, EN19 G4-EN16 Emissions Group Environmental Chart G4–EN15, EN16, EN19 G4-EN19 Emissions Group Environmental Chart G4–EN15, EN16, EN19 Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Water Group Environmental Chart G4-EN22 G4-EN23 Group Environmental Chart G4-EN23 Compliance G4-EN29 US$6,462 Penalty fee for late filing of environmental aspects of production plants (China). Social Labour Practices and Decent Work G4-LA1 Skills Training and Enhancement G4-LA2 For Hong Kong employees, we provide full-time employees non-statutory leave (including marriage leave, compassionate leave, examination leave). G4-LA3 Work–Life Balance G4-LA4 At present, minimum notice periods are generally excluded from the existing collective agreements, however on average we provide two weeks’ notice. G4-LA5 At least 50% of EHS committee members are at the worker level. G4-LA6 Health and Safety G4-LA8 Labour Practices and Human Rights G4-LA9 Skills Training and Enhancement G4-LA10 Work–Life Balance G4-LA11 Human Resources Strategy G4-LA12 Prudent Commercial Principles G4-LA14 100% of new suppliers are screened using labour practices criteria. G4-LA15 Actual and potential negative impacts throughout our supply chain are reviewed regularly. G4-LA16 Labour Practices and Human Rights Human Rights G4-HR2 All employees are trained in the Workplace Code of Conduct and basic human rights relevant to their operations. G4-HR3 Labour Practices and Human Rights No incidents of discrimination were reported in 2014. G4-HR7 100% of security personnel are trained in human rights policy and procedures relevant to operations. G4-HR8 Labour Practices and Human Rights G4-HR9 All Esquel factories undergo regular internal reviews related to our Workplace Code of Conduct, which includes basic human rights assessments. G4-HR10 100% of new suppliers are screened using human rights criteria. G4-HR12 Labour Practices and Human Rights Society G4-SO4 Labour Practices and Human Rights S U P P O R T I N G I N F O R M AT I O N 48 GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL CHARTS (G4-EN1) Materials Materials used Unit 2014 Cotton Tons 27,944 (G4-EN3) Energy Consumption within the Organisation Energy consumption Unit 2014 Total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources Coal GJ 4,821,606 Diesel GJ 93,128 Natural gas GJ 198,498 Gasoline GJ 1,290 FO-R [fuel oil from rubber] GJ 39,371 Total fuel consumption from renewable sources Biomass firewood GJ 9,193 Total electricity, heating, cooling and steam consumption Electricity consumption GJ 1,196,513 Heating consumption GJ 0 Cooling consumption GJ 0 Steam consumption GJ 47,065 Total energy consumption GJ 6,406,664 (G4-EN6) Reduction of Energy Consumption Amount of reduction in energy consumption achieved GJ 208,321 [excluding EGV, TIL] Types of energy included: electricity, steam, fuel, biomass firewood, coal and natural gas [excluding EGV, EHV, TIL] (G4–EN15, EN16, EN19) Scope and Reduction of GHG Emissions GHG emissions Unit 2014 Energy direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Scope 1 GHG emissions [excluding EAV, EGM, EHV, TIL] Tons CO 2 equivalent 545,597 Gases included in the calculation: CO2 , CH4 , N2 O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 Biogenic CO2 emissions [excluding EAV, EGM, EHV, NBO, PTX, TIL] Tons CO 2 equivalent 2,091 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Scope 2 GHG emissions [excluding EAV, EGM, EHV, TIL] Tons CO 2 equivalent 213,913 Gases included in the calculation: CO2 , CH4 , N2 O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions GHG emissions reductions achieved [excluding EAV, EGM, EHV, NBO, TIL] Tons CO 2 equivalent 28,732 Gases included in the calculation: CO2 , CH4 , N2 O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6 (G4-EN22) Total Water Withdrawn by Source Total volume of water withdrawn Unit 2014 Groundwater Tons 483,298 Municipal water Tons 2,733,332 Rainwater Tons 12,700 Industrial water Tons 7,157,748 (G4-EN23) Effluents and Waste Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Unit 2014 Hazardous (landfill, incineration by locally certified third parties) Tons 26,145 Non-hazardous (recycling by relevant internal departments or Tons 74,178 by locally certified third parties) List of Facilities China: AEA, AEC, WFC, XEA, CJE, GEK, GET, GES, GEW, GLE, GLS, TPE, XJE, CEG, CEK, FEG, GEG, GLG, NBO, TEG, YMG, EAP Malaysia: EGM, EGM-KB, EPP Mauritius: TIL Sri Lanka: PTX Vietnam: EAV, EGV, EHV Cotton Group Textiles Group Apparel Group Accessories Group www.esquel.com
