Moving the wheel forward Our sustainability journey FY 2017-18 Sustainability Action Report UNGC Communication of Progress Accelerating sustainability in emerging economies Insight Innovation Capital Directors’ message At cKinetics, we have always endeavoured to ingrain sustainability in our clients’ strategy and operations. We also help them define and This report, our 6th sustainability report in a row, is a testimony to amplify their sustainability impact. Given this, it makes it all the our commitment of being transparent and having an engaging more important for us to look inward and ask “What is our conversation with our stakeholders. sustainability impact and what role do we play in moving the sustainability wheel forward”. As we tread forward, we are excited about creating more evolved solutions and insights in areas we have invested in right from our In our 8 year journey, our innovative thought process and focus on inception. At the same time, we are equally excited about some of bringing to life the business case of sustainability for our clients has the new areas we are stepping in and which we feel are on the made us a partner of choice. From informing smart policy making to precipice of a sustainability breakout. With this, we are confident greening industrial footprint, we have made a niche for ourselves as that we will round off our first decade of operations with a legacy a pure play sustainability consulting firm. In FY 2017-18 itself, we that will propel us into the next decade with even more vim and enabled savings of 1.5 billion litres of water and 8.3 GWh of vigour. electricity for our clients. Through our efforts not only did we enable reduction in resource consumption, but also helped each facility we engaged with realize annualized savings of around USD 300,000. We also catalysed 135 MW of rooftop solar installations in commercial and industrial sector. As we continue to mainstream sustainability, we are committed to structure innovative and scalable solutions. Upendra Bhatt Pawan Mehra Managing Director Managing Director Our raison d'etre: Bringing sustainability into the mainstream Creating unique solutions with scalable impact Bringing the business case to life for our clients Fostering dialogue on sustainability Our raison d'etre Page 2 The world is at an inflection point. Resource efficiency and low-carbon growth are need of the hour What the world needs… Six times faster scale-up of renewable energy to meet Paris Agreement Goals1 Two-third reduction in global energy intensity by 2050 to meet Paris Agreement Goals1 Access to clean water supply for two-thirds of the world population living in water scarce areas2 1 Global Energy Transformation: A Roadmap to 2050, International Renewable Energy Agency’s (IRENA) 2 Mekonnen, M. M., & Hoekstra, A. Y. (2016). Four billion people facing severe water scarcity. Science advances, 2(2), e1500323. Need for sustainability Page 4 We have enabled 135 MW of solar rooftop We enabled financing lines aggregating to USD 100 million – this includes amongst others, the first phase of USD 500 What are we doing about it? million program for a multi-lateral lender in the solar rooftop space in commercial and industrial sector in FY 2017-18. We also structured tools and programmes to catalyse finance in the space. In addition, we helped create a go-tomarket strategy for a multinational power management company for onsite generation based micro-grids space in Indonesia, Myanmar, Cambodia and Malaysia. Payment Security Mechanism and Credit Catalysed USD 100 million investment Guarantee Schemes structured and designed for in Solar Rooftop space the low/unrated solar rooftop off-takers Portfolio preparation facility designed and Enabled 135 MW of solar rooftop in rolled-out as part of US-India Clean Energy Commercial & Industrial segment (120 MW Finance (USICEF)-partnership between a under development and 15 MW has been consortium of US Foundations and Government of deployed) India for distributed solar sector Our impact Page 5 We enabled savings of 8.3 GWh of electricity and 79.4 million MJ of thermal energy We expanded our work in the footwear and tannery sectors. Through our efforts in the textile, footwear and What are we doing about it? tannery sectors in India and Vietnam, we were able to improve the energy efficiency in the factories and hence contribute to GHG emissions reduction. We have also been working with MSMEs in foundry, forging, ceramics and steel re-rolling sector in India to support their transition to energy efficient operations. Enabled 8.3 GWh of electricity savings. Energy efficiency tool developed for MSMEs in foundry, forging, ceramics and steel re-rolling Enough to meet daily electricity sector to help them identify energy savings requirement of 8 million people potential Enabled thermal energy savings of 79.4 million MJ Our impact Page 6 We enabled savings of 1.5 billion litres of water and ~800 tons of chemicals Water is increasingly becoming scarce and yet is an under-priced resource. We continue to drive and support What are we doing about it? use of water efficient technologies and wastewater recycling in the textile, footwear and tannery sector. Our focus has been to provide key insight into options like low to ultra low Material to Liquor Ratio processing machinery that have far reaching impact on industrial water consumption patterns. We have been instrumental in making water management core to a facility’s operation through our Embodied Value of Water and Value Added Water frameworks. Enabled 1.5 billion litre of water Enabled 797.5 Tons of chemical savings savings. Enough to meet daily water requirement of 29 million people Our impact Page 7 We enabled financial savings of USD 300,000+ per facility that we worked with As a result of our resource efficiency effort in the textile, footwear and tannery sector in India and Vietnam, not What are we doing about it? only did we aid saving of critical resources such as water, energy, chemicals but also propelled financial savings. We believe in the principle of ‘Always Be Creating Value’, which forms an integral component of our work. Monetary benefits are critical for operation of any business. It is thus inherent in our project design which helps multiply our effort and drive adoption of sustainable measures. Enabled financial savings of USD 307,000 per facility Our impact Page 8 Leading the next wave of sustainability solutions for our clients Designing a new age DISCOM oriented micro-utility model for implementing last mile renewable energy installations We have progressed on our work in the mini-grid space by designing a comprehensive DISCOM-connected and interactive renewable based micro utility model and the first pilots for the same are under discussion RenewableEnergy Renewable energy Grid-connection Solar PV/ Biomass/ Hybrid Electricity grid End-users based mini-grid Our unique solutions Page 10 Paving the way for science based targets for large apparel retail brands We have been working with apparel retail brands to reduce water and GHG footprint of their preferred suppliers in several countries: India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, China, Ethiopia, Vietnam, South Korea and Taiwan. Resource efficiency This work will feed into the Science Based Targets for the textile and apparel sector. Apparel manufacturing Raw material Textile processing Fabric Logistics Driving resource efficiency in textile and apparel manufacturing sector Our unique solutions Page 11 Pathways for improving the recovery and recycling of Low Value Plastics Under Extended Producer’s Responsibility (EPR), plastic producers, importers and brand owners are required to contribute to collection of plastic waste they introduce into the market, especially multi-layered plastic waste. Waste management We worked on improving the operational efficiency of plastic waste management and created an economic model for alternate use of low-value plastic waste for a large Indian FMCG company. Waste generation Waste collection Waste segregation Recycling Segregation centre Improving operational efficiency of waste management Our unique solutions Page 12 We believe in the “Business Case First” approach and it forms the core of everything we do Highlights from 2017-18 Bringing the business case to life for our clients Our work demonstrates that investing in saving water makes business sense Cost of purchasing water > Cost of saving water USD 0.8 per kilolitre USD 0.2 per kilolitre Municipal water supply Water saving projects USD 2.6 per kilolitre Water tanker Average cost of municipal water supply in India Through our projects, we thus make water saving and water supply through tankers is four to core to a facility’s operation rather than an endtwelve times more than the cost of saving the of-pipe ‘cost’. same amount of water respectively. Business case for sustainability Page 14 Highlights from 2017-18 Bringing the business case to life for our clients Our work demonstrates that investing in saving energy makes business sense Electricity tariff in geographies we operate > Cost of saving electricity 0.11 USD 0.06 per kWh 0.09 0.08 Energy savings project 0.07 0.07 Electricity is a major cost component of a facility’s operation. By investing in cKinetics’ energy saving India Turkey Bangladesh Vietnam Ethiopia projects, facilities were able to save 1kWh at the cost of USD 0.06 which is lower than the average industrial electricity tariffs in geographies we operate, i.e. Bangladesh, Vietnam, Ethiopia, *All values in USD per kWh Turkey and India. Business case for sustainability Page 15 Highlights from 2017-18 Bringing the business case to life for our clients Our work demonstrates that investing in energy efficiency makes business sense Cost of setting up 1MW power plant > Cost of avoiding use of 1 MW power USD 0.93 USD 0.83 USD 0.75 million/MW USD 0.04 million per Negawatt million/MW million/MW Energy savings project 1 2 3 Negawatts or negative megawatts is a concept used to quantify energy efficiency. A negawatt is equivalent to a megawatt of power saved by increasing efficiency or reducing consumption. For every USD 0.04 million invested in us, we helped save 1 MW of power, which is much lower than construction of 1 MW power plant. Business case for sustainability Page 16 We believe in value-based growth strategy: accounting for our GHG footprint and finding avenues for reduction Highlights from 2017-18 Our GHG footprint 15.1 197.1 tCO2e We used the Corporate GHG Protocol standard to account 22.5 for the emissions due to our corporate activities. The emissions due to the following were considered: Scope 3 5 0.6 FY 2017Scope 1 4 18 1.6 159.6 • Refrigerant leakage from air-conditioners 3 14.7 2 • Fuel consumption by company-owned cars 16.6 1 125.9 Scope 2 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 15.3 • Electricity consumption 22.2 152.6 tCO2e Scope 3 5 0.9 Scope 3 4 1.6 • Business travel by railways( ), flights( ), cabs( ) FY 201617 115.2 3 8.0 • Team commute to work 2 12.2 • Paper consumption 1 92.5 Our GHG footprint Page 18 Who we are and what we do Our work areas Our Work Domains Sustainable Smart Resource Sustainable Energy Efficiency Materials Operational Capital Market Intelligence Advisory Advisory and Insights Our Offerings About us Page 20 Geographies and industries we serve Textile, Apparel Forging and Retail Footwear Foundry Tannery Steel re-rolling Pulp & Paper Iron and Steel Pharmaceuticals Ceramics and chemicals Telecom Distillery Hubs Operational presence Food, Beverages, Oils and Seeds About us Page 21 Adherence to principles of UN Global Compact Principles of the UNGC Policies for dealing with incidents of Human Right Violations and As a part of its ongoing commitment to mainstreaming sustainability, cKinetics is Corruption proud to support the UN Global Compact Principles. These principles have been a We are committed to diligently managing our business operations, both internally strong component of the firm’s core growth strategy and expansion process. as well as in external stakeholders, in a manner which reflects our high ethical standards. cKinetics has a zero tolerance policy with respect to incidents of Materiality of UNGC Principles corruption, both in the public and the corporate sphere. Given its role as a specialized Sustainability Advisory firm, cKinetics has limited exposure to Sustainability Risks and ESG impact through its own operations. Thus, materiality issues surrounding the UNGC Principles, their implementation and subsequent outcomes have been evaluated through the following lens: 1. How, and to what extent, do the principles apply to cKinetics in its operations? 2. How, and to what extent, can these principles become central to the service offerings of cKinetics and, thus, attain the desired impact created through its business operations? Actions and Tools for Implementation Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct outlines the expectations and aspirations of cKinetics management and staff in key areas of Human Rights, Corruption and Work Force Environment, etc. Operating Principles As explained in the initial section of this report (on page 8), the Mission and Vision guide the strategic planning and day-to-day operations of the firm. Adherence to UNGC Page 23 Areas Principles Outlook and Undertaking Tools for Implementation Outcomes cKinetics is committed to upholding Human Rights, in its capacity as a responsible business, The Code of Conduct defines our commitment to Principle 1: Businesses should support and in letter and in spirit, as it is material to the human rights; it outlines our stance and strategy for respect the protection of internationally company. preventing the abuse of human rights. All employees There have been no cases of proclaimed human rights; and and extended stakeholders are expected to abide by it. violation of human rights within our Human Rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not Operating in emerging markets pose a number organization or in our day-to-day complicit in human rights abuses. of unique human rights challenges. cKinetics is Any violation can be reported confidentially (through operations. committed to the reporting of any human rights an anonymous email ID) and the individual will be violations observed in the course of conducting protected from repercussions. its business operations. There were no reported violations of labor principles. Each employee met with the As a firm with a presence in multiple manager twice to discuss the Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the fre geographies, cKinetics is in compliance with all Any violation can be reported confidentially and the performance, concerns and goals. edom of association and the effective recog relevant local regulations in its respective individual will be protected from repercussions nition of the right to collective bargaining operations Employees are allowed 1 day per We conduct weekly, monthly and half yearly meetings Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of fo month to attend conferences, The prevalence of the informal, unorganized, with the team wherein feedback is actively Labor rced and compulsory labor seminars and programs for sector in India poses a number of distinct incorporated into the company’s policies and Principle 5: the effective abolition of child knowledge advancement. challenges in adequately assessing some of our strategies. We continually provide opportunities, labor small suppliers’ adherence to Principles 4 and 5. through training and access to industry conferences, Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination However, we make a concerted effort to for our workforce to grow intellectually and All internally reported complaints in respect of employment and occupation maintain constant vigilance when working with professionally. and concerns were dealt with on a local small businesses. priority basis . We sponsor employees who wish to take up educational courses relevant to their domain. Areas Principles Outlook and Undertaking Tools for Implementation Outcomes Smart use of resources is an Our team is currently engaged in actively monitoring Operating Principle of cKinetics and As an advisory firm, cKinetics has a limited and tracking our electricity consumption using a suite focus is on reducing consumption. socio-ecological footprint. However, we are of metering and analytics software. We also actively engaged in managing our resource ascertained our corporate GHG footprint based on the Principle 7: Businesses should support a consumption and maintain constant efforts to Corporate GHG Protocol standard and are working on Energy measurement system precautionary approach to environmental engage with our employees and the community reducing our footprint. installed to actively track energy challenges. in a responsible fashion. consumption. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake Environment initiatives to promote greater HacK (How to at cKinetics) is an internal document Our commitment to sustainability is at the very Reuse of paper made mandatory environmental responsibility which defines our expectations and commitments core of our business mission, vision, and and recycling is encouraged. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage regarding the team’s alignment with our mission and operations. cKinetics has made strong the development and diffusion of vision to create positive impact. contributions to sustainability in India and other Our visiting cards are printed on environmentally friendly technologies geographies such as Vietnam and Ethiopia. We recycled paper and the stationary seek to create real impact through our various We also encourage and support our employees to be cognizant towards environmental impact and (folders) distributed at our business initiatives. conventions are made of recycled undertake resource efficient efforts. paper. cKinetics supports all 71 articles of the UN The Code of Conduct defines our expectations and Convention against Corruption (UNCAC). commitments regarding anti-bribery practices both in There have been no reported Principle 10: Businesses should work against our own operations and in those of our partners. incidents of corruption involving Anti-Corruption corruption in all its forms, including We take an active, zero-tolerance, stance the organization or one of its extortion and bribery against bribery and corrupt business practices Any violation can be reported and the individual will employees. through diligent monitoring and enforcement. be ensured protection from reprisal. BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT This section presents the disclosure as per Business Responsibility Report (BRR) requirements. The framework presents indicators developed from the 9 core principles of the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Economic & Environmental Responsibilities of Business that were announced by the Indian Ministry of Corporate Affairs in 2011. While cKinetics does not face a mandate in disclosing on the BRR framework, we are eager to engage with, and promote, this initiative both within our own operations and those of our clients. This section has been filled out as per the format of the ABRR (Annual Business Responsibility Report) that has been suggested by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (and adopted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India for the top 100 listed companies). Its public disclosure is part of the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business. 1. Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR ➢ Details of the Director/Director(s) responsible for implementation of the BR policy/policies ▪ Name: Upendra Bhatt ▪ Designation: Managing Director 2. Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies (Reply in Y/N) Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Do you have a policy/policies for.... Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA Has the policy being formulated in consultation with the relevant Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA stakeholders? Does the policy conform to any national/international standards? If yes, Y NA NA Y NA Y NA NA NA specify? (50 words) Has the policy being approved by the Board? Is yes, has it been signed by Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA MD/owner/CEO/appropriate Board Director? Does the company have a specified committee of the Board/Director/Official Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA to oversee the implementation of the policy? BRR Page 27 Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Indicate the link for the policy to be viewed online? NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Has the policy been formally communicated to all relevant internal and Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA external stakeholders? Does the company have in-house structure to implement the policy/policies? Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA Does the Company have a grievance redressal mechanism related to the policy/policies to address stakeholders’ grievances related to the Y Y NA Y NA Y NA NA NA policy/policies? Has the company carried out independent audit/evaluation of the working of N N N N N N N N N this policy by an internal or external agency? 3. Governance related to BR Does the Company publish a BR or a Sustainability Report? What is the hyperlink for Indicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors, Committee of the Board or CEO viewing this report? How frequently it is published? assess the BR performance of the Company: Within 3 months, 3-6 months, Annually, ▪ The company annually publishes a Sustainability Action Report which is available on More than 1 year www.cKinetics.com ▪ Annually BRR Page 28 Section: Principle-wise performance ▪ cKinetics’ practice areas around Sustainable Energy and around Resource Management and Efficiency (RME) are designed to help customers reduce their resource footprint. ▪ Sustainability Outlook is a market intelligence platform incubated by cKinetics to Principle 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with advance the mainstream conversation around resource conservation and risk Ethics, Transparency and Accountability mitigation issues 1. Does the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption cover only the company? ▪ The Sustainable Business Leadership Forum (SBLF) is India’s leading market Yes/No. Does it extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs development platform which equips organizations, managers and industry /Others? stakeholders on the ‘how’ of sustainability through a unique programmatic approach ▪ cKinetics’ policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption extend to its subsidiary, comprising of round the year programs and ‘on-ground industry oriented’ work. contractors and all businesses it interacts with. ▪ cKinetics is an active supporter of the UN Convention against Corruption; as such, we 2. For each such product, provide the following details in respect of resource use (energy, have adopted a zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption. We do not tolerate water, raw material etc.) per unit of product(optional): any of our employees engaging in any form of bribery or corruption. Employees, or ▪ Reduction during sourcing/production/ distribution achieved since the previous year persons acting on behalf of the firm, found to be seeking, accepting, or offering a throughout the value chain? bribe, gift, or other improper payment as a reward for improper performance of a • Not applicable relevant function or activity will be subject to punitive measures (e.g. suspension, ▪ Reduction during usage by consumers (energy, water) has been achieved since the termination and legal action). previous year? ▪ It is our expectation that all business partners and stakeholders we work with adhere • Not applicable. The results of cKinetics’ professional services are summarized in to the same standards. the preceding sections. 2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year and 3. Does the company have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing (including what percentage was satisfactorily resolved by the management? If so, provide details transportation)? If yes, what percentage of your inputs was sourced sustainably? Also, thereof, in about 50 words or so. provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. ▪ No complaints were received ▪ Whenever possible, the firm sources tools and products which are resource efficient and have the lowest possible environmental impact. However, eco-friendly products Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services that are are just becoming available in the Indian marketas such, we attempt to simply reduce consumption and reuse/repurpose existing resources wherever possible. safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle 1. List up to 3 of your products or services whose design has incorporated social or environmental concerns, risks and/or opportunities. BRR Page 29 4. Has the company taken any steps to procure goods and services from local & small 5. Do you have an employee association that is recognized by management? producers, including communities surrounding their place of work? ▪ No ▪ Whenever possible, the firm sources services and products from local vendors / producers (in Delhi/NCR) 6. What percentage of your permanent employees is members of this recognized a) If yes, what steps have been taken to improve their capacity and capability of local and employee association? small vendors? ▪ NA ▪ As a small volume buyer, we have limited abilities to influence the production and sourcing method of our vendors. 7. Please indicate the number of complaints relating to child labor, forced labor, involuntary labor, sexual harassment in the last financial year and pending, as on the end of 5. Does the company have a mechanism to recycle products and waste? If yes what is the the financial year. percentage of recycling of products and waste (separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also, ▪ 0 provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. ▪ As a professional services firm, our waste streams are non-industrial in nature. At the Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive work-place we have adopted practices on recycling and reuse of paper; e-waste segregation and tracking; printer material recycling; etc. towards all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised Principle 3: Businesses should promote the well-being of all employees 1. Has the company mapped its internal and external stakeholders? Yes/No ▪ Partially 1. Please indicate the Total number of employees. ▪ 32 Full time employees 2. Out of the above, has the company identified the disadvantaged, vulnerable & marginalized stakeholders? 2. Please indicate the Total number of employees hired on temporary/contractual/casual ▪ In select work areas only basis. ▪ Temporary/ contractual: 8 3. Are there any special initiatives taken by the company to engage with the ▪ Intern: 1 disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders. If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. 3. Please indicate the Number of permanent women employees. ▪ As part of our CSR activities, cKinetics’ team picks up causes to work with that impact ▪ 10 employees the community. In FY 2017-18, we partnered with Nai Disha to conduct a health camp for the local communities. 4. Please indicate the Number of permanent employees with disabilities ▪ 0 BRR Page 30 Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights 5. Has the company undertaken any other initiatives on – clean technology, energy 1. Does the policy of the company on human rights cover only the company or extend to efficiency, renewable energy, etc. Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for web page etc. the Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others? ▪ Yes. The company has installed an Energy Management System in its own facilities that ▪ It presently covers the company and its subsidiary. tracks the usage of energy. 2. How many stakeholder complaints have been received in the past financial year and 6. Are the Emissions/Waste generated by the company within the permissible limits given what per cent was satisfactorily resolved by the management? by CPCB/SPCB for the financial year being reported? ▪ No stakeholder complaints ▪ NA Principle 6: Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to 7. Number of show cause/ legal notices received from CPCB/SPCB which are pending (i.e. restore the environment not resolved to satisfaction) as on end of Financial Year. 1. Does the policy related to Principle 6 cover only the company or extends to the ▪ None Group/Joint Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/others. ▪ Presently the policy covers the company and its subsidiary. Principle 7: Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and 2. Does the company have strategies/ initiatives to address global environmental issues regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner such as climate change, global warming, etc.? Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for 1. Is your company a member of any trade and chamber or association? If Yes, Name only webpage etc. those major ones that your business deals with: ▪ cKinetics’ own operations have a limited impact since it is an advisory firm. As ▪ UN Global Compact Sustainability focused advisory firm, all its offerings are geared towards reducing the ▪ Alliance for an Energy Efficient Economy impact on the environment due to resource consumption. More is available at www.cKinetics.com ▪ Sustainable Business Leadership Forum (SBLF) 3. Does the company identify and assess potential environmental risks? Y/N ▪ NA 4. Does the company have any project related to Clean Development Mechanism? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so. Also, if Yes, whether any environmental compliance report is filed? ▪ NA BRR Page 31 2. Have you advocated/lobbied through above associations for the advancement or ▪ NA improvement of public good? Yes/No; if yes specify the broad areas ( drop box: Governance and Administration, Economic Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies, Energy security, Water, Food Security, Sustainable Business Principles, Others) Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their ▪ cKinetics has been engaged in policy research and advocacy in the areas of: Sustainable customers and consumers in a responsible manner Energy; Energy Access; and Disclosure and reporting of Environmental, Social and 1. What percentage of customer complaints/consumer cases are pending as on the end of Governance (ESG) metrics. financial year. ▪ None Principle 8: Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable 2. Does the company display product information on the product label, over and above development what is mandated as per local laws? Yes/No/NA/Remarks(additional information) 1. Does the company have specified programs/initiatives/projects in pursuit of the policy ▪ NA related to Principle 8? If yes details thereof. ▪ Yes. As mentioned in Principle 4, as part of its CSR activities, cKinetics’ team picks up 3. Is there any case filed by any stakeholder against the company regarding unfair trade causes to work with that impact the community. practices, irresponsible advertising and/or anti-competitive behavior during the last five years and pending as on end of financial year. If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 2. Are the programs/projects undertaken through in-house team/own foundation/external words or so. NGO/government structures/any other organization? ▪ No ▪ Through external NGOs 4. Did your company carry out any consumer survey/ consumer satisfaction trends? 3. Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative? ▪ No ▪ cKinetics gets reports on the utilization of the CSR funds. 4. Have you taken steps to ensure that this community development initiative is successfully adopted by the community? Please explain in 50 words, or so. BRR Page 32 Our Vision is to accelerate the creation and maintenance of systems which shape a balance between current and future resource needs Our Mission is to develop market driven solutions to promote the rapid adoption of sustainable growth strategies in emerging market industries and communities India Office US Office 708 Hemkunt Chambers, 12042 Plumas Drive, 89 Nehru Place Saratoga New Delhi-110019, INDIA CA 95070, USA Ph: + 91.11.4050.7277, Ph: + 1.650.331.1931 +91.11.4105.1195 Email: contact@cKinetics.com To know more about how cKinetics can help your organization improve bottomlines and meet environmental targets , visit www.ckinetics.com or write to us at contact@cKinetics.com
