Moving towards FIFCO 2020 INTEGRATED REPORT 2016-2017 FIFCO FIFCO 2 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Moving towards FIFCO 2020 INTEGRATED REPORT 2016-2017 FIFCO FIFCO 3 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 How to read this report GRI 102-45, GRI 102-46, GRI 102-54 This report is available at The company reports on all FIFCO operations This report gives us the opportunity For the fourth consecutive year, our in Costa Rica, Guatemala, El Salvador and to show our shareholders and other www.fifco.com 2017 Annual Report is written under the United States: Cervecería de Costa Rica, stakeholders how the different areas and the Integrated Reporting framework, Florida Retail, Industrias Alimenticias Kern’s are interrelated and interact with each www.fifcosostenible.com following the guidelines established by the (IAK, located in Guatemala), North American other, identifying the multiple ways in International Integrated Reporting Council Breweries (NAB, located in the United States), which the company creates present (IIRC). This report presents the company’s Florida Hospitalidad and Florida Capitales, and future value. At the same time, it economic, social and environmental for the period corresponding to the fiscal year evaluates the company’s contribution performance and provides a summary of between October 2016 and September 2017. to society and the environment at a how FIFCO creates value in financial and Some sections of this report include data from local and regional level, by linking its non-financial terms. El Salvador; however, this does not represent efforts and initiatives with the specific a significant activity for FIFCO since it has only contexts and challenges in which it 10 collaborators and most initiatives don’t operates. apply. If you have any questions or The Vincular Center – PUCV suggestions regarding this FIFCO complements the guidelines and The contents within this report were report, please contact recommendations of the IIRC and this report defined based on the following criteria: For the fourth consecutive year, the company switches from FIFCO’s Corporate Relahas been prepared in accordance to the GRI consistency and continuity with the a complete audit, to a specific verification of materiality and tions Department Reporting Standards: Comprehensive Option content reported for the 2015-2016 stakeholder participation processes, reporting in accordance Tel: (506) 2437-7770 and the United Nations Global Compact guiding period; definition of materiality according to the GRI Standards: Comprehensive Option in a 2437-7291 principles; and refers to the relationship between to interviews and a consultation process more flexible and transparent manner, executed by the company’s strategy and the Sustainable implemented with our stakeholders; an the Vincular Center for Social Responsibility and email: Development Goals (SDG). update of our sustainability strategy, as Sustainable Development, School of Commercial info@fifco.com well as key achievements and programs Engineering, Pontificia Universidad Catolica de from the previous period. Valparaíso in Chile. FIFCO FIFCO 4 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Reporting in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative: Opción Exhaustiva Through its corporate strategy FIFCO aims for a sustainable development. As a means Principles for Content Principles for Quality to hold itself accountable regarding this sustainable development aspiration, FIFCO publicly reports its –positive and negative • Stakeholder Inclusiveness •Accuracy economic, social and environmental impacts. In order to do this, its reports are • Sustainability Context • Balance developed in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Standards (GRI), • Materiality • Clarity published on October 19, 2016, which define a common reporting language. • Completeness • Comparability This report is elaborated applying the 10 • Reliability principles established by the GRI, regarding both content and quality: • Timeliness FIFCO FIFCO 5 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 The International Integrated Reporting Council also suggests that in order to demonstrate how the information is interconnected, an integrated report must answer each of the following six questions: General aspects and business Strategic Objectives Corporate Governance model What does FIFCO do and how do we Where is FIFCO headed and how will What is FIFCO’s corporate create sustainable value in the short, it get there? governance structure and how does it medium and long term? relate to the sustainability strategy? FIFCO is a Costa Rican public company, FIFCO aims to lead the categories FIFCO operates under the Corporate founded in 1908; it produces and in which it competes through the Governance Code, the second version distributes food and beverages mainly in development of ideas that make sense having been approved by the Board Central America, the Caribbean and the economically, but also have a minimal of Directors in May 2017 (the previous United States, it also has a hospitality or positive impact on society and the version was in force since 2009). business in the province of Guanacaste, environment. Innovation, operational Following this code is mandatory for Costa Rica and various investments. and commercial excellence, category the company and all our collaborators. For the past 10 years, FIFCO has been development and an entrepreneurial This code establishes the company’s operating under a triple bottom line culture have become the means to management system, under the approach, where sustainability is at the achieve our corporate goal. principles of transparency, accountability core of the company, as the motor for and sustainability. innovation and constant improvement. FIFCO FIFCO 6 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Operational Context Performance Looking to the future Under which circumstances does the How was the company’s performance What opportunities and challenges company operate, taking into account in relation with the strategic goals? could FIFCO have to face? key commodities and relationships on which the operation depends? FIFCO’s operation is exposed to In regards to the 2020 goals, FIFCO’s FIFCO’s “guiding star” is to “Enhance various contexts, not only in regards economic, social and environmental every beverage consumption to geography having operations in performance in 2017 was positive. This opportunity”; this guides our actions and 4 countries (Costa Rica, Guatemala, report details the financial and nonin order to achieve this we have defined El Salvador and the United States) financial achievements attained in the a series of commitments for the year but also in participating in different three dimensions, which demonstrates 2020, grouped within three strategic industries, categories and segments. our commitment to offer products and objectives: World tendencies and discussions services of the highest quality, with regarding food, beverages, nutrition, minimal impact on our environment, 1. Double Sales and Profitability alcohol in society, tourism, and while we create value in the communities convenience stores amongst others, where we operate. 2. Be champions in our communities, are consequential circumstances for with our collaborators and in regards to the business. The rational use of raw Smart Consumption. materials or commodities insures a sustainable operation for the future. At 3. Reach a positive balance in Water the same time, an effective dialogue with Consumption, Emissions and Waste. our stakeholders is fundamental for the creation of real economic, social and environmental value. FIFCO FIFCO 7 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Contents Section 1 Section Economic Dimension Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors 10 2 Message from our CEO 2017 Milestones Corporate Governance 13 16 17 54 Risks 22 Organization Profile 24 Internal Social External Social Dimension: Dimension Our business model 29 Our People Social Investment 107 132 Our strategy and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 30 FIFCO’s 7 commitments for 2020 32 Our stakeholders 34 Impacts and materiality of the value chain 37 Envirnomental GRI Standards Generating value 39 Dimension & Annexes Changes in the organization 41 155 179 Certifications and acknowledgements 42 Organizations we are part of 43 The Capitals 44 FIFCO FIFCO 8 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Board of Directors WILHELM STEINVORTH HERRERA CHAIRMAN RODOLFO JIMÉNEZ BORBÓN VICEPRESIDENT ARTURO ALEXIS LORÍA AGÜERO SECRETARY JOSÉ ROSSI UMAÑA* TREASURER ANDRÉ GARNIER KRUSE* VOTING MEMBER EDNA CAMACHO MEJÍA* VOTING MEMBER SERGIO EGLOFF GERLI* VOTING MEMBER ROBERTO TRUQUE HARRINGTON* STATUTORY AUDITOR *Independent members of the Board of Directors FIFCO FIFCO 9 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 1 S E C T I O N FIFCO FIFCO 10 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Message from the Chairman of the Board WILHELM STEINVORTH H. CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Dear Shareholders: Florida Ice & Farm Co. is celebrating 109 years of existence, and looking Throughout these 109 years, it is worth highlighting the significant back and reviewing the company’s achievements, how much it has progress that FIFCO has made in the last decade. In recent years, the grown in little more than a century and the positive impact it has had company has grown and evolved in a very remarkable way. We went on Costa Rica; we cannot fail to thank the leaders who guided FIFCO to from having 1,800 collaborators to more than 6,400 today, we have where it is today. Presidents of the company such as Mr. Cecil Vernor managed to multiply the size of the company over six times, reaching Lindo Morales, Mr. Walter Joseph Ford Leatherbarrow, Mr. José Manuel an annual growth of 15% in sales and 10% in profitability. Even more Sáenz Witting, Mr. Manuel Francisco Jiménez Ortiz, Mr. Alexander impressive, this economic growth has been accomplished along with Murray Macnair, Mr. Manuel Jiménez De la Guardia, Mr. Eberhard great environmental and social achievements. In the last 10 years, we Steinvorth and of course Mr. Rodolfo Jiménez Bourbon, who still have managed to turn FIFCO into a world leader in sustainability as honors us with his guidance. But we also have to thank all the members well as an environmentally neutral company: Zero Solid Waste, Water of the Board of Directors and the General Managers who have led the and Carbon Neutral. company for more than 100 years and whose tenacity and excellence has brought FIFCO to become the company it is today. FIFCO FIFCO 11 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 In line with the company’s growth and development, last year we 5.4% growth in the beverage business, mainly motivated by higher launched our FIFCO 2020 strategy and in it we set our goals for that productivity and efficiency. year: first, we set out to double FIFCO’s sales and profitability in 4 years, but we also made 7 very ambitious commitments to society and It is important to mention that a series of projects to improve the environment. commercial performance and increase the company’s efficiency and productivity were implemented during this fiscal period. As of In 2017 we have taken great strides towards FIFCO 2020. It has been a August, these projects resulted in projected savings of more than challenging year, with modest economic growth, but also one in which 21 million dollars (annualized basis) for the business in Costa Rica, the company significantly strengthened its capacity to grow in the near savings that positively impacted the results of the last quarter of the future. year. In addition, a similar project that is expected to be completed in the second quarter of the 2018 fiscal period and bring greater agility In regards to the financial results, the company managed to place 94.4 and efficiency to the beer business in the United States is currently million equivalent beverage boxes (-1.7% vs. previous year) and 56,889 being implemented at North American Breweries. In the same way, a tons of food (5.5% more than the previous year) in the markets where productivity project is currently being implemented at every one of we operate. It is important to note that there was volume growth in FIFCO’s manufacturing plants in all the geographies where we operate. our businesses in Costa Rica and Central America (1.3% vs. previous This project is expected to be completed during the second quarter of year), however, the North American Breweries business experienced the 2017-2018 fiscal period. a volume reduction of 6.8% due to a more challenging competitive environment and a decelerating craft beer segment in the United As for FIFCO’s social goals for 2020, we have taken considerable steps States. FIFCO net sales reached 674 billion colones (+ 1.4% above the this year. We are pleased to inform that FIFCO ranked #1 among the previous year) and the operating profit grew 7.9% compared to the large companies in Central America and the Caribbean in the most previous year to reach 120 billion colones. On the other hand, the net recent “Great Place to Work” survey. Additionally, we managed to profit attributable to shareholders decreased 2.1% to 55 billion colones, complete almost half a million accumulated volunteer hours, invest mainly due to a payment arrangement made to settle all the legal 7.2% of our profit in strategic social investment, increase the impact of processes that were pending with the IFAM (Institute for Municipal our social enterprise Nutrivida and managed to take strong steps not Development and Advisory Services), as well as the unfavorable only in the promotion of smart alcohol consumption, but of all our food impact of the companies associated with Florida Capitales, particularly products and beverages as well. However, one of the most important Cervecería Panamá, due to a more challenging level of competition. achievements of the year was eradicating extreme poverty in FIFCO Costa Rica. This is an achievement that fills us with pride and that Specifically, the growth in sales was mainly driven by Florida Real we hope will set an example for more companies in our country and Estate businesses with a 13.1% growth versus 2016 and the food around the world. businesses of both Musmanni and Kern’s with 6.3% growth versus the previous year. Similarly, the growth in operating income was mainly Regarding the environmental dimension, during this fiscal period driven by the real estate business (+105% growth vs. the previous we showed very significant progress towards our FIFCO 2020 goal of year), the food business (20.4% growth vs. the previous year), and a becoming a positive company for the environment. We managed to FIFCO FIFCO 12 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 convert FIFCO Costa Rica into a Carbon Positive company, the first On behalf of the Board of Directors, I would like to congratulate every in the country and in the region to achieve this status. Additionally, FIFCO collaborator and especially their management team, which has we turned Florida Bebidas into the first water positive company and made important progress towards FIFCO’s goals for 2020 this year. In Imperial into the first water positive beer in the world. Furthermore, addition, I would like to give a very big thanks to all those great men in Costa Rica we reached a recycling level of 65% for all the packages and women who have led the company for more than 100 years. Only that we put into the market versus less than 18% achieved by other by honoring our past can we have a solid foundation to build our future, competing beverages companies in the country. This result shows a future that I am sure will be full of achievements, but above all of a very significant progress compared to a decade ago when we recycled deep commitment to share a better way of living and a better way of only 25% of our packages; furthermore, our current recycling level doing business with the world. is already similar to that of countries like Japan and Germany, which are leaders in recycling. Another very important achievement for the environmental and social agenda was the launching of our “FIFCO Air Brands” project, in which we went from working on the footprint of our processes to focus on the footprints of our brands, contemplating Wilhelm Steinvorth H. their entire value chain. This also represents the most important Chairman of the Board of Directors connection that we can have with our consumers as a company. FIFCO FIFCO 13 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Message from our CEO RAMÓN MENDIOLA S. CEO | FIFCO The 2016-2017 fiscal period was a challenging year, characterized by modest economic growth, but very significant in terms of efficiency and productivity. In addition, this year the social and environmental dimensions made considerable progress towards our goals for the year 2020. In economic terms, the company managed to increase its sales and operating profit. These results were mainly driven by the good performance of our real estate and food businesses and in second place by the growth in the Beer & Flavored FIFCO FIFCO 14 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Alcoholic Beverage businesses as well as In the environmental dimension, we took best tool to hold ourselves accountable not soft drinks in Costa Rica. Unfortunately, the great steps towards becoming a company that only with our shareholders but with all our beer business in the United States suffered creates positive environmental value. This is stakeholders. The report shows the company’s a decrease in sales volume that was partially how Florida Bebidas became a “Water Positive” main achievements in the three dimensions offset by savings in costs and operating company this year, in the same way that towards FIFCO 2020, as well as the main expenses. Imperial evolved into the first “Water Positive” challenges we have faced along the way beer in the world. In addition, FIFCO Costa and what we plan to do to overcome them. One of the most important achievements of Rica was certified as the first Carbon Positive Most importantly, we keep our eyes fixed on 2017 was the application of a comprehensive company in the country and reached a 65% our aspiration to “enhance every beverage plan to improve commercial execution in recycling level, tantamount to that of leading consumption occasion” and in doing so; also Costa Rica (known as Diamante) and the countries in the field worldwide. contribute to the social and environmental implementation of new budgeting models progress of the countries we serve. and tools, organizational structures, the quest Undoubtedly, one of the greatest achievements for efficiency in production plants, etc. These of the period was the activation of the “FIFCO new tools that aim to make FIFCO a company Air Brands” initiative that will allow FIFCO that is “Simpler by Design”, more efficient and to make a significant leap in its sustainability Ramón Mendiola Sánchez productive, have already yielded results, but strategy by moving from a focus on processes will continue to lead the company to improve to one concentrated on reducing our products’ in the years to come. footprints, thus making FIFCO’s brands as lightweight as possible on society and the In the social dimension, we achieved the #1 environment: “Brands as light as air.” position in the “Great Place to Work” index in Central America and the Caribbean, we I invite you to read our fourth Integrated also managed to eradicate extreme poverty Report corresponding to the 2016-2017 fiscal in FIFCO Costa Rica and completed our period. This report presents the company’s Smart Consumption strategy for all our food commercial and financial results, as well as and beverage categories in Costa Rica and its progress towards the 7 environmental and Guatemala. social commitments. For us, this report is our FIFCO FIFCO 15 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Executive Committee RAMÓN MENDIOLA SÁNCHEZ CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CARLOS MANUEL ROJAS KOBERG CHIEF FINANCE AND CORPORATE SERVICES OFFICER ROLANDO CARVAJAL BRAVO REGIONAL DIRECTOR OF THE FOOD AND BEVERAGE DIVISION KRIS SIRCHIO DIRECTOR OF NORTH AMERICAN BREWERIES SCARLET PIETRI VERENZUELA DIRECTOR OF HUMAN RESOURCES GISELA SÁNCHEZ MAROTO DIRECTOR OF CORPORATE RELATIONS HELMUTH SAUTER ORTIZ DIRECTOR OF FLORIDA HOSPITALIDAD JAVIER SIBAJA OVIEDO DIRECTOR OF FLORIDA RETAIL MARIEL PICADO QUEVEDO DIRECTOR OF LEGAL SERVICES FABRIZIO PAPAIANNI MARTÍNEZ CORPORATE AUDITOR FIFCO FIFCO 16 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 2017 Milestones • 674 billion colones net sales • Donation of recreational • Significant investments park for Echeverría in production plants • Growing sales in beers and flavored alcoholic Community in Belén, and kickoff on Hotel W beverages (+3%) Heredia, Costa Rica. construction. • Significant growth in sales and profitability in • Start of Comprehensive food versus the previous year. Smart Consumption agenda •7 FIFCO 2020 commitments • New EBAIS in Brasilito, Guanacaste • Growth between 6 %y 7% for Florida Retail OCT NOV DEC JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP 2 0 1 6 2 0 1 7 • Customer oriented • Start of “Vos 2.0” project • #1 Great Place to Work • 65% recycling program launch for leaders • FIFCO Opportunities 2.0 • Florida Bebidas Carbon Positive • Extreme poverty eradication FIFCO Opportunities 1.0 n Economic • FIFCO Air Brands • UNDP/MINAE Florida Retail n Social Internal Refrigeration Project n Social External • Imperial Agua + n Environmental • Costa Rican Government and MINAE (Ministry of Environment and Energy) acknowledge FIFCO for its environmental trajectory FIFCO FIFCO 17 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance establishes the The Corporate Governance Code set of policies under which our company is directed and controlled. It regulates FIFCO abides by the Corporate Governance the actions of the Board of Directors, its Code, the second version of which was approved by the Board of Directors in May technical committees, the Administration 2017 (the first version was in force since and the Internal Control Units in order to 2009). Its compliance is mandatory for our “When FIFCO made the decision and the commitment guarantee decisions are transparent and entire staff. The code establishes the system protect the interests of the company and its to be a company that measures its results on the triple through which the company is guided by the shareholders. principles of transparency, accountability bottom line, it joined the list of the best companies in the and sustainability, considering the following world, transforming social and environmental challenges sections: into business opportunities that generate positive impact I. General aspects for people. The Triple Bottom Line strategy is a tool that allows us to evaluate the state of the company beyond II. Corporate governance agencies the economic aspects, since it allows us to complement III. Corporate Governance policies and the financial analysis with socio-environmental metrics procedures to advance in a sustainable manner in all areas of impact. If we want to create sustainable and long-term value for IV. Mechanisms to certify Corporate Governance compliance all our stakeholders, the Triple Bottom Line strategy is the correct tool because it allows us to evaluate financial As of this year, a report on compliance with success along with the socio-environmental progress that the different elements of the Code is prepared in this report. Previous annual reports are open the financial resources may create ”. to the public and may be found on the FIFCO website www.fifco.com in the Corporate André Garnier Kruse Governance section. Member of the Board of Directors of FIFCO. FIFCO FIFCO 18 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Our Board of Directors ATTENDANCE TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETINGS The Board of Directors is the highest Corporate Governance body and represents the Session number Shareholders Assembly, which has delegated the task of directing and controlling the Director / Statutory Auditor 2575 2576 2577 2578 2579 2580 2581 2582 2583 2584 2585 2586 company on the Board, in order to guarantee Oct-16 Nov-16 Dic-16 Jan-17 Feb-17 Mar-17 Abr-17 May-17 Jun-17 Jul-17 Ago-17 Set-17 the company’s growth and sustainability. Wilhelm Steinvorth Herrera ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Rodolfo Jiménez Borbón ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● The appointment of the members of the Board of Directors is carried out under a documented Arturo Loría Agüero ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● process that is known to the shareholders for a period of two years. To date, 100% of the José Rossi Umaña ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● members of the Board of Directors are Costa André Garnier Kruse ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Rican and none hold executive or advisory positions within the organization. Additionally, Edna Camacho Mejía ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● they have not reported any internal or Sergio Egloff Gerli ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● external influence that could impede their objective judgment. Therefore, all members Roberto Truque Harrington ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● are considered independent. FIFCO also Note: The performance evaluation of the highest governance body will be defined by the next period. complies with the Costa Rican legislation on female representation and diversity in Boards of Directors. It should be noted that 95% of senior executives, such as the directors who talent management and projects with social report to the Board of Directors or senior and environmental impact. Extraordinary management positions, are hired from within sessions are convened if necessary. the local community. Management of FIFCO’s Corporate The duties of the Board of Directors are Governance is carried out under the documented in a Regulation that establishes protection and in compliance with the that 12 ordinary sessions must be held during requirements of the Superintendencia General the year. During these sessions the Board de Valores (General Superintendence of discusses financial issues, performance of Securities) of Costa Rica established in the Business Units, risk management, human Corporate Governance Regulations. FIFCO FIFCO 19 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Support committees In order to have technical support in matters The Audit and Risk Committee promotes that are considered strategic, the Board of supervision and accountability of the financial Internal Control Structure Directors has two committees, whose main area. It ensures the development and execution functions are detailed below: of effective internal controls and adequate Audit & RIsk Commitees risk management by the executive team, that The Human Capital Management the internal audit fulfills its role and that the Committee establishes the policies specific external auditors evaluate through their own Internal Audit RIsk Management Compliance to remuneration and other benefits that are analysis the practices of the executive team granted to members of the Board of Directors and internal audit, if applicable. The members and executives. Said policies may consider of this committee are: aspects such as goals, individual performance Independently examines Identifies, evaluates, Promotes and monitors and the performance of the Company in • Sergio Egloff the internal control measures, informs and that operations are general, using the Balanced Score Card • Roberto Truque environment, risk monitors the Company’s carried out with integrity (BSC) format, a methodology that evaluates • Arturo Loría management and risks. and in compliance with the fulfillment of goals and metrics in the external regulations the applicable internal following areas: economic/commercial, internal In order to guarantee a sustainable growth for and the Corporate and external regulations. social, volunteering, social investment projects the company and the application of Corporate Governance system. and environmental impact indicators. The Governance standards, the Company has three members of this committee are: control areas that report to the Audit and Risk Committee. • José Rossi • Rodolfo Jiménez For employees, there is a procedure at the • Wilhelm Steinvorth Consulting the Board of Directors Internal Audit level, through which they can • Emilia Amado express their concerns or complaints to the There are several mechanisms for FIFCO highest Corporate Governance body. In the shareholders to communicate their concerns to case of Industrias Alimenticias Kern’s and the Board of Directors, including a set slot in the North American Breweries, there is a trade Annual Meeting agenda. They receive a report on union to which employees can freely affiliate. results every six months. These unions are the highest agency of labor representation and negotiation with top management. FIFCO FIFCO 20 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Our Board of Directors and sustainability Since 2008, when the company’s operating The Directors and Managers of each of the approach changed to a Triple Bottom Line Strategic Business Units must include the strategy, every month the Board of Directors performance on personnel management determines and approves the main challenges (Internal Social Dimension), social investment and projects for the three dimensions. On a and volunteering (External Social Dimension) quarterly basis, Senior Management and the indicators, as well as environmental Corporate Relations Department inform the indicators (use of materials, water and energy Board of Directors on the progress achieved in consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, waste each dimension, as well as the main findings management, among others), in their monthly “As the highest authority in the company, the Board of and respective action plans to present the reports. Likewise, the administration may Directors is responsible for defining the long-term strategy sustainability report at the end of the year, present its concerns on economic, social and of the business and ensuring its proper execution, all in approved by the members. The definition of environmental matters. These are documented materiality and the compilation of statements in the recorded minutes of each meeting, with accordance with the purpose and vision. The Triple Bottom to report in accordance with the GRI their respective agreements and terms. Line being the backbone of FIFCO’s long-term strategy, the Standards, comprehensive option, includes an Board of Directors plays a paramount role in making sure exclusive session with the Board of Directors, positioning the members’ role in the decision the company’s commitments in the economic, social and making process regarding the company’s environmental dimensions are not only maintained, but sustainability. expanded, and that they are increasingly present and alive in every corner of the organization ”. José Rossi FIFCO Board of Directors Treasurer. FIFCO FIFCO 21 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Companies Circle For third consecutive year, Fabrizio Pappaiani, FIFCO’s Audit Director, was named president of the Companies Circle Steering Committee, a designation that is a milestone since it is the first time they re-elect a president. Some relevant issues that this committee reviewed during the period were the re-introduction of the Companies Circle internal corporate governance, the establishment of criteria and commitments for the inclusion of new companies within the Latin American area and the publication of the guidelines on best practices related to ethical principles and compliance, based on input from member companies. Fabrizio Pappaiani Corporate Auditor | FIFCO Codes of conduct The following codes of conduct of FIFCO are applicable and of mandatory compliance for all subsidiaries, their departments, collaborators and directors, all published on our site www.fifco.com. • Code of Ethics and Conduct • Responsible Supplier Code • Corporate Environmental Policy FIFCO FIFCO 22 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Risks Risk management includes the process Risk Management of identifying, measuring and managing risks that may affect the normal course of a company and its assets. Its purpose is to Management area Management measures defined ensure that the objectives defined within Structure • Role of the Board of Directors and the Audit and Risk the company are met to address situations Committee that may hinder the achievement of these • Consolidation of the Risk Management Department and objectives and its strategic goals, while its functions protecting the resources of shareholders, given that: Investment management • Definition of investment tranches • Rating of issuers and custodians • Authorized currencies and instruments • It guarantees financial viability by • Concentration limits per instrument supporting the efficiency of the operation Corporate debt • Debt objectives • It mitigates negative effects when a risk • Funding sources and management incident occurs Hedge • Main raw materials • It allows for the optimization of available • Macroeconomic variables funding sources Risk Management in FIFCO is based on the Non financial risk • Operational risk management model parameters ISO 31000 standard. Therefore, as part of this • Risk factors to be evaluated process, the Board of Directors approved the • Business continuity plan • Normative compliance Corporate Risk Policy in 2017. This policy • Insurance portfolio establishes that the company will assume a conservative risk profile, which is based on the following basic management guidelines: FIFCO FIFCO 23 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Additionally, the Board of Directors and the Risk management process administration participated in the process to identify strategic risks, on which the company’s model is based. The Risk Management process works with 3 the different areas of the company to evaluate 6 Strategic 2 Operational these risk factors and determine their impact 7 9 and mitigation actions. 4 8 1 5 INTERNAL CONTEXT 10 11 EXTERNAL CONTEXT Financial Related to climate and nature Corporate Risks 1 Company strategy 7 Product delivery and processing failures 2 Legal and Fiscal 8 Process execution failures 3 Relations with suppliers 9 Failures in information systems 4 Customer relations 10 Economic environment and market 5 Employment and job security 11 External factors and business continuity 6 •Environment FIFCO FIFCO 24 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Organization Profile FIFCO Operations Categories and products Costa Rican public company, established in Our headquarters is located in Costa Rica Originally a brewing company, FIFCO 1908, mainly dedicated to the production and we have operations in Guatemala, El diversified its beverage portfolio during and distribution of food and beverages Salvador and the United States. We have the 1990s and currently has over 1,500 in Central America, the Caribbean and 9 production plants and 15 distribution products, including: beer, wines, liquors, the United States, as well as hospitality centers. Our value chain is made up of flavored alcoholic beverages, bottled businesses in Costa Rica, and other types 6,275 local and international suppliers. water, juices, soft drinks, nectars, teas, of investments. We export our products to 18 countries carbonated drinks, energy drinks, milk, around the world. beans, preserves, tomato sauce and bakery products. Subsidiaries Our people Cervecería Costa Rica: composed of Florida FIFCO has 6,441 employees and 2,246 Bebidas, Industrias Alimenticias Kern’s (IAK), shareholders, none of which own more Florida Retail (Musmanni, MUSI, La tienda than 10% of the company’s total shares. de la Birra (The Beer Store) and Vinum Stores) and North American Breweries (NAB). Florida Hospitalidad: hospitality projects in Costa Rica, Reserva Conchal, North Peninsula Holdings, among others. Florida Capitales: investments in packaging production and beer businesses in Central America. FIFCO FIFCO 25 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 FIFCO and its subsidiaries DISCLOSURE GRI 102-45 FLORIDA CAPITALES CERVECERÍA COSTA RICA FLORIDA HOSPITALIDAD INVESTMENTS FIFCO 75% REAL ESTATE AND HOSPITALITY HEINEKEN 25% NORTH INCECA CERVECERÍA COMEGUA S.A. PENINSULA BARÚ HOLDINGS COSTA RICA GUATEMALA COSTA RICA EL SALVADOR Panadería y Retail • Beer Plant • Industrias • Florida Retail Plant Alimenticias • Cristal Plant Kern’s (IAK) • Musmanni bakeries • Pepsi Plant • MUSI Convinience Stores • Florida Wines & Liquors • “La Tienda de la Birra” Store • Vinum Store FIFCO FIFCO 26 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Our categories and products Beer Flavored Alcoholic Milk • Imperial • Toña Beverages • Mú! • Pilsen • Gallo • Bavaria • Labatt • Smirnoff Ice® • Rock Limón • Genesse • Smirnoff Black Ice® • Heineken • Cuba Libre • Bohemia • Bamboo • Káiser Carbonated Drinks Shops and Bakeries • Musi • Pepsi® • Pepsi Light® • Musmanni • 7 Up® • Diet 7 Up® • La Tienda de la Birra • H2OH! ® • Mirinda® • Vinum Store • Evervess® • MUG® • Milory Waters, Juices, Energy Drinks Liquors Wines Soft Drinks & Teas • Tropical • Johnnie Walker® • Concha y Toro® • Maxxx Energy • Navarro Correas® • Tampico • Flor de Caña® • Sobe Adrenaline Rush® • Trivento® • Kern’s, • Smirnoff® • Jet • Riunite® • Ducal • Bailey’s® • Fun-C • Marqués de Cáceres® • SunTea • Freixenet® • Vitaloe • Blue Nun® • Cristal • Frontera® • Clos de Pirque® • Maipo® Hospitality and Sports Drinks Food Products • Palo Alto® • Kendall Jackson® Real Estate • Ducal entre otras entre otros. • Reserva Conchal • Gatorade® • Musmanni • North Peninsula Holdings • Maxi Malta • Kern´s FIFCO FIFCO 27 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Our Markets B A D E A UNITED STATES B SWITZERLAND F C AUSTRALIA C D THE CARIBBEAN E CENTRAL AMERICA • San Andrés • Curaçao • Bermuda • República Dominicana • Barbados GUATEMALA NICARAGUA PANAMA EL SALVADOR HONDURAS COSTA RICA • Bahamas • Antigua • Trinidad y Tobago BELIZE F PERU FIFCO FIFCO 28 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Our strategic evolution For more than a decade FIFCO’s business strategy has been evolving, marked by great milestones in its operational history EFFICIENCY GROWTH 3BL EXPANSION INTEGRATED LEADERSHIP COMMITMENT VISION 2020 2004 2006 2008 2012 2014 2016 2017 • Efficiency • Duplicate • Triple • New • Purpose • Leadership • 7 commit• Innovation sales and Bottom categories/ • Strenghtened model ments with FIFCO • KPIs profitability Line geographies • Scale relations with all • Strategy design society and environment 2020 (US$ 1Bn) stakeholders In 2008, the company defined its operational of our collaborators. In 2016 we defined the approach following the Triple Bottom Line new leadership model and the route towards model, where economic results are strived for 2020 called “North Star”. During the reporting with the same tenacity as environmental and period FIFCO revealed its seven commitments social results (see more in the FIFCO 2016 Inwith the environment and society that go hand tegrated Report pages 32-34). In 2014 the comin hand with the company’s goals for 2020. pany defined its purpose and values, setting these as the guidelines that direct the actions FIFCO FIFCO 29 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Our business model Our purpose We bring a better way of living to the world Our values Celebration Sustainability Passion to win Imagination Our “North Star” Enhance every beverage consumption occasion Our Triple Bottom Line goals for Economic Dimension Social Dimension Environmental Dimension 2020 (Internal – External) • Double company sales and Reach neutrality and go beyond, achieving a positive balance profitability Be champions in issues related to: in: • Smart consumption • Water • Employees • Emissions • Community • Waste Our 7 commitments with the world • Lead with brands that make • Be the benchmark for comprehensive • Be a water, waste and carbon positive company for 2020 the world a better place to live. smart consumption • Achieve 100% recycling of our packages • Eradicate poverty inside our company • Be recognized as one of the best places to work • Achieve 1 million volunteer hours FIFCO FIFCO 30 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Our strategy and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) On September 2015, the United Nations established 17 Our impact on the SDGs Sustainable Development Goals as a way to define global priorities and aspirations for 2030. FIFCO’S POSITIVE OR NEGATIVE IMPACT ON THE SDGS These represent an unprecedented opportunity to eliminate extreme poverty and address other global issues. Governments from all over the world, including the countries in which we operate, joined and agreed to actively contribute to the achievement of these goals. Companies are not the exception and we play a relevant role to actually move this agenda forward. On September 9, 2016 FIFCO formally committed by signing the National Agreement for the SDGs, signed in San José, Costa Rica. Our Triple Bottom Line strategy defines strategic objectives for the three dimensions on which we operate, Economic, Social and Environmental Dimension. These strategic objectives in turn trigger a series of initiatives and projects to achieve the established corporate goals. This table reflects how each of these initiatives relates to at least one of the 17 SDGs, either as a positive contribution or as an answer/action to address a negative impact caused by our operation. The initiatives either minimize or offset that initial impact or simply generate positive value. The company’s impact is positive The company’s impact is neither positive or negative The company’s impact is negative FIFCO FIFCO 31 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Our strategy and the Sustainable Development Goals Dimension Triple Bottom Line Goal SDG that we impact Some examples of how we manage impact Page 6, 12, 15, 17 Water Neutrality Projects, Rain Water Harvest and Desalination Plant. Reach neutrality and go beyond, achieving a 7, 12, 13, 15, 17 Project to reduce emissions Environmental 155 positive balance in water, emissions and waste. 12, 13, 14, 15, 17 Zero Waste Project and Post-consumer Recycling Program 3, 5, 10, 17 Great Place to Work, and “Estar Bien” (“Be Well”) Program Internal Social Be champions with our employees 107 4, 8, 9 “Vos 2.0” Program and Training Program Program for the promotion of Smart Consumption of alcoholic beverages in 3, 12, 17 society Be champions in issued related to Smart 1, 2, 3, 4, 10, 11, 12, Volunteer Program Elegí Ayudar , (“Choose to Help”), Social Enterprise External Social 132 Consumption and our Community. 13, 14, 15, 17 Nutrivida, Dual Education and FIFCO Opportunities, to name a few. 11, 16, 17 Ethics Code, Costumer Service, Integrated Report, among others. Economic Double the company’s sales and profitability. 8, 9, 12, 17 54 FIFCO FIFCO 32 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 7 commitments for 2020 Internal policy or Areas responsible Actions strategy that Goals and for the commitment taken (by Formal claim 2020 supports the objectives and resources they business and/or complaint Goals and actions for Commitments Material topics commitment for 2017 have unit) in 2017 2017 Achievements Obstacles mechanisms 2018 Accomplish 1 Local communities, Volunteer Policy Achieve 59.768 Social Investment See page137 67.040 volunteer Budget and elegiayudar@fifco.com Achieve 123.000 volunteer million volunteer Strategic Social volunteer Department and 100% of hours, participation volunteer hours. Launch volunteer hours Investment hours and 95% FIFCO collaborators of other stakeholders availability. program with family participation like suppliers and members and consumers. shareholders. 95% participation. Be recognized as Human Rights, Human Rights Establish Human Resources See page 116 Ranked #1 in Costa Socio-economic Anonymous ethics After a changing one of the best Overall Wellbeing, Policy (in ourselves as Department Rica (Florida Bebidas) in and politihotline, Human environment in 2017, the places to work Labor Relations, process), one of the best the Great Place to Work cal changes, Resources Department, goal for 2018 is to recover Health and Safety Compensation places to work in survey, in the category restructuring, others. the working environments, in the workplace, and Benefits Costa Rica companies with over among others strengthen our leadership Talent Management, Policies, 1.000 employees and and enhance the company’s Association, collective Occupational #2 at the national level ability to adapt to change. negotiation, Goal Health Policies, (Reserva Conchal) in Culture (live our Human the category companies values) Resources with less than 1.000 Policies. employees. Be the benchmark Alcohol in society, Champion Include the Smart Consumption See page 146 Introduction of the Attitude of www.facebook.com/ Increase the impact of the for Smart Strategic Social issues related to complete food Team, Innovation, Comprehensive Smart young people ConsumoInteligenteComass campaign. Improve Consumption Investment Comprehensive and beverage Marketing, Special Consumption agenda and parents staRica/ the alcohol consumption of food and Smart portfolio in Events, Communication, of minors pattern in the country. beverages Consumption the Smart others. towards alcohol, Increased support for food Consumption consumption and beverage brands with strategy pattern in the the comprehensive SC country (1.4 platform. days a week). Eradicate poverty Overall Wellbeing, Champion issues Continue efforts FIFCO Opportunities See page 113 Eradication of extreme Commitment of fifcooportunidades Implementation of 4 inside our Strategic Social related to our to eradicate Team, Human Resources, poverty in the first collaborators @fifco.com program pillars and company Investment collaborators extreme poverty Communication, Finance, generation, and start who are in the assignment of sponsors for by 2020. others. of work with second program and the second generation of Initiate process generation fulfill tasks. the program nationwide. with second generation. FIFCO FIFCO 33 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 7 commitments for 2020 Internal policy Areas responsible Actions or strategy that Goals and for the commitment taken (by Formal claim 2020 supports the objectives and resources they business and/or complaint Goals and actions Commitments Material topics commitment for 2017 have unit) in 2017 2017 Achievements Obstacles mechanisms for 2018 Be a water, Materials, energy, Environmental Manufacturing, Environmental See page 162 Florida Retail Plant Measurement 800-CERVEZA or Continue with 2017 waste and water, emissions, Policy -Responsible Retail, Carbon Management, Production/ Carbon Positive, Hotel of water drain, through the website achievements, Imperial carbon positive waste, impact of Supplier Code, Water Positive. Manufacturing Plants, Westin remains Carbon biomass supply, www.fifco.com carbon footprint company our suppliers and Positive Strategy, Continue with Logistics, Distribution and Positive, Florida Bebidas low return measurement, Tropical through our customers. Carbon Positive Hotel WPC Procurement Water Positive, Florida value of postwater footprint brands. Strategy, Sustainable Carbon Positive, Bebidas Carbon Positive, consumer PET, measurement and Packaging Strategy Florida Bebidas Imperial Water Positive recycling culture determination of the and Waste Recovery Carbon Neutral, and selective emissions factor for and Zero Waste Florida Bebidas waste collection Guatemala through Strategy Water Positive electrical energy and Imperial consumption Water Positive. Achieve 100% Plastic packages, Corporate Reach 65% Environmental See page 173 65% recycling all Country’s culture Phone line 75% post-consumer recycling of our post-consumer Environmental Policy, post-consumer Management and Supply materials and 64% on recycling, 800-CERVEZA or at recycling and 75% products recycling and Sustainable recycling and Chain recycling for plastic selective waste www.fifco.com recycling of plastic Packaging Strategy 65% for plastic packages collection by packages packages municipalities low market prices for materials and informality of the recycling sector Lead with brands Local communities, FIFCO Air Brands Definition of Corporate Relations, See page 69 Imperial Water Positive, Migration of the Phone line Discover the purpose that make the product health and Strategy Air Brands Marketing, Research and Musmanni paper Triple Bottom 800-CERVEZA or at for Tropical, Pilsen, world a better safety, and market pilot strategy Development bags, measurement Line from the www.fifco.com Ducal, Reserva Conchal, place to live leadership. Others: with Imperial of nutritional footprint organization to Air Brands marketing brands’ social beer and for Melcochón and the brands strategy for the investment, products’ measurement Tropical, fat reduction in aforementioned brands, nutritional content using the Melcochón Musmanni, 2020 brand Sustainability and brands’ water, Sustainability reduction of added Plan emissions and waste Brand Index , sugars in Tropical, created by reduction of alcohol in FIFCO, for the Imperial and creation of following brands: the purpose for Pilsen Melcochón by (Red Book). Musmanni, Tropical and Reserva Conchal FIFCO FIFCO 34 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Our stakeholders DISCLOSURE GRI 102-40, GRI 102-42 Stakeholders are those groups with which the organization interacts and that have a Who do we interact with? special interest in it, are affected or may be affected by its actions, objectives or policies. Each year the company analyses which Communication channels for our NS stakeholders are critical for its operation. stakeholders RS IO AT • The analysis contemplates the evaluation • EN • OF D C TO CI O F RA O and prioritization of several criteria such as Different mechanisms are established to N P ON PR RE S O S RS SS EM MI UM AB R TO A incidence or level of influence on the business encourage an open and agile communication IS SE ER LL LIE C S & A CO PP R R E CH S CH A S • SU NT BE (organizational capacity, level of exposure with our stakeholders, these can be consulted ES S C L AN NN N R C IE and conviction) as well as its relationship on page 51 of the FIFCO 2016 Integrated O N N T SU S NE EL L • CO AM SI TNE • CH with business continuity, meaning the level Report. M AN ER D • BU AR of potential risk they represent (physical , S P regulatory and reputational). I RE AL UN • G An effective dialogue with our stakeholders RN ICS M S B U TE BL CO M • C HA O LAT is fundamental for the creation of true social EX PU L • E R D O IE R NG TA RI N S • CO NT EH S Y and environmental value under a Triple O ME ON • R N R O HB N TI IG RO IZA IA LO EG GR AL LD Bottom Line strategy. This approach allows us NE VI N ED • EN GA M IA CA ULA ES GO ER • OR SS EM L TO S VE S to manage expectations, as well as formulate A D TY M A G O RY RN • AC CIE VE A M • SO EN responses to shared challenges. • RN GE TI M NC T ES EN IE TS S FIFCO FIFCO 35 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 DISCLOSURE GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 About the consultation process 2017 stakeholder consultation Stakeholders study findings review Every two years, a survey is applied to Survey applied to 1,310 people, including Score obtained on those audiences with which the company customers, consumers and neighbors from general Corporate interacts. This is administered by an external FIFCO operating communities (in general), Sustainability Top 2 programs Trust level supplier using a quantitative and qualitative Florida Retail (brand Musmanni-MUSI), performance (1 recognized or (scale from 1 very negative and 10 identified by to 10, 10 being methodology; the most recent was applied Reserva Conchal and Industrias Alimenticias Unit or brand very positive) stakeholders 100% trust) from July to September 2017 by IPSOS Kern’s (IAK). In addition, an in-depth FIFCO 7,4 Package recycling and 68% consultants. The results of this study allow us interview was applied to 20 opinion leaders Smart Consumption to realign priorities and create specific projects from Costa Rica and Guatemala, such as to address the expectations of the examined journalists, government officials, NGOs and IAK 7,5 Package recycling and 85% groups. The results of these consultations are business elites. Smart Consumption subject to analysis and reflection by General Florida Retail 7,6 Paper bags and Smart 94% Management, the executive committees and The greatest expectation from our stakeholders Consumption the company departments. This valuable is to be informed about the company’s information about what the groups think activities, since there is a high level of Reserva Conchal 7,7 Emissions reduction and 73% Care of Wildlife Refuge and expect serves as a basis to guide FIFCO’s ignorance regarding the programs, which scope of action and priorities, and to define offers a great opportunity for increased what those commitments are with our communication in mass media. According publics. The study was divided into four to the consultants, in terms of reputation, specific consultations by Strategic Business our brands or businesses are among the best Unit (SBU): Florida Bebidas (Costa Rica), evaluated in the country, higher than the Florida Retail, Reserva Conchal and Industrias benchmark average. In addition to this, when Alimenticias Kern’s. The general objective each initiative was explained in detail, about Contact with the community was to determine the perception, knowledge 9 out of 10 people considered each to be and expectations of all the stakeholders “something” or “very” reliable. We create spaces with our immediate communities considered a priority towards the initiatives on a regular basis, achieving dialogue sessions with and sustainability programs that each of the To conclude, in general terms, the stakeholders very enriching results. During 2017 we would like to business units perform. ask that FIFCO contributes in three highlight the meetings with the following communities: dimensions: social development, environment and execution and innovation. This can be Brasilito and residents of Reserva Conchal translated into the Triple Bottom Line strategy (Guanacaste, Costa Rica), Echeverría Community that FIFCO has been working on for almost 10 (Heredia, Costa Rica) and neighbors of our Kern’s years. Industrial Plant (Guatemala City, Guatemala). FIFCO FIFCO 36 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 DISCLOSURE GRI 102-43, GRI 102-44 Consulting stakeholders in the United States The last consultation with our customers was During the period, North American Breweries held its first public consultation with stakeholders, which The main issues that carried out in 2016. These results may be involved mapping the main groups across five regions concern these publics reviewed on page 49 and 59 of the FIFCO 2016 Integrated Report. . During 2017 we used a of the Northeastern United States. Through telephone calls, online surveys and focus groups, we identified are: consuming alcohol new study methodology that aims to measure the level of loyalty of our customers. the expectations for the companies, breweries and and driving, education The main findings will be reported in the next Genesee and Labatt beer brands. The main issues that concern these publics are: consuming alcohol and and training, access period. driving, education and training, access to recreational to recreational water water canals, poverty, indigence and hunger. According to the public consulted, the business managed to canals, poverty, promote Smart Consumption, build strong communities to live, work and brew beer at the same time, improve indigence and hunger. its environmental footprint and develop the future of its workforce. In addition, they highlighted the participation of the volunteer program in the communities, focusing on zero hunger and environmental footprints. FIFCO FIFCO 37 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Impacts and materiality in our value chain DISCLOSURE GRI 102-46, GRI 102-47, GRI 102-48, GRI 102-49 According to the Global Reporting Initiative, FIFCO defines a specific materiality matrix for Management of material topics Our value chain materiality or material topics are those Florida Bebidas (Costa Rica), Florida Retail, aspects that have a direct or indirect impact Reserva Conchal and Industrias Alimenticias The material topics identified for each This illustration will be Kern’s (see more on pages 55 and 56 of the business unit become the central axis for said on the organization’s ability to create, placed in different parts FIFCO 2016 Integrated Report). Starting Unit’s management, being reflected both in preserve or share economic, social and throughout the report in 2017, the company established the main the annual plans and in the establishment environmental value, whether for itself, its material topics for the North American of policies, commitments, goals, objectives, to identify the impacts stakeholders or society at large. Breweries operation. key indicators, responsible parties, required of the different links in resources and complaints mechanisms (see our value chain and the According to the IIRC, an integrated report These material aspects are defined not only FIFCO 2020 Commitments table on page 32). initiatives we develop considering the inputs of the Stakeholder The management approach is evaluated via in each link, in order to should disclose information on matters that Study and the Customer Service Study a methodology known as Strategy Meet Up, manage them. substantially affect the organization’s ability (SMART), but also analyzing every topic or in which using specialized software, every From left to right: raw to create value in the short and medium indicator identified by the Global Reporting month each unit monitors the effectiveness, materials and suppliers, term. This analysis becomes a valuable Initiative (GRI) and/or by the company behavior and evolution of each indicator. These our collaborators and input for our strategic planning processes in regards to their impact on the current indicators respond to a specific material topic. operations, our distribution and helps us focus our resources in a more operation and in view of the goals set for Specific actions, such as projects and programs process, sales to our efficient way on the issues that are critical 2020, as well as the importance assigned or to address and manage all the material customers, product afforded to each of these topics or aspects by topics, are explained in each of our Triple for the economic, social and environmental consumption and, finally, the respective stakeholders. Bottom Line strategy dimensions (whether sustainability of each business unit. post-consumer recycling. Economic, External Social, Internal Social During this period, there were no significant or Environmental) to which it corresponds, changes in the material topics with respect to according to the table below. previous reports. FIFCO FIFCO 38 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 DISCLOSURE GRI 102-47 Y GRI 103-1 Material topics in our value chain Our collaborators and Dimension Material topic Detail Our suppliers operations Our customers Our consumers FBEB FRET FHOSP IAK NAB FBEB FRET FHOSP IAK NAB FBEB FRET FHOSP IAK NAB FBEB FRET FHOSP IAK NAB Waste Raw material residues from our food and beverage production and ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Environmental Dimension services Climate change Measure, reduce, compensate and create positive value for ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● generated emissions Water Measure, reduce, compensate and create positive value for water ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● consumption Biodiversity Protection in areas of operation ● Post-consumer recycling Recycling of packages we put out into the market ● ● ● ● ● ● Health and Safety at the Ensure that the workplace is safe and does not produce damage ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Internal Social Dimension Workplace to employees' health Talent management Promote and develop ● ● ● ● ● Integral wellness Promote physical and mental health through activities and services ● ● ● ● ● for our collaborators while eradicating poverty inside the company Labor Relations Maintain a harmonious working relationship with our collaborators, ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● customers, suppliers and other stakeholders Human rights Promote respect for Human Rights in our value chain ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Comprehensive Smart Promotion of smart consumption of alcoholic beverages, non● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Consumption alcoholic beverages and foods high in sugar, fat and sodium External Social Strategic social Investment in strategic projects that add positive value to society ● ● ● ● ● investment Dimension Local communities Harmony between the company and the communities where it operates Indigenous populations Protection of the people's rights, area and culture ● ● ● Impact of our suppliers Measure and help reduce the negative social and environmental ● ● ● ● ● effects of our suppliers' operation Impact of our customers Measure and help reduce the negative social environmental ● ● ● ● effects of our customers' operation Economic value Balance between income and the distribution of payments to ● ● ● ● ● generated different company stakeholders Economic Dimension Sales and Utilities The focus on these two guarantees the economic sustainability of ● ● ● ● ● the company Product quality Offer products and services that meet and exceed consumer ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● expectations Leadership and market Be leaders in the market by maintaining a healthy competition ● ● ● ● ● participation External economic Generate positive economic value in their value chain ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● impact Purchases from local Economic value generated by the purchase of local products and ● ● ● ● ● suppliers services FBEB: Florida Bebidas | FRET: Florida Retail | FHOSP: Florida Hospitalidad | FBEB: IAK | Industrias Alimenticias Kern’s | NAB: North American Breweries FIFCO FIFCO 39 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Generating value Economic dimension • Job creation in the communities and countries where we operate. As a corporate citizen, we seek to migrate from minimizing our impacts to creating • Generation of profits for our positive value in the communities where we shareholders. operate. We can identify value creation in each of the strategic dimensions and goals • Distribution of wealth throughout our value chain. on which we work. • Contribution to business development The different stakeholders with whom and economic growth in the countries we interact become direct or indirect where we operate. beneficiaries of the financial, intellectual, human, social and environmental value • Payment of corresponding taxes and created. duties • Promotion and support of national industry and trade • Manufacture of high quality, innovative products and development of categories and segments that promote healthy competition. • Promotion of public policies and fair regulation. FIFCO FIFCO 40 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Social dimension Environmental dimension • Placement of quality products and services. • Creation and transfer of knowledge. • Employment generation and its associated benefits. • Development and promotion of new technologies with less impact on the • Promotion of healthy alcohol consumption patterns, initiatives environment. focused on reducing harmful consumption patterns. • Contribution to the country’s goals and • Transfer of knowledge and good practices. environmental causes. • Promotion of the overall wellbeing of our collaborators and other • Empowerment and training of stakeholders. communities and other key stakeholders on environmental matters. • Local socio-economic development. • Protection and conservation of natural • Development and promotion of teaching methodologies. resources. • Inclusion of sensitive populations. • Reduction of environmental risks. • Addressing the national child undernutrition problem. • Raise awareness and provide environmental education. • Promotion of Human Rights and optimal working conditions. • Sense of satisfaction and self-esteem among our collaborators and other stakeholders related to our programs. • Commercial/operational progress of our suppliers and customers. • Dissemination and promotion of Corporate Social Responsibility as a way of doing business. FIFCO FIFCO 41 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Changes in the Organization Organizational restructuring During the reporting period and with during the process and received, in addition support from external advisors, the company to all the rights to which they are entitled by underwent an organizational restructuring law, an additional benefits package that was of the food and beverage business, with the granted on a discretionary basis, as well as objective to become a simpler and more support to find a new job. agile company. This project is part of the development of capabilities defined by Some of the main changes implemented the company in its FIFCO 2020 strategy include: and includes, in addition to simplicity, strengthening leadership and commercial • Homologation of manufacturing structures execution. As part of this redesign, work areas were merged, taking advantage of • Integration of sales and marketing processes synergies between different businesses and at the point of sale areas of the organization, and the execution spectrum of each of the company’s executives • Consolidation of structures to satisfy the was redefined. As a result of merging areas different types of customers and redefining responsibilities in some departments of the company, efficiencies were • Alignment of support areas to offer a more identified in the organizational structure, agile and efficient service to the business. which implied a series of dismissals. All the people impacted were duly accompanied FIFCO FIFCO 42 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Certifications and recognitions n Esencial Costa Rica License for the brands: n ISO 14064 Carbon Footprint n Sanitary Quality Seal Program Flag awarded Tropical, Imperial Exportaciones and Agua Cristal • Florida Retail Plant by AyA • The Westin Golf Resort & Spa Playa Conchal Operating Agencies category, for Cristal Plant n Safety System Certification OHSAS 18001 • Florida Bebidas (4 stars) and Reserva Conchal (5 stars) Cristal Plant n INTE 12:01:06 System to demonstrate Carbon n Acknowledgement from MINAE (Ministry of n Safety System Certification OHSAS 18001 | Neutrality Environment and Energy) and the Government Pepsi Plant and Cristal Plant • Florida Retail Plant of Costa Rica for FIFCO’s environmental • The Westin Golf Resort & Spa Playa Conchal trajectory and consistency – June 2017. n 2017 Bottler of the Year Award America given • Florida Bebidas by Pepsico, Pepsi Plant. n ILSI Mesoamérica members, 2017. n INTE ISO 14067:2015 Products Carbon n AIB International and QAS, compliance with Footprint franchise requirements for PEPSICO • Cerveza Imperial Pepsi Plant n Ecological Blue Flag awarded by AyA Precautionary Approach in FIFCO n Safety Certifications IRAM 323 (HACCP) and (aqueduct and sewer authority) IRAM 324 (Manufacturing Good Practices), • Cerveza Plant and Cristal Plant – Micro Basins According to the Rio Declaration on Environment and Cerveza Plant category • Beaches category, Playa Conchal Development, the precautionary approach consists n ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management • Communities category, Reserva Conchal of the fact that the lack of scientific certainty must System Community not be used as a reason to delay the adoption • Cerveza Plant, Cristal Plant and Pepsi Plant • Protected areas (Conchal Mixed Wildlife of efficient measures to prevent environmental • Florida Retail Plant Refuge) degradation. This principle is supported by the • Westin Conchal Hotel Plant environmental dimension of FIFCO’s Triple Bottom • La Florida Distributor (Distribution Centers in n Tourist Sustainability Certification awarded by Line strategy. Its Corporate Environmental Policy the Great Metropolitan Area and Recycling ICT (Costa Rica Tourism Board) plant) • Westin Playa Conchal Resort, Golf & Spa Hotel details the company’s commitment to protect the (5 leaves, highest score) environment, and prevent and avoid any negative n ISO 14046 – 1:2006 Water Footprint impact. • Florida Bebidas Costa Rica n Audobon Certification for golf course at Golf • Agua Cristal Westin Playa Conchal Resort | Golf & Spa • Cerveza Imperial FIFCO FIFCO 43 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Commitment to external initiatives Organizations we are part of • Member of the Latin American Corporate Governance Roundtable Companies Circle. n Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) n Guanacaste Chamber of Tourism (CATURGUA) This group is driven by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development n American Society of Brewing Chemists (ASBC) n Cerveceros Latinoamericanos (Latin-American (OECD) and the International Finance Brewers) Corporation (IFC). The Circle is comprised of n Asociación Empresarial para el Desarrollo (AED – 15 companies from five countries, which have Alliance of Companies for Development) n Costa Rican American Chamber of Commerce demonstrated their leadership and adopted (AmCham) good corporate governance practices. n Association of Producers and Importers of Alcoholic Beverages of Costa Rica (APIBACO) n World Economic Forum • Member of the World Economic Forum “Global Growth Companies” initiative. n Beer Institute n Comunidad de Empresas de Comunicación (Media Created in 2007, this community aims to and Communication Companies) involve dynamic, high-growth companies n National Stock Exchange that have the potential to be future industry n Master Brewers Association of America (MBAA) leaders and to become a driving force for n Cámara Costarricense de Emisores de Títulos economic, social and environmental change. Valores (Costa Rican Chamber of Issuers of n Organizational Stakeholders, Global Reporting Securities) Initiative • Member of the Global Reporting Initiative Gold Community. FIFCO is part of the n Costa Rican Chamber of Commerce n Redcicla (Recycling network) nucleus of various “Stakeholders” of the GRI network, essential for the GRI to remain an n Chamber of Commerce of Heredia n Global Compact Costa Rica, local network independent and democratic organization. n Chamber of Industries n Siebel Institute • Member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2014. n Costa Rican Chamber of Food Industry (CACIA) n Costa Rican Union of Chambers and Associations of the Private Business Sector (UCCAEP) • Signatories of the National Pact for the n Cámara de Detallistas y Afines (Chamber of Sustainable Development Goals, Costa Rica, Retailers) 2016. FIFCO FIFCO 44 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 The Capitals All organizations depend on various types of capital for their success. The International Council of Integrated Reports classifies the following capitals: • Financial Capital: pool of funds available for • Social and relationship capital: the production of goods or services rendered, Institutions and relationships within and obtained through financing or generated between communities, stakeholders and through the company’s operations. other networks; and the ability to share information to improve individual and • Manufactured Capital: Manufactured collective wellbeing. Includes: shared physical objects that are available for use rules, relationships with key stakeholders, in the production of goods or provision of intangibles associated with the brand and services. reputation, among others. • Intellectual Capital: Intangibles based on the Natural Capital: All renewable and nonknowledge of the organization. Contemplate: renewable environmental resources and intellectual property and organizational processes that provide the goods and services capital. that sustain the past, current or future prosperity of an organization. Includes: air, • Human Capital: Competencies, skills and water, land, minerals, biodiversity and the experiences of people and their motivations health of the ecosystem. to innovate. Can’s production line extension FIFCO FIFCO 45 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE • Our employees, with their skills, commitment and MANAGING OUR NATURAL RESOURCES excellence are at the core of the business model FOSTERING OUR RELATIONSHIPS and are instrumental in achieving our strategic • Environmental strategy with 4 areas of action to objectives. •The development and preservation of close and responsibly manage the use of natural resources trusting relationships with our stakeholders, and the environmental impacts of the business: • The Development of Talent, strategic alignment, the particularly with collaborators, suppliers, WEW + consolidation of a goal culture and the promotion customers, consumers, communities, authorities, of the overall wellbeing of our collaborators are our among others, is key to the success of our • Environmental focus throughout the value chain priorities. business. • Through consultation mechanisms, monitoring, and dialogue forums, we learn their expectations and interests and thus formulate answers to the issues raised. We share a better way of living STRENGTHENING OUR INNOVATION with the world DRIVING OUR OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Our purpose is materialized with the integration and • Innovation, understood and promoted by our interrelation of the six capitals in our processes leadership model, is a way to promote the creation and projects. of intellectual capital. • The company is committed to the excellence and implementation of best practices both at • Our “Vos 2.0” program, an example of how FIFCO an operational/manufacturing level as well as in lives and implements innovation the service offered to our internal and external customers and the impact generated on the OPTIMIZING OUR FINANCIAL CAPITAL environment and other stakeholders. • Growth in the beer, flavored alcoholic beverage and • Improvements in infrastructure seeking to soft drink businesses. improve efficiencies, such as the expansion of the packaging line at the Cerveza Plant. • Updating our financial goals with our focus on FIFCO 2020 proves our commitment to generating • The creation of the Competitiveness Department value. brings us closer to an operational ideal in terms of efficiency, use of resources, data management, among others. FIFCO FIFCO 46 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE Context Inputs ● A workforce of 6,441 collaborators. The core of our business model, strategy ● Leadership model, as leaders we contribute to create a better way of living and we are a positive influence on and understanding of sustainability starts others. with our collaborators. Activities Our corporate purpose faithfully reflects FIFCO’s ● Application of the Great Place to Work survey. Since this year the survey was applied at the end of the period and new vision, a vision in which the organizational the results were not available in time to publish in this report, the 2017 survey score will be included in the 2018 culture and way of working are characterized by Integrated Report. recognizing and celebrating achievements in an ● Optimization of internal and external recruitment strategy. authentic way; a company in which people come ● Development and implementation of a new leadership model. first and live the purpose, based on the confidence ● Implementation of the 360 overall wellbeing strategy for our collaborators through the program “Estar Bien” and progress of its people; a company that shares (Be Well) and rigorous Occupational Health and Safety standards. and promotes sustainability as the correct way ● Implementation of a mechanism that promotes greater strategic alignment. to add value to the communities and countries in ● Promotion of diversity focusing on gender equality (recruiting more women), signing the San José Convention on which it operates. In addition, FIFCO defines itself non-discrimination towards the LGBTI population and hiring people with disabilities. as a company that works with simple processes and decision-making, is creative and innovative, Output challenges traditional forms; a company that brings revolutionary ideas to the market, that sets trends Detail 2017 2016 2015 2014 and seeks creative solutions to problems. Number of direct 6.441 6.581 6.324 6.097 employees created Rate of Accidents with IAK: IAK: IAK: Costa Rica: injuries • Women • Women • Women 1,44% • Florida Bebidas: 2,37% (no accidents) (no accidents) • Men: 0,66% • Men: 0,45% • Men: 0,09% Costa Rica: Results on other Costa Rica: Costa Rica: • Florida Bebidas: 1,55% operations: unrecorded • Florida Bebidas: 1,08% • Florida Bebidas: 1,07% • Florida Retail y • Florida Retail: 2,46% • Florida Retail: 3,37% Reserva Conchal: • Reserva Conchal:1,78% • Reserva Conchal: 2,97% unrecorded NAB: 7,12% NAB: 6,63% NAB: 6,57% Training hours 73.504 76.833,88 37.944,44 50.055 Great Place to Work Trust Index:87 Trust Index: 87 Trust Index: 85 Trust Index: 76 Score Leadership Index: 84 Leadership Index: 84 Leadership Index: 82 Leadership Index: 70 Number of 170 180 160 200 collaborators impacted by leadership programs FIFCO FIFCO 47 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 FOSTERING OUR RELATIONSHIPS Context Activities An effective dialogue with our stakeholders ● Application of the Stakeholders Study and the Customer Loyalty study which evaluates the service level perceived is key to create real social and environmental by the company’s customers. value under a Triple Bottom Line approach. ● Application of the collaborators satisfaction survey, Great Place to Work, as well as evaluating collaborators’ level of commitment with the Corporate Purpose. This approach and the consultation process allow ● Creation of dialogue forums with neighboring communities. us to manage expectations, as well as to formulate ● Customer oriented program design and implementation. answers to address shared challenges (see ● Record of complaints regarding operations. stakeholder consultation on page 33). ● Preservation and expansion of Sustainable Purchasing and Sustainable Customer programs directed at company At the same time, and often as the product of suppliers and customers respectively. these same consultation processes, the company ● Upkeep of corporate volunteering program: “Elegí Ayudar” (Choose to help). Participation of shareholders in maintains a rigorous agenda for social investment, volunteer activities, extension of the program to customers. volunteering and strategic participation of its closest ● Efforts to educate and promote Smart Alcohol Consumption habits among critical audiences such as minors, stakeholders in programs and projects that promote parents and schoolteachers. the generation of its closest stakeholders in ● Creation of public-private partnerships as a way to maximize impact and encourage greater collaboration with the programs and projects that promote the generation Government, other public agencies and civil society organizations. of social, environmental and economic value. ● Signing the National Pact for the Sustainable Development Goals, making a public commitment to contribute to the achievement of the SDGs. Inputs Output Detail 2017 2016 2015 2014 ● Formal consultation mechanisms and establishment of dialogue forums with important stakeholders. Net Profit percentage dedicated to Strategic 7,5% 8% 6.5% 5,7% Social Investment ● Study results for Florida Bebidas, Florida Retail, Reserva Conchal and Industrias Alimenticias Kern’s. Volunteer hours 67.040 62.672 57.948,67 50.781 ● Results for Loyalty Study applied to customers. People impacted by Smart Consumption +312.000 61.852 182 88 initiatives y 3.000.000 with campaign ● Positive evaluation of the relationship and connection Number of suppliers that are part of the 293 232 182 88 of our collaborators with their leaders and with the Sustainable Purchasing program company’s purpose. Number of complaints recorded 2.520 2.077 (including 1.148 1.184 ● Acknowledgement among specialized audiences of the (operation total) complaints from Guatemala during company’s main sustainability initiatives. recording period) Number of Public-Private Alliances 75 37 35 30 FIFCO FIFCO 48 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 DRIVING OUR OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Context Inputs ● Properties, facilities and operations in 4 countries: Costa Rica, Guatemala, El Salvador and the United States. As a multinational food and beverage, retail ● 9 Production Plants, 15 Distribution Centers. services and hospitality company we aim for ● 1,256 Hectares in Guanacaste, Costa Rica dedicated to hospitality projects. high quality levels in our operations. ● 283 points of sale for Florida Retail operation. ● Construction of a recreational park in Comunidad Echeverría, Heredia, Costa Rica. Strict standards for both manufacturing practices and guest care protocols, as well as Activities customer service in general, are imperative for ● Continuity of the Master Plan: Within its “FIFCO 2020” strategy, the company has defined an investment business continuity. The company is committed plan (“Master Plan”) for its food and beverage business for the next 3 years. In order to ensure the to excellence and implementation of best expected growth in the Costa Rican market and in the markets of Central America and the United States in which practices both at the manufacturing level, as it competes, FIFCO is launching a master investment plan for its food and beverage business for the next three well as in the service given to our internal and years. This plan is focused on expanding the installed capacity of key production and packaging processes for external customers. In the same way, we seek beer, flavored alcoholic beverages and non-alcoholic beverages. This plan is one of the pillars of the 2020 strategy. to minimize (as much as possible) the negative ● Continued work with the new biomass boiler for the beer operation in Costa Rica. impact generated on the environment and other ● Completion of work on the first seawater Desalination Plant in Costa Rica. stakeholders if any and to have a positive ● Installation of solar panels / investment on clean energy infrastructure. impact by generating value in the communities in ● Began renovations / works in production plant in Rochester, New York. which we operate. ● Construction started on Hotel W Costa Rica. ● Remodeling of all Florida Retail operation points of sale (Musi convenience stores and Musmanni bakeries). ● Began expansion of cans line at Cerveza Plant. Output Detail 2017 2016 2015 2014 Opening Florida Retail 1 Tienda de la Birra 7 (remodeling) 21 24 points of sale (The Beer Store) 6 Musi 16 Musmanni Bakeries Investments in +$14 millon +$9 millions 50.961 million colones 51.309 million colones infrastructure to expand operations Investment in renewable $57.000,00 $66.000,00 $120.000,00 $120.000,00 energy infrastructure FIFCO FIFCO 49 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 OPTIMIZING OUR FINANCIAL CAPITAL CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AS OF SEPTEMBER 30. 2017 AND 2016 Context (In millions of colones) September Variation The economic environment in which we 2017 2016 Absolute % operated during the year was challenging. ASSETS Cash and Cash Equivalents 35,768 63,246 (27,478) -43.4% Consumers making conscientious consumer Investments in financial instruments 9,639 2,656 6,983 262.9% Accounts receivable. net 64,046 54,955 9,091 16.5% decisions in addition to two natural phenomena Inventory 65,293 63,565 1,728 2.7% Advances to suppliers 3,824 3,109 715 23.0% significantly impacted the Costa Rican economy. Disbursements paid in advance 18,565 23,216 (4,651) -20.0% Properties available for sale 14,959 2,527 12,432 492.0% Added to this, the decelerated growth of certain Current Assets 212,094 213,274 (1,180) -0.6% product categories made FIFCO take firm Long-term receivables 6,828 6,653 175 2.6% measures with respect to costs and expenses to Investment properties 44,939 56,944 (12,005) -21.1 Investments in associates and others 57,293 56,236 1,057 1.9% mitigate the impact of the economic environment. Property. plant and equipment. net 292,581 245,353 47,228 19.2% Intangible assets 186,387 182,924 3,463 1.9% Goodwill 92,644 90,497 2,147 2.4% Other assets 1,603 3,001 (1,398) -46.6% Deferred income tax. asset 31,917 31,626 291 0.9% Long Term Asset 714,192 673,234 40,958 6.1% TOTAL ASSETS 926,286 886,508 39,778 4.5% LIABILITIES Short-term bank loans 28,525 28,084 441 1.6% Current portion bank loans to LP 25,448 30,372 (4,924) -16.2% Current portion bonds payable to LP 5,000 5,000 0.0% Accounts payable 54,012 55,837 (1,825) -3.3% Accumulated expenses and other obligations 31,057 30,474 583 1.9% Income tax payable 6,824 10,975 (4,151) -37.8% Other taxes payable 7,986 7,686 300 3.9% Advances received from clients 3,665 3,231 434 13.4% Short Term Liability 162,517 166,659 (4,142) -2.5% Long-term bank loans 237,746 217,090 20,656 9.5% Standardized bonds payable 50,250 55,250 (5,000) -9.0% Deferred income tax. liability 60,923 59,496 1,427 2.4% Financial instrument maintained for risk management 813 1,739 (926) -53.2% Long Term Liability 349,732 333,575 16,157 4.8% TOTAL LIABILITIES 512,249 500,234 12,015 2.4% EQUITY Capital in Common Shares 93,734 93,967 (233) -0.2% Less: Treasury Shares 653 233 420 180.3% Capital in Outstanding Shares 93,081 93,734 (653) -0.7% Additional Paid-In Capital 54 54 0.0% Reserves 58,895 52,917 5,978 11.3% Retained Earnings 212,562 193,860 18,702 9.6% Equity attributable to Parent Company 364,592 340,565 24,027 7.1% Non-controlled interests 49,445 45,709 3,736 8.2%% TOTAL EQUITY 414,037 386,274 27,763 7.2% TOTAL LIABILITY AND EQUITY 926,286 886,508 39,778 4.5% FIFCO FIFCO 50 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 STRENGTHENING OUR INNOVATION Context Inputs Innovation, understood and driven by our ● Patented products and technologies leadership model, is a way to promote the ● Our procedures and services. creation of intellectual capital. ● Our brands and their reputational value. ● Our human resource. Innovation is applied to our way of doing business ● Organizational culture and leadership model. in general, from internal and external processes, as ● Intangible assets. well as the creation of new services and products. Activities ● Launch of 45 new products into the market. ● Change management program: “Vos 2.0” ● Solution Teams continue to address different areas and special projects. Output Detail 2017 2016 2015 2014 % total sales volume 1,23% beers and FABs 3,1% beers NR NR 1% soft drinks 1,2% soft drinks 1% food products 9,3% food products % sales value 1,1% beers and FABs 2,6% beers 7,8% 6,4% 1,3% soft drinks 1,3% soft drinks 2,13% food products 4,1% food products Number of product launches 45 • 8 beers 7,8% 6,4% • 17 soft drinks • 7 food products Number of projects in process 13 beers and FAB • 23 beers NR NR (production) 37 soft drinks • 45 soft drinks 22 food products • 16 food products Number of projects in process – 44 167 350 Program didn’t exist “Vos 2.0” program FIFCO FIFCO 51 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 MANAGING OUT NATURAL RESOURCES ORGANIZATION INPUTS DIRECT VALUE CHAIN OUTPUTS NATURAL CAPITAL ADMINISTRATIVE TASKS INDUSTRIAL CAPITAL Surface water 5,389,875 Hl FLORIDA BEBIDAS VINUM Corporate Building Offices and Stores Waste water discharged into the river 8,910,643 Hl Rain water 6,061 Hl Organic load poured into the river 147,228 Kg DQO Solar energy generated 70,652 KWH CO2 emissions 45,762 Ton MANUFACTURE STORAGE AND SECONDARY MANUFACTURED CAPITAL LOGISTICS DISTRIBUTION (260,000 HL) CAPITAL INDUSTRIAL BEER Production Piped water 235,760 Hl Finished GMA Developed product 4,245,494 Hl Ground water 11,385,911 Hl product DISTRIBUTION CRISTAL CENTER Sold product 4,464,099 Hl Thermal energy 273,047,635 MJ Production MARKETING processes SERVICES Transport thermal energy dissipated 174,550,154 MJ MASIVE Thermal energy 1,889,121 MJ PEPSI RURAL Processes thermal energy dissipated 255,455,299 MJ Production DISTRIBUTION machinery CENTERS Electric power dissipated 41,199,860 KWH SHOPPING Thermal energy 174,550,154 MJ CENTERS Electric power in the product 2,621,245 KWH transport COYOL Process thermal energy in the product 19,481,457 MJ Raw material and 1,660,832,568 Kg Sludge treatment plant 4,773,270 Kg auxiliaries POST-CONSUMER Emissions into the air 8,341 Hl Packaging material 21,329,795 Kg PACKAGING TRANSFER AND Emissions into water 3,872,799 Hl Packing material 42,831,010 Kg COLLECTION CENTER Post industrial waste 33,025,338 kg Diesel 3,182,457 L Dangerous waste 57,584 kg Gasoline 972,570 L Recovered post-consumer waste 5,485,906 kg Bunker 6,635,799 L Non recovered post-consumer waste 3,018,747 kg GLP 1,764,601 LB Waste sent to the landfill 65,430 kg Imported finished 218,605 HL Other waste generated 22,507,799 kg product Refrigerants 136 cilindros FIFCO FIFCO 52 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 CAPITAL FLOW ANALYSIS: NATURAL RESOURCES Natural capital: • A total of 846 hectares compensate for the water • Thermal energy is taken from manufactured capital • Reduction of basin natural flow due to outputs in the footprint, of which 451.8 hectares correspond to and divided into energy for transportation and energy form of water in the product and air emissions. manufacturing and the supply chain, 394.2 hectares to for processes. The first dissipates in the process products; both to achieve the Water Positive status. as part of manufactured capital. The second partly • Increase of organic load into the river due to dissipates in the production process but another part wastewater discharges. These are governed by Manufactured capital: remains as part of the product due to the cooking environmental legislation and are in compliance, but process in the production of beers, without which are burdens previously not carried by the body of • Transformation of groundwater to processed products. subsequent fermentation would not be possible. water. Some of these remain in the basin in the form of residual water, entering the natural flow. • Transformation of surface water in a part of the finished product, which increases the industrial flow • Transformation of raw materials, auxiliaries, and and reduces the natural flow. packing and packaging into finished products. Part of these materials is transformed into postindustrial • Electric and thermal energy through fossil fuels, waste, post-consumer waste. together with the use of refrigerants in the process, generate greenhouse gas emissions that become • The electrical energy that is taken from manufactured part of the natural capital in the form of atmospheric capital becomes manufactured capital as dissipated gases. energy and a fraction is energy “contained” in the product, due to the indispensable processes of • The atmospheric emissions generated are its intervention in production processes, namely: compensated by achieving carbon neutrality in its preparation and mixing of juices and carbonated drinks operations, additionally it manages to be Carbon and blowing PET bottles. The energy for machinery Positive by compensating 20% more than the and lighting is included within the dissipated energy. Carbon Neutrality requirement, offsetting 49 000 Tons. FIFCO FIFCO 53 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 2 S E C T I O N Our performance by dimension ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 54 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Economic Dimension FIFCO FIFCO 55 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Table of contents Economic Dimension 1 Our goal 56 2 Material topics 57 3 Three questions for Carlos Manuel Rojas, FIFCO’s CFO 58 4 Drivers and business context 59 5 Main Performance Indicators 62 6 Comments on financial results 67 7 Comments on the main variations of the Balance Sheet 68 8 Commitment #7 for 2020: Lead with brands that make the world a better place to live 71 a Three questions for Rolando Carvajal, Director of the Food and Beverages Division 72 b) Florida Food and Beverages 73 c) Beer and Flavored Alcoholic Beverages (FAB) 75 d) Florida Wine and Spirits 81 e) Three questions for Kris Sirchio, Director of North American Breweries 83 f) North American Breweries (NAB) 84 g) Soft Drinks and Dairy Products 85 h) Industrias Alimenticias Kern’s (IAK) 87 i) Three questions for Javier Sibaja, Director of Florida Retail 89 j) Florida Retail 90 k) Three questions for Helmuth Sauter, Director of Florida Hospitalidad 92 l) Florida Hospitalidad 93 m) Florida Capitales 95 n) Quality and Security 96 o) Value Chain (Purchasing Program, Sustaniable Clients and Costumer oriented program) 101 ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 56 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Our goal: To double company sales and profitability by 2020 During 2017 we took great strides towards FIFCO 2020. It was a challenging year, with modest economic growth, however, the company greatly strengthened its capabilities to grow in the near future. The company managed to place 94.4 million equivalent boxes of beverages (-1.7% vs. previous year) and 56,889 tons of food (5.4% more than the previous year) in the markets where we operate. FIFCO net sales reached 674 billion colones (+ 1.4% above the previous year) and operating income grew 7.9% compared to the previous year, to reach 120 billion colones. The growth in sales was driven mainly by Florida Real Estate businesses with 13.1% growth versus 2016 and both Musmanni and Kern’s food businesses with 6.3% growth versus the previous year. It is important to mention that during this fiscal period, a series of projects were implemented to improve the company’s commercial performance and increase efficiency and productivity. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 57 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Material topics FIFCO identifies 8 material topics in order to double OUR ECONOMIC RESULTS CONTRIBUTE TO THE business sales and profitability. Throughout the FOLLOWING SUSTAINABLE Economic Dimension, we report on the results of each DEVELOPMENT GOALS: of our businesses and show how they are in line with our commitment to lead with brands that make the world a better place to live and achieve world-class economic performance. 1 Economic value generated 2 Sales and Utilities 3 External economic impact 4 Product quality 5 Impact of our suppliers 6 Impact of our customers 7 Purchases from local suppliers 8 Leadership and market participation ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 58 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Three questions for Carlos Manuel Rojas CFO | FIFCO What is the economic context in which FIFCO and managing resources in a more effective manner, this operated during 2017? model manages to reduce inefficient, duplicate and / or The environment in which we operated during the year was non-priority processes, while aligning the organization’s challenging. In regards to Costa Rica, we found a consumer operational efforts, offering better visibility and an open cautious in their consumption decisions, and during the period forum to discuss and define organizational priorities. During the country suffered the onslaught of two important climate this year we also carried out one of the largest refinancing events. The US business also suffered a deceleration in the processes in the company’s liabilities portfolio. We achieved craft beer segment. With the results of the first semester we the negotiation of three large operations for the group, which saw lower profits compared to the previous year and therefore will allow for better rate, term and cash flow conditions, we took corrective measures in costs and expenses, which as well as allowing us to implement important investment would allow us to mitigate the effect. In the annual results projects. The achieved result generates significant financial we can see that the measures taken worked: total sales and savings accumulated throughout the life of these loans and operating profit at FIFCO level increased compared to the also positions FIFCO as a participant in the international previous year. This increase is of special relevance since for the financial market. The financial conditions that were past few years the company had been reaching historical sales negotiated are comparable and even better than those records. received by the benchmark food and beverage companies in the world. What are the main achievements of the Finance \ and Administration area for 2017? What does the “Simple FIFCO” agenda mean? There were important achievements for 2017 during this What advantages does it bring to the company? fiscal period. As a main point, the finance department was Simple FIFCO, or “Simple by Design” as we like to call it, reorganized, shifting from a business-oriented structure to is a corporate vision that, by redesigning processes and a process-oriented one in order to increase the capture of redefining structures and productivity initiatives, seeks to synergies, standardize business processes, and generally transform the way we do business, to be more agile and improve the service level. Meanwhile, we implemented a practical in our management, facilitate decision making by new budget matrix model with an initial capture of more than being closer to our internal and external customers, and $15million in productivity initiatives in a 12-month period. By consequently operate at a lower cost. budgeting the company’s expenses with zero-base budgeting ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 59 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Business drivers and context Our resources Committed collaborators Innovation with purpose culture Being united by a corporate purpose translates With programs such as Entrepreneurs and into better work conditions, in the develop“Vos 2.0” aimed at our collaborators, we fosment of our business, obtained results and in ter innovation and efficiency in our products, Our External the way in which we as an organization face processes and services, simultaneously generaResources factors challenges. ting value in the three dimensions in which we operate. Our brands Financial discipline We share with Our brands become the vehicle to interact with the world a better our consumers. Preference of our brands enA culture of savings and financial discipline way of living sures business sustainability. The commercial guarantees the appropriate creation of ecoand marketing plans for our brands are in line nomic value, coupled with a conscious use of with the strategy and corporate goal of being supplies and materials. category captains and market leaders. Our Our Relationships Values ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 60 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 External factors Global economy / Macroeconomic Regulations and political environment Natural resources variables / Competition As a company with operations in several counLike all companies, FIFCO depends on the We face a globalized and increasingly tries and that participates in various categories availability of natural resources such as competitive world, with constant political and and industries, FIFCO is exposed to multiple water and energy to operate. As a result, economic changes that generate uncertainty. regulations and legal contexts. Participation in FIFCO promotes a rational use of natural The company must remain attentive and Chambers and other trade associations is key resources, for which it establishes rigorous anticipate changes to adapt with increasing to timely control critical issues for the comgoals and programs in environmental matters, speed to the needs of consumers and pany’s operations. It must be emphasized that specifically regarding: post-industrial waste, macroeconomic variables such as interest rates, the company does not receive financial aid post-consumer waste, water resources and exchange rates, competition and taxes, among granted by government entities for its opeenergy/greenhouse gas emissions (GHG). others. rations. Illegal trade, and the creation of new taxes are relevant issues for operations based Price of key supplies in Costa Rica. In Guatemala, the political environment is a relevant factor to consider, contriThe price of our supplies has a direct impact buting to a lack of confidence and uncertainty on our competitiveness. Throughout the year among consumers and the business sector in we kept open a negotiation agenda with our general. suppliers, always looking for benefits for both parties. The cost of certain supplies decreased resulting in greater competitiveness and very conservative price increases, enabling higher competitiveness for the portfolio, as well as efficiency in the production lines. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 61 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Our relationships Consumers Collaborators The ability to identify the needs, preferences Collaborators at FIFCO are the engine and and priorities of our consumers guarantees heart of the company. Ensuring their wellbeing loyalty towards our brands and the company is a corporate priority. Creating spaces and as a whole. The ability to anticipate and offer feedback mechanisms allows us to identify products of the highest quality that come with opportunities to improve and better manage added value, acknowledged by our consumers, these relationships, which results in high validates the sustainability of the business. performance of the organization as a whole. Customers Suppliers Spending percentage by type of supplier Fair business relationships that seek to create The company builds valuable relationships value and “win-win” situations ensure the with its business partners, key allies in the International growth of our brands. In this period, we did company’s value chain. We seek the growth Operation Local supplier supplier not apply the traditional survey to reveal the and development of our suppliers through Costa Rica 64% 36% Customer Satisfaction Index; instead, we are different programs, such as the Sustainable Guatemala 60% 40% reformulating the format and content of the Purchasing Program, which accompanies United States 85% 15% tool to be applied in 2018. our suppliers in the implementation of improvements in social and environmental Note: The local supplier is the one that provides a product or service to the organization and is located on the same Shareholders matters. geographic market where the final product is produced. The administration seeks to have a transparent Communities and assertive relationship with its shareholders, systematically sharing the company’s perSecure, vibrant and successful communities formance in the three dimensions in which it play a crucial role in our business. The operates: economic, social and environmental. company promotes the welfare and progress of the communities where it operates. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 62 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Main economic performance indicators ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 63 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 MAIN FINANCIAL INDICATORS (In millions of colones) as of September 30. as of September 30. Variation 2017 2016 % Results Net sales (without direct taxes) 673,790 664,181 1.4% Sales cost 333,359 334,984 -0.5% Gross profit 340,431 329,197 3.4% Operating profit 120,434 111,663 7.9% Net profit 69,219 71,649 -3.4% Net Profit Attributable to Shareholders 54,784 55,932 -2.1% Shareholders Dividends 26,889 23,906 12.5% Balance Sheet Current Assets 212,094 213,274 -0.6% Long Term Asset 714,192 673,234 6.1% Total Asset 926,286 886,508 4.5% Short Term Liability 162,517 166,659 -2.5% Long Term liability 349,732 333,575 4.8% Total Liability 512,249 500,234 2.4% Working Capital. Net Investments and Onerous Obligations 83,952 99,888 -16.0% Total Equity 414,037 386,274 7.2% Net Equity. Attributable to Shareholderss 364,592 340,565 7.1% Net Social Capital (in Outstanding Shares) 93,081 93,734 -0.7% Indicators per share (in colones) Number of outstanding shares (in thousands) 930,812 937,340 -0.7% Operating Profit 129.39 119.13 8.6% Net Income Attributable to Shareholders 58.39 59.38 -1.7% Dividends 28.75 25.50 12.7% Carrying Value 391.69 363.33 7.8% Net Income Beverage Sales 566,302 564,512 0.3% Food Sales 72,931 68,594 6.3% Real Estate Sales 31,559 27,903 13.1% Others 2,998 3,172 -5.5% ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 64 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 MAIN FINANCIAL INDICATORS (In millions of colones) as of September 30, as of September 30, 2017 2016 Tangible Assets Real Estate. Plant and Equipment. net 292,581 245,353 Investments in Associates 57,293 56,236 Financial Reasons Operating Profit on Net Sales (without direct taxes) 17.9% 16.8% on Total Equity 29.1% 28.9% Net Income on Net Sales (without direct taxes) 10.3% 10.8% on Total Assets 7.5% 8.1% Net Income Attributable to Shareholders on Net Equity 15.0% 16.4% on Net Social Capital 58.9% 59.7% Dividends on Net Income Attributable to Shareholders 49.1% 42.7% Cash Flow Ratio 1.31 1.28 ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 65 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS (YEAR ENDING SEPTEMBER 30. 2017 AND 2016) (In millions of colones) Variation 2017 2016 Absolute % Net Sales 673,790 664,181 9,609 1.4% Cost of Sales 333,359 334,984 (1,625) -0.5% Gross Profit 340,431 329,197 11,234 3.4% Operating Expenses 219,997 217,534 2,463 1.1% Operating Profit 120,434 111,663 8,771 7.9% Other Expenses (Revenue). net 18,695 10,097 8,598 85.2% Profit Before Taxes 101,739 101,566 173 0.2% Income Tax 32,520 29,917 2,603 8.7% Net Income 69,219 71,649 (2,430) -3.4% Minority Interesto 14,435 15,717 (1,282) -8.2% Net Income Attributable to Shareholders 54,784 55,932 (1,148) -2.1% ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 66 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AS OF SEPTEMBER 30. 2017 AND 2016 (In millions of colones) September Variation 2017 2016 Absolute % ASSETS Cash and Cash Equivalents 35,768 63,246 (27,478) -43.4% Investments in financial instruments 9,639 2,656 6,983 262.9% Accounts receivable. net 64,046 54,955 9,091 16.5% Inventory 65,293 63,565 1,728 2.7% Advances to suppliers 3,824 3,109 715 23.0% Disbursements paid in advance 18,565 23,216 (4,651) -20.0% Properties available for sale 14,959 2,527 12,432 492.0% Current Assets 212,094 213,274 (1,180) -0.6% Long-term receivables 6,828 6,653 175 2.6% Investment properties 44,939 56,944 (12,005) -21.1 Investments in associates and others 57,293 56,236 1,057 1.9% Property. plant and equipment. net 292,581 245,353 47,228 19.2% Intangible assets 186,387 182,924 3,463 1.9% Goodwill 92,644 90,497 2,147 2.4% Other assets 1,603 3,001 (1,398) -46.6% Deferred income tax. asset 31,917 31,626 291 0.9% Long Term Asset 714,192 673,234 40,958 6.1% TOTAL ASSETS 926,286 886,508 39,778 4.5% LIABILITIES Short-term bank loans 28,525 28,084 441 1.6% Current portion bank loans to LP 25,448 30,372 (4,924) -16.2% Current portion bonds payable to LP 5,000 5,000 0.0% Accounts payable 54,012 55,837 (1,825) -3.3% Accumulated expenses and other obligations 31,057 30,474 583 1.9% Income tax payable 6,824 10,975 (4,151) -37.8% Other taxes payable 7,986 7,686 300 3.9% Advances received from clients 3,665 3,231 434 13.4% Short Term Liability 162,517 166,659 (4,142) -2.5% Long-term bank loans 237,746 217,090 20,656 9.5% Standardized bonds payable 50,250 55,250 (5,000) -9.0% Deferred income tax. liability 60,923 59,496 1,427 2.4% Financial instrument maintained for risk management 813 1,739 (926) -53.2% Long Term Liability 349,732 333,575 16,157 4.8% TOTAL LIABILITIES 512,249 500,234 12,015 2.4% EQUITY Capital in Common Shares 93,734 93,967 (233) -0.2% Less: Treasury Shares 653 233 420 180.3% Capital in Outstanding Shares 93,081 93,734 (653) -0.7% Additional Paid-In Capital 54 54 0.0% Reserves 58,895 52,917 5,978 11.3% Retained Earnings 212,562 193,860 18,702 9.6% Equity attributable to Parent Company 364,592 340,565 24,027 7.1% Non-controlled interests 49,445 45,709 3,736 8.2%% TOTAL EQUITY 414,037 386,274 27,763 7.2% TOTAL LIABILITY AND EQUITY 926,286 886,508 39,778 4.5% ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 67 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Comments on financial results Net sales Cost of Sales Other Expenses (Revenue) Net Consolidated net sales grew 1.4% mainly due Cost of sales decreased -0.5% due to the effect Other expenses (income) increased 85.2%, to the results of the real estate business, which of efficiencies in raw material procurement mainly resulting from a 7.590 million colones grew 13.1% product of property sales, as well and productivities in all manufacturing plants installment payment made to the IFAM in as better hotel rates. In the food segment, sales and the results of the portfolio mix (highest relation to the material cases that were in grew 6.3% due to the results of the beans and growth of food vs. beverages). court proceedings, which were entirely closed; tomato sauce categories in the United States and a decrease in Associates’ profits due and Central America, respectively, as well as Operating Expenses to lower profits in Cervecería Panamá as a higher bread volume in owned and franchised result of greater competition and the effect of stores. The beverage segment remains in line Operating expenses increased 1.1%, outstanding non-recurring income in INCECA with the previous year due to the growth of below gross profit growth, mainly in sales, during the previous period. the beer and flavored alcoholic beverages distribution and marketing as part of the business in Central America, being offset by a support required by the business to promote Net Income Attributable to Shareholders decrease in the Wine & Spirits business which its brands in all markets and categories, net continues to be affected by contraband, and efficiency initiatives, process simplification Net income closed with a decrease of -3.4% the beverage business in the United States and expenditure rationalization mainly in the due to the effect of outstanding expenses mainly as a result of a downturn in the craft beverage businesses in Costa Rica and the associated with the installment payment to beer category. United States. the IFAM and lower profits of the Associates, despite the increase in the operating results Operating Profit of the beverage businesses in Central America and the real estate business in Costa Rica. Operating profit increased 7.9%, mainly due to the beverage business in Central America, as well as the real estate business in Costa Rica. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 68 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Comments on main Balance Sheet variations Current Assets Short-term liabilities Current assets decreased -0.6% due to a lower Short-term liabilities decreased -2.5% mainly level of cash (used to a large extent for equity as a result of a lower accumulated income tax investments in line with the master plan), balance. partially offset by a higher level of accounts receivable for commercial dynamics, as well as Long-term liabilities the reclassification of properties available for short-term sale. Long-term liabilities increased 4.8% as a result of refinancing liabilities, as well as the Long Term Assets increase in debt associated with financing the construction of Hotel W in Reserva Conchal. Long-term assets grew 6.1% as a result of investments in Property, Plant and Equipment Equity Attributable to Parent Company mainly associated with the Manufacturing Master Plan in Costa Rica and the The equity attributable to the Parent Company modernization of the Rochester plant, as well grew by 7.1%, due to the accumulation of as progress in the construction of Hotel W in profits, as well as an increase in reserves Reserva Conchal. resulting from updated investments in associates and the transfer of different businesses to the company’s operating currency. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 69 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Commercial performance FIFCO | Net Sales per Segment FIFCO | Gross Profit per Segment Million Colones Million Colones 760,000 1,790 4,337 3,656 660,000 360,000 2,627 174 7.,233 ,435 61 560,000 460,000 +1.4% 623.288 664.181 673,790 260,000 329,197 +3.4% 340,431 360,000 294,623 260,000 160,000 160,000 FIFCO 2015 FIFCO 2016 Beverages Food Real Estate Others FIFCO 2017 FIFCO 2015 FIFCO 2016 Beverages Food Real Estate Others FIFCO 2017 FIFCO | Operating Profit per Segment FIFCO | Net Income Attributable to Shareholders Million Colones Million Colones 71,000 150,000 727 66,000 7,288 901 130,000 61,000 5,816 713 1,909 333 56,000 5,552 51,000 2,290 110,000 2,157 46,000 90,000 41,000 +7.9% 36,000 70,000 31,000 111,663 120,434 55,932 -2.05% 54,784 95,796 26,000 50,000 45,856 21,000 30,000 16,000 11,000 10,000 6,000 FIFCO 2015 FIFCO 2016 Beverages Food Real Estate Others FIFCO 2017 1,000 2015 2016 Operating Financial Exchange Other Profit in… ISR-IT 2017 Profit Expenses Differential Expenses Source: AC Nielsen 2017 ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 70 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 FIFCO | Historical of commercial performance Net sales Gross profit In million colones (¢) In million colones(¢) CAGR 12,7% CAGR 11,4% 800 350 329 340 700 664 674 295 614 623 300 281 600 553 254 250 500 202 200 184 400 348 155 154 167 280 290 317 300 278 150 115 205 200 100 100 50 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2007* 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Operating profit Adjusted net income In million colones (¢) In million colones (¢) CAGR 7,7% CAGR 10,2% 65 150 56 55 130 120 55 112 46 110 96 45 85 35 37 90 75 35 33 71 74 29 70 66 26 27 58 59 24 23 46 25 50 30 15 10 5 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 *2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 *2012 2013 2014 *2015 2016 2017 Source: AC Nielsen 2016 *Comparable, except for extraordinary changes ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 71 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Main results and milestones for the period COMMITMENT #7 FOR 2020: Lead with brands that make the world a better place to live In this section we discuss the results and milestones for each of our businesses and the progress made by our brands in order to meet one of FIFCO’s 7 goals for 2020: to lead with brands that make the world a better place to live, an initiative called “FIFCO Air Brands”. By 2020 we want our main brands to be as light as air, that their life cycle does not produce negative environmental or social footprints, but rather add positive value to the world. Brands that achieve this status or that are heading towards it are FIFCO Air Brands. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 72 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Three questions for Rolando Carvajal DIRECTOR OF FOOD AND BEVERAGES DIVISION | FIFCO In general, how was the economic performance of • Leadership in the sangria segment, growth of + 40% the Beer, Flavored Alcoholic Beverages, Soft Drinks in the Diageo “Reserve” and “Premium” portfolios and and Wine and Spirits units? second edition of “El Camino del Vino” (“The Wine Road”), the largest wine fair in the region. This year has been challenging for some business units, however, we reached record sales numbers in Beer and How was “sustainability” incorporated Flavored Alcoholic Beverages, growing in comparison to the into the business agenda? previous year. The Soft Drinks unit increased its sales volume and presented economic growth in EBITDA. Meanwhile, the The launch of the “FIFCO Air Brands” initiative allowed brands Wine and Spirits division suffered a decrease with respect to show their sustainability agenda in a way that’s clearer for to the previous year, product of portfolio normalization the consumer. In environmental matters, this year, Imperial and wholesale channels inventory agenda. In addition, we was declared the first water positive beer in the world, the dealt with contraband, which is a substantial obstacle for production capacity in glass for soft drinks was improved this division, with prices varying up to 80%. The Food unit and Tropical and Cristal containers continued to use 100% reported efficiencies and significant growth in the Costa recycled plastic, in addition to significant reductions of Rican and United States markets. water and energy consumption in production processes. Through the company’s recycling program and Agua Cristal’s Mention some milestones for these divisions campaign #YoLoJunto (#IPickItUp), we’re moving forward with the agenda to achieve 100% post-consumer package • Beers achieved a historical sales record during a very recycling, improving post-consumer recycling indicators challenging year; zero accidents at the Plant or inoperative (from 60% to 65% versus last year). In social matters, injuries. The first expansion stage for Planta Cerveza was we significantly reduced sugar content in our beverages, completed with a new line of cans that is already operating. and substituted ingredients for more natural, organic and First world execution in points of sale and launching of the preservative free options. Costumer oriented program. We made Imperial the first Water Positive beer in the world. • In Soft Drinks, growth in volume and market share and significant generation of productivities. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 73 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Florida Food and Beverage Despite a highly competitive year, Florida Food and Beverage grew in operating profits, sales, and EBITDA. The environment reveals consumers’ preference for various products and services in the market. As a result, the business agenda is more focused on innovation and gaining consumer knowledge, while continuing to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the current market. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 74 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 | Innovation 2017 offered consumers more than 45 Innovations recap and impact product innovations in all business units. New Beer and FAB Soft Drinks Food products, reformulations, new presentations and improvements in procedures and services 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 were some of the factors carried out by the Total number of innovations or projects 8 17 17 25 22 31 innovation agenda. Innovation was essential (this includes label and/or image changes, reformulations, new packaging, new materials, new products, new for all categories to continue offering new presentations, etc.) consumption opportunities. Total number of launches 20 33 14 14 10 24 (only new brands or new products in existing brands, SKU unit) Total sales volume percentage 3.57% 1.23% 1.2% 1% 1.2% 1% (based on the total number of launches) Sales value percentage 3% 1.1% 1.3% 1.3% 1.1% 2.13% Number of projects in progress 23 13 45 37 16 22 Note: SKU’s = number of presentations launched ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 75 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Beer and Flavored | Beers Alcoholic Beverages (FAB) The Beer and Flavored Alcoholic Beverages Imperial, the first water positive beer Unit (BAS) achieved a historical sales in the world record, presenting moderate growth compared to the previous year. As part of its comprehensive sustainability agenda, Imperial reached a global milestone Considerable preference for our brands was by becoming the world’s first a constant, however, there were situations water positive beer. This means that generated business challenges such as that it measures 100% of its a decreased consumption in “On Premise” water footprint, reduced water channels (bars and restaurants) due to consumption during its production weather conditions, traffic in the streets, up to 3.16 million hectoliters in the and road repairs, among others (in Costa last 12 years, and compensates the Rica). Therefore, the “Off Premise” channel remaining water footprint by 10% (supermarkets, mini supers, etc.) where price above neutrality, protecting water is a very relevant factor for the consumer, basins and generating positive value increased its participation. with the support of community water projects. More information www.laprimeradelmundo.com. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 76 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Four great moments During the year, Imperial had four great moments with its end of the year campaigns “Abrazá el 2017” (Embrace 2017) and “Mi Verano es Imperial” (My Summer is Imperial), even receiving an Effie award for packaging design in summer presentations. In addition, during this period the already famous “Barra Imperial” (Imperial Bar) enjoyed an excellent reception from consumers at the civic celebrations in Palmares, and it was the first time that the brand offered a space with cutting edge technology lights, sound and structure, in addition to the new “El Patio Imperial” (Imperial Deck), which provided a more relaxed atmosphere. Finally, the brand closed the year with the campaign “Me la merezco” (I Deserve It) inviting consumers to enjoy a “Pura Vida” moment with friends. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 77 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Pilsen For third consecutive year Pilsen launched its “Movember” campaign, which fights against prostate cancer. During this period it will be launching the campaign “Parrillera Republic” (Grill Republic) which promotes Smart Consumption alternating beer with food and by introducing limited editions of “Tattoo” cans designed by consumers, Pilsen is conquering the market, which has been loyal for a long time. This year the brand donated $30,000 to remodel the oncology ward at Hospital México, where more than 600 people receive attention every day. Together in the fight against cancer This year the brand donated $ 30,000 for the remodeling of the oncology ward of Hospital México, where more than 600 people benefit from it daily Donation for the oncology ward, Hospital México, Costa Rica. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 78 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Bavaria Lager-style beer with 3 selected malts, Cared, Munich and Pale. With a vibrant reddish color, Heineken reported it has a subtly toasted and slightly caramelized flavor. This beer was created under the limited a growth edition concept, however, due to its excellent of 10.6%. reception by Costa Ricans, it’s here to stay. This brand will be available in Honduras starting this period. Tu mejor verano Heineken For the first time in many years, the Heineken 250ml presentation which is not only smaller, The campaign “Tu mejor verano” (Your best brand launched a brand campaign in the but more accessible for the final consumer, summer) by Bavaria Chill received the “Volcán Costa Rican market. This campaign shared the and promises to be #FriaHastaElFinal de Bronce” award in the Audiovisuals, Best secrets behind this iconic premium beer and (#ColdUntilTheEnd). Finally, Heineken Photography category, awarded during the Volcán what makes it so special. In addition, during joined the global strategy from Costa Rica, Festival, a prestigious advertising awards event. the renowned fashion event “Mercedes Benz implementing Champions League activations Fashion Week San Jose”, Heineken launched and successfully hosting a Heineken Beach its version of Heineken Mini that promotes a Party with more than 1,000 people. This brand new consumption opportunity by coming in a reported a growth of 10.6%. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 79 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 22% The Micro Brewing Company This business closed the period with a 22% growth in sales volume and doubling its points of sale (POS) coverage compared to the previous year, reaching a total of 700 new growth in retail stores. sales volume Six beers were launched during this period, of 200% which we highlight the “Coffee Shaman” that supports a SME in Tarrazú, Costa Rica, which provides raw materials for its production. It continues with an important agenda of innovation and efficiencies at the production level. points of sale coverage Genesse enters Costa Rica The segment of imported beers had a positive performance, boosted by the introduction of Genesee beer produced in the United States, to the Costa Rican market in March 2017. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 80 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 | Flavored Alcoholic Beverages Smirnoff Ice incorporates two new flavors to its portfolio by launching the new Passion Exports Fruit and Grapefruit Smirnoff Ice Electric with 4.8% alcohol, in a 350ml can presentation. Imperial continues to make great achievements, focusing on its expansion plan in the United States, Bliss innovates as well with its Summer paying special attention to two key markets in 2017: editions: Watermelon, Calypso and Aloha, all Denver and San Diego. We consolidated a team of in a sleek can presentation. brand ambassadors, and for the first time Imperial Bendito Té was the most important innovation managed to go on the air with a comprehensive of this unit as it opens a new category of media plan (Public Relations, outdoor advertising, alcoholic beverages. Tasting of iced tea with magazines, events, tastings, etc.). lemon, it is “blessed” because it contains 5% alcohol. It comes in a 350ml can or bottle and The brand achieved extraordinary results in both is sold in the Costa Rican market. cities, with growth in sales against the previous year in both markets: 9% in Denver and 54% in San Diego. The flavored alcoholic beverages category continues with its regionalization strategy and during 2017 it was possible to launch Bliss and Bamboo in 3 new countries: Guatemala, El Salvador and Panama. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 81 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Wine and Spirits The fight against contraband Florida Wine and Spirits reached important milestones during the year. This illegal method of marketing goods continues Some highlights include: the first edition of the to develop in Costa Rica, accounting for 22% of the largest wine fair “El Camino del Vino” market and generating great challenges mainly for (The Wine Road), Smirnoff Ice Electric product the spirits division, since they offer the products at launch, promotions that offer mixology half price or lower. One out of every two bottles in and the wide range of wines offered by the Costa Rica is illegal. In order to reduce this impact, portfolio, which shows that in the last 5 years, we strengthened the spaces for collaboration between it has grown from 350 to 1,400 wine brands. the private and public sectors, by signing an executive The trend towards Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot decree, which formalizes the participation of Chambers and Malbec strains continues to consolidate in representing the industry within the Comisión the market, creating an opportunity for blends, Interinstitucional de Lucha al Contrabando (Interand complementing the innovation agenda. institutional Commission for Fight Against Contraband). In addition, we reached an agreement with the Ministry This year we saw consumers’ preference of Finance to identify the legally imported product for “sangria”, a growing trend that explores from the contraband, promoting a different way of new origins. Spirits and craft beers also had investigating and controlling the market, facilitating interesting opportunities in the market. operations at points of sale and distributors. Diageo recognized this division with To continue shedding a light on this informal market the “Leadership in Innovation” and for authorities and the public opinion is key for the “Leadership in Out of Trade Execution alcoholic beverage industry as a whole. Standards” 2017 awards. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 82 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 | Vinum Store The four Vinum Store shops located in Pinares de Curridabat, Escazú, Santa Ana and Tibás represent a strategic point for our customers to purchase wines and spirits. This year, the Tibás store was remodeled in order to improve the shopping experience. With the experience of Florida Retail As part of the efforts to have an increasingly agile and strategic company, during 2017 it was decided that the Vinum Store shops would be managed by the Florida Retail business, which has extensive experience in direct-to-consumer sales. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 83 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Three questions for Kris Sirchio DIRECTOR OF NORTH AMERICAN BREWERIES | FIFCO What are the year’s three main achievements? How does NAB incorporate sustainability into the business agenda? The extension of the Seagram’s Escapes franchise: with a new capital investment in a coal tower, we have improved the base Sustainability is the core of everything we do at NAB. In the last product used to manufacture Seagram’s Escapes. This allows for an two years, we have made drastic changes to not only measure innovative, consistent and better tasting product that ages well. The and reduce our footprint, but also create positive value in our launch of ABV Seagram’s Spiked Escapes allows NAB to go from community with strategic investments to improve waterways and playing in 6% of the FMB (Flavored Malt Beverage) market to 90% urban green spaces, promote recycling and eliminate waste in of the market. The expansion of the Seagram’s Escapes franchise our streets. As we move forward in leaps and bounds in all of our will cross over new geographies, segments and channels. Another facilities and consistently achieve 120% of our goal, NAB has achievement is the modernization of the Genesee brewery. In made great strides on its path towards the creation of a triple recent years, FIFCO has invested almost $100 million to improve bottom line company. For example, in the last three years, we have capacities and efficiencies at Genesee Brewery. The new brewing saved 176 million gallons of water, reduced carbon emissions by equipment and the cold block will reduce costs and improve the 11,000 tons and diverted more than 98% of landfill waste. That’s quality of the products we manufacture. In addition to savings, a reduction of 700,000 tons of waste. We want to achieve 100% modernization will also reduce the brewery’s environmental footprint. compliance with the Smart Consumption objective, extending Finally, achieving a triple bottom line culture: in the last three social and environmental practices to our brands. Finally, improving years, volunteer participation has increased from 51% to 90% with the score in the Great Place to Work survey; this year we increased more than 10,000 accumulated hours in the 2016-2017 period. 12 points versus the previous year. Most of these hours are in line with our social and environmental footprints. Noticing the change in behavior and attitude internally What is the highlight of 2017? while creating a greater strategic impact in the community has been one of our greatest achievements. In addition, we are taking NAB has reached 17% EBITDA according to the Compound Annual advantage of our triple bottom line culture to strengthen relationships Growth Rate (CAGR) of the last three years. In addition, we applied with distributors, retailers and consumers in key geographies. the first study with stakeholders to understand the environmental and social needs of the community. We have improved the volunteer program by investing more hours, money, strategic activities and partnerships with NGOs. Finally, by positioning our triple bottom line strategy, we have improved the relationship with our customers and consumers. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 84 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 North American Breweries (NAB) During the past three years, NAB has been The reported period turned out to be more Innovation during the period was paramount, on the rise, providing an average growth of challenging, facing a difficult and competitive including the new Seagram’s Escapes Spiked, 17% year after year. beer market, the whole plan could not be which led the brand to grow from 6% carried out, but the achieved results are in participation of the flavored malts segment to line with the trends. Consumers have changed 90%. This brand has continued to grow during their trend, preferring beers, wines and the last 8 years, paying special attention to the liqueurs with flavors and brands that offer “Fab 5”, or flavors most valued by consumers. them experiences. For their part, Magic Hat received praise Flavored malt beverages grew at half a for the beer’s qualities in a publication of digit, while the growth of Mexican imports The Boston Globe. In addition, changes in increased considerably. The growth of craft packaging have increased the excitement of beers and premium brands decelerated, while consumers for both Magic Hat and Pyramid. for the first time in many years, the value segment is growing. The main breweries captured part of the volume lost in other segments of the beer industry. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 85 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Soft Drinks and Dairy Products The Soft Drinks and Dairy unit had a good performance in this period, generating economic growth in EBITDA and volume compared to the previous year, managing to do so in a very challenging commercial context. This division closed the period with significant Jet launched its new red fruit flavor, which is efficiencies at the production level, while conquering the malts market. On the other facing a highly competitive market. hand, this period marks the first year that Mú! products are produced by Grupo Lala and Several innovations were key during the year, marketed by FIFCO. since they expanded the category’s portfolio. The new Maxxx Energy Watermelon, zero sugar, and the new Tropical Herbals Moringa were some of the leading products this period. This latest innovation was the result of the “Entrepreneurs” program that took place in 2016, in which collaborators from the Distribution Department created a Tropical with moringa, developing the project in collaboration with the marketing, innovation and development team. Gatorade IronMan 70.3 During the period, Tropical won the “Volcán de Oro” award, in the audiovisual and Gatorade was the official sponsor of the first Gatorade musicalization category for the “Verano” Ironman 70.3 Costa Rica where it played a key role in (Summer) campaign. In addition, the brand hydration and assistance to the thousands of athletes launched a regional campaign adapted for the who showed up to the competition, positioning itself as Costa Rican and Guatemalan markets for the the main hydration brand in the massive event. first time. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 86 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 FIFCO Air Brands Beverages Being consistent with our corporate purpose and values, the unit shows greater focus on products and packaging, offering healthier options and packages that are less damaging to the environment and society. Some highlights are Imperial beer (water positive), and the improvements made on Kern’s and Ducal product recipes, Tropical, and nutritional education volunteer initiatives. #YoLoJunto (#I’llPickItUp) from Agua Cristal In December 2016, Agua Cristal (bottled water brand) launched its #YoLoJunto (#I’llPickItUp) campaign, an environmental movement to motivate Costa Ricans to be responsible for the trash littering the country’s streets and public spaces. The campaign was present on some beaches during the holiday season, offering recycling stations for visitors. At the beginning of the period, this brand won 2 gold “Effies” for its campaign. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 87 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Industrias Alimenticias Kern’s The Food business presents double-digit growth versus the previous year in the 2017 highlights Costa Rica and the United States markets, thanks to good business management and • Level of Customer Service the great reception of innovative products 98.7% such as Pot Beans and Silk Beans. (94.5% Previous Year) • Double-digit growth versus previous year in Other important geographies such as El volunteer hours (strategic Salvador and Nicaragua also grew by 23% and causes, both social and 7% respectively, allowing our brands to remain environmental) regional leaders. The Guatemalan market was affected by low-price competition, and changes • 58% improvement in the in the inventory policy of intermediaries due to tax corrections. disposal of solid waste indicator in the manufacturing plant. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 88 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 The unit registers double-digit growth in both the beans and Ketchup categories, retaining a significant market-share in both. During the reporting period, significant operating and raw material usage productivities and efficiencies were recorded, with double-digit growth in EBITDA versus the previous year. Kern’s brand launched the new 100% fruit juices and Ducal the new “Ducal Fortified Beans”, as part of the agenda to offer healthier products. This brand also reported significant growth in the United States. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 89 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Three questions for Javier Sibaja DIRECTOR OF FLORIDA RETAIL | FIFCO What are the period’s most important milestones for the division? Florida Retail evolved as a specialist retail division, assuming the management of four important points of sale for the company: the three Vinum Stores and the new La Birra Store (Beer Store) located just outside FIFCO headquarters. In addition, we renovated every Musmanni bakery (183 in total, including opening new bakeries with a new image) and bread sales increased 8.3% versus the previous year. Lastly, we finalized the transition of “Musmanni Mini Super” convenience stores to the new brand “MUSI”. Operating profits grew 16.1% with respect to the previous year, having excellent control of expenses and increasing other incomes by 35%. We managed to enter Wal-Mart Costa Rica and Nicaragua, increased the volume of exports to Puerto Rico where innovation and consolidation of formats play a very and incorporated a 360 model with Rey Supermarkets in important role in overcoming these challenges. Panama. What role does sustainability play? What challenges are you facing? We are working on an agenda for our products to be “Air Positioning the MUSI brand as the new format for Brands”, with Melcochón leading the way. We have made convenience stores is a challenge, however, it has been well important progress in the formulations; less fat, sodium and received by consumers. The country’s economic situation sugar in our products, as well as increasingly sustainable and unpredictable weather conditions also affect the packaging. In addition, this year our plant was declared business. We believe that we are going in the right direction, Carbon Neutral again. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 90 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Florida Retail Convenience stores Five of the 77 stores Offering proximity, fair prices, prompt attention and convenient products (or ready-made comwere declared bos) are some of the ways in which our MUSI Carbon Neutral stores operate in the market. With a beverage sales approach, this year 100% of our convenience stores migrated from the Musmanni Mini Super brand to the MUSI brand, compared to 3 renovated stores in the previous period. We grew 12.1% in the format’s most important product categories, such alcoholic beverage sales, which grew by 28.5% with a 100% participation of our suppliers in the different business programs and a 2% decrease in operating expenses. Five of the 77 stores were declared Carbon Neutral, a status granted by the INTE 12-01-06: 2016 standard from the Costa Rican Institute of Technical Standards, in order to become increasingly environmental friendly points of sale. To achieve this, these MUSI underwent a process that MUSI Store | Trejos Montealegre neighborhood, San Jose, Costa Rica (Carbon Neutral) included measuring their sources of emissions, reducing them and compensating them by purchasing Costa Rican Carbon Units. These funds, administered by FONAFIFO (National Forestry Financing Fund), are invested in reforestation and forest protection in the country. During the year, we opened 6 new MUSI points of sale. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 91 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Innovation of the year: 100% recyclable paper bag As part of our brands’ efforts to become lighter every day (FIFCO Air Brands), in 2017 Musmanni decided to launch the new 100% recyclable paper bag to deliver “Melcochón” bread to the more than 220 points of Musmanni Bakeries sale in the country, this being the best selling bread nationwide. In 2017, 100% of the Musmanni bakeries completed their migration from the Although its cost is 2.5 times higher than the plastic point of sale image to a kind of “oasis”, bag, it is not transferred to the consumer. Looking to a warmer, modern and more welcoming the future, we intend to migrate all plastic product space, where the consumer may even sit down and enjoy a coffee right there. delivery bags to paper bags. This business had a 5.5% growth in EBITDA versus the previous year, which represented 22.7% of total sales. Musmanni participated in the “Franchise Expo 2017” with a high traffic of visits that resulted in the entry of two new franchisees. Business dynamics focused on strengthening the emotional bond with our consumers have been implemented. During the year, we opened 16 new Musmanni points of sale. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 92 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Three questions for Helmuth Sauter DIRECTOR OF FLORIDA HOSPITALIDAD | FIFCO State the year’s main economic achievements for the division This year we had achievements in the three dimensions. Highlights for the economic dimension are that we closed above the budget, we started the construction of the new Hotel W in line with the budgeted amount, we innovated with the new “On Premise” format and as part of our strategic focus, we signed a sales contract for the North Peninsula terrain. What were the main milestones in the social and environmental dimensions? In social terms, we ranked #2 nationwide in the Great Place to Work survey under the category of companies with less than 1,000 collaborators, we inaugurated the new EBAIS (medical Regarding collaborators, what are the greatest care center) for the community of Brasilito, we increased achievements? the number of graduates under the Dual Education program and we managed to achieve a high percentage of local This year we ranked second nationwide in the Great Place to hires. The Wildlife Refuge obtained a perfect score and AyA Work survey in the category of companies with fewer than (Aqueduct and Sewer Authorities) began the construction of the 1,000 employees. In addition, we continued with the Dual Nimboyores aqueduct with the funds donated by the division in Education program, which grows every year, giving new the previous period. In addition, Reserva Conchal was the bestcollaborators the opportunity to enter the business. The local ranked business during the public stakeholder consultation labor recruitment percentage is quite high, contributing at the process carried out during the recording period, with respect to same time to the community that surrounds us. its social and environmental performance. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 93 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Florida Hospitalidad Hotel W In this period we began construction on the new Hotel W, after completing the bidding process, hiring construction firms and obtaining the construction permits. The first movements of land and construction began in line with the approved schedule and budget. Reserva Conchal, real estate project This business managed to reach the residential sales contribution margin according to the proposed budget, and the properties located in front of the “Recycling Center” were sold to the Accelera Project (aimed at small and mediumscale industries). ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 94 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Westin Golf Resort & Spa Hotel Playa Conchal Hotel rates increased by + 3% during the reporting period, resulting in an increase of the GOP (Gross Operating Profit) versus the previous year. Hotel occupation showed a slight increase despite the 7% drop in the arrival of tourists to the area in the accumulated October 2016August 2017 period compared to the previous year. This year, we implemented an important expenditure control, which resulted in very good performance indicators. During the period, the hotel inaugurated its latest “on premise” point-of-sale innovation known as “El Bar Imperial”, where guests can enjoy live music, beer and national food in a relaxed, warm environment, full of a very Costa Rican essence. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 95 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Florida Capitales COMEGUA During this fiscal period, this operation did not have economic growth but moves forward with its innovation agenda to face the challenges of 2018. INCECA Brewery During the year, INCECA presented almost double-digit growth in beer and moderate growth in soft drinks versus the previous year, with a positive EBITDA. The increase in sales in convenience stores was with doubledigit growth. Regarding the environmental and social agenda, this operation was certified water neutral and offered 6,700 workshops on smart alcohol consumption to 187,000 people, including minors. El Barú Brewery During the fiscal period Barú Panama Brewery did not have economic growth, however it’s worth mentioning its innovations : Panama Artic beer and Soberana Ultra. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 96 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Quality and safety Quality and Safety of our products 100% of the products produced by FIFCO are submitted or evaluated to verify their impact on the health and safety of our customers. This verification process uses different methodologies such as: Internal Integrated Audits, Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP), Good Manufacturing Practices, production lot checks, physicochemical and microbiological analyzes, all detailed in the respective management systems. We systematically seek improvements in the formulation and development of our products in terms of quality and safety. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 97 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Responsible product labeling Information required on the label 100% of our products produced and marketed during the 2016 period, provide correct and 2017 Criteria accessible information on their labels or Must report Must not report packing boxes, in accordance with current Origin of the components of the NAB legislation and regulations established by product or service the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Economy, Content, especially with regards to NAB Industry and Commerce and Central American substances that may have some Technical Regulations, among others. Each environmental or social impact package details: IAK, Cristal, ECSA, Dairy Safety instructions for the product NAB • Name of the food or service • List of ingredients Elimination of the product and NAB • Nutritional information (when applicable) environmental or social impact • Net content • Name and address of the manufacturer • Country of origin • Batch identification • Expiration date • Product benefits with technical data sheets for each product, • Customer service phone number explaining the ingredients and allergens • Recycling Program logo in it, the preparation method and storage recommendations. The industrial bakery products of the Florida Retail operation are packaged in At Industrias Alimenticias Kern’s (IAK) 100% bulk for further processing and therefore of product labeling complies with the Central are not subject to pre-packaged food labeling American regulation, RTCA (Central American regulations. However, all boxes have a label, Technical Regulation) for General Labeling, with the name of the product, the date of Nutritional Labeling (which is voluntary), Food production, the recommended expiration date, Additives and Net Content. At North American the batch number, serial box number and net Breweries the products comply with the weight. In addition, customers are provided relevant labeling legislation for that geography. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 98 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Consumer safety and health Our commitment with consumer safety and health During the period, we identified a case of noncompliance with the regulations regarding 1 Develop initiatives that promote access to product labeling and the health and safety of economically accessible and healthy foods, consumers with Green Tea Light. Following the recommendations of the Costa Rican promoting wellbeing in the communities Consumer Commission the company made the required modifications on the label, aiming to 2 Develop products with low contents of sodium, offer much clearer and detailed information to trans and saturated fats and added sugar the consumer. 3 Develop products that contain fiber, vitamins, The Florida Retail bakery plant underwent minerals and other functional food additives the ISO-9000 recertification audit, obtaining two minor nonconformities. In relation to the claims, 115 claims were received, that is 18% 4 Increase the number of products that contemplate less, and the percentage of cases recognized to a lower social and environmental impact in our customers through NC due to quality issues, portfolio decreased from 0.06% to 0.03%. All the claims were addressed and analyzed taking the pertinent corrective measures. Industrias Alimenticias Kern’s and North American Breweries production units presented no breaches of the regulations or voluntary codes related to the health and safety of products and services. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 99 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Consumer privacy The First Contact Center that handles consumer claims and complaints, received on average over the period, 7,532 calls per month, compared to 6,682 calls per month during the previous period; averaging 91% effectiveness versus 96% goal, 94% Service Levels versus 90% goal and 3% dropouts Information on label versus 5% goal. During the 2017 period there are no substantiated claims regarding Number of claims for economic, social and environmental impacts the violation of privacy and the leakage of Type of claim 2014 2015 2016 2017 customer data. Products (customers) 325 312 606 609 Products (consumers) 859 836 1.471 1.301 FIFCO evaluates its complaints mechanisms through monthly indicators that are Logistics (customers) N/A N/A 433 474 presented to the different businesses. Damage to property N/A N/A 54 30 Additionally, we participate in internal and Environmental N/A N/A 52 19 external audits of this process. Bad driving N/A N/A 53 33 Contraband N/A N/A 97 81 Total N/A N/A 2 3 Total 1.184 1.148 2.768 2.520 Toll-free Customer Service numbers 800-CERVEZA 800-CRISTAL 800-TROPICAL 800-PEPSIYA ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 100 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 During the period none of FIFCO’s business In regards to the Florida Retail industrial units have been subject to administrative or operation, a lawsuit filed by a neighbor judicial sanctions related to environmental against the previous owner of this operation issues in the countries in which we operate. is in conciliation proceedings before the Regarding complaints, particularly to do Administrative Environmental Court in Costa with the operation of the treatment plant Rica. Since FIFCO acquired this operation, in Guatemala, despite fully complying with no environmental incidents have been local legislation regarding the quality of reported; on the contrary, under the new the discharge and noise emissions, several administration this facility has obtained the complaints have been received for noise ISO 14001 environmental certification and and generation of odors, some based on the Carbon Neutrality INTE 06-12-01, which operation of the treatment system itself. allows us to control the elements and prevent Regardless of this, an improvement and environmental impacts that may derive from community approach plan has been developed this operation. and implemented to address this issue, with good results so far, improving the relationship The impacts of the operation of North with the neighboring communities. This plant American Breweries are mainly environmental has a new activated carbon odor treatment in the case of the Genesee Plant, due to system, both in the treatment plant and boilers emissions, waste that goes to landfills and area, built voluntarily by the organization to water consumption. The company is making improve control and prevent emissions from efforts to minimize these, such as saving 136 these process areas. million gallons in the last three years and the alliance with NGOs like Genesee River Watch, Natural Conservancy, among others, to protect the areas and restore the natural habitat. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 101 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Sustainability in the value chain For 7 consecutive years, we have incorporated FIFCO’s value chain into our sustainability strategy, so that they can improve their environmental and social performance and reduce their footprints. For this purpose, FIFCO developed and implements the Sustainable Purchasing and Customers Programs. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 102 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Sustainable Purchasing This program is developed by the company’s towards the reduction and mitigation of Ranking of 2016-2017 evaluations Environmental and Procurement teams their environmental and social footprints. A develop this program. Both make sure supplier’s performance is based on the work that the company’s suppliers reduce their performed in line with the measurement, 160 environmental and social footprints. The reduction, mitigation and positive value 138 140 130 suppliers that are part of this program are of their footprints in the different areas of subject to different evaluations or audits, sustainability. 120 Number of suppliers based on the ABC Sustainability procedure, 100 94 taking into account social (child labor, Human Depending on each supplier’s performance, we 80 Rights, ethics, occupational health, among determine the required follow-up and deserved 62 others) and environmental (water and energy acknowledgement based on progress (FIFCO 60 consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, “sheets” determine status and performance). 40 waste generation, etc.) criteria. As of 2015, our Likewise, a new category was created with 18 20 11 5 suppliers’ suppliers were taken into account to a score that exceeds 100 points, recognizing 0 5 13 move further ahead in our value chain. To learn those whose effort goes beyond legal issues 0 Blue Green Yellow Orange Red more about the program methodology, see our and base compliance, categorizing them as 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 FIFCO 2015 Integrated Report, pages 98 and world-class companies. 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 99. Ranking by color code Significant improvements were made to the program and the tools used in 2017 in order Supplier sustainability ranking to keep it in line with the company’s strategy and up to date with the new legal requirements Red Orange Yellow Green Blue applicable to the area of sustainability. Within Score ≤ 59 Score ≥ 60 y ≤ 69 Score ≥ 70 y ≤ 89 Score ≥ 90 y ≤ 100 Score ≥ 101 the evaluation methodology FIFCO decided to Fail Conditioned Pass with opportunities Pass World class adjust the requirements towards the fulfillment Doesn’t apply of the Sustainable Development Goals dictated by the UN (2015). In addition, as part of FIFCO’s 2020 objectives, it defined that it will lead with sustainable brands that generate light environmental and social footprints. In accordance, the methodology was adjusted to evaluate and motivate suppliers to work ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 103 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 2017 main results | Suppliers Suppliers included in Sustainable Purchasing Business Unit 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 • During this period, FIFCO reported purchases • We offered four training workshops to Florida Bebidas 24 48 44 67 137 178 157 of more than $426M. Of this amount, 32% more than 100 suppliers on topics such as: IAK 4 6 8 15 17 15 correspond to suppliers included in our Volunteer Program, Quality and Food Safety Musmanni 5 4 7 6 52 Sustainable Purchasing Program (11% led by Requirements; Product Environmental Reserva Conchal 9 10 31 69 women). 34% of the suppliers evaluated at Footprint and Environmental Indicators Total 24 52 55 88 172 232 293 the time of the audit proved to be certified in Report, and the FIFCO Opportunities Note: the number of suppliers included is cumulative year after year, but there may be suppliers that one of the following management systems: Program so they can replicate the exit the program that are not accounted for. environment, safety, quality, food safety, programs in their own companies. Two human resources or civil security. suppliers replicated the volunteer program, accumulating 124 hours of social aid. FIFCO | Number of new suppliers • 100% (516) of the new suppliers, signed and accepted FIFCO’s Environmental Policy and • We developed the “Entry Requirements País 2015 2016 2017 Responsible Supplier Code. Manual” (social and environmental Costa Rica 488 393 547 requirements) for suppliers that offer 20 Guatemala 183 122 98 • Relationship with three suppliers was severed products or services. El Salvador 7 1 3 due to scores below 60 points and their Grand total 678 516 648 inability to show immediate improvements • Despite a more rigorous audit process in and pay attention to the requirements. The comparison to the previous year, suppliers other two suppliers who are still classified red improved their scores by 67% as a result of for non-compliance with legal requirements monitoring and compliance with the action FIFCO | Percentage of suppliers that show improvement, 2017 are working on correcting the issues and plans. 3% we follow-up constantly to make sure their performance improves. 15% Improved • 5% of the companies implement inclusion No improvement programs for at risk populations. No change 82% ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 104 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 2017 main results | Supplier’s suppliers In 2017, according to the adjustments made the program were identified to be suppliers of • 1,800 volunteer hours with FIFCO suppliers. to the suppliers evaluation tool, we defined a suppliers, which means that the current scope section to evaluate the suppliers that replicate allows us to indirectly evaluate part of FIFCO • Compensation of carbon footprint by the sustainable purchasing program in suppliers’ value chain. suppliers, for example: compensation of mass their value chain. This is rewarded as extra transit carbon footprint, by the supplier. points in the evaluation. Out of a total of 213 2018 Challenges suppliers evaluated, 10% of the suppliers in • Keep the training program on sustainability the Sustainable Purchasing program (a total of • Outsource audits for 50 suppliers to increase issues for suppliers, offering at least 4 29 companies) are following FIFCO’s example, the coverage of the program. massive trainings and have a program they use to evaluate their own suppliers at an economic, social and • Develop the first ABC of sustainability for environmental level. There were some that North American Breweries suppliers. have started evaluating their suppliers, but only covering economic indicators, excluding • Environmental Indicators Report provided by the environmental and social aspects, for suppliers of ingredients and materials for the which the action plan now establishes a tool six 2020 FIFCO AirBrands: Imperial, Cristal, adaptation. Several suppliers evaluated within Pilsen, Melcochón, Ducal, Tropical. FIFCO | Suppliers included in the program according to performance and business category, 2017 Entities Active Invoicing US$ ABC Invoicing OB17 Included OB17 Hotel Florida suppliers Sample ABC suppliers sample Category FBEB % IAK % RC % Westin % Retail % Total FBEB 2,193 284,505,605,.00 84,514,008.00 29.7% 113 157 7.2% Blue 2 1% 0 0% 0 0% 1 3% 2 4% 5 IAK 560 63,789,688.00 16,722,549.00 26.2% 13 15 2.7% Green 75 48% 7 47% 16 43% 15 47% 25 48% 138 Florida Retail 498 42,971,090.00 19,504,417.00 45.4% 36 52 10.4% Yellow 72 46% 5 33% 19 51% 15 47% 21 40% 132 RC 343 18,406,181.00 8,156,383.00 44.3% 28 37 10.8% Orange 6 4% 2 7% 2 5% 1 3% 2 4% 13 Hotel Westin 432 17,119,515.00 7,485,147.00 43.7% 23 32 7.4% Red 2 1% 1 13% 0 0% 0 0% 2 4% 5 Total General 4,026 426.792.079,00 136,382,504.00 32.0% 213 293 7.3% TOTAL 157 100% 15 100% 37 100% 32 100% 52 100% 293 Note: FBEB (Florida Bebidas), IAK (Industrias Alimenticias Kern’s), RC (Reserva Conchal). This table shows the total number of active suppliers during 2017 and invoicing for that year. The first column OB17 Sample indicates the program’s scope at an economic level, while the second specifies the scope in terms of number of suppliers included with respect to total active suppliers. Finally, starting with the tenth column, the number of suppliers is indicated according to the performance category and business unit and the percentage covered by the audits. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 105 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Sustainable customers As with the Sustainable Purchasing program aimed at the company’s suppliers, three years ago Customer Sustainability Ranking: FIFCO began the Sustainable Customers program to ensure that this public improves its economic, Red Orange Yellow Green Blue social and environmental performance and is Score < 60 Score 60 69 Score 70 89 Score 90 100 Score ≥ 100 in line with the company’s corporate strategy. Fail Conditioned Pass with opportunities Pass World class Results are being formally reported for the third Not applicable time this period, since the first year was a pilot plan. The Sales team initiated the process to communicate the program and invite customers to participate. For the 2017 evaluation, we decided to work with Florida Bebidas clients in conjunction On 2017 the program focused on customers with the Costumer oriented program developed who have considerable opportunities for by FIFCO’s Human Resources department. improvement from a business, legal and other The role played by the Sustainable Clients sustainability issues perspective. Therefore, the Program is more active in terms of sustainability, initial performance is low, but we expect there making a diagnosis at the points of sale in to be a significant improvement in performance the following areas: social practices in human as they continue to receive training and advice rights, infrastructure, quality and food safety, throughout the program. occupational health and safety, relations with the community and environmental practices. Subsequently, a development program that includes training is defined to help customers improve their performance in the areas of sustainability. The estimated time to implement the program with each customer is three years, which involves advice on business management and sustainability. As in previous years, Florida Retail unit customers continue to develop the Sustainable Customers program. ECONOMIC DIMENSION FIFCO 106 INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Main results | Sustainable Customers 2017 Customer oriented program • We evaluated six Florida Bebidas customers, The customer oriented program was three waste management companies that launched during the recording period. “Every venture generates frustration belong to FIFCO’s Post-Consumer Recycling This project aims to create meaningful and headaches, it is a daily race program, four Vinum stores, 50 Florida Retail relationships that promote business and and the lack of liquidity is one of the customers (bakeries and convenience stores) human development. Some benefits for and developed action plans for all of them, participants are: access to funding from biggest challenges, either because which are to be implemented during the the Development Banking System and you had to access more commercial following fiscal year. simpler procedures and paperwork, support lines of credit or not; the fact is that, it in infrastructure, equipment or furniture • Florida Bebidas customers that are renovation; as well as counseling and is simply not possible to separate the participating in the program, have a training to strengthen the company at an business from the personal, there is performance of: 50% “to develop” and 50% economic, social and environmental level. always a very important link “satisfactory”. Of the waste management This project was developed in partnership companies visited, two achieved with BAC Credomatic, FUNDES, COFINSA, “outstanding” status and one “to develop”. an architecture firm and Florida Bebidas. The Egérico Segura Vinum stores have a “satisfactory” and biggest challenge for the next period is to manager at Super La Despencita, “exemplary” performance; Florida Retail include and positively impact more customers. who was able to refund a business customers achieved “to develop” and “in debt and get counseling for his team, development” scores. 2017 Progress thanks to the program. • Anthropological study of 24 families/customers • Assessment of 64 different points of sale • Creation of a comprehensive model • More than 75 customers in the pilot plan • Customers with liquor license are included in the plan (initial goal: 120 customers from the Greater Metropolitan Area) INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 107 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Internal Social Dimension Our People INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 108 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Contents Internal Social Dimension Our People 1 Three questions for FIFCO Human Resources Director, Scarlet Pietri 109 2 Our goal 110 3 Our people 110 4 Material topics 111 5 Three questions for Mariel Picado, Director of Legal Services, FIFCO 112 6 Main results and milestones of the period 113 a) Commitment #4 for 2020: Eradicate poverty inside our company 114 b) Commitment #2 for 2020: Be recognized as one of the best places to work 116 INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 109 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Three questions for Scarlet Pietri HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR | FIFCO What have been the main achievements What actions are being taken to be a Great Place for the Human Resources Department in 2017? to Work by 2020? a. We reviewed our organizational structure in order to gain We focus our efforts on bringing tools that promote insight for the business areas that face great challenges collaboration, that favor the development of internal on the way to 2020. This revision allows us to create learning networks that enable an intelligent organization conditions leading to the standardization and combination where knowledge flows quickly, that experiments and of simpler and more efficient processes in FIFCO’s supply pursues more disruptive ideas, and where changes are chain. Create conditions stemmed from structural design tackled in a positive way, favoring decision making in real that enable collaboration. time and forcefully impacting the results. b. Installed the capacity to manage change in our businesses What role does the leadership model play in 2017? in Costa Rica and Guatemala and put it into practice. The leadership model defines the behaviors that enable c. In terms of leadership, we promoted the role of facilitator our culture, therefore its continuous implementation favors: of non-natural teams instead of the traditional managerial collaboration, diversity, experimentation and learning, and role. the implementation of innovative initiatives that increase execution and business results. d. We promoted collaborative work in diverse teams and the co-creation of solutions with customers and consumers. e. In terms of alignment, we co-created the conditions for FIFCO to manage the strategy and development of a business ecosystem that operates harmoniously towards FIFCO 2020. INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 110 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Our goal: To be champions with our employees As part of FIFCO’s commitment to generate value for each of its stakeholders, in 2016 the company defined its goal for 2020 with respect to collaborators: to be champions with our employees. It is through FIFCO’s purpose, values and leadership model, that we address an agenda that promotes our collaborators’ comprehensive professional and personal development. Our people A total of 6,441 collaborators work for FIFCO in its operations in Costa Rica, Guatemala, El Salvador and the United FIFCO – Total collaborators States. Our workforce is a fundamental part (full-time, temporary and part-time) for the creation of economic, social and environmental value. As a result of the 2017 Country 2014 2015 2016 2017 organizational restructuring process, people Guatemala and El Salvador 452 686 711 722 whose roles were duplicated were let go in United States 1,120 1,123 1,073 1,061 order to simplify the way in which we operate Costa Rica 4,525 4,515 4,797 4,658 and be an increasingly agile and efficient company. TOTAL 6,097 6,324 6,581 6,441 INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 111 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Material topics There are many relevant factors when we talk about our company’s most important resource: the collaborators. However, FIFCO has focused on six material topics internally, which are prioritized in order to move towards the fulfillment of two of the 7 commitments for 2020 and pursue the following Sustainable Development Goals: Good Health and Wellbeing, Gender Equality, Reduced Inequalities and Partnerships for the Goals. 1 Organizational alignment 2 Talent management 3 Comprehensive Wellbeing 4 Labor relations 5 Human Rights INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 112 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Three questions for Mariel Picado DIRECTOR OF LEGAL SERVICES | FIFCO How do you apply the leadership model? When we started applying the leadership model in the • Focus on the strategic, always being clear on the path to company, I saw that it allowed me to connect with something reach the final goal that is very linked to my essence: creativity. This has led me to explore and learn new things, to find new ways, to • Confront an idea, improve it, validate it and enrich it as experiment, to make mistakes and get up again. Hence I have a group, finding new ideas and solutions that are even decided to exercise a new kind of leadership, embarking on different from the ones I had originally thought about a new journey not only personally, but also with my team and with other people in the company, since, by building on • Identify the risks beyond what I myself could have seen the essence of each other, I have learned to draw from the diversity of talent and thought. • Have all the information and knowledge at hand, in order to make the right decisions at the right time What advantages have resulted from adopting and replicating the leadership model in your team? How would you summarize your experience in a sentence? Through the leadership model, I have learned to work in a different way. I have learned to work collaboratively, creating Working, exploring and learning in collaboration with others ecosystems in which the interaction of different people has made this journey more interesting. generates an incredible dynamic. When we interact with each other, everything starts moving very fast, we all share knowledge, different points of view and we start generating new ideas and new solutions. To work in this way has been invaluable. It has allowed me to: INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 113 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Main results and milestones of the period COMMITMENT #4 FOR 2020: Eradicate poverty inside our company INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 114 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 FIFCO Opportunities Second generation During 2017 FIFCO continued with its FIFCO In 2017, we began the process to recruit the THIS INITIATIVE ANSWERS TO Opportunities program. This program, which second generation of FIFCO Opportunities in TWO OF THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS was born in May 2014, seeks to eradicate Costa Rica, which will impact 50 employees extreme poverty within FIFCO’s workforce, directly and 150 people indirectly. starting with collaborators in the Florida Bebidas unit and then extending it to the Florida Retail and Reserva Conchal businesses. This initiative answers to two of the UN 2017 Results Sustainable Development Goals: Reduced inequalities and partnerships for the goals. Data from the initial evaluation showed that 3.2% of the population surveyed lives in the poverty line. 114=548 EMPLOYEES IMPACTED PEOPLE INDIRECTLY. Through public-private alliances, we were able to improve the quality of life of hundreds of collaborators, as well as the quality of life of •100% of the population participated along with their families; facilitating access in four basic their partners in the workshops on life, financial areas: housing, education, healthy living and and legal skills. financial services. At the moment it is only implemented in Costa Rica, however, as a result of the new commitment for 2020, starting next • 72% of the participants have Financial Sponsors period the program will be extended to our who are volunteer collaborators. operations in Guatemala impacting 50 people directly and 150 indirectly, and to the business in the United States in the future. INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 115 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 FIFCO Oportunities impact Country Costa Rica 2016 Costa Rica 2017 • 12 remodeled homes • 14 remodeled homes • 5 homes built • 16 homes built • 6 being built • 7 cases under study Housing • 13 cases under study • 11 cases for 2016, financial improvements in process to proceed • 1 Housing Fair with housing bonds • 18 cases for 2016, financial improvements in process to proceed with housing bonds • 64 school allowances • 64 school allowances Education • 2 scholarships •15 wives of collaborators trained • Debt readjustments: 3 of 8 required • 45 families with financial stability • Indebtedness: 4 families reduce debts by 100% • All businesses with sponsors and financial plans Finances • Beginning process with sponsors and financial plans in • 69 families with monthly financial counsel Florida Retail and Reserva Conchal • 67 families with general medical exams • 52 families with general medical exams • Support in emergency issues for children of collaborators • Support in emergency issues for children of collaborators and for and for collaborators affected by traffic accidents collaborators affected by traffic accidents Health • Granting food allowances in Florida Retail • 114 families with food allowances and Reserva Conchal • 98 families with food allowances Number of people impacted according to area and business unit, cumulative Area Florida Bebidas Florida Retail Reserva Conchal Total Education 42 14 8 64 Housing 26 0 4 30 Healthy Living 41 0 11 52 Finances 68 20 26 114 INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 116 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Main results and milestones of the period COMMITMENT #2 FOR 2020: Be recognized as one of the best places to work INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 117 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 | Organizational alignment Since our collaborators are our most important resource, special attention has been given to the management and consolidation of the company’s leadership model and to the development of their skills, promoting imagination and entrepreneurship during the process. Costa Rica During this period, the company launched the program “Vos 2.0”, a program designed to install the capacity to manage change within the leaders of the organization. The methodology used during this international certification consisted of acquiring the skill by managing projects of different natures; 46 projects were executed throughout a 6-month period. A total of 15,000 hours were invested in the “Vos 2.0” program with the participation of 180 company leaders from Costa Rica and Guatemala. INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 118 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 During this period, we also imparted trainings company and there is no training related to organization’s operations. 99% of employees of on the following topics: onboarding process Human Rights. North American Breweries received a refresher for new collaborators, leadership, English, on these topics. Lean Management, GED, Emergency Brigades, United States Occupational Health, Quality, Food Safety, Environment, Sales, Customer Service, Group The focus has been on the development of Coaching, Apics, Leadership Model, Finance collaborators by providing training within for Non-Financial People, Road Safety, Driving the company itself, as well as external courses School, new Labor Procedural Law, Marketing to advance their professional development. and innovation among others. In addition, courses for online professional development were given and the Cicerone Guatemala development program to certify our experts in the beer industry continued. Training for For this business, we promoted training employees who are paid by the hour is less Training hours programs on best manufacturing practices, formal than for full-time employees. This thermal processes, inventory management operation does not provide assistance for and planning, soft skills, motivational talks the transition of employees who retire or Level 2014 2015 2016 2017 and values for all personnel, among others. withdraw from the company for other reasons. Operatives 40,205 30,148.33 66,954.88 59,971 In addition, we offered a technical metrology In this operation, 332 hours (compared to 388 Middle Management 7,838 6,563.12 8,901 11,178 program to the operational staff. It is important hours in the 2016 period) were dedicated to Management 2,012 1,232.99 978 2,355 to note that IAK does not offer programs to aid training activities on policies and procedures Total Hours 50,055 37,944.44 76,833.88 73,504 in the transition when a collaborator leaves the related to human rights aspects relevant to the Average Annual Training Hours Operative Middle Management Management Location Female Male Female Male Female Male 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Costa Rica 26.61 15.87 17.1 84.12 34.94 29.63 2.61 70.36 3.71 24.32 0.38 75.67 Guatemala 0.1 2.2 1.17 4.68 8.45 24.2 53.32 14.19 1.4 8.9 6.56 66 Note: : In NAB, training hours are not quantified, however 50 different courses were offered during the period with 827 people participating (some of them participated in several courses), compared to 336 in the previous period. INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 119 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 | Talent management In 2017 FIFCO focused its efforts on In order to strengthen the 7 commitments we THESE INITIATIVES ANSWER Leadership evolution redesigning the organizational structure in made with society, during the period FIFCO TO 3 OF THE SUSTAINABLE According to the Great Place to Work Survey DEVELOPMENT GOALS such a way that it allows it to achieve the continues to work on enhancing working necessary agility to reach its 2020 goals. In conditions to develop the company’s talent. this sense, we conducted a detailed effort to As a result, in 2017 Florida Bebidas ranked as identify the number of levels and the adequate the #1 company to work in Costa Rica, in the equipment composition needed in each area. category of more than 1,000 employees, while As a result, complementary areas were merged, Reserva Conchal placed #2 nationwide, in the structures were standardized, the synergies category of companies with less than 1,000 between businesses were strengthened and the employees. The results of the Great Place to execution scope for some managerial positions Work survey correspond to 2016, since the in the organization was redefined. 2017 survey was applied at the end of the period and the results will be ready for the The new organizational structure is therefore 2018 Integrated Report. less hierarchical and simpler in its design and will allow FIFCO to: focus on business These results are leveraged in the areas facing great challenges for 2020, implementation of standardized leadership create conditions for the standardization practices within the company, such as: oneand combination of simple and efficient on-one individual meetings, monthly group processes throughout the supply chain meetings and quarterly microclimates, public and encourage collaborative work between acknowledgements associated with values and empowered teams with leaders closest to a consistent celebration of achievements. the decision-making process, which will accelerate the organization’s responsiveness in more competitive and changing market environments. INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 120 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 In FIFCO, the determining factor in the How did we do it? construction of large work environments is based on implementing the leadership model, which enables collaboration, experimentation, entrepreneurship and balance in people’s lives. ONE ON ONE MEETINGS For its part, the North American Breweries operation focuses its efforts on promoting discipline in the sales team business execution. For this purpose, it has invested GROUP ALIGNMENT in transferring to the Diamond model based on the best practices in the industry, and initiated the adherence process, which it expects to complete in 2018. Likewise, PUBLIC RECOGNITIONS the Supply Chain area has worked on the RELATED TO THE development of organizational capacities that COMPANY’S VALUES boost the investment made in modernizing manufacturing facilities. To achieve this, it has redesigned its organizational structure, INTEGRAL BENEFITS promoted the mobility of internal talent and incorporated new members that complement the team. To strengthen the transition, there has been a constant flow of communication MILESTONES CELEBRATIONS contents and establishment of discussion forums and real time consultation channels. INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 121 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 | Comprehensive wellbeing The company is committed to ensuring a safe work space while promoting our THE COMPREHENSIVE WELLBEING AGENDA collaborators’ overall wellbeing and quality CORRESPONDS TO of life in physical, emotional, psychological SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT and financial terms. GOAL #3 To achieve this, we created the “Estar Bien” (Be Well) program in 2015, which aims to offer employees comprehensive assistance in physical and mental health issues. The Human Resources Department leads this program’s agenda. During 2017, the program was re-launched with a new logo design and the presentation of 4 pillars to offer an increasingly comprehensive program. These are: Be Safe, Be Healthy, Be Fit and Be Happy. This was done in order to differentiate the services offered by the program and classify each initiative according to the objective to be achieved, all under the “Estar Bien” (Be Well) umbrella. INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 122 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 It is a priority for FIFCO that all In Guatemala, the committees operate at a collaborators work in safe spaces and management level and represent supervisors Occupational Health and Safetyconditions that do not compromise their and operatives, as well as themselves. 79% Collective Agreements physical or mental health. Each country of the workers are represented in the formal has different objectives with respect to joint health and safety committees, this applies Occupational Health and Safety issues covered by Health and Safety in the workplace due to to full-time, administrative and operative collective agreements with unions do not apply to the BE SAFE the level of maturity of the programs and collaborators; these committees still don’t the infrastructure of each operation. represent part-time or temporary collaborators. operation in Costa Rica, as there are no unions in our Finally, in the case of the United States, the businesses in this country. It is important to highlight that the formal Labor and Administrative committee as well joint health and safety committees for as the Safety committee, represent 75% of Guatemala management and collaborators cover 100% the total workforce. Both committees have Local formal agreements with the union cover matters of Costa Rican collaborators. In addition, representatives from the main departments. related to health and safety by 100%. This is stipulated the brigades offer assistance to the in the Collective Agreement on Working Conditions. communities in case an internal emergency In Costa Rica there is a Corporate Occupational results in damages to third parties. These Health and Safety Policy for the Florida committees help and control occupational Bebidas and Florida Retail Units, which is United States health and safety programs. available on the intranet in the policies and There are formal agreements with unions that cover procedures section, in addition to the National health and safety issues. Some topics covered in these Mental Health policy. agreements include the use of personal protective equipment, joint health and safety committee between collaborators and management, involvement in the Safety Committee, participation in health and safety audits and accident investigation, and training and compliance mechanisms available through the management and joint work committee. INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 123 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 During the period, provided medical services expanded to include: free nutritional service in 7 medical offices in Costa Rica. With the support of nutritionists, we improved the food options served in the corporate cafeterias, focusing on offering an increasingly healthy and balanced diet, incorporating breakfasts and BE HEALTHY vegetarian options in the menu. In addition, we started providing laboratory exams since noncommunicable diseases (obesity and diabetes among others) are classified as the #1 health problem in Costa Rica. Taking into account that FIFCO has operations in different parts of the country and in areas far from the Greater Metropolitan Area; and in order to expand the medical services to rural facilities, the program “Estar Bien” (Be Well) innovated by offering patients a medical consultation via Skype. In addition, the “shock therapy” service was implemented to treat injuries. INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 124 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 BE FIT During 2017 we continued to offer exercise classes as in previous years, and invested in the construction of a new fitness center looking to offer a wider class schedule as well as not having to depend on the weather to be able to give the classes. Efforts regarding this pillar began more than 11 years ago, making it the most consolidated pillar of the program, and leading FIFCO to comply with world-class accident rate indicators. INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 125 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 This pillar aims to offer pleasant and friendly spaces for collaborators. During the period we have sought to improve cafeteria infrastructure to make these pleasant spaces to eat and relax. In 2017 we began remodeling a new cafeteria in our facilities in Coyol de Alajuela, Costa Rica, to make it FIFCO’s first “happy space”, setting the tone for all other cafeterias and relaxation BE HAPPY spaces. In addition, we inaugurated the renovated cafeteria located in the Distribution Center in Heredia, Costa Rica. To offer moments of celebration and joy, this pillar started an event called “Under the Stars” for collaborators to share a pleasant and fun moment with family and friends. We held three such events during this period, raising funds with ticket and drinks sales to help collaborators or relatives who are going through a special situation and require financial assistance. Collaborating with our people Thanks to “Estar Bien” (Be Well) we were able to offer support to a collaborator’s niece who suffers from a degenerative disease, and her health has improved considerably, to the point where she has started walking. INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 126 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Costa Rica Guatemala In the case of the business units located in CosThe initial evaluation was completed in order 5. Regarding personal development, we started ta Rica, the objectives and goals were: to implement a comprehensive program. to refocus on professional development. The goal was to empower collaborators to 1. Continue with the pillar “Be fit”, developing United States increase their skills. a new space to increase the capacity to offer fitness classes. United States 6. Increase enthusiasm for corporate values In U.S.A. there are comprehensive wellbeing and purpose. 2. Expand the nutritional counseling program and work-life balance policies. In line with to clinics and make it available for all this commitment to promote a good balance, 7. The compensation strategy as a whole collaborators. policies regarding flexible schedules and was revised to be more in line with the work from home have been improved, as corporate strategy in order to provide a 3. Prevent chronic diseases and motivate well as the spaces to rest and areas in the more appropriate level of compensation a culture of healthy habits and health offices. to collaborators. In addition, we started an monitoring, by extending the laboratory acknowledgment program for those who go tests service. “the extra mile”. Some goals and actions for Comprehensive 4. Provide psychological support to Wellbeing were: collaborators with an emotional and / or mental need. 1. Improve the physical health of collaborators. 5. Provide a physical therapy service to reduce musculoskeletal injuries in collaborators 2. Implement initiatives to improve the exposed to ergonomic risks and improve work-life balance for our collaborators. chronic injuries with shock therapy service. 3. Energize employees through better Currently in Costa Rica the program covers: working environments that encourage • Medical services collaboration. • Nutritional services • Psychological services 4. Celebrate achievements more. • Physical therapy • Laboratory exams • Physical wellness agenda INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 127 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 | Labor Relations For FIFCO, sustaining a harmonious working relationship with its collaborators is a priority. As part of this, the efforts made and results obtained in matters such as remuneration, benefits, freedom of association and trade union management are detailed below. Costa Rica Compensation was increased only once during the year by 1.14%. This was applied equally for all levels of the organization. Guatemala The annual percentage increase is the same for Our Balanced Scorecard both the highest-paid person and the average person in the payroll, 4.3% versus 4.2% the Depending on their position and the unit to which previous year. they belong, collaborators are evaluated using United States the Balanced Scorecard, a methodology that : The General Manager received a raise of 1.5% reflects the company’s commitment to generate (compared to 3% in the previous period), howevalue in three dimensions: economic, social ver collaborators received 1.5% this year versus and environmental. This evaluation structure is 3.9% the previous period. reinforced in the monthly strategic alignment meetings discussed in this report. INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 128 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Benefits for collaborators • Housing Allowance (applies only to Reserva Conchal • Advanced salary payment Costa Rica and to those candidates who transfer from • Product discount San José) • Holiday bonus (20% for administrative staff since • Cafeteria service February 2010, and it varies for operative staff • Company doctor according to the Collective Agreement chart) • Life insurance (applies to Florida Bebidas topGuatemala level leadership and management; Florida Retail top-level leadership, management, supervisors and United States Through the union, its members receive food professionals; and Reserva Conchal management) allowances, medical and dental services, holiday bonus • Medical insurance (applies to Florida Bebidas and universal compensation, among others. In addition, • Health insurance top-level leadership and management, and Florida • Dental Insurance the staff enjoys: Retail and Reserva Conchal management) • Vision insurance plan • Disability or invalidity coverage • Flexible spending accounts • Staggered vacations and 20 days (by law it’s 15 • Maternity and paternity leave • Employee assistance programs days) • Retirement fund • Disability insurance • Cooperative • Shares (applies only to Florida Bebidas managers) • Life and accident insurance • Productivity bonus • Performance Bonus (applies to all except Reserva • Retirement savings plan • Eye care (only for full-time staff) Conchal supervisors, professionals and operatives) • Paid time off • Dental care • Scholarships for higher education • Paid vacations • Company doctor • Employee Solidarity Association • Medical insurance (administrative staff level 13 and • Union license • Diversified education programs • Free time to volunteer up) • Advanced salary payment • Assistance due to the birth of a child • Advanced severance payment (applies only to • Assistance due to death Florida Bebidas) • School support and bus service (operational staff) • Car allowance (applies only to Florida Bebidas and • Education grants Florida Retail managers) • Health fairs extended to family members • Royalty or discount on products • Cafeteria service • Wellbeing Program • Life insurance INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 129 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Freedom of association DISCLOSURE GRI 102-41 We respect the freedom of association established by local labor legislation, as well Voluntary affiliation organizations as the agreements ratified by the International Percentage of affiliated employees Labor Organization (ILO) in the countries where we operate. In the case of Costa Rica, Country Type of agreement 2015 2016 2017 the company recognizes the great value of Asociación Solidarista de Empleados de Reserva Conchal 95% 96% 97% the Solidarity Movement and its important y Afines (ASORESERVA) contributions to the development of the Asociación Solidarista de Empleados de Panificadora 73% 77% 76,49% Costa Rica country. During the year, no strikes or labor Nacional (ASEPAN) disputes were reported in any of the countries Asociación Florida (ASOFLORIDA) 85.27% 85.4% 77% in which FIFCO maintains operations. Asociación Solidarista de Vinos y Destilados (ASOHI) 85,27% 85,4% 84% Guatemala Kern’s Workers Union 39% 39% 39,88% FIFCO has its own organizations of this type; United States There are 5 different unions 28% 32% 32% membership is voluntary. About the trade unions If there are operational changes that affect there are any changes in operations, notice collective agreements, members are notified is given between two to four weeks prior within an established minimum of weeks. to the event. In the case of Costa Rica, this In the operation in Guatemala, a collective does not apply because there is no union. In agreement specifies that the period of notice, FIFCO, notice periods are applied according to consultations and negotiations is 8 weeks. In each country’s labor legislation, regardless of the United States, no prior notice is required whether or not these are due to organizational for the non-union environment; usually if changes. INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 130 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 | Human Rights THIS INITIATIVE FIFCO supports and promotes respect Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, laws of the country, the company has open RESPONDS TO TWO OF for Human Rights both in its direct embodies the corporate commitment to positions for the children of collaborators to THE UN SUSTAINABLE operation and in its value chain. Human Rights, by pointing out, among other participate under apprenticeship contracts. DEVELOPMENT GOALS issues, prohibitions and disciplinary measures In this way, young people between 16 and 18 The company takes as reference the United applied in case the following situations arise: can participate as apprentices in various areas Nations International Bill of Human of the company. In the reporting period, the Rights, composed of three instruments: • Discrimination by gender, ethnic group, operation covered 6 positions in this category. Universal Declaration of Human Rights, sexual orientation, age, political or religious International Covenant on Civil and beliefs, different abilities or capabilities, With respect to our Commercial Chain, Political Rights, and the International marital status, among others. the programs “Sustainable Purchases” and Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural “Sustainable Clients” contemplate social Rights. In addition, FIFCO takes into • Abuse and / or physical, psychological variables related to compliance and respect for account the principles established in the mistreatment or forced labor. human rights. United Nations Global Compact. • Harassment, molestation and / or sexual abuse. Defining the Human Rights policy Likewise, the Code recognizes the rights of all children to be protected against economic n 2017 we created an interdisciplinary group that exploitation, and the company respects the analyzes the Human Rights most relevant to the laws of each country where it operates with company. This group received training on Human regards to the minimum hiring age. Rights during the recording period, and redacted a preliminary draft of the policy, which is being edited In Guatemala, in accordance with the and reviewed, in order to have final approval from the Collective Agreement of Industrias Board of Directors by the next fiscal period. Alimenticias Kern’s Workers Union and the INTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 131 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 During the recording period, we started the plan to create the Gender Equality agenda, highlighting the hiring of women in the sales team. This year, FIFCO signed the letter of intent for gender equality promoted by the INAMU (National Women’s Institute of Costa Rica). San José Declaration During the period and for second consecutive year, FIFCO signed the commitment against sexual discrimination and in favor of the promotion of Human Rights, known as the “San José Declaration”, along with 20 other companies in Costa Rica. To see the 10 principles covered in this statement, refer to page 133 of the FIFCO 2016 Integrated Report. EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 132 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 External Social Dimension EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 133 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Contents External Social Dimension 1 Three questions for the Director of Corporate Relations, Gisela Sánchez 134 2 Strategic social investment 135 3 Our goal 136 4 Material topics 136 5 Main results and milestones of the period 137 a) Commitment #1 for 2020: Accomplish one million volunteer hours 138 b) Commitment #3 for 2020: Be the benchmark for Smart Food and Beverage Consumption 146 c) Other results of the period: Ethics and Transparency 152 EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 134 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Three questions for Gisela Sánchez CORPORATE AFFAIRS DIRECTOR | FIFCO What are the main achievements How does the company’s strategy relate to the in terms of sustainability for 2017? United Nations Sustainable Development Goals? This year has been very important or has shown very The company defines its Triple Bottom Line strategy, important social and environmental progress towards FIFCO understanding which are our operation’s main footprints, 2020 goals. We invested 7.5% of the net profit attributable to both in positive and negative terms. At the same time, it shareholders in strategic social and environmental projects, identifies the main local and national problems (using official we took important steps in our volunteering agenda, as well data and tools like the Social Progress Index) while seeking as the Comprehensive Smart Consumption agenda, we made an alignment with global initiatives such as the Sustainable Florida Bebidas Carbon Positive and Water Positive, and Development Goals. The SDGs become a very important Cerveza Imperial is the first water positive beer in the world. guide for those initiatives that are strategic given the line We also achieved a level of recycling comparable to leading of our business. As an example we have initiatives and countries, and launched FIFCO Air Brands. programs like Florida Opportunities (SDG 1) and Nutrivida (SDG 2). Due to the diversity of our businesses, we contribute How does FIFCO’s sustainability strategy evolve? in a relevant way to several SDGs, such as: No Poverty, Zero Hunger, Good Health and Wellbeing, Decent Work and Our strategy evolves from processes to brands, and with this Economic Growth, Clean Water and Sanitation, Climate we extend our impact far beyond our company, throughout Action, and Partnerships for the Goals, among others. Each our value chain. Our latest innovation, FIFCO Air Brands is of our initiatives has a critical route or work plan where the related to this. In March 2017 the company presented the impact is measured annually. new strategy to make its brands “lighter”. Through “FIFCO Air Brands” the company seeks to make its main brands “as light as air”, so that during their life cycle there will be no environmental or social footprint, but rather they will add positive value to the world. EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 135 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Strategic social investment and local communities FIFCO shares a better way to live with the world through different programs and initiatives. As a corporate citizen, we go beyond philanthropic contributions and mitigating our operational footprints by focusing on social investment in our communities and contributing to national and global causes in a strategic way. We do this through three main initiatives that contribute to 12 of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals: the “Elegí Ayudar” (Choose to Help) volunteer Percentage of our profits spent on social investment program, the social enterprise Nutrivida and the “Dual Education” program at our 9% Reserva Conchal operation. The voluntee8% Social 7.5% Water Business Water ring program was chosen as a part of the 7% Water Carbon company’s commitments for 2020; howe6% FO ver, all the efforts we make are in some way 5% Nutrition FO linked to Commitment #7 to lead with 4% brands that make the world a better place 3% VTO to live. 2% 1% 0% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 136 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Our goal: To be champions in topics related to Community and Smart Consumption As our FIFCO 2020 vision establishes, the company is committed to the promotion of Smart Consumption, as well as to the development of the Material topics communities in which we operate. FIFCO defined its main social footprints in order to measure, reduce and compensate its negative It is through our strategic social investment impact on society and generate positive value that we address both agendas to fulfill through different initiatives that go hand in hand our commitment to be a benchmark for with the company’s goal, commitments for 2020 Smart Food and Beverage Consumption and also contribute to 12 of the 17 United Nations worldwide, leading with brands that make Sustainable Development Goals. These are the the world a better place to live. Compared material topics for the External Social Dimension: to the previous year, in 2017, 7.5% of the profits are invested in social and environmental projects. 1. Strategic Social Investment and Local Communities 2. Comprehensive Smart Consumption 7,5% is invested 3. Ethics and Transparency in environmental 4. Indigenous populations and social OF OUR NET PROFIT projects EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 137 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Main results and milestones of the period COMMITMENT #1 FOR 2020: Accomplish one million volunteer hours EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 138 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 THIS PROGRAM CONTRIBUTES Volunteer program “Elegí Ayudar” TO 9 OF THE UN SUSTAINABLE (Choose to Help) DEVELOPMENT GOALS The FIFCO Volunteer Program “Elegí Ayudar” is implemented in the three countries where we operate. Nine years after its launch, and having been a pioneer program in Costa Rica and Guatemala, in 2017 FIFCO set the goal of accumulating 1 million volunteer hours by 2020. 67.040 of volunteer work during 2017 34% of the hours were invested in environmental projects vs. 38% in 2016 61% of the hours were spent on social issues vs. 62% in 2016 93% of the total FIFCO population volunteered vs. 82% in 2016 EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 139 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 W E H AV E R E A C H E D 47% of our 2020 goal ACCUMULATED HOURS 0 333,988 402,253 468,292 1M Volunteering is a great opportunity 2008 2015 2016 2017 2020 for a shareholder to help and give back to the community. What does a shareholder do for a company other Resultados Elegí Ayudar 2017 than going to the assembly and External Publics receiving the dividends? Nothing. Industrias Shareholders, Alimenticias Florida Florida North American Suppliers, Customers Getting up early and arriving at the Year Florida Bebidas Kern’s Hospitalidad Retail Breweries and Community) Total offices in Rio Segundo at 6:00 a.m. on 2008 – 2009 24,950 4,630 24,950 Saturdays is worth it.” 2009 – 2010 46,274 46% 46,274 2010 2011 48,798 5,096 48,798 2011 – 2012 47,126 4,351 2,950 152 54,427 Thomas Kranefoer 2012 – 2013 45,895 4,971 3,431 5,248 2,416 56,713 FIFCO shareholder 2013 – 2014 38,836 4,736 3,113 644 3,096 50,782 2014 – 2015 40,548 4,460 2,724 4,604 4,268 5,637 57,637 2015 – 2016 41,502 5,116 3,008 4,604 5,248 7,798 62,672 2016 2017 40,183 5,303 5,258 4,604 5,368 9,204 67,040 Total 374,112 28,937 20,484 20,396 22,639 1,174 468,292 EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 140 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 | Projects by Business Unit Business Unit Social Volunteering Environmental Volunteering Florida Bebidas • Talks and campaigns on Smart Consumption and life balance in • Beach cleaning schools and high schools • Awareness campaigns in education centers, parks and • Nutrivida tasting events communities on environmental issues and dengue breeding sites • Support in Nutrivida production • Maintenance of conservation areas • Legal talks and financial advice for FIFCO Opportunities members • Construction of Parque Echeverría Florida Hospitalidad • Donation and preparation of land to build EBAIS in Brasilito • Beach cleaning (community healthcare center) • Preservation of the Playa Conchal Mixed Wildlife Refuge • Land donation for a fire station in Huacas Santa Cruz, • Educational tours Guanacaste • Race for the environment • Support for Food Bank • Support for Dual Education program • Repairs and improvement of school infrastructure • Raising awareness through the Leatherback Turtle Festival Florida Retail • Support for Food Bank • Teaching children about waste • Beach cleaning • Cleaning trails in national parks • Improvements in community parks and educational centers’ • Alliance with SIFAIS * to provide environmental training infrastructure • Alliance with SIFAIS to provide social training (* Integral Artistic Training System for Social Inclusion) IAK | Guatemala • Support for Food Bank • Cleaning areas • Meals for children in children’s centers • Creation of gardens in partnership with Fundación Esperanza de Vida NAB | United States • Support for Food Bank • Planting trees • Garbage/waste collection • River maintenance and conservation EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 141 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 THIS INITIATIVE CONTRIBUTES TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Nutrivida Costa Rica reports that 29% of children under 2 years of age have a zinc deficiency, and between 40% and 70% of babies between 6 months and 2 years old in 18 cantons of the country have an iron deficiency (anemia). The lack of zinc in children increases the risk of suffering from diseases such as diarrhea, pneumonia and malaria, while iron deficiency can increase maternal mortality and reduce the cognitive capacity of girls and boys. According to experts, undernutrition during the first two years of life can put children’s lives at risk, as well as compromise their physical, motor and cognitive development. The opportunity to improve children’s nutrition is more important during the first thousand days of life, from pregnancy (nine months before birth), until the child turns 2. This is the period in which children require better nutrition for their development. EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 142 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 According to the IMAS (Joint Institute New products for Social Assistance), most of this target population is located in segment E (made up of the population referred to as the poor Innovation of the products launched during the class, with monthly incomes of less than previous period (Nutrivida Peach and Lemon Tea 100,000 colones per month, equivalent to and Max Broth) represents 50% of the company’s $198 per month). To achieve this goal we sales volume, making it a healthy bet that will be have developed 9 fortified food products of maintained throughout 2018. high nutritional quality: a baby cereal, instant chicken soup with noodles and vegetables, 2 chicken broths and 4 orange, apple, peach MANU Network and lemon flavored powdered drinks as well as a NutriPack, a package with a full meal The MANU Network suffered a decrease in containing soup and drink. participation for several reasons, and during 2016, we Currently, the products are sold directly by analyzed the actions necessary to raise this network Nutrivida in supermarket chains, institutional again and benefit more families in the country. At the channel (public and private), which represents beginning of the reporting period, we established an more than 90% of its sales. With Distribuidora alliance with the Inter-American Development Bank La Florida, we reach some open market points in order to invest in a strategic plan to make the (minisupers, grocery stores and independent MANU Network grow in Costa Rica, with a total of supermarkets) and on premise channel. 600 women in the network by the end of 2019. The Sales are also managed through the Red de Vendedoras Mamás Pro Nutrición (Pro pilot plan began during the period, with 7 women Nutrition Moms Network). participating, and the objective to expand the model during the new fiscal period. Nutrivida impact Pillar 2014 2015 2016 2017 TOTAL Total sales, tons 16.7 37.9 59.5 57.2 171 Total meals served 773,028 2,561,560 7,752,644 8,759,647 19,846,879 Total meals donated 104,476 402,134 556,646 302,00 1,365,256 EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 143 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Nutrivida donations 2017 • Asociación de Niñas Hogar Montiel • Maxi Palí Pavas Nutrition Day • Templo Iglesia Católica Diósesis Alajuela • Casa Hogar San Lázaro • Food Bank • Fundación Sunem • Fundación Lifting Hands • Hogarcito Infantil de Guápiles • Fundación Lloverá Comida • Creando Sonrisas • Costa Rican Red Cross • Asociación para la Atención Integral Paciente Terminal • Hogar Santiago Crespo • Asociación Manitas Llenas de Esperanza • Asociación Obras del Espíritu Santo • Asociación al Niño con Cariño • King Ocean Services “Buy one, donate one” campaign The “Buy one, donate one” campaign that Nutrivida implemented in the previous period was well received by consumers, knowing that when they buy a product, the company donates a meal to some organization in need. This led to a 20% sales volume growth in supermarkets. Now, this modality is part of Nutrivida’s daily operating philosophy to drive social impact. EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 144 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 THIS INITIATIVE CONTRIBUTES TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Dual Education Program The learning opportunities offered during this period were: professional-technical degree in food and beverage services (server-bartender) and hotel cuisine technician (Chef B). Reserva Conchal has been a pioneer in developing the Dual Education program in the province of Guanacaste, Costa Rica; however, as of 2017 other real estate projects in the area have replicated the same concept. In the 2017 period, 33 young people graduated as part of the dual training program compared to 35 in 2016. An important percentage will be hired by the Westin Hotel in their areas of specialty. Some students have expressed interest in continuing their studies, specializing even more in their disciplines, or obtaining a job in another tourist company in the region. We do not have the 2017 hiring percentage by the hotel or other businesses in the area for this report, however, in the previous period the hotel hired 100% of culinary 2014-2017 dual education graduates students and 89% of those who studied for server-bartender. Training area 2014 2015 2016 2017 TOTAL Server-bartender 15 13 17 14 59 Chef 18 18 18 19 73 Hotel waitress 17 * * * 17 Total 50 31 35 33 149 * Note: due to low student demand, this discipline was eliminated from the program. EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 145 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 In the search for a specialized and comprehensive training, parallel to the regular training modules, complementary training sessions were incorporated in topics such as women’s empowerment, fruit-based cocktails, etiquette and protocol, Smart Consumption of alcohol, and others. The selection process to complete the student groups for 2018 began in August 2017, with the incorporation of 60 new students, who have already started lessons (40 for server-bartender and 20 for culinary school). At the beginning of 2018, we will recruite 20 additional students for the culinary program, to fulfill the expected total of 80 new young people from the community participating in the dual education program. This increase in the number of students is made with the objective to meet the staff demands of the new W Reserva Conchal Hotel, which will open its doors at the end of 2018. Thank you Reserva Conchal for giving me the opportunity to grow and be better every day, thanks to the INA (National Learning Institute) for giving me the opportunity to forge a better future with greater possibility to work on my personal improvement and that of my family” Kristel Cubero Dual Education Student, 2017 Hotel Westin Playa Conchal EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 146 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Main results and milestones of the period COMMITMENT #3 FOR 2020: Be the benchmark for Smart Food and Beverage Consumption EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 147 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 THIS INITIATIVE CONTRIBUTES | Comprehensive TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Smart Consumption During 2017 we made important advances in the Smart Consumption (SC) agenda, not only to implement initiatives for the adult public focused on education and promotion of responsible drinking habits, but to expand its reach and promote smart consumption of other products in our portfolio, in line with the 2020 commitment. In this way, the SC program migrates to a more comprehensive platform that includes education on healthy lifestyles, consisting of a balanced diet and physical activity. We began implementing the Comprehensive Smart Consumption (CSC) agenda this period, contemplating food products, alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages. EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 148 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Year’s Achievements 2016 2017 Projects Smart Consumption (SC) Comprehensive Smart Consumption (CSC) Results Results Massive Smart Consumption camLaunch of “#EsMejorPlan” campaign Continuation of “#EsMejorPlan” campaign paign and fanpage on Facebook • +202 thousand people impacted through digital media, • +445 thousand people impacted +43 thousand “clicks” • +17 million web impressions • +24,600 likes on Facebook fanpage • +11 million web impressions E-learning Lanzamiento en 7 puntos de venta • +40 thousand likes on Facebook fanpage, +3 million “Responsabilidad en Acción” con una capacitación vivencial people reached and +3 million content impressions • 75 people trained through 2 experiential talks and an activation to promote the digital course • Those trained include the group of INA students that are also part of the Westin Reserva Conchal Hotel dual education program. • A focus group was applied to identify improvements for E-Learning platform, which will be re-launched in 2018. Experiential Training Courses: SC Launch through a new digital platform • 154 people trained in the SC Alcohol Ambassador Ambassador, CSC and Smart Snacks (E-Learning) course, all of them from FIFCO Wines and Spirits, the first company unit to be 100% trained. The three campaing tips were “Split your drinks Direct approach to consumers through experiential in more nights”, “Drink slowly”, and “More friends platforms (cooking classes and gastronomic tours). • CSC talk for 38 rural warehouse collaborators. than bottles”. EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 149 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Year’s Achievements 2016 2017 Projects Smart Consumption (SC) Comprehensive Smart Consumption (CSC) Results Results “I Learn to Drive” • Launch of user-friendly digital course • A focus group was applied to identify improvements for the E-Learning platform, which will be re-launched in • 30,934 people passed the course 2018. Fanpage on Facebook reached 71,900 fans • 8,934 people passed the course. • +99 thousand fans on Facebook fanpage, +9 million people reached and +3 million impressions. • At the end of the year, we implemented a media strategy to make FIFCO’s activities in favor of road safety education known to the public. 13 news stories were published both in digital media and in the written press, television and radio, with publicity ROI of $19.109. Participation in education, culture • FID and TEDx • International Design Festival: we chose to participate and gastronomy fairs again with a Smart Consumption stand due to the large • Gastronomic fairs in the GAM number of young adults involved in the festival. • “La Avenida” gastronomic and cultural fair • Regarding the annual TEDx event, Smart Consumption was present with the screening of “#EsMejorPlan” • 10,000 people impacted in all activities campaign spots during the 3 days of the event, reaching 6,000 in this case. • We also participated in: gastronomic festivals (alcohol), Oktoberfest, World Food Day organized by the FAO (stand), National Congress of Nutritionists of Costa Rica. More than 12 thousand people impacted in all activities. EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 150 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Year’s Achievements 2016 2017 Projects Smart Consumption (SC) Comprehensive Smart Consumption (CSC) Results Results Participation in brand and alcoholic • Continuity and expansion of SC presence in • Significant increase in the presence of SC in the events product events alcoholic beverage brand events held or sponsored by our alcoholic beverage brands (25 in total). Media strategy during Palmares festivities • Scope: +14,500 people to raise awareness about alcohol SC. 18 news stories were published in online media, print media, radio and television for $12,896 in publicity. • Scope: +37,000 people Events to promote other • Incorporation of wines and spirits • 2 events to promote new consumption opportunities for consumption opportunities institutions such as the Costa Rican Chamber of Food • 8 events to promote new consumption Industry (CACIA), Costa Rican Chamber of Restaurants opportunities, aimed at internal and external and Bars, INA (National Learning Institute), Chefs audiences: 2 Beer City Tours, 2 Wine City Tours, 2 Association, Chamber of Hotels, ICT (Costa Rican Tourism Beer Live Cooking and 2 Wine Live Cooking. Board) and various culinary schools, increase alliances and share information with the industry (Beer Live Cooking) and another dedicated to internal and external audiences (Wine City Tour). • We reached 80 people. Strategic alliances and agreements We kept the agreement with both the MEP and the • The agreement with the MEP (Ministry of Public INA, and a strategic alliance was created with the Education) was maintained. Ministry of Security Public Force • Strengthened outreach initiatives with the Ministry of Health through CACIA. • Reached out to UCR and UNA universities to work on two projects on Healthy Lifestyle and Nutrition in the near future. • FIFCO became part of the “International Life Science Institute” ILSI Mesoamerica to work on: nutrition, health and healthy lifestyle. EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 151 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Year’s Achievements 2016 2017 Projects Smart Consumption (SC) Comprehensive Smart Consumption (CSC) Results Results Zero Alcohol in minors Zero alcohol in minors + comprehensive food and beverage agenda Touring education centers Event that promotes zero alcohol consumption in • As of this year SC not only speaks to minors about zero minors for students. Scope: 4,660 students from 15 alcohol consumption but also about healthy and balanced public and private schools. nutrition and physical activity through the “Healthy Circuits” program in collaboration with the Ministry of Public Education. • The event was led by 91 volunteers from FIFCO trained in the subject, who invested 712 volunteer hours • Reached 5,355 students from 11 GAM public education centers, located in at risk areas. • As a result of this event, we celebrated World Health Day in one of the education centers, with coverage from10 media outlets and $17,961 in publicity Talks to parents in education • 32 volunteers • 4 volunteers centers (to promote and raise awareness about • 392 hours of talks • 20 volunteer hours “Healthy Circuits Program” zero alcohol consumption in their children) • 16 education centers • 4 education centers • 1,287 parents • 137 parents • Important to mention inclusion of a rural education center Zero sale of alcoholic beverages to • 27 volunteers • This volunteer activity did not take place, but the materials minors in the points of sale placed during the previous year remain. (volunteering with the objective of • 280 hours training points of sale raising awareness in the closed product channel) • 281 GAM points of sale Training seminar • 40 professionals were trained in the same areas •This seminar was not held. (with international expert on alcohol as 2015 and adolescence) • Press tour EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 152 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Other results of the period | Ethics and Transparency THIS INITIATIVE CONTRIBUTES Advertising self-regulation Ethics and transparency are an integral TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE and crosscutting part of FIFCO’s DEVELOPMENT GOALS Florida Bebidas, including the Wines and Spirits operation. Integrity and honesty, which Divisions, develops all its commercial communication are the core of the business, permeate (brand advertising, activities and promotional each action, project and relationship. materials) following the guidelines established by Our Code of Ethics and Business the Advertising Self-Regulation Code of the Conduct addresses the topic in a Asociación de Productores e Importadores de conclusive manner, by specifying Bebidas Alcohólicas de Costa Rica (APIBACO). the behaviors expected from our collaborators, existing reporting and Additionally, as part of the organization, Latin complaint mechanisms, as well as how to American brewers and in line with the World deal with corruption. Health Organization (WHO), on page 139 of the The organization has created a FIFCO 2016 Integrated Report, we expressed our management post responsible for the commitment to work in nine areas that promote Code of Ethics represented by the responsible actions regarding the sale of alcoholic Corporate Auditor. Members of the beverages. governing body, collaborators and business partners receive training on the code of ethics and the most important policies for the company. These trainings are offered systematically every 2 years; EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 153 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 DISCLOSURE GRI 205-3 in addition to the training received during with two business partners. In the case of THIS INITIATIVE CONTRIBUTES TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE the on-boarding process. 442 newcomers in Guatemala, no situations were detected. DEVELOPMENT GOALS Costa Rica and 292 in Guatemala have been FIFCO’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct informed about the policies and procedures includes the following topics: to combat corruption, representing 12% and 57% of active employees, respectively. A total • Responsibilities: ethics and communication, of 547 registered suppliers in Costa Rica, 98 compliance with regulations, protection of from Guatemala and 3 in El Salvador, signed company assets, integrity and accuracy in the Responsible Supplier Code; a document accounting records, fair and diverse labor that includes the main sections of the Code of practices, discrimination and harassment, Ethics. employment of minors, personal conduct. All members of the governing body, • Representing the company before clients collaborators and business partners are and external groups: fair and treatment required to read and sign the Code of Ethics of customers and suppliers; political and a receipt to be filed in the company proselytism; public appearances. official’s dossier. This code applies to all units in Costa Rica, El Salvador and Guatemala; NAB • Privacy and confidentiality: confidential is governed by its own code. information, privacy regarding stock market information, of customers and collaborators. The business units in Costa Rica and Guatemala were evaluated regarding issues of • Conflict of interest: commercial transactions corruption. Ten potential cases of corruption with third parties, gifts and recreational were detected in Costa Rica (compared to activities, investments, external business 6 in the 2015-2016 period). Of these, one activities, use of the company’s name or was for product misappropriation, seven facilities, corporate opportunities. for misappropriation of funds and two for receiving benefits from suppliers/customers. • Other important provisions: antitrust We proceeded to dismiss the collaborators laws, commitment to the environment involved and did not renew the contract and occupational health, communicating suspicious activities and/or evidence of money laundering. • Code implementation, penalties. EXTERNAL SOCIAL FIFCO 154 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Complaint mechanisms Four official areas have been defined to receive With respect to inquiries or calls, these inquiries on ethical-legal conduct and issues are transcribed and directed to the Audit Formally notified complaints related to the integrity of the organization: Department, where they are given the Formation 2016 2017 corresponding follow-up in a maximum period Complaints about Human Resources 6 7 1) Personally: either before the Department of of 15 days. Sometimes, queries are forwarded Complaints about breaches of the 14 23 Internal Audit, Security or Human Resources to the Human Resources area, when it is Code of Ethics (applies to all FIFCO. within their area of competence; finally, the Total complaints 20 30 response is sent to the person who made the Total complaints resolved at the end 13 29 2) Through the existing reporting form query. of the period available on the intranet in the Ethics section (applies only to Costa Rica and Guatemala). FIFCO staff is aware of the existence of this confidential ethics line, and also they know 3) Confidential ethics line: : this line is that they can make inquiries directly to handled by a supplier and calls may be authorized personnel in the area of ethics and anonymous, for which it has become Human Resources. the reporting tool most used by the organization’s employees (applies only to As part of the on-boarding process, staff is Costa Rica, Guatemala and El Salvador). trained on the subject, emphasizing on and guaranteeing process confidentiality. As a 4) Through other areas of the organization: policy established within the Code of Ethics, they are received by the areas and no retaliation will be taken against any person transferred to the Audit Department for due who files some type of complaint. investigation (applies to all FIFCO). ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 155 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Environmental Dimension ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 156 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Contents Environmental Dimension 1 Our goal 157 2 Material topics 158 3 Main results and milestones of the period 159 a) Commitment #5 for 2020: Be a water, waste and carbon positive company through our brands 162 b) Commitment #6 for 2020: Achieve 100% recycling of our packages 173 c) Biodiversity 176 ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 157 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Our goal: Reach neutrality and go beyond, achieving a positive balance in water, emissions and waste Achieving neutrality in water, emissions and waste is a goal that FIFCO established for its operations some years ago, but it is in 2016 that the company decides to go further and starts working towards achieving a positive balance concerning its environmental footprints by 2020. That is, not only reduce and compensate our footprints to reach neutrality, but add additional compensation to achieve a positive impact. In this period, FIFCO is committed to generating positive value in water, emissions and waste as well as accomplishing 100% recycling of the packages placed in the market by 2020. To achieve this, we focus not only on our production process, but we also involve our value chain in order to guide our suppliers and customers to have better social and environmental practices, achieving an increasingly comprehensive operation through the Sustainable Purchases and Sustainable Customers program. Our goal is to produce and market sustainable products that integrate positive environmental and social elements in their life cycle and thus lead with brands that make the world a better place to live. ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 158 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Environmental path Material topics In order to address the impact of environmental footprints throughout our value chain, FIFCO directs its actions through four strategic projects and a fifth area which we call “biodiversity”, due to its relevance in our Reserva Conchal operations. These are the main topics in regards to the environment: 1. Materials and resources 2. Water 3. Industrial waste 4. Climate change (energy, emissions and carbon neutrality) 5. Post-consumer recycling 6. Biodiversity (relevant to the Florida Hospitalidad Operation) This year during the XIII Edition of the National Environment Fair, FIFCO was acknowledged by the MINAE (Ministry of Environment and Energy) and the Costa Rican Government for its consistency and environmental trajectory. ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 159 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Main results and milestones of the period | Materials and resources Managing the materials used to manufacture our products in a responsible and efficient manner is part of the commitments assumed by FIFCO in its Environmental Policy. For the food and beverage operation, we categorize our resources as follows: • Raw materials and supplies: water or materials dissolved in the product. • Containers: aluminum cans, plastics, glass, among others. • Packaging: cardboard boxes, plastic, pallets, etc. • Auxiliary materials: cleaning products, lubricants, for the production process and that are not part of the final product. 96% DURING THE PERIOD WE USED 1,724,993,373.58 KILOGRAMS OF MATERIALS % ARE RENEWABLE MATERIALS ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 160 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 | Recycled materials | Renewable materials Sustainable packages As part of FIFCO’s 2020 strategy, Florida To replace virgin materials, in some Bebidas has a sustainable packaging strategy cases we use recycled raw materials. For aimed specifically at plastic containers used in example, 30% of aluminum cans are the soft drinks unit. This 360 strategy has four composed of recycled material, 20% of areas of action to ensure our products’ impact glass containers and 25% of plastic boxes. on the world is consistently smaller. The Cristal water bottle is made with 100% recycled plastic. Areas of action: 1.Materials: increase efforts to pack soft drinks in recycled plastic containers, lighter (reducing weight of plastic preforms) or made from bioplastics. 2.Returnable: produce and promote soft drinks with returnable glass and plastic containers. 3.Post-consumer recycling: continue working on the recycling agenda, to recover the containers placed in the market. 4.Awareness and education: to have consumers with increased awareness and greater criteria to choose sustainable packages. ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 161 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Progress in the sustainable packaging agenda • Cristal water bottle made from 100% recycled plastic. • 99.9% of Tropical containers are made from recycled plastic. • We expect to have containers with 25% recycled plastic for family sized carbonated drinks and 50% for individual ones. • Since 2010, we have reduced 700,000kg of plastic, as a result of reductions in the weight of plastic preforms (goal for 2020: 1,200,000kg). • Research on bioplastics to have a starch-based packaging alternative to replace PET-type plastic by 2018-2020. • Cristal recycling awareness campaign #YoLoJunto • 16 environmental talks at education centers on the importance of recycling • Elimination of the plastic bag for “melcochón” bread that is sold in Musmanni bakeries and Musi stores, resulting in the reduction of 42 tons of plastic that were not used in 2017. ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 162 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 COMMITMENT #5 FOR 2020: Be a water, waste and carbon positive company through our brands ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 163 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 | Water Water is one of the most important resources in our production processes and Total water withdrawal by source that is why FIFCO has paid special attention 2015 2016 2017 to measuring, reducing and compensating Superficial 7.76% 24.19% 31.46% this resource for many years. Municipal aqueduct 1.66% 1.39% 1.39% Harvested rainwater 0.02% 0.03% 0.1% Groundwater 90.56% 74.39% 67.04% Total 100.00% 100.00% 100% FIFCO’s food, beverage and bakery operations Water sources THIS INITIATIVE CONTRIBUTES reached water neutrality through the “Water TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE Neutral” project, and have maintained this To service the food and beverage operations DEVELOPMENT GOALS status since 2012. The rest are in process, in Costa Rica, water is collected from several measuring and reducing their consumption. To sources; the most innovative is rainwater learn more about our Water Neutrality strategy, harvest, which was introduced two years see the 2015 Integrated Report page 161. The ago and is used by five Distribution Centers Costa Rican Institute of Technical Standards in Costa Rica. We use spring water for is the entity that verifies our products’ water the products, groundwater for production footprint; so far we made important progress processes and the aqueducts supply other in this process with Agua Cristal and Cerveza Distribution Centers and administrative Imperial. areas. In the case of Guatemala, as well as Reserva Conchal, 100% of the water sources are underground, while the Florida Retail Plant and NAB use water provided by the local aqueduct. ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 164 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Measurement and control Water consumption per business unit To measure our footprint and control it, Florida Bebidas eand Industrias Alimenticias Kern’s we take into account water usage plus the water included in the products (food and 2016 2017 beverages). Our goal is to reduce annual water Hectoliters of water used (annual) 21.6 millions 20.2 millions consumption and the amount of water needed Liters of water used per each liter of beverage/ 4.05 3.82 to produce 1L of beverage/food. Thanks to food produced internal projects to raise awareness about the rational use of water, reusing, recycling and consciousness, it was possible to reduce Florida Retail water consumption by 1 million hectoliters 2016 2017 compared to the previous year. Hectoliters of water used (annual) 212,660 261,970 Our products’ largest water footprint Hectoliters of water used per each ton of sold 11.52 13.43 product throughout the value chain comes from obtaining and producing raw materials, containers and packaging. Due to this, we Florida Hospitalidad (Hotel Westin) have made great efforts, especially with our main beer brand (Imperial), to measure, 2016 2017 reduce, compensate and add positive value 8.37 million 682,037 m3 Water used (annual) throughout the brand’s value chain, in order to hectoliters have a product that does not generate negative Percentage for human consumption 47% 49% impact, a methodology that led to Imperial Percentage for irrigation 53% 51% being certified as the first water positive beer in the world. The Florida Hospitalidad hotel increased In addition, progress was made in the use of The Florida Retail production plant has water for human consumption, but reduced the reused water to irrigate the golf course. The increased its water consumption because an amount of water used for irrigation, balancing desalination plant is operating normally, but increase in production led to there not being total consumption with respect to the previous due to high rainfall, its use has been minimal. enough water generated for the condensers, year. Water consumption in the project’s The phenomenon of “El Niño” has been which obligates the operation to use fresh houses and condominiums is not measured reversed, positively influencing the recharge of water to cool the equipment. for FIFCO’s purposes since the owners assume coastal aquifers where the project is located. the responsibility of consuming in moderation. ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 165 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Improvement in produced Reduction water consumption Reducing water consumption is an essential Some of the main initiatives implemented step to reach neutrality and then advance to that led to these results are: In general terms, water becoming “water positive”. During this period, consumption per unit produced some milestones and findings in the water • Reusing water from the wastewater improved by 5% compared to the consumption reduction process are: treatment system landfill in the sludge previous year. press at the Cerveza Plant. • Cerveza Plant recorded a 15% reduction in All food and beverage operations in Costa Rica water consumption in the period versus the • Reducing water consumption when rinsing maintained the reduction trend in consumption per previous year. pipes at the Cristal Plant. unit produced, reflecting the importance and the organization’s commitment to the reduction pillar • Soft drinks and Pepsi plants increased their • Optimization of the cleaning cycles of consumption in absolute terms, due to Cerveza fermentation pipes and tanks. within the Water Neutrality strategy. new water requirements in the production process. Despite this, Pepsi Plant prevailed • Reducing water consumption from 30hl of as the most efficient operation in terms of hot water to 10hl, from an average eight water consumption with world-class results cleanings per week in Cerveza Plant’s The Florida Bebidas, Costa (1.87 hectoliters of water consumed per brewing area. Rica operation has recycled liter of beverage produced) for the second consecutive year. • Reducing water consumption in the thrusts or reused a total of 141,830 during the Preparation Tanks’ emptying m3 compared to 126,855 m3 in • Warehouses and logistics operations process at Cristal Plant. 2016. This represents 8% of total registered a behavior similar to that of the water captured. previous year. • Optimization of the cleaning procedure in Pepsi Plant production lines and syrup and sugar tanks. THIS REPRESENTS • Construction of a new rainwater-harvesting tank at the San Carlos deposit in Alajuela, Costa Rica. 8% of total water captured. ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 166 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Compensation Effluent treatment Florida Bebidas continues to externally The wastewater treatment systems in all To see the water discharge according to quality compensate its water footprint by protecting facilities are in continuous and normal and destination, see GRI Standard 306-1. water basins through the Payments for operation. The new wastewater treatment Ecosystem Services (PES) mechanism, which system for the Cerveza Plant was built during is managed by the National Forestry Financing this period, expanding the facility’s treated Fund (FONAFIFO), an institution attached to wastewater flow and treatment capacity. the Ministry of Environment and Energy of Wastewater from the Westin Golf Resort & Costa Rica (MINAE). Florida Bebidas covers Spa Playa Conchal continues to be used to a specific aquifer recharge area in the Alta irrigate the golf course, which also reduces del Barva Basin in the province of Heredia, in the project’s total fresh water consumption. order to recognize the forest’s environmental With respect to industrial wastewater from the services. Florida Retail industry operation, these are not discharged to any receiving or sewage body; on For more information about our water the contrary, they are reused internally in the footprint compensation, refer to the 2015 cooling systems. FIFCO Integrated Report. Water basins protection | 2017 Florida Bebidas protects: 850 hectares in the Alta del Barva Basin and the Osa Peninsula Reserva Conchal protects: 80 hectares in the Matapalo and Lajas river basins in Guanacaste. ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 167 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 | Waste: Post-industrial waste and Zero Waste In search of a circular economy FIFCO continúa con su estrategia de Cero Desechos para el periodo 2017 y se mantiene a través de la identificación, clasificación y separación en la fuente de residuos valorizables en todas sus instalaciones, con un manejo adecuado de los residuos post-industriales (en las plantas de producción) y post-operacionales (bodegas de THIS INITIATIVE CONTRIBUTES almacenamiento, oficinas administrativas TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE y tiendas propias, operaciones de DEVELOPMENT GOALS servicios comerciales, etc.). La estrategia de residuos de FIFCO está basada en Waste Strategy Stages primera instancia en la eliminación y disminución de los residuos generados y posteriormente se prioriza entre la reutilización y reciclaje (físico, químico y térmico) sobre otras opciones de disposición final como rellenos sanitarios MEASURE AND REDUCE COMPENSATE ZERO WASTE CONTROL y otros sitios de disposición autorizados, siempre que sea posible. Esta iniciativa se implementa mediante tres etapas: medir y controlar, reducir y compensar. ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 168 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 To learn more about FIFCO’s Zero Waste StraSome waste materials that are part Total weight of waste by type, during 2017 tegy and waste hierarchy, see pages 168 and of our Sustainability Close Loop 169 of our 2015 Integrated Report. Type of waste % Quantity (kg) • Malt bran Bran 36.32 14,070,875.00 Of the total residues and waste generated by • Post-industrial glass (Cullet) and non-returnable Co-processed 1.77 684,156.00 all Florida Bebidas operations in Costa Rica, Yeast 19.03 7,371,550.00 glass 99.83% was sent to some subsequent recovery • Post-consumer PET containers that are WWTP Sludge 12.32 4,733,270.00 process (reuse, recycling, animal feed or energy transformed into recycled resin Ordinary 0.17 65,430.30 recovery) compared to 99, 71% in the previous period. The remaining 0.17%, classified as ordi• Plastic boxes to deliver products Hazardous 0.15 57,789.40 nary waste, was sent to a sanitary landfill (in • Platforms, Endelis supplier cans, cardboard Malt Powder 0.13 48,780.00 the Great Metropolitan Area of Costa Rica) or boxes, Crown Cork caps, EcoLab chemical plastic Recyclable 25.86 10,020,242.40 to a controlled and authorized landfill (in the containers: these materials are returned to the Reusable 4.26 1,649,642.70 Rural Area). This last percentage represents a supplier to be reused. Grand Total 100% 38,741,735.40 reduction of 65,430 kg with respect to 2016. Ordinary waste reduction in the last four years, by production plant Florida Bebidas Costa SOW generation (kg) Rica operations closed Plant 2014 2015 2016 2017 the period with only CCR Plant 33,541 2,608 18,479 2,351 3,092 1,717 1,975 1,715 Cristal Plant 14,65 grams of waste Pepsi Plant 3,578 2,869 1,831 1,135 generated per hectoliter Others 154,471 111,057 88,409 60,606 sold, 31% less than in TOTAL 194,198 134,756 95,048 65,430 2016. Note: Florida post-industrial waste that cannot be reduced internally is compensated by collecting solid waste in public spaces through the “Elegí Ayudar” volunteer program. With respect to the other FIFCO operations, Industrias Alimenticias Kern’s plant improved its waste recovery by 79% compared to the previous year. The Florida Retail plant achieved a total recovery of 99.9% of generated waste, thanks to improvements in the classification and separation of co-processed waste. The Westin Playa Conchal Hotel and Reserva Conchal operations improved by 29% compared to the previous year. This project has its own composting method to elaborate organic fertilizer for the complex’s gardens and green areas. ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 169 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 | Climate change (energy, emissions and carbon neutrality) Energy Working to mitigate the impact of climate change has been a priority for FIFCO for many years. This work takes into account the use of electrical energy, thermal energy and use of refrigerant gases. The results for these three sources are detailed in this section. Electrical energy This type of energy is mainly used for lighting, THIS INITIATIVE CONTRIBUTES air conditioners and equipment operation. TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE Despite being one of the operations that DEVELOPMENT GOALS consumes most electrical energy in Costa Rica, this consumption represents a minimum percentage of our carbon footprint, thanks to the fact that the country operates with 90% renewable energy. On the contrary, Guatemala operates with 64% renewable energy, which Solar panels in Coyol Site, San José, Costa Rica. means that our greenhouse gas emissions footprint is greater in our operation in this country. Finally, the United States operation is favored since New York (state where our production plant is located) is one of the states with the largest generation of renewable electric power. ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 170 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Initiatives such as the installation of Led factor of Florida Bebidas’ carbon footprint, type lights, a variable speed compressed air hence the importance in controlling and compressor, electromagnetic valve panel, and reducing it. As a result of the good job in the blower pressure check to better manage air production processes at Cerveza Plant, Pepsi compressors, among others, were implemented Plant and Industrias Alimenticias Kern’s, with in different facilities to achieve greater energy initiatives such as the placement of jackets efficiency. Operations like Florida Retail and with thermal insulation, condensate return the Westin Hotel show a decrease in electrical recovery, elimination of incrustations on energy consumption, 4.1% less per ton production line heat exchangers, modification produced compared to 2016 and 8.7% less in of cleaning steps, among others; this period consumption per person, per day compared to reported a reduction compared to 2016. 2016. To see the electrical energy consumption In regards to the Westin Hotel, there were and reductions, refer to the GRI 302-1 and GRI reductions on this type of energy as a result 302-4 indicators in the environmental annexes. of savings in the transportation of people within the facilities and of gas in the hotel boilers. Lastly, the Florida Retail plant showed Thermal energy a reduction in LP gas due to the use of a solar system to pre-heat one of the raw materials, in Thermal energy, fossil fuels, is used for addition to other savings initiatives. To see the the generation of steam (bunker) and thermal energy consumption and reductions, transportation (gasoline, diesel, LP gas and Jet refer to the GRI 302-1 and GRI 302-4 indicators A1). The consumption of thermal energy in its in the environmental annexes. different forms is to a large extent the main ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 171 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Greenhouse gas emissions After nearly 10 years measuring our carbon footprint applying the ISO 14064 international protocols and the WRI (World Resources Institute) Greenhouse Gas Emissions Protocol, MEASUREMENT REDUCTION COMPENSATION POSITIVE VALUE the Florida Bebidas operation managed to fulfill its commitment to achieve Carbon Neutrality in 2017, surpassing this condition with additional compensation. 1 2 3 4 Greenhouse gas emissions come mainly from the consumption of fossil fuels (bunker, diesel, gasoline and LP gas), consumption of We are Carbon Positive refrigerants, consumption of electrical energy In 2011, the Florida Bebidas operation * set out to achieve Carbon Neutrality and as a result of local and foreign air travel. by 2017. This goal was proudly achieved and exceeded during the period, The reduction of emissions is based on energy efficiency, substitution of fossil fuels with offsetting an additional 20% of the period’s net emissions through carbon clean energy (solar and biomass), recovery and credits, adding positive value to the environment and society. replacement of refrigerant gases, wastewater treatment, reducing the amount of solid waste sent to the landfill, etc. The remaining carbon footprint is compensated by implementing external clean energy projects or by carbon Other Carbon Positive operations fixation. • Playa Conchal Westin Golf Resort & Spa Hotel and FIFCO’s food and beverage operation in Costa neutrality based on the INTE-12-01-06: 2016 its golf course * Rica conducted a third-party verification standard. The carbon footprint measurement covering all of Florida Bebidas direct includes all direct emissions (scope 1), indirect • Florida Retail Production Plant * operations in Costa Rica, from the admission emissions (scope 2) and some scope 3 indirect of raw materials to the manufacturing process, emissions. The total carbon footprint reported to product distribution, seeking to achieve for 2017 is 40,762 tons of CO2e. • Five MUSI stores in Costa Rica * These operations received recognition from the Government of Costa Rica ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 172 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Some of the emission reduction initiatives, in Florida Bebidas Carbon Footprint addition to the electrical and thermal energy consumption improvements mentioned above, are: Compensation Positive value 2011 2015 2017 2017 2017 • Boiler optimization 53,257.69 ton 45,718.69 ton 40,762 ton 40,762 ton 8,238 ton • Launch of “Escuela de águilas”, a CO2e CO2e CO2e CO2e CO2e comprehensive training program for drivers with trainings and audits on the correct way to drive • Increased steam generation efficiency • Use of small trucks with hybrid engines Units that will be used for reforestation in the Finally, the Westin Hotel and the Reserva • Hybrid truck pilot for distribution in central province of Guanacaste. This was achieved Conchal golf course continued with their San José, Costa Rica despite the fact that its carbon footprint Carbon Positive status achieved in 2016. was greater during the period (1,237 tons of Reserva Conchal has a forest designated • Steam traps inspection and maintenance additional CO2e) due to a leakage of refrigerant as a carbon sink, since it captures CO2 program gases from cold equipment. However, it was through the process of photosynthesis, able to reduce the impact with waste reduction which releases oxygen to the environment, a The Florida Retail production plant has and energy efficiency. There is an action natural regeneration process that allows us been certified Carbon Neutral for the fourth plan to reduce carbon emissions from the to fix certain carbon emissions. At the end of consecutive year and in this last year it was use of refrigerants that will begin at the end the period, an investment was made in the able to achieve the status of Carbon Positive of 2017. In addition, five MUSI convenience purchase of 11 electric cars to transport guests, production plant, managing reductions stores were certified Carbon Neutral during replacing diesel cars, and in the purchase of a and compensations 20% over its neutrality the period, neutralizing 110.2 ton CO2e and photovoltaic solar system capable of replacing condition, by purchasing Costa Rican Carbon compensating with 132.24 Costa Rican Carbon up to 7% of the current energy; results will be Units, also becoming Carbon Positive. reflected in the next period. ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 173 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Main results and milestones of the period COMMITMENT #6 FOR 2020: Achieve 100% recycling of our packages ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 174 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 | Post-consumer recycling FIFCO’s post-consumer recycling program The objective of this program is to recover has had a great trajectory in the country since non-returnable containers for proper its inception in 2008. This year we set out to management (PET plastic bottles, HDPE, Recyclable material collection points achieve 100% recycling of the packages we put aluminum cans, tetra pak polylaminated out in the market by 2020. packages and can sheet containers), in order to Source Percentage contributed avoid generating an environmental impact. We try to recover these types of containers, of any Collection center 68.8% commercial brand, to process them and export State Institutions 0.13% them to other countries such as the United Schools 0.87% States, Brazil, China, Thailand, and India, 0.20% FIFCO Customers among others, so that they can be reused as Municipalities 11.97% raw material to elaborate other products. Individuals 18.03% Recycling Program | Resources Two collection A recycling plant where routes in the Greater Eight collection all the recovered material Metropolitan Area and six centers to handle is concentrated, selected, routes in rural areas of recyclable material classified, compacted and Costa Rica milled to be recycled ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 175 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Percentage of sold products and packaging materials that are recovered at the end of their lifespan, by product category, 2016 vs. 2017 mT recovered Collection percentage Type of package 2016 2017 2016 2017 The partial external compensation of Florida Bebida’s remaining postPET and HDPE 2,674 3,210 49% 63% industrial waste footprint, which Aluminum 1,565 1,091 59% 40% cannot be reduced internally, is made Tetra Pak 731 950 154% 205% through public spaces clean-up days in Tin 274 235 130% 124% communities and beaches. Clean-up days Total 5,245 5,486 60% 65% are developed by FIFCO collaborators through the “Elegí Ayudar” volunteer program, in coordination with various 2017 Milestones state institutions and community Milestones 2016 2017 organizations. Among the main collection Donation of recycling stations to institutions 107 containers 255 containers activities of the period we can mention the (30 stations) (87 stations) solid waste management during the Eco-Romería 2017 in Costa Rica. Environmental talks at educational centers Yes Yes Compactors placed in external collection cen26 ters Recovered kg of packages during massive 38,210kg 19,843kg events Recovered kg of packages 5,245.830kg 5,485.906kg Recovery percentage 60% 65% ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 176 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Main results and milestones of the period | Biodiversity None of the facilities owned or leased for food and beverage operations are adjacent, contain or are located in protected areas or unprotected areas of great value for biodiversity. The Cerveza, Tropical, and Pepsi plants, and the Guapiles Regional Distribution Center are adjacent to surface water bodies and the Costa Rican Forestry Law establishes the adjoining margin with the body of water from the riverbed, 10m into the property in rural areas (the three Production Plants) and 15m in the Guápiles CDR because it is located in a rural area, as a protected area; however, these areas are not considered high-biodiversity areas. The Reserva Conchal project is located on the border of the maritime land area, mangrove and mangrove lagoon, however, and as in the previous case, these are not considered high-biodiversity areas. Regardless, the real estate project develops various initiatives for the protection of different zones both outside and inside its property to protect biodiversity. ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 177 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 There is no evidence of significant direct verifying the use and application of resources. Playa Conchal Wildlife Refuge receives impacts from FIFCO’s activities in protected The FONAFIFO Environmental Services “Perfect managment score” natural areas or unprotected high-biodiversity Certificates (CSA) have been acquired for this granted by SINAC, 2017 areas. Indirectly, the inadequate handling of purpose. post-consumer packaging by consumers causes these to reach surface water bodies (rivers and Since 2006, Reserva Conchal has invested in About the shelter oceans) which can affect their biodiversity; the protection of the Matapalo and Lajas River however, to mitigate this impact, FIFCO has its basins as areas of influence for the real estate Officialized: year 2009 own Recycling Program. project, as well as for the aquifer recharge area of the complex’s water supply wells. A Total area: 39.75 hectares FIFCO protects habitats both within its total of 329 hectares are protected through properties and extensions of land outside this mechanism, of which 170ha are located in Hectares property of Reserva Conchal: 28,29ha them. In case of the Cerveza and Tropical the Lajas River basin, 100ha in the Matapalo plants, they allocate a percentage of their area River basin and 59ha in the recharge zone. A Country Natural Heritage Hectares: 11.46ha for the protection of their water sources, which research project approved by the Tempisque has a positive impact on the area’s biodivesity. Conservation Area is currently being developed For its part, Reserva Conchal allocates 60% of to assess the health status of the property’s Objective: to preserve and restore the ecosystems the property for a private reserve, currently raccoon and coatis populations in conjunction associated with the mangrove and surrounding forest, under natural regeneration. with the National University Veterinary incorporating local interest in environmental issues, Hospital. In addition, an investigation of the as well as the interest to preserve the scenic beauty Externally, aware of the importance of forest surrounding the golf course is carried of the site for leisure and recreation, both for the natural resources especially forest cover out with the National University’s INISEFOR inhabitants of the nearby communities, as well as for in the protection of biodiversity but also of (Forest Services and Research Insitute) in order the domestic and foreign tourists water resources, scenic beauty and carbon to determine its current status and to be able fixation; since 2001 FIFCO has invested in to eventually propose a species enrichment the protection of water basins by acquiring project in accordance with the type of forest in environmental services certificates. the area, which will allow for the connectivity This mechanism guarantees the environmental of ecosystems. Likewise, another investigation services necessary to develop its activity, is being executed to determine the state and as well as ensuring that funds effectively growth of mangroves in the areaspreading reach the owners and the areas of interest by from Playa Grande to Brasilito. ENVIRONMENTAL FIFCO 178 DIMENSION INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 FIFCO’s activities do not pose threats to the endangered plant and animal species included in the IUCN’s “Red List” and the national conservation records of species in the conservation areas where our facilities are located. However, in indicator GRI 3044, we can observe the endangered species that live within our operating area. Refuge milestones Milestones 2016 2017 Attention to shelter visits 245 people 417 people Nursery (tree reproduction) 336 species 565 species Number of clean-up campaigns in 7 7 areas near the refuge Projects Bridges infrastructure Environmental education program for children (273 children attended) Research Research studies in permanent forest Completion of mangrove study and mangrove plots GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 179 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI Standards GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 180 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI Standards GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI STANDARD STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL ASSURANCE NUMBER 102-1 Name of the organization 3 No 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 24 FIFCO doesn't market No any products that are banned or subject of stakeholder questions or public debate 102-3 Location of headquarters 24 No 102-4 Location of operations 24 No 102-5 Ownership and legal form 24 No 102-6 Markets served 27 No GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-7 Scale of the organization 24 No 102-8 Information on employees and other 207 No workers 102-9 Supply chain 208 No 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and 41 y 103 No its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 42 No 102-12 External initiatives 43 No 102-13 Membership of associations 43 No 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 10-14 No 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 22 No GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 181 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL ASSURANCE NUMBER 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 29, 130 y 152 No behavior 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about 154 No ethics 102-18 Governance structure 18 No 102-19 Delegating authority 5 No 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 20 No environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 19 No environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance 8 y 19 No body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 8 y 18 No 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest 18 No governance body 102-25 Conflicts of interest 17 No 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting 18 No purpose, values, and strategy GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance 20 No body 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body's 18 No performance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, 34 No environmental, and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management 18 No processes 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and 20 No social topics 102-32 Highest governance body's role in 19 y 20 No sustainability reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 20 No 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 20 No 102-35 Remuneration policies 19 No 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Omitted for No confidentiality 102-37 Stakeholders' involvement in remuneration Omitted: stakeholders No are not involved in remuneration policies GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 182 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL ASSURANCE NUMBER 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Omitted for No confidentiality: the company does not share this information to protect employee information 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total 127 No compensation ratio 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 34 Vincular Center for Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development of the School of Commercial Engineering of the Pontifical Catholic University of Valparaíso. See page 204. 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 129 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 34 Vincular Center for Social GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Responsibility and Sustainable Development of the School of Commercial Engineering of the Pontifical Catholic University of Valparaíso. See page 204. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 35 and 36 Vincular Center for Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development of the School of Commercial Engineering of the Pontifical Catholic University of Valparaíso. See page 204. 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 35 and 36 Vincular Center for Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development of the School of Commercial Engineering of the Pontifical Catholic University of Valparaíso. See page 204. GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 183 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL ASSURANCE NUMBER 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated 3 and 25 Vincular Center for Social financial statements Responsibility and Sustainable Development of the School of Commercial Engineering of the Pontifical Catholic University of Valparaíso. See page 204. 102-46 Defining report content and topic 3 and 37 Vincular Center for Social Boundaries Responsibility and Sustainable Development of the School of Commercial Engineering of the Pontifical Catholic University of Valparaíso. See page 204. 102-47 List of material topics 37 and 38 Vincular Center for Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development of the School of Commercial Engineering of the Pontifical Catholic University of Valparaíso. See page 204. GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-48 Restatements of information 37 Vincular Center for Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development of the School of Commercial Engineering of the Pontifical Catholic University of Valparaíso. See page 204. 102-49 Changes in reporting 37 Vincular Center for Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development of the School of Commercial Engineering of the Pontifical Catholic University of Valparaíso. See page 204. 102-50 Reporting period 3 No 102-51 Date of most recent report 3 No 102-52 Reporting cycle 3 No 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the 3 No report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 3 No GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 180 No GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-56 External assurance 3 No GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 184 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL ASSURANCE NUMBER ECONOMIC DIMENSION 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Economic Standards: 56 and 57 No Boundary GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its No components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach No 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 62-68 and 209 No distributed 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 220 No opportunities due to climate change GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 210 No retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from 60 No government 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by 211 No GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 gender compared to local minimum wage 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired 18 No from the local community GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services 62-68 No supported 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 39 No GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 61 No 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to 153 No corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti153 No GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and 153 No actions taken 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Omitted: there were no No anti-trust, and monopoly practices legal action of they kind GRI 206: Anti-Competitive Behavior 2016 for the reporting period GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 185 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL ASSURANCE NUMBER ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its All environmental standards No Boundary 157 and 158 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its No components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach No 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 159 No 301-2 Recycled input materials used 159 No GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging 175 No materials 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 221 No 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the 219 No organization 302-3 Energy intensity 222 No 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 221 No GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of Omitted: this No products and services information doesn’t apply, because FIFCO sells consumer products, not products that use energy 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 163 No 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by 219 No GRI 303: Water 2016 withdrawal of water 303-3 Water recycled and reused 165 No 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed 176 No in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, 177 No GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 and services on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 177 No 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national 223 No conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 186 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL ASSURANCE NUMBER 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 169 No 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 169 No 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 169 No 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 224 No GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 172 No 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 219 and 225 No (ODS) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), 219 and 225 No and other significant air emissions 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 226 No 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal 168 No method GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-3 Significant spills 227 No 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 219 No 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges Omitted: does not apply No and/or runoff GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws 99 No 2016 and regulations 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 103 No environmental criteria GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the 102 No supply chain and actions taken INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL SOCIAL DIMENSION 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Labor and Human Rights: No Boundary 110 and 111 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its No components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach No 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 212 No 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 128 No GRI 401: Employment 2016 that are not provided to temporary or parttime employees 401-3 Parental leave 213 No GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding 129 No 2016 operational changes GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 187 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL ASSURANCE NUMBER 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint 122 No management-worker health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, 214 No occupational diseases, lost days, and GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety absenteeism, and number of work-related 2016 fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or risk of Omitted: does not apply No diseases related to their occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in informal 122 No agreements with trade unions 404-1 Average hours of training per year per 118 No employee 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills 117-118 No GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 and transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employee receiving regular 215 No performance and career development reviews 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 216 No GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity employees 2016 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 217 No women to men GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective Omitted: no cases No actions taken of this kind for the reporting period GRI 407: Freedom of Association 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right 129 No and Collective Bargaining 2016 to freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at risk GRI 408: Child Labor2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk 102 and 130 No for incidents of child labor GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk There has been no risk No 2016 for incidents of forced or compulsory labor identified regarding forced labor in FIFCO suppliers and operations. GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights There were no trainings No policies or procedures of this type for the reporting period. GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 188 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL ASSURANCE NUMBER GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous Peoples 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of Omitted: no incidents No 2016 indigenous peoples of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples reported for the reporting period. 412-1 Operations that have been subject No centers have been No to human rights reviews or impact subject to human rights assessments reviews or impact assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies 130 No GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 or procedures 412-3 Significant investment agreements and Omitted: no reported No contracts that include human rights clauses investment agreements or that underwent human rights screening or contracts for the reporting period. GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 413-1 Operations with local community 132-151 No engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual and 100 No potential negative impacts on local communities 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using 102-106 No social criteria GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain 102-106 No and actions taken GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions Omitted: no cases for No the reporting period. 416-1 Assessment of health and safety impacts of 96 No product and service categories GRI 416: Consumer’s Health and Safety 2016 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the 98 No health and safety impacts of products and services GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 189 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL ASSURANCE NUMBER 417-1 Requirements for product and service 97 Omitted: no cases for No information and labeling the reporting period. 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning 98 No GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 product and service information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Omitted: no cases for No marketing communications the reporting period. GRI 418: Consumer’s Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning 99 No breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations 98 No in the social and economic area GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 190 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Annexes GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 191 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Statutory Auditor’s Report GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 192 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 193 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Corporate Governance Report GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 194 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 195 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 196 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 197 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 198 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 199 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 200 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 201 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 202 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 203 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Independent Review Report GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 204 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Informe de Revisión Independiente El Centro Vincular de Responsabilidad Social y Desarrollo Sostenible de la Pontificia Universidad Católica de Valparaíso, Chile, en adelante “Vincular”, fue contratado por Florida Ice & Farm Co. (FIFCO) con el fin de llevar a cabo la verificación externa de los procesos de materialidad y participación de las partes interesadas del Reporte Integrado 2017 de FIFCO, correspondiente, al periodo vigente entre el 01 de octubre de 2016 al 30 de septiembre de 2017. Alcance y Objetivo Los objetivos específicos del proyecto fueron: 1. Verificar los procesos claves de la elaboración del reporte, como el análisis de materialidad y la participación de las partes interesadas. 2. Llevar a cabo una lectura crítica del Reporte Integrado 2017, para apoyar a FIFCO en el aseguramiento de la calidad del reporte según las metodologías del IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council) y GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) bajo la opción en concordancia “exhaustiva”. 3. Identificar las oportunidades de mejora para el próximo Reporte Integrado. Igualmente, dicho análisis busca identificar tanto las oportunidades de mejora en la gestión como la integración de los ámbitos de sostenibilidad en la empresa. Nuestro trabajo no contempló el análisis y verificación de datos cuantitativos en el reporte, sean estos datos financieros, sociales o ambientales. Metodología y Procesos Realizamos las siguientes actividades para el proceso de verificación: • Revisión del reporte integrado, específicamente lo que respecta a los contenidos reportados para los disclosures GRI 102-40; GRI 102-42 a GRI 102-49; GRI 103-1; cotejando nivel de cumplimiento con los requisitos de los GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016, y los principios de materialidad y participación de las partes interesadas. • Presentación de los resultados de la verificación y las oportunidades de mejora a los directores y ejecutivos de FIFCO. Conclusiones Durante 2017, FIFCO desarrolló un análisis de materialidad para North American Breweries. De esta manera se cuenta con la identificación de los temas más relevantes para todas sus Unidades de Negocio. FIFCO sigue mostrando una fortaleza en la integración de sostenibilidad en todos los ámbitos de su gestión, a través de sus compromisos para 2020. Además, se transparenta en detalle la gestión de estos compromisos, incluyendo logros 2017 y desafíos para el futuro (páginas 32 y 33 del Reporte). Avenida Brasil 2830, Piso 9, Valparaíso, Chile Fono: (56-32) 2273500 E-mail: contacto@vincular.cl www.vincular.cl GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 205 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Recomendaciones Adicionalmente a esta carta de verificación, Centro Vincular ha entregado a FIFCO un informe acompañado de una presentación de oportunidades de mejora, tanto desde la perspectiva de la elaboración del reporte como respecto a la gestión de temas de sostenibilidad en la compañía. Destacamos las siguientes recomendaciones: • Seguir profundizando el vínculo entre los temas materiales y los ODS con el fin de reportar concretamente el impacto de las Unidades de Negocio en los Objetivos y Metas pertinentes. Dante Pesce Director Ejecutivo, Centro Vincular Pontificia Universidad Católica de Valparaíso Diciembre 2017 Declaración de Independencia Centro Vincular es un referente latinoamericano, especializado en el desarrollo e implementación de instrumentos de gestión de Responsabilidad Social, dedicado a la investigación aplicada, consultoría y transferencia tecnológica, formación de competencias y gestión de políticas públicas para promover la sostenibilidad. Centro Vincular confirma su total independencia de Florida Ice & Farm Co., quedando exenta de sesgos y/o cualquier conflicto de interés con la compañía. El equipo de Vincular fue seleccionado por este proyecto basado en su amplio conocimiento, experiencia y calificaciones técnicas. Avenida Brasil 2830, Piso 9, Valparaíso, Chile Fono: (56-32) 2273500 E-mail: contacto@vincular.cl www.vincular.cl GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 206 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Other social standards GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 207 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD 102-8 Total number of full-time, temporary and part-time employees by gender and location Country 2015 2016 2017 Temporary or Full-time contract part-time Total Full-time contract Temporary or Total Full-time contract Temporary or Total Costa Rica contract part-time contract part-time contract Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Guatemala & El Salvador 771 3561 44 139 4515 867 3661 26 243 4797 897 3461 23 277 4658 United States 65 407 4 210 686 63 426 6 216 711 73 444 4 201 722 Total 156 617 171 179 1,123 177 667 130 99 1,073 165 630 142 124 1,061 Total excluding temporary 5,577 5,861 5,670 Note: The amount of temporary and part-time employees depends on market demand. GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 208 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD 102-9 Supply Chain Supplier expenses by operation Operation Direct Expenses Indirect Expenses Other Expenses Suppliers Costa Rica +$149,000,000 +$92,000,000 +$75,000,000 Guatemala +$43,000,000 +$8,000,000 +$11,000,000 United States +$82,000,000 +$34,000,000 +$196,000,000 Consumer Warehouses Production Customer lines Finished product and distribution warehouses FIFCO suppliers are located in different countries and expenses invested on these suppliers are classified by: indirect, direct or other expenses. Direct expenses refer for example to raw materials and product packaging. Indirect expenses are those related to different types of inputs, services required for the operation or product marketing. Finally, there are unique payments made for specific services that are not part of the day-to-day operation. GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 209 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed in millions of colones Direct economic value generated (profits) ¢816,903 Distributed economic value: • Operating costs ¢461,943 • Salaries ¢89,218 • Employee benefits ¢1,696 • Payments to capital suppliers ¢48,334 • Payments to government (Costa Rica) ¢134,255 • Payments to government (United States) ¢27,733 • Payments to government (Costa Rica) ¢5,006 • Investment in the community ¢499 Economic value retained = direct economic value generated ¢48,219 – distributed economic value GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 210 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD 201-3 Social Benefits Program and retirement plans by country Costa Rica Guatemala United States • There is a benefit plan, defined in the Worker • Each month a contribution is made to the retirement There are no obligations derived from the benefit Protection Law No. 7983. This plan is complementary program -established by social security-, which plan, the company contributes to the benefit plans to the Costa Rican Social Security disability, old age corresponds to 10.67% of the salaries paid. administered by the union. The operation contributes and death retirement plan. to each plan based on the number of hours worked • Voluntary retirement program: any collaborator, per week, according to location. • Through this law, the company makes a contribution who wishes to leave the company voluntarily, can equivalent to 3% of each employee’s salary for the do so and benefit their families by contracting their consolidation of a complementary pension plan. services. • Labor Unemployment Fund: Through the Solidarity Association, the company contributes with 1% of each employee’s salary, while the collaborator contributes 2%. GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 211 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD 202-1 Ratio of standard initial category salary to local minimum wage by gender Company’s Country’s average Ratio Company / Business Unit Year Currency average starting minimum wage Country minimum salary North American 2016 USD 10 13.16 1.3 Breweries 2017 USD 11.04 13.68 1.2 2016 Colones 289,107.65 294,461.67 1.02 Florida Bebidas 2017 Colones 293,132.67 298,561.22 1.02 2016 Colones 289,107.65 291,465.58 1.01 Florida Retail 2017 Colones 293,132.67 295,523.42 1.01 2016 Colones 289,107.65 291,465.58 1.01 Reserva Conchal 2017 Colones 293,132.67 295,523.42 1.01 Industrias 2016 Quetzales 2,284.15 2,623 1.15 Alimenticias Kern's 2017 Quetzales 2,643.21 2,662.56 1.01 Nota: Contractors or outsourcers are sub-contracted by suppliers and in most cases these people receive wages above the minimum. In NAB for example, the minimum wage for labor is $9 per hour and the contractor is paid $12 per hour. The average amount shown in NAB is the amount per hour paid and includes 12 locations in the United States where FIFCO operates. In Costa Rica there is a country minimum wage, which is not disaggregated by gender. Likewise, the minimum wage defined by the organization does not change according to gender. GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 212 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD 401-1 Employment of full-time workers according to age, gender and area. Country United States Costa Rica and Guatemala 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Age range Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Under 30 15 24 78 83 71 75 165 447 221 563 149 313 Between 30 and under 50 8 19 42 59 17 40 137 361 151 365 119 232 Over 50 1 9 3 16 1 9 2 23 5 12 2 6 Total annual hiring 24 52 123 158 89 124 304 831 377 940 270 551 Total employees 327 796 307 766 307 754 836 3,968 742 3.,655 997 4,383 Annual average hiring 7% 7% 40% 21% 29% 16% 36% 21% 51% 26% 27% 13% Note: The average annual employment is calculated = total employment / total employees. In the case of NAB, all the employees, both full-time and temporary, are included. The rest of the countries, only include full-time, as this is how the company collects the information. Turnover of full-time collaborators by age, gender and area. Country United States Costa Rica and Guatemala 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Age range Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Under 30 3 9 71 52 67 68 219 366 116 286 139 291 Between 30 and under 50 4 19 22 54 27 54 165 386 127 313 132 376 Over 50 0 14 5 22 6 29 11 50 8 43 13 62 Total annual turnover 7 42 98 128 100 151 395 802 251 642 284 729 Total employees 327 796 307 766 307 754 836 3,968 742 3,655 997 4,383 Average annual turnover by gender 2% 5% 32% 17% 33% 20% 47% 20% 34% 18% 28% 17% Note: The average annual turnover per gender is calculated = total layoffs / total employees. In the case of NAB, all the collaborators are included, both full-time and temporary; the rest of the countries only include full-time employees, since this is how the company collects the information. GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 213 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD 401-3 Reintegration and retention rates after maternity or paternity leave, disaggregated by gender and location Guatemala United States Costa Rica Employees that: Women Men Women Men Women Men 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Were entitled to a maternity or paternity 4 1 21 18 5 165 14 631 45 49 132 114 leave Exercised their right to maternity or paternity 4 1 21 18 5 3 14 27 45 49 132 114 leave Returned to work after their maternity or 4 1 21 18 5 3 14 27 39 49 132 105 paternity leave 4 1 18 18 5 3 14 25 36 49 103 105 Returned to work after their maternity or paternity leave and retained their job for over twelve months after reintegration Reintegration and retention rates for 100% 100% 86% 100% 100% 2% 100% 4% 80% 100% 78% 92% employees who enjoyed maternity or paternity leave. Note: Everyone has the right to maternity or paternity leave, however only those who could apply this right during the year are included (for IAK, Reserva Conchal, Florida Bebidas and Florida Retail). GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 214 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD 403-2 Accident rate Guatemala Costa Rica United States Detail Female Male There were no Cuts, burns, Musculoskeletal diseases, product of manual load Lacerations, slips, trips, falls, Types of injuries injuries concussion. handling and repetitive movements sprains, ergonomic injuries and overexertion Florida Bebidas: 1.08% (1.04% in 2016) 0.09% 2016 Rate of accidents with No records Florida Retail: 2.46% (3.37% in 2016) 6.63% 0.45% 2017 injuries (1.44% in 2015) Reserva Conchal: 1.78% (2,97% in 2016) 7.12% 2017 No information is recorded on diseases separated 1.44 2015 from accidents. As stipulated in the Costa Rican 1.25 2016 Rate of occupational diseases This information is not recorded labor legislation on occupational risks, accident 0.99 2017 records include both categories. Florida Bebidas: 0.75 2015 0.78 2016 0.51 2017 Florida Retail: Rate of missed days 0.005 2015 0.14 2015 0.94 2016 129 (2017) 0 2016 0.76 2016 0.56 -2017 0.0043 2017 0.65 2017 Reserva Conchal: 0.75 2016 0.52 2017 0.41 2016 1% 2016 Absenteeism rate 0.39 2017 1.15% 2017 Casualties There were no deaths reported in the reporting period Note: In the United States, injuries were 92% in men and 8% in women. A contractor reported an injury. The absenteeism rate was calculated at 1.15%. The systems used to report injuries are those stipulated in the GRI 2000-20011 guide, version 3.1. In Costa Rica, the regulatory system used to report and record accidents is procedure SO-017, accident, incident and occupational diseases report, which is audited by OHSAS 18001, where there is a labor accidents and incidents report card to investigate the causes of the accidents and implement corrective measures to prevent any reoccurrences. In addition, to report accidents and lessons learned to the staff, meetings are held explaining the accident, the cause of the accident, the lessons learned and the corrective measures to be implemented. This information is transmitted through top management to all operational levels in the organization. This year the severity index in Costa Rica decreased, meaning that the accidents that occurred were less severe, bringing us closer to a safer environment. In Guatemala, ILO agreements are respected by complying with the regulations of the Social Security Institute of Guatemala. GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 215 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD 404-3 Percentage of employees who have received a periodic performance and career development evaluation throughout the reporting period, disaggregated by gender and by professional category, in the 2016-2017 period. Operatives Middle Management Management Directors Country Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male NAB 100% Guatemala 0% 0% 100% Costa Rica 100% Nota: the information for Costa Rica corresponds to the 2015-2016 period, since the data is generated in December of each year. It is important to note that people who entered in the last 6 months of the evaluation period, as well as temporary collaborators are not included in the evaluation. GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 216 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD 405-1 (B) Workforce disaggregated by professional category and gender, age, minority group and other diversity indicators 2015 2016 2017 Level United States Costa Rica Guatemala United States Costa Rica Guatemala Percentage and El Salvador Total and El Salvador Total Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Operatives 37 406 628 3,035 45 324 4,475 27 379 655 2.865 48 333 4,307 76 Middle Management 95 123 199 508 18 88 1,031 96 114 202 492 24 102 1,030 18 Management 40 91 33 106 0 14 284 39 85 36 103 1 9 273 5 Directors/Managers 5 47 7 12 0 0 71 3 52 4 1 0 0 60 1 Other 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 177 667 867 3661 63 426 5,861 165 630 897 3,461 73 444 5,670 100 Note: There are no independent collborators in the operations; however, there are employees woho work at the facilities as an outscored service (for example, cleaning staff). GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 217 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI 405-2 STANDARD Base salary ratio by category, gender and location Reserva Conchal, Florida Bebidas and Musmanni Position Men Women 2016* Ratio 2017* Ratio Management VS 1.09 1.19 Specialists, Supervisors and Headquarters VS 1.03 1.05 Auxiliary and Analysts VS 0.9 1.09 Operatives VS 1.1 1.14 Guatemala: Industrias Alimenticias Kern’s Management VS 1.26 1.57 Specialists, Supervisors and Headquarters VS 1.07 1.8 Auxiliary and Analysts VS 1.07 1.98 Operative VS 1 1 United States: North American Breweries Directors VS 0.74 0.74 anagement VS 1.01 1.05 Specialists, Supervisors and Headquarters VS 0.99 0.99 Auxiliary and Analysts VS 1.05 1.01 Operative VS 0.86 0.98 (*) Corresponds to men’s base salary divided by women’s base salary. WA = Wage Advantage In the case of Costa Rica, men in management positions, specialists, supervisors, managers and operatives continue to have the WA. Women maintain their WA in the positions of assistants and analysts. There is an opportunity to improve equal pay according to gender. FIFCO works to ensure this equality through its compensation structure GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 218 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Other environmental standards GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 219 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 Indicadores ambientales 2017 GRI Standard Number Units GRI Standard Summary result Details 301-3 Kg Percentage of reclaimed products and 65% See table 301-3 their packaging materials 302-1 GJ Direct consumption of electrical • Hotel Westin: 65,783 GJ in 2016 and 60,052 GJ in 2017 See table 302-1 and thermal energy • Florida Retail: 27,497 GJ ein 2016 and 27,944 FJ in 2017 • NAB: 350,653 GJ in 2016 and 338,220 GJ in 2017 • IAK: 114,741 GJ in 2017 302-2 GJ Indirect fuel consumption by outsourced Florida Bebidas: 80,418 in 2016 yand 78,538.6 transport in 2017 302-3 GJ/unit Energy intensity: Electric and thermal • Hotel Westin: 0.13 GJ/pd in 2016 and 0.12 GJ/pd en 2017 See table 302-3 energy consumption per unit sales • Florida Retail: 1.49 GJ/ton in 2016 and 1.43 GJ/ton en 2017 • NAB: 0.15 GJ/Hl produced in 2016 and 0.14 GJ/Hl produced in 2017 • IAK: 0.14 GJ/Hl produced in 2017 302-4 GJ Quantified reduction of electrical and • Hotel Westin: 1,790 in 2016 and -5,477 in 2017 See table 302-4 thermal energy • Florida Retail: -985 in 2016 and +59,237 in 2017 • NAB: -19,576 in 2016 and 2017 303-2 Units Water sources affected by withdrawal RC/WPC: 1 important source for local communities 304-4 N/A Species (biodiversity) Consult Details column on this table See table 304-4 305-4 Ton CO2e/hl pr Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions • Florida Bebidas: -1,250.31 in 2016 and 0.009 in 2017 See table 305-4 • Florida Retail: -13.58 in 2016 and 0.12 in 2017 • IAK. 0.01093 in 2017 • NAB: 0.0072 in 2017 305-6 Kg CFC-11 Quantity of substances used that deplete • Florida Bebidas: 574,2 in 2016 and 276 in 2017 See table 305-6 equivalent the ozone layer • Florida Retail: 62 in 2016 and 2017 305-7 Kg of Nox; Kg of Other relevant emissions • NOx: 211,908,96 in 2016 and 185,774,42 in 2017 See table 305-7 SO2; Kg PTS; Kg • SO2: 515,126 in 2016 and 454,245 in 2017 PM10 306-1 m3; Kg Total water discharge, by quality and • Florida Bebidas: Consultar columna “Detalles” de esta tabla See table 306-1 destination • IAK: 879.510 hl 306-3 Liters; Kg Significant spills of hazardous materials • Florida Bebidas: : see table See table 306-3 • Florida Retail: 1 • IAK: 0 306-4 Liters; Kg Weight of hazardous waste transported, Florida Bebidas: N/A imported, exported or treated • Treated: 57.584,4 in 2016 and 57.788,95 in 2017 • Exported: 57.584,4 in 2016 and 57.788,95 in 2017 • Exported: 3.536,4 in 2016 and 2.366 in 2017 • Imported: 0 IAK: • 24,5 Kg (infectious) GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 220 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI 201-2 STANDARD Implicaciones financieras y otros riesgos y oportunidades derivados del cambio climático Physical, regulatory, Term of financial Type Detailed description Impact description Management methods other implication Consumers are more aware of Reputational The growing exposure and knowledge about the problems Continued Air Brands environmental problems, willing to associated with climate change makes consumers recognize the consider product’s environmental problems associated with climate and its impacts, so that they performance as purchasing criteria become more critical of the products and producing companies’ environmental performance when making their selection. Opportunity Adoption of new technologies Physical, reputational Improve environmental performance of process and products and Continued Innovation, Benchmark, to operate more effectively and competitiveness due to operation with state-of-the-art technology. BCS Heineken efficiently with the available resources such as water and energy Damage to infrastructure due to Physical Floods due to heavy rains, tropical storms and even hurricanes Winter Emergency care Business Risk natural hazards increase the risk of damage to the infrastructure of the direct value continuity chain, as well as that of suppliers and customers. GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 221 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARDS 302-1 AND 302-4 2017 Electrical energy consumption and reduction TÉRMICA (MJ/Hl) Consumption indicator Cristal Pepsi Electric Power Consumption (kWh) Year Beer Plant Others CR IAK Plant (kWh / hectoliter produced) Plant Plant Facility 2011 115.14 69.77 12.25 57.76 83.80 Reducción 2016 2017 2015 vrs 2016 2016 2017 2012 114.43 62.46 10.70 54.52 79.83 21,631,650 19,762,374 -1,869,276 10.49 9.66 2013 110.71 62.72 11.11 50.08 87.48 Cerveza Plant 2014 104.28 61.88 10.28 43.49 97.55 Cristal Plant 12,796,813 12,929,177 132,364 9.57 10.07 2015 96.40 65.06 9.74 42.97 93.47 Pepsi Plant 4,836,024 4,809,708 -26,316 5.43 5.25 2016 97.31 53.94 5.49 39.33 105.38 Others CR 5,933,201 6,319,846 386,645 1.35 1.42 2017 95.26 62.09 5.02 38.87 103.20 Sub Total Costa Rica 45,197,688 43,821,105 -1,376,583 10.26 9.82 IAK Plant 8,758,065 7,325,228 -1,432,837 9.41 8.73 Total 53,955,753 51,146,333 -2,809,420 10.11 9.65 Nota: According to the Energy Consumption Reduction table, the Cerveza Plant, Pepsi Plant and Industrias Alimenticias Kern’s managed to reduce their electrical energy consumption while the other plants show an increase in consumption due to the growth in production and higher energy requirements for certain processes. Energy units (Gigajoules) Uso Fuel type Facility Reduction 2016 2017 2017 vs. 2016 CCR Plant 200,641.13 188,702.69 -11,938.45 Cristal Plant 72,145.20 79,747.62 7,602.42 Heating Bunker Pepsi Plant 4,889.45 4,597.33 -292.12 IAK Plant 98,093.60 62,842.19 -35.251.41 Diesel / LP Gas / 2,141.62 1,889.12 -252.49 Machinery Florida Bebidas S.A. Gasoline JET A1 5.210,00 4.701,73 -508,28 CR vehicular fleet 169,848.43 3,354.68 CR vehicular fleet JET A1 Florida Bebidas S.A. Diesel / Gasoline / LP Gas Total 549,614.74 512,329.10 -37,285.64 GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 222 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD 302-3 Energy Intensity 2016 vs. 2017 Type of Energy Florida Bebidas IAK Westin Hotel Florida Retail NAB 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Intensity 0.134 0.136 0.121 0.106 0.13 0.12 1.49 1.43 0.15 0.14 Units GJ/hl pr GJ/hl pr GJ/pd GJ/ton pr GJ/hl pr% Energy intensity 2017 2017 Internal Energy Consumption (DJ) 2017 Production GJ/Hl 2017 Florida Florida Florida Type of fuel CR IAK CR IAK CR IAK Bebidas Bebidas Bebidas Bunker 273,048 62,842 335,890 0.06 0.07 0.06 LP Gas Fleet 16,281 0 16,281 0.00 0.00 0.00 LP Gas Machinery 714 0 714 0.00 0.00 0.00 Diesel Fleet 118,569 0 118,569 0.03 0.00 0.02 Diesel Machinery 1,034 0 1,034 0.00 0.00 0.00 Gasoline Fleet 34,998 0 34,998 0.01 0.00 0.01 Gasoline Machinery 142 0 142 0.00 0.00 0.00 Jet A1 fuel 4,702 0 4,702 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total Fuels 449,487 62,842 512,329 0.101 0.075 0.097 Electricity 157,756 26,371 184,127 4,464,099 838,778 5,302,877 0.04 0.03 0.03 Total Energy 607,243 89,213 696,456 0.136 0.106 0.131 GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 223 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD 304-4 Threatened or Endangered Species in the Conchal Reserve Influence Area Fauna Common name Scientific name Status CITES IUCN Red List Causes Anteater Tamandua mexicana Threatened √ Roadkill and habitat reduction Congo Monkey Alouatta palliata Threatened √ √ Roadkill, electrocuted, food for the human being, loss of habitat Jabiru Jabiru mycteria In danger of extinction √ √ Habitat reduction due to the elimination of nesting trees like Gallinazo and Ceiba, as well as wetland drainage Armadillo Dasypus novemcinctus Threatened √ √ Roadkill and food for the human being White-tailed deer Odocoileus virginianus Threatened Food for the human being, hunting Puma or Cougar Puma concolor In danger of extinction √ √ Hunting and loss of habitat Jaguarundi or Eyra cat Puma yagouaroundi In danger of extinction √ √ Hunting and loss of habitat Ocelot Leopardus pardalis In danger of extinction √ √ Hunting and loss of habitat Olive Ridley Sea Turtle Lepidochelys olivacea In danger of extinction √ √ Extraction of eggs and food for humans Leatherback Sea Turtle Dermochelys coriacea In danger of extinction √ √ Extraction of eggs and habitat affectation Flora Common name Scientific name Status CITES IUCN Red List Causes Mahogany Swietenia humilis In danger of extinction √ √ Extraction of precious wood Cocobolo Dalbergia retusa Threatened with possibilities of √ Extraction of precious wood becoming endangered Raintree Samanea saman Threatened Extraction of wood Holywood Guaiacum sanctum In danger of extinction √ √ Extraction of wood Tempisque Sideroxylon capiri Threatened Extraction of wood Mexican Logwood Haematoxylon brasiletto Threatened Extraction of wood Spanish Cedar Cedrela Odorata Threatened √ Extraction of wood GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 224 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD 305-4 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions 2016 vs. 2017 Absolute emissions (ton CO2) Intensity of emissions (ton CO2/hl Scope I Scope II Scope III TOTAL Ton CO2e produced) Reduction Reduction Reduction Reduction Facility 2016 vs 2016 vs 2016 vs 2016 vs 2016 2017 2017 2016 2017 2017 2016 2017 2017 2016 2017 2017 2016 2017 Cerveza Plant 16,704.21 15,612.58 -1,091.63 824.63 1,162.71 338.08 1,324.78 845.25 -479.52 18,853.61 17,620.54 -1,233.07 0,00914 0,00862 Cristal Plant 6,502.53 6,305.25 -197.27 487.56 728.78 241.22 52.82 64.16 11.34 7,042.91 7,098.19 55.29 0,00527 0,00553 Pepsi Plant 383.00 354.10 -28.89 184.25 267.90 83.65 2.66 0.00 -2.66 569.91 622.00 52.09 0,00064 0,00068 Others CR 12,802.66 10,542.32 -2,260.33 226.10 292.71 66.62 3,200.18 4,550.08 1,349.90 16,228.94 15,385.11 -843,.82 0,00368 0,00345 SUB TOTAL CR 36,392.39 32,814.26 -3,578.13 1,722.54 2,452.10 729.56 4,580.44 5,459.49 879.05 42,695.37 40,725.85 -1,969.51 0,0097 0,0091 IAK 7,409.12 6,137.63 -1,271.49 2,548.60 2,347.71 -200.89 0.00 9,957.72 8,485.34 -1,472.38 0,00187 0,00160 Total Florida 43,801.51 38,951.89 -4,849.62 4,271.14 4,799.81 528.67 4,580.44 5,459.49 879.05 52,653.08 49,211.19 -3.441,89 0,0099 0,0093 Bebidas GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 225 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD 305-6 Amount of substances used that affect the ozone layer 2017 Nota: Florida Bebidas uses refrigeration equipment, mainly In the case of the PINOVA industrial bakery plant, they FREON R22 continue to use refrigerant R404, which does not affect the Type of refrigerant gas in the commercial area to exhibit and cool beverages; (30LB) ozone layer, but 4,497 kg of R22 were also used versus the most used being R134A and R404A, both with zero Kg 238 ozone depletion potential. Some industrial equipment also 639.72 kg of R22 in 2016. As mentioned above there is ODP 0.05 uses these, although the most used in the Cerveza Plant an initiative that will allow us to reduce the use of this gas is ammonia. Since 2008 Florida Bebidas does not acquire and replace it with a natural gas NH3 / CO2 system. The any equipment that uses refrigerant gases that destroy initiative is being implemented; there are no results to report the ozone layer. There is still some equipment in existence yet. In the case of the IAK and Reserva Conchal operations, that consumes these types of gases, which is taken out of this indicator is under construction and information is being operation once it is damaged and it is not subject to repair. collected. GRI STANDARD 305-7 Other relevant emissions 2017 Kg NOX SO2 PTS y PM10 Source Source Florida Florida Retail Florida Florida Retail Florida Bebidas IAK PINOVA IAK IAK Bebidas Plant Bebidas Plant Fixed Sources 7,922 14,599 Fixed Sources 38,180.00 12.174,69 Forklift Forklift 35,590.13 4.739,88 150,01 Outsourced mobile sources Outsourced mobile 29,233.89 374,724 77,274 2,247 Own mobile sources 1,362 sources Special teams 2,582.19 Total Kg of contaminant 3,150 Own mobile sources 63,123.63 Total Kg de contaminante 12,433 14,599 Total Kg of 168,709.84 16,914.57 150.01 374,724 77,274 2,247 contaminant Note: with respect to 2016, a reduction is reported in all sources due to an efficient use of sources. Additionally, contaminants in the form of particulate matter from consumed fuels are reported. GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 226 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD 306-1 Total water discharge, by quality and destination 2017 Cantidad Carga salida Origen Tipo de agua Método de tratamiento DESTINO Calidad (m3/año) (kg DQO/año) Tropical Plant Special and ordinary Primary and secondary anaerobic and aerobic Rio Segundo 324,547.43 11,270.62 Treated non-potable activated sludge water CCR Plant Special and ordinary Rio Segundo 413,670.00 124,505.21 Treated non-potable water Primary and secondary aerobic activated sludge ECSRL Plant Special and ordinary Rio Bermúdez 80,552,.5 6,440.28 Treated non-potable water Recycling Plant and Ordinary Infiltration 806.70 64.54 Spill Primary and secondary anaerobic (septic tank) Treated non-potable water Commercial Services Ordinary Infiltration 9,266.00 741.28 VINDES Ordinary Infiltration 4,923.70 393.90 West Distribution Center and Corporate Ordinary Primary and secondary aerobic activated sludge Rio Segundo 28,742 2,499 Treated non-potable water Building Limon Deposit Ordinary Infiltration 882 65 Treated non-potable water Primary Guapiles Deposit Ordinary Rio Verde 955 57 Treated non-potable water Puntarenas Deposit Ordinary Primary physicochemical Infiltration 3,093 132 Treated non-potable water Liberia Deposit Ordinaria Primary and secondary aerobic Infiltration 2,314 207 Treated non-potable water East Distribution Center Ordinary Primario y secundario anaeróbico (tanque séptico) Infiltration 6,080 486 Treated non-potable water Planta IAK Special and ordinary Primary and secondary aerobic activated sludge Municipal Sewage 152,790 19,812 Treated non-potable water San Carlos Deposit Ordinary Infiltration 1,117 89 Treated non-potable water Nicoya Deposit Ordinary Infiltration 1,200 96 Treated non-potable water Ciudad Neily Deposit Ordinary Infiltration 896 72 Treated non-potable water Primary and secondary anaerobic (septic tank) San Isidro Deposit Ordinary Infiltration 1,363 109 Treated non-potable water Distribution Centers Ordinaria Infiltration 10,656 852 Treated non-potable water without Treatment GRI STANDARDS FIFCO 227 & ANNEXES INTEGRATED REPORT 2017 GRI STANDARD 306-3 Significant hazardous material spills Facility Cerveza Plant Kind Spill / Fire / Gas leak / etc. Location Emergency Volume Actions 1. The spill was immediately contained with sand that was subsequently treated as a There was a tank of approximately 1m3 of bunker in the reception area of the materials warehouse, where they hazardous waste with Geocycle were breaking the street for the high voltage cable projects. During this process the machinery overturned the 1000 l 2. Eliminate the tank because it was not being used tank causing a spill. 3.Have the staff of TRAESA take responsibility FAB product spill: When external company arrives to collect product tanks to spill from test runs. Instead of 1. Collection of samples of different flavors of FAB diluted product that is spilled at the collecting 4 tanks of 1000 liters as planned, they only collect 1 tank of 1000 liters and only one flavor (Bluebestart of each new flavor as a change standard. rry). There was no surplus of Mandarin, although according to the quantities produced and quantities reques2. Determination of average COD from flavors analyzed. ted for packaging (between the 2 flavors), there were an estimated 4000 liters left over. So the difference was 3. Definition of plant COD impact warning ranges based on the production plan of lines 28,3 hl of diluted spilled over the treatment plant during packaging. This despite the fact that we previously requested Innovation 1 and 4 and FAB.4. product Coordination for funds for external test spills to avoid affecting the WWTP. In addition, there was good communication with FAB-packaging during the test packaging, regarding the number of boxes to be packed and that Training WWTP operator to take action based on the decision flow for concentrate any surplus was to remain in FAB TKs. changes in FAB and normal spills during the process (with old Carbocooler) Consequences Soil pollution / alteration in the normal operation of the WWTP Facility Pepsi Plant Kind Spill Location Syrup Emergency Volume Actions 1. A meeting was held to manage economic resources to improve the system ventilation. Spill on treatment plant of Jet Syrup containing a large percentage of organic matter (sugar) and high acidity. 3700 gallons 2. Feedback to personnel regarding spills. Consequences Alteration in the normal operation of the WWTP www.fifco.com
