UN Global Compact Communication on Progress / 2017 Report Table of Contents Statement from CEO 3 Group Overview 4 How Egmont Works with CSR 5 Compliance Priorities for 2018-2020 6 PEOPLE Egmont Social Compliance Programme 7 Country Risk Analysis and Social Audits 8 Social Audits in 2017 9 Zero Tolerance Incident in 2017 11 Human Rights 11 Inspiration Letter 12 Product Safety and Quality 13 Inspections and Manufacturer Relations 13 Stakeholder Contact 14 Books, Games and Activity (BGA) Tool Box 14 Supplier Scorecard – Egmont Sourcing Hub in Hong Kong 15 Goals 2018 15 Egmont’s Workforce 16 Skills and Mindset 16 Flexible Workforce 16 Working Environment – #MeToo 16 Report on Targets and Policy Regarding the Underrepresented Gender 17 The Board of Trustees / Supervisory Boards 18 PLANET Environmental Policy Kick-off Meeting and Implementation 19 Preparing for new Requirements 19 Energy Consumption 20 Waste 20 Goods Transportation 21 Paper 21 Packaging 21 CASE PAGE 22 PROFIT Anti-corruption and Whistleblowing 23 Dansk Reklame Film – Underdelivery 23 OTHER The Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 24 Bamse and the Battle Against Fake News 25 The Egmont Foundation – Charitable Activities 2017 26 Highlights in 2017 26 New Partnerships with Focus on Learning and Care 28 Accounting Policy for Climate Impact Reporting 2017 29 UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 2 Statement from CEO Egmont supports the UN Global Compact principles. Responsible behaviour is essential in being a strong and trusted media group. Egmont has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2013, and the present report is the fourth of its kind. The UN Global Compact is the formal framework within which Egmont expresses its fundamental position and conduct in relation to Corporate Social Responsibility. However, the commitment to being a responsible and socially engaged business dates back to 1878 when Egmont was established. During 2017, Egmont continued to set standards of excellence in its business throughout the world to demonstrate responsible conduct in our operations. Egmont is fully committed to respecting human rights and labour rights as set forth in the UN Guiding Principles and its efforts are directed at both employees in Egmont and at manufacturers. This report includes Egmont’s mandatory CSR report in accordance with article 99a, and Egmont’s report on targets and policy with respect to the underrepresented gender in accordance with article 99b, of the Danish Financial Statements Act (Årsregnskabsloven). Steffen Kragh President & CEO of Egmont UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 3 Group Overview Egmont was founded in 1878 and is a commercial foundation. Egmont is a leading media group in the Nordic countries with activities in more than 30 countries and has 6,600 employees. Egmont’s media world spans four divisions: Nordisk Film, TV 2 Norway, Egmont Publishing, and Books. The strategy Grow with the Modern Consumer sets Egmont’s strategic direction towards 2020 and entails investments in digital growth and new tech-based businesses. The annual profit is invested in business development and support for vulnerable children and young people through the Funding and Grant Administration (Støtte og Bevillingsadministrationen (SBA)). Nordisk Film develops, produces and markets films and TV dramas across the Nordic region and with an increased focus on international collaborations. The company operates the leading cinema chains in Denmark and Norway, and also engages in new businesses, for instance gift cards, ticketing services, computer games development and e-sports. In addition, Nordisk Film distributes and markets PlayStation in the Nordic and Baltic countries. TV 2 Norway is a privately owned public service broadcaster in Norway. TV 2 offers news, sports and entertainment content on nine TV channels and Norway’s fastest growing commercial news site for web and mobile apps. TV 2 also runs Norway’s leading streaming service TV 2 Sumo. Egmont Publishing is a leading publisher in the Nordic region and holds market-leading positions in a number of its 28 markets. Egmont Publishing is behind more than 700 weekly and monthly magazine titles as well as hundreds of children’s books and digital services. Egmont Publishing also invests in e-commerce and marketing services with the ambition of establishing sustainable business areas alongside the publishing core. Books comprises Norway’s leading publishing house, Cappelen Damm, and Danish publishing house Lindhardt og Ringhof, Denmark’s second largest publisher. Cappelen Damm publishes more than 1,500 titles annually, and Lindhardt og Ringhof publishes more than 600 titles annually. The activities include general literature, education, book clubs and e-commerce. NORDISK FILM PUBLISHING Cinemas, Magazines and film distribution, weeklies, digital film production, media, audio digital games and products, games consoles, gift cards, and books, e-sport, and e-commerce, and ticketing services marketing services TV 2 NORWAY BOOKS TV 2, Literary fiction, TV 2 Nyhetskanalen, non-fiction, TV 2 Zebra, TV 2 sport, children’s books, TV Barclays, educational books, Premier League TV, audiobooks, Filmkanalen, bookstores, and TV 2 Livsstil, e-books TV 2 Humor, and TV 2 Sumo 1) Number of employees in wholly owned and partly owned companies, controlled by Egmont, paid by the month. UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 4 How Egmont Works with CSR Egmont has worked with Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) for more than 100 years. Today, Egmont’s work with CSR in the operational part of the business is primarily founded on compliance. This means that the work is guided by compliance with the key principles set out in Egmont’s Code of Conduct (CoC). Egmont generally requires that all suppliers and business partners across all divisions sign up to Egmont’s CoC and all Egmont businesses and relevant business partners must comply with the requirements set out in the CoC. The UN Global Compact principles and Egmont’s CoC are aligned and Egmont seeks to sustain its commitment to each element of the UN Guiding Principles on an ongoing basis. The CoC in its full length can be found at www.egmont.com Egmont employs dedicated personnel at entry level and senior level, who work to ensure compliance with Egmont’s CoC across the business. Policies and procedures are created at Group level and implemented locally by employees in the operations with support from Group experts. In the following chapters, Egmont’s commitment to respecting human rights and labour rights, the approach to safeguarding the environment, and complying with anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws will be described. The last chapter of the report presents the initiatives that go beyond the UN Global Compact principles. PEOPLE PLANET PROFIT OTHER Human Rights and Environment Anti-corruption and Initiatives Labour Rights Whistleblowing UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 5 Compliance Priorities for 2018-2020 Egmont’s compliance focus areas for 2018-2020 are: • UN Global Compact • Egmont Social Compliance Programme – Responsible supply chain management and product safety and quality and • Environment – Implementation of policy & setting of KPIs • Anti-corruption and anti-bribery • Launch and implementation of a new Egmont employee Code of Conduct These five areas have been chosen based on their importance to sustaining Egmont’s business and its longterm success. In addition, Egmont will continue to evaluate the relevance of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with the Egmont business and consider how Egmont can support these global goals. UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 6 PEOPLE Egmont Social Compliance Programme Since 2005, Egmont has worked with its Social Compliance Programme. The programme has a dual focus on responsible supply chain management and product safety and quality. The aim of the programme is to ensure that manufacturers comply with Egmont’s CoC, applicable laws and Egmont’s zero tolerance policy elements (ZTs): • Local minimum wage regulations (equivalent to pay per standard work hour) • No forced, bonded or compulsory labour • No child labour • No risk of losing life and/or limb • No corruption and/or bribery Compliance with the CoC and applicable laws is verified through social audits at applicable manufacturers of Egmont products and licensor branded products2. Based on a risk assessment of the business areas and type of production the 2017 overall audit scope has included all manufacturers of the following physical products: books, magazines, Egmont licensed products such as Rasmus Klump and Bamse, games and activity products, covermounts3 , and promotional items, globally. Egmont has carried out compliance due diligence on some business partners in other areas, but no social audits as such have been completed in these business areas. An acceptable and valid social audit to Egmont, is an audit that assesses a manufacturer’s practices and policies on: Coercion and Harassment, Non-Discrimination, Freedom of Employment, Freedom of Association, Documentation, Health and Safety, Dormitories, Compensation, Overtime Compensation, Hours of Work, Sub-contracting, Protection of the Environment, and violations of Egmont’s zero tolerances. As at 31 December 2017, Egmont had a total of 445 active manufacturers in its manufacturer pool, which are part of the Social Compliance Programme. 2) Third party first tier/core manufacturers. 3) Toys that are sold together with magazines. UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 7 Country Risk Analysis Egmont’s manufacturers are located all over the world, and Egmont works with different social audit cycles depending on the relevant risk profile. Egmont operates with three country risk profiles: • Group 1 (high risk): maximum audit cycle of 12 months • Group 2 (medium risk): audit cycle ranging from 12-24 months • Group 3 (low risk): audits performed on an ad hoc basis All manufacturers in Group 1 and Group 2 are required to undergo a pre-production audit or submit a valid social audit report before they start production. A pre-production audit is a helpful tool to assess the manufacturer’s social compliance level. Egmont acknowledges that audits are only a snapshot of the conditions at the manufacturer, and that audits have their limitations. However, audits remain the preferred tool to ensure social compliance for Egmont and its licensors. Egmont also requires manufacturers to ensure that subcontractors are aware of and comply with Egmont’s CoC. Egmont strives to keep updated on the changing political, economic and social landscapes in the regions where Egmont operates, and adjusts the country risk profiles accordingly. The country risk parameters are based on several acknowledged tools and analyses and also take into account licensors’ requirements. This is to ensure an aligned process for manufacturers working with Egmont. EGMONT’S SOCIAL COMPLIANCE PROGRAMME • Mapping of manufacturers based on Egmont’s risk assessment • Social auditing of manufacturers against the Egmont Code of Conduct or evaluation of third party audit reports, including human rights, labour rights, environment, and anti-corruption • Product safety and quality tests and assessments • Ensuring compliance with licensor/retailer requirements on social compliance • If required, remediation plans implemented at manufacturers UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 8 Social Audits in 2017 Group 1 In 2017, Egmont reviewed 277 social audit reports. Egmont carried out 55 social audits at manufacturers based on the Egmont CoC and national legislation. The remaining 222 audit reports were based on templates or standards such as SA8000, BSCI, ICTI, SMETA/SEDEX and licensor audits, which are equivalent to Egmont’s CoC. Group 1 The number of audits differs from year to year and depends on the country risk profiles of the manufacturers, the size of the manufacturer pool, and findings from previous years’ auditing. Findings from Social Audits in Country Group 1 In 2017, Egmont’s social compliance team evaluated 230 audit reports from manufacturers in Group 1. Figure 1 shows the distribution of findings across Group 1. In general, it was found that the prevailing findings occur in three main categories4. The highest number of findings occurs in the category Health and Safety. This category has 23 subcategories, and the most common findings are related to: Inappropriate use of personal protective equipment, missing material safety data sheet and labels on chemicals, and lack of secondary containment of chemicals. The second largest category is Work Hours, which covers how many hours the workers work, if they have a sufficient number of rest days and sufficient rest between shifts. The most common findings are related to excessive work hours, which covers overtime exceeding the national limit. The third category is Compensation. Compensation covers insufficient social insurance, insufficient paid leave Compensa.on and other legally required benefits, which have not been provided. The findings in this category are mostly enta.on Group 1 Freedom o f A s related to insufficient social insurance, which means workers often do not participate in the national social Compensa.on insurance scheme. nsa.on COUNTRY GROUP ONE Group 1Health Documenta.o and Saf (High risk countries) 1205 findings f Work Compensa.on Housing Health and SEaf m o f and Safety A ssocia.on Hous of Work m Freedom Health and Safety 57,9 % Hours of Work 13,4 % o f Observa.ons Compensation 12,6 % me C nsa.on ompensa.on Health Protec.on Protection of the Environment 7,7 % Observa.ons Documenta.o a nd oS af f t g a.ons Only Discrimina.on Documentation 5,1 % Over.me Com Overtime Compensation 1,3 % enta.on Freedom Subcontrac.n Subcontracting 0,9 % of As m of Associa.on olerance Freedom Observa.ons Observations Only 0,6 % of Em .on and oSf afety t he E nvironment Subcontrac.n Hous Publica.on Publication of Code 0,2 % o f W ork o f trac.ng Zero Toleranc Zero Tolerance 0,1 % f Work Housing Housing 0,1 % g Discrimina.on Subcontrac.n Discrimination 0,1 % a.ons enta.on O nly Over.me Freedom oCf om Freedom of Association 0% As m o f A me Compensa.on ssocia.on Documenta.on Freedom Protec.on of t Freedom of Employment 0% Freedom o f A ssocia.on o f E m .on of the Environment Publica.on of Figure 1 trac.ng f Work Hous of Work Zero Toleranc Housing 4) A finding generally constitutes a violation of national law Housing g olerance on UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report Freedom o f A Discrimina.on ssocia.on 9 Findings from Country Group 2 In 2017, Egmont’s social compliance team evaluated 47 audit reports from manufacturers in Group 2. Figure 2 shows the distribution of findings across these manufacturers. In general, it was found that the prevailing Group 2 findings occur in one main category, namely Health and Safety. This category has 23 subcategories, and the Compensa.on most common findings are related to: Missing annual fire and evacuation drill and lack of secondary containment enta.on of chemicals. Group 1Freedom of As nsa.on m of Associa.on Documenta.o Freedom of Em nsa.on Documenta.o COUNTRY GROUP TWO (Medium risk countries) nsa.on 115 findings Documenta.o Compensa.on f Work Health and Saf Housing Health and Safety 71,3 % g a nd nsa.on S afety Hous Discrimina.on Subcontracting 8,7 % Documenta.o o f W ork aand S afety nd Safety Hous Documentation 8,7 % Hous o of aW f W ork ork Health Hours of Work 7 % Observa.ons nd S af me Compensa.on Protec.on Protection of the Environment 1,7 % of tO a.ons .on a nd tOhe oSf afety nly Environment Publica.on Over.me Publication of Code 1,7 % Hous o f W om Cork of a.ons a.ons Only enta.on O nly Over.me Overtime Compensation 0,9 % Over.me Freedom C om oCf omAs Observa.ons Compensation 0 % Subcontrac.n m lerance of Associa.on Observations Only 0 % Freedom of Em trac.ng a.ons enta.on Only Zero Zero Tolerance 0 % Over.me Freedom T olerance o Cf om A s trac.ng trac.ng f Work Zero Freedom of Association 0 % Zero Housing T olerance Tolerance ssocia.on m of ADocumenta.on Subcontrac.n Housing 0 % Freedom Freedom of Employment 0 % of Em g Discrimina.on Freedom Discrimination 0 % o f A ssocia.on f trac.ng W ork Zero Tolerance Housing me Compensa.on Protec.on of t Figure 2 Hous of Work Housing g Discrimina.on Describing the Increase in Audit Findings .on o on Compensa.on f t he E nvironment Publica.on In 2017, the Egmont social compliance team saw a rise in the number of violations of Egmont’s CoC and Freedom of AProtec.on ssocia.on of t o f me Over.me C ompensa.on Protec.on o f t he E nvironm national legislation in the manufacturer pool. The number of findings for Group 1 and 2 manufacturers has increased from 572 in 2016 to 1320 in 2017 = + 56.7%. The number of findings for Group 1 manufacturers lerance increased by 59% in 2017 from 497 findings in 2016. The number of findings for Group 2 manufacturers .on o f t he E nvironment Publica.on o f increased by 35% in 2017. Zero Tolerance Housing In 2017, Egmont introduced 99 new manufacturers to the manufacturer pool. 75 of these are located in countries lerance which are included in Group 1 or Group 2, which contain audit requirements. The newly introduced factories accounted for 323 findings in 2017 = 25% of the total number of findings in 2017 across Groups 1 and 2. 63 new manufacturers were introduced to Group 1. The factories introduced in 2017 accounted for 306 findings. pensa.on Protec.on of the Environment The prevalence of the violations reflects the general description of findings above. 12 new manufacturers were introduced to Group 2. The factories introduced in 2017 accounted for 17 findings. The prevalence of the violations reflects the description of findings above. e Egmont’s social compliance team works actively with the manufacturers to increase the compliance level at the facilities. Egmont expects that the number of findings will decline in 2018 when the manufacturers have been part of the Egmont Social Compliance Programme for a full audit cycle. UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 10 Zero Tolerance Incident in 2017 Egmont encountered one zero tolerance incident in 2017. When a zero tolerance incident is found during an Egmont on-site audit or reported in an audit report, Egmont immediately engages with the facility to solve the issue(s). Following identification of the incident, the manufacturer is under surveillance and is required to document remediation and undergo follow-up audits prior to potentially (re-)commencing production. The zero tolerance violation in 2017 was one case of non-compliance with national minimum wage (equivalent to pay per standard work hour). Egmont engaged in dialogue with the manufacturer to ensure that workers who had not received the appropriate minimum wage were duly compensated, and documentation was presented to verify this. Human Rights Egmont respects human rights in its operations and requires that business partners do the same. The respect for human rights is included in Egmont’s CoC, which Egmont and all business partners must comply with. In June 2017, the Egmont social compliance team participated in a training/workshop with the Danish Institute for Human Rights where the team mapped potential human rights impacts/violations resulting from Egmont’s business activities. Based on the human rights analysis of Egmont’s supply chain, Egmont has already included violations of the most salient human rights issues – for Egmont’s business in the social audit requirements. In practice, this entails that respect for human rights will be investigated in social audits performed at Egmont’s request and in the external audits that Egmont evaluates. If violations of human rights are identified, the Egmont social compliance team engages with the manufacturer to ensure that the manufacturer understands the violation(s), provides appropriate remedy and implements procedures to ensure that human rights are respected going forward. Egmont’s zero tolerances cover several human rights violations. Egmont takes action no matter which human rights violation is found at a manufacturer’s, but some issues are so severe that Egmont halts production until the violation has been remedied. Egmont carries out due diligence and assesses compliance with relevant remediation plans before deciding whether the manufacturer can be (re-)approved as a supplier to Egmont. UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 11 Inspiration Letter Egmont social compliance team continues to prepare inspiration letters for the manufacturers, and three inspiration letters were distributed in 2017. They contained information about fire safety, anti-corruption and bribery practices, and personal protective equipment. Analyses show that 44% of the manufacturers in the manufacturer pool reads the inspiration letters. The topics are chosen based on analyses of recurring findings in the manufacturer pool, and the letters help limit the number of occurrences. The inspiration letters provide specific and condensed advice and illustrate Egmont’s requirements to the manufacturers. Below is a copy of the inspiration letter on PPE. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) is equipment that will protect workers against health hazards and/or safety risks while at work. PPE is important for the safety and health of your workers. Please make sure to: • Provide applicable PPE according to the task(s) at hand and as required by local law and/or regulations • Some employees might find it easier to conduct the task without using the applicable PPE. Please note that it is the management’s responsibility to train workers to understand the benefits of PPE and how to choose appropriate PPE for their task(s) • Implement procedures, instructions, training and supervision to provide a safe work environment • All necessary PPE must be given for free EYE AND EAR PROTECTION Eye Protection: • Provide proper googles according to type of risk (chemicals, dust, etc.) • Ensure eyewash is available in areas where chemicals are handled Consequences of lack of eye protection can be e.g.: Eye irritation, lose sight, blurred vision Ear Protection: • Provide proper hearing protection in high-noise areas, choose type according to noise level Consequences of lack of ear protection can be e.g.: hearing problems, lose hearing in one or both ears GLOVES AND MASKS Gloves: • Provide gloves where chemicals or sharp tools are used, choose type according to type of work Consequences of lack of gloves can be e.g.: Skin irritation, cuts, skin burns. Masks: • Provide proper masks as protection against chemicals, fumes, and dust particles Consequences of lack of masks can be e.g.: Cough, shortness of breath. UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 12 Product Safety and Quality Egmont prioritises product safety on an ongoing basis to ensure that all Egmont products are safe to use. This is especially crucial for products aimed at children – such as books, toys, and covermounts. Egmont is member of toy associations at both national and European level and is in close dialogue with major test institutes and experts involved in toy safety standardisation and regulation. These elements make it possible to remain updated with the most recent developments within safety requirements and regulation. Product safety assessment and testing is done prior to production for all toys, including covermounts. Products are amended in cases where safety concerns are identified. In 2017, national authorities have approached Egmont in relation to seven products as part of their market surveillance activities or following contact with consumers, and Egmont has taken advice from authorities in two cases. In one case, Egmont contacted the authorities due to a customer complaint regarding a product placed on the market years back, and it was agreed that no action should be taken. Where requested, Egmont has been able to provide sufficient documentation, which in most cases resolved the issues. One case resulted in a minor fine, but more importantly the case resulted in a change in material specifications for comparable products. No Egmont products have been listed in the European RAPEX notification system in 2017. As part of their routine market surveillance activities, the authorities in Norway have conducted an inspection at Egmont Publishing on procedures, documentation, qualifications, etc. in relation to product safety and compliance. The conclusion was that all documentation was in place and processes were sufficient. Inspections and Manufacturer Relations To ensure quality and product safety, Egmont is highly dependent on its manufacturers. In 2017, Egmont has conducted 1379 quality and safety inspections on toys distributed together with its magazines. A total of 898 orders were inspected in 2016 and the increase in 2017 relates to the implementation of a new procedure in 2016 after which all orders are inspected. Inspections are carried out by third parties, by Egmont staff or by manufacturers according to Egmont defined procedures and templates. Manufacturer capabilities are monitored via technical assessments and continuous follow-up visits to the factories that manufacture covermounts. UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 13 Stakeholder Contact Egmont sources more than 100 million covermounts a year and sells them as part of its products, typically magazines. In 2017, 12 consumers have contacted Egmont with product safety queries related to seven different covermounts. In relation to six of the covermounts, Egmont was only contacted by one consumer per product. Egmont considers these cases as single incidents and not systematic defects. Within the Nordic and UK markets, Egmont has received three customer queries regarding safety aspects connected with books and activity products, and some customers have asked for information about ingredients in toys. All contacts have been analysed and follow-up actions have been taken as relevant, including dialogue with our manufacturers. DESIGN AND TESTING AND MASS MARKET DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL PRODUCTION FEEDBACK 625 7.659 1.379 12 product safety individual inspections related contacts on assessments carried tests carried out to covermounts covermounts out on covermounts on covermounts 172 3 tests on finished contacts re books, covermounts games, activity products in UK, Scandinavia and Poland 7 contacts to market surveillance authorities 0 RAPEX notifications 0 product recalls Figure 3 Books, Games and Activity (BGA) Tool Box At the beginning of 2017, the Egmont social compliance team introduced a product safety and quality tool box for the product categories books, games and activity products (BGA). The tool box is available online for colleagues globally, and it presents Egmont’s processes for product safety and quality, requirements and documentation, and guidance for specific product categories. It is very important to Egmont that it only places safe products on the market. The BGA tool box is a crucial part of this process as it gives colleagues easy access to relevant information. Th BGA tool box is a supplement to Egmont’s Safety Manual, which is updated twice a year. European (EU) legislation Guidelines BGA Egmont Tool Box National legislation Safety Procedure Process European Manual Requirements Non-european Licensor legislation, e.g. requirement Turkey Internal Egmont requirement Figure 4 UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 14 Supplier Scorecard – Egmont Sourcing Hub in Hong Kong In the third quarter of 2017, Egmont’s sourcing hub in Hong Kong launched a new project, which targets core suppliers of covermounts. The project aims to increase suppliers’ performance across a range of categories such as price, product quality and safety, logistics, and social compliance. To monitor supplier performance, the sourcing hub has developed a supplier scorecard, which includes the abovementioned categories and various subcategories. The scorecard is intended to effectively and systemically rate and manage core suppliers’ performance and with the support from the hub improve performance across the board. The Supplier Scorecard is updated quarterly and allows the hub, and suppliers, to track performance and ultimately place production at suppliers with a high performance. The hub has chosen 16 suppliers as the baseline. The suppliers are rated as A, B or C suppliers based on total spend over a period. Currently, the project has eight “A” manufacturers, which represent 80% of total spend and eight “B” manufacturers, which represent 15% of total spend. Even though the Supplier Scorecard has been implemented for merely three months, the hub has already seen significant improvements in supplier performance and, consequently, will continue to use the Supplier Scorecard. Goals 2018 In 2018, Egmont will continue to develop and improve the Egmont Social Compliance Programme. The goal is to maintain high standards of compliance and engage in dialogue with key manufacturers. In 2018, Egmont will strive to meet these goals: • Reach no zero tolerance incidents in factories within the existing manufacturer pool • Continue remediation visits at covermount facilities in China to aim for sustainable solutions to audit findings, specifically within health and safety • No serious product safety incidents, no non-compliance incidents or recalls due to safety aspects of products • Train all relevant employees in the new Egmont Code of Conduct for employees UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 15 Egmont’s Workforce The continuous changes in the media and entertainment industry have a significant impact not only on business models and operators in the industry, but also on the people who are employed in the industry. Egmont’s workforce is the most important asset for the group, and at the same time, the single largest expense category (22% of total costs). It is therefore key to the continuous success of Egmont to have a highly agile workforce that strikes the right balance between new skills and mindset and flexibility in composition and size. Skills and Mindset Egmont is characterised by a high degree of diversity in business areas, across and within its four divisions. Egmont is also characterised by a high degree of local decision rights and a belief that businesses develop best close to the respective brands and their consumers. Leaders therefore play a critical role, when it comes to developing new skills and mindset of people, because new relevant skills are rarely a ‘one size fits all’ across the Group, but in most cases, specific solutions that are in tune with the market trends. It is the responsibility of the local leaders to spot these trends, and to ensure that their people have the right skills to create new business opportunities. To support the leaders, Egmont has launched a new leadership development programme in 2017, Committed to Lead, which focuses development around Egmont’s key leadership principles. In addition to the leadership development, Egmont expects its leaders to play a central role in the development of their employees – and Egmont expects its employees to take active ownership of their own, personal development. To support this ongoing process, Egmont has launched a new approach to Performance Management (Performance Dialogues) and a new people engagement survey tool in 2017, which in combination are expected to help leaders and employees identify blockers and enablers of development, and to implement appropriate improvement initiatives. Flexible Workforce In 2017, Egmont has continued to adjust its workforce through smarter ways of working. The trend across the divisions has been to adjust the core businesses to the market conditions by introducing new technologies to handle content production and distribution, and at the same time facilitate more collaboration across the value chain and thereby increase efficiency. The side effect of this has been a reduction in leadership layers and numbers. Egmont continues to use a combined approach to acquiring new competences and keeping a flexible workforce – through organic competency development (as described under Skills and Mindset), through outsourcing of specific areas and through investments in small-scale growth companies. At the core of these choices is on one hand, how to preserve the core skills to be close to the consumer and bring relevant stories to life and, on the other hand how to ensure the best competencies for the job at any given point in time. Working Environment – #MeToo In late 2017, in connection with #MeToo, Group Management and management across Egmont made it clear that any kind of harassment or offensive behaviour is unacceptable, and encouraged employees to come forward either to their own manager or through the whistleblower system had they experienced such behaviour. It is essential that all companies in the Egmont Group provide a proper basis for an equal, open, and creative working environment where all people thrive, no matter gender, and the rights of all employees must be safeguarded. Matters have been raised in TV 2 and Zentropa (an associated company of Nordisk Film) and they have been investigated and handled in the companies and concluded upon. In addition, in TV 2, an additional and temporary notification procedure was implemented in order to make it easier to raise concerns. UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 16 Report on Targets and Policy Regarding the Underrepresented Gender In 2017, Egmont’s workforce has not changed significantly. From an overall gender perspective our workforce continues to be fairly diverse, cf. Table 1. SHARE OF MALE AND FEMALE EMPLOYEES AND MANAGERS 5 TOTAL MANAGERS Unit Gender count % of Gender Gender count % of Gender EGMONT Male 1309 45% Male 275 50% EGMONT Female 1575 55% Female 272 50% Egmont Publishing Male 467 35% Male 113 40% Egmont Publishing Female 881 65% Female 173 60% Egmont International Holding A/S Male 66 57% Male 7 39% Egmont International Holding A/S Female 49 43% Female 11 61% Lindhardt & Ringhof Forlag A/S Male 66 31% Male 20 57% Lindhardt & Ringhof Forlag A/S Female 144 69% Female 15 43% Nordisk Film Male 293 52% Male 91 64% Nordisk Film Female 266 48% Female 51 36% TV 2 Norge Male 417 64% Male 44 68% TV 2 Norge Female 235 36% Female 21 32% Table 1 The gender split of the workforce is close to balance with 45%/55% (male/female – total workforce), and 50%/50% (male/female – manager population). From a gender diversity perspective, these numbers are very satisfactory, with an equal split of male and female managers. There are variations across divisions and these are believed to be fairly reflective of the available talent pool. Egmont aims at being an attractive workplace for both female and male managers where both genders find that they have equal and fair opportunities for promotions, and where their competences can be used the best way possible irrespective of gender. EGMONT’S POLICY ON GENDER COMPOSITION IN MANAGEMENT • Egmont does not discriminate based on gender, age and handicap, ethnic or religious background • Egmont wants to always employ the best-qualified person, irrespective of gender • Egmont aims to have a diverse set of competencies. Diversity is not a matter of gender only but can also include educational background, functional experience, age, cultural background, etc. • When recruiting or promoting people Egmont demands that both male and female candidates are identified. 5) Number of employees in wholly owned and partly owned companies, controlled by Egmont, paid by the month. UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 17 The Board of Trustees / Supervisory Boards The Board of Trustees believes that its members should be chosen for their overall competences but also recognises the benefits of a diverse Board in terms of experience, cultural and educational background and gender. The Board of Trustees has on that basis set the following target for the underrepresented gender on the Board: • Egmont aims to have one female member elected to the Board of Trustees no later than 2018 • According to the Charter of the Egmont Foundation, election to the Board of Trustees takes place when a member’s election period expires • Egmont uses external help to identify candidates to the Board of Trustees of the Egmont Foundation. Both male and female candidates are identified During 2017, the Board of Trustees has elected two new members on the basis of the Charter. Before recruiting the two new members, the Board of Trustees carefully identified the most essential competences that the candidates individually and together should possess. On that basis, the chairmanship of the Board used an international search firm to help identify candidates with the relevant competences. The search firm identified several candidates, including female candidates, that were interviewed by the chairmanship and presented to Board. In the final election, the Board of Trustees decided to elect two male candidates with competences that are essential both in terms of business and management qualifications and international experience. The Board of Trustees of the Egmont Foundation is elected for up to three ordinary periods of four years and may be elected for up to two further periods of two years. The target for the underrepresented gender on the board applies to all Egmont’s Danish companies that are required under Danish law to set such target. The companies are: Egmont Fonden, Egmont International Holding A/S, Egmont Publishing A/S, Egmont Printing Service A/S, Lindhardt and Ringhof Forlag A/S, Nordisk Film A/S, Nordisk Film Distribution A/S, Nordisk Film Biografer A/S and GoGift.com A/S. All these companies, except Egmont International Holding A/S, Nordisk Film Biografer A/S, and Egmont Printing Service A/S have equal representation on the Supervisory Board, as one out of three board members elected by the general meeting is a woman. In Egmont International Holding A/S, which has a Board that consists of the same members as the Egmont Fonden, the target has not been met. As set out above, two new members were elected to the Board in 2017, and they were both men. In Nordisk Film Biografer A/S, all three board members elected by the general meeting are men and therefore the target is not currently met. In 2017, one male member resigned from the board of Nordisk Film Biografer A/S and he was replaced by another male member who was considered most competent for the position. Finally, in Egmont Printing Service A/S, all four board members are men and they are considered most qualified for the job and therefore the target is not currently met. Number of Supervisory Board members elected by the Annual Meeting Men Women Target met Egmont Fonden 7 0 Egmont International Holding A/S 7 0 Egmont Publishing A/S 2 1 Lindhardt and Ringhof Forlag A/S 2 1 Nordisk Film A/S 2 1 Nordisk Film Distribution A/S 2 1 Nordisk Film Biografer A/S 3 0 GoGift.com A/S 2 1 Egmont Printing Service A/S 4 0 Table 2 UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 18 PLANET Through its business activities Egmont has an impact on the environment and climate. With the introduction of the Egmont Environmental Policy in 2016 Egmont committed to promote greater environmental and climate responsibility. The policy covers five main categories, which have been chosen based on their importance to Egmont and the impact Egmont’s businesses have on these areas. The five areas are: • Energy Consumption • Packaging • Waste Handling • Chemicals • Paper Sourcing Environmental Policy Kick-off Meeting and Implementation In June 2017, Egmont Social Compliance hosted an environmental kick-off meeting for the project group. The group covers headquarter functions as well as staff functions across the four divisions. The programme evolved around the Publishing and Books divisions due to the participants. External experts made presentations on the topics: Scoping KPIs, Sustainable Paper Sourcing, the EU Waste Directive, and REACH. The group decided on action points to be further discussed and executed in 2018. Preparing for new Requirements In Q4 2017 and Q1 2018, Egmont initiated a pilot project to collect data from the headquarters and business activities in the four divisions in Denmark, Norway, and Sweden. The three markets were chosen for the pilot project because Egmont generates the vast majority of its turnover in these markets. The pilot project serves as a preparation and baseline for the new requirements in the Danish Financial Statements Act §99a applicable to Egmont from the fiscal year 2018, which mean that Egmont will have to report more extensively on its businesses’ impact on the environment and climate. The categories in the pilot project are linked to Egmont’s environmental policy and are: • Energy Consumption • Waste • Goods Transportation • Paper • Packaging All numbers below are 2017 figures. Comments, delimitations and estimates can be found at the back of the report, as well as business and geographic areas included in the reporting for 2017. In accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG), Egmont reports on its CO2 emissions for Scope 2 (indirect emissions) through electricity and district heating. For the pilot project Egmont has collected data for Scope 3 (voluntary reporting of indirect emissions) as well. It was decided to report on these emissions because Egmont has its largest impact on the climate through Scope 3 emissions. Based on the learnings and output from the pilot project in 2017/2018, Egmont aims to improve the data collection method and consequently the data quality in 2018. UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 19 Energy Consumption Energy consumption covers electricity and district heating from owned and rented buildings in Denmark, Sweden, and Norway. Please see table 3. for an overview. In 2017, Egmont’s locations in Denmark underwent an energy audit as per Danish law. The revision showed that generally there is high awareness of energy consumption, and steps are taken consistently to improve energy consumption. For the coming years, Egmont will work on the proposed improvement areas. Variables Total (mwh) Total (tCO2e) Electricity 17,733 2,545 District heating 10,368 1,198 Total 28,101 3,743 I Table 3 Waste Waste contains two subcategories: Household waste from the offices in Denmark and Sweden, and cinemas in Denmark and Norway. Please see table 4. for an overview. Variables Total (kg) Total (tCO2e) Waste (incinerated) 975,933 489.9 Paper (recycled) 170,622 5.6 Glass (recycled) 2,739 NA Metal (recycled) 2,233 0.1 Organic (recycled) 59,755 1.9 Plastic (recycled) 870 NA Hazardous waste (recycled) 1,339 0.4 Hazardous waste (incinerated) 160 0.4 Total 1,213,651 498.3 II Table 4 Waste (return products) The second category under waste is return products, which are defined as the return products Egmont’s business partners collect from retailers and thereafter handle the disposal of. Return products are categorised as magazines, including foil, covermounts, and toys. Please see table 5. for an overview. The product waste is not wasted as such. For example, the majority of the paper from return magazines in Denmark is sold to a papermill in Sweden, where the paper fibres are broken down and mixed with other materials to make paper for newspapers. The leftovers from the magazines, e.g. plastic toys or foil, are used as heating for the paper processes at the papermill. Variables Total (kg) Total (tCO2e) Paper (recycled) 9,829,879 314 Plastic (recycled) 19,239 0.7 Metal (recycled) 2,820 0.1 Organic (recycled) 71,660 2.3 Waste (mix) 32,720 1.0 Total 9,956,318 318.1 III Table 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 20 Goods Transportation Transportation of books, games and activity products to Sweden and Norway. Please see table 6. for an overview. Variables Total (tkm) Total (tCO2e) Truck 285,297 46.6 Air 4,243 3.3 Sea 89,171,010 1,123 Total 89,460,550 1,173.5 IV Table 6 Paper The consumption of paper has two subcategories: One is the consumption of office paper for printing in the offices in Denmark, Sweden and Norway and the other – much larger quantity is paper consumption for the Publishing and Books divisions. Please see table 7. for an overview. The paper used for Egmont’s products is sourced from sustainably managed forests. Variables Total (kg) Total (tCO2e) Paper for products 48,080,926 29,329 Paper for offices 22,474 5.5 Total 48,103,397 29,334.5 V Table 7 Packaging Packaging in this report relates to the plastic foil wrapped around magazines, popcorn, and snack cups for Nordisk Film Cinemas, and cardboard for books, games and activity products. Please see table 8. for an overview. CO2 emissions are not calculated for this category as the reported metrics differ, and it has been difficult to retrieve a life-cycle analysis (LCA) of the foil, snack cups, and cardboard. This has made it difficult to measure the CO2 emissions. Variables Total Cardboard 24,845 kg Foil 155,000 kg Popcorn cups cinema DK 55,535 kg Popcorn and snack cups cinema NO 764,978 pieces VI Table 8 UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 21 CASE PAGE Nordisk Film Materials get a Second Life on Zanzibar A cleaning assistant at Nordisk Film Denmark has come up with a great idea on how to reuse and recycle old movie posters, doors, windows, and metal plates from Nordisk Film in Valby. The leftover materials are transported to Bungi, Zanzibar where the local community uses the materials for all sorts of things. The old movie posters now function as tents, boat roofing as well as sails. The old red metal plates have been transformed to a new shed. The project has helped Nordisk Film dispose of old materials in a valuable way, and the local community in Zanzibar receives materials free of charge. Leftover Covermounts Egmont Printing Service (EPS) is responsible for all printed matters in Egmont Publishing. Some printed matters have a covermount attached, and it is the responsibilities of EPS to utilise the covermounts to the largest possible extent so as not to create unnecessary waste. EPS has implemented a procedure where all publishers which use covermounts have access to leftover covermounts and, consequently, Egmont can use leftovers across borders a procedure which ensures a high degree of use of covermounts. UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 22 PROFIT Anti-corruption and Whistleblowing Egmont has a clear policy on anti-corruption. It does not tolerate any use of corruption, bribery or facilitation payments and it conducts its business without the use of any of these. Egmont continues to run an online e-learning programme on anti-corruption, which is mandatory for all new employees and also conducts additional targeted training for certain employees on the basis of a risk assessment. In 2018, a new employee Code of Conduct which will include anti-corruption as well as other compliance areas will be rolled out. In 2018, Egmont aims to train at least 90% of the relevant employees in the new Egmont employee code of conduct, which also contains policies for anti-corruption and bribery. Furthermore, Egmont also has a goal of no corruption and/or bribery in Egmont or in the supply chain. Egmont has a whistleblowing policy, which can be accessed online. It has an online whistleblowing system, where concerned employees or stakeholders can voice their concerns. In 2017, one report was made into Egmont’s whistleblowing system. The whistleblower alleged that a business area manager in one of Egmont’s divisions had acted in conflict of interests in connection with an agreement entered into several years ago. The whistleblower was encouraged to come forward with more information and documentation but did not provide anything. On that basis, and since nothing in the internal inquiry carried out by Egmont suggested any wrongdoing, the matter was closed and no further action taken. During 2017, Egmont has continued to work with its Chinese manufacturers to ensure that no manufacturers attempt to improperly influence the external auditors, who conduct on site compliance audits on Egmont’s behalf. In 2017, no incidents of such attempts were reported by any of Egmont’s auditors. However, Egmont experienced one situation where a manager at a Chinese manufacturer tried to improperly influence a quality inspector who conducted a quality audit for Egmont, by offering money to the inspector. The incident was reported to Egmont and Egmont contacted the owner of the manufacturing facility in question who immediately took relevant action and the facility has subsequently ensured that relevant staff is trained on appropriate compliance areas. On that basis, Egmont has continued to work with the facility in question. Egmont works on a continuous basis to assess if any further action needs to be taken to mitigate the risk of corruption in relevant areas. Dansk Reklame Film – Underdelivery In December 2017, it was discovered that Dansk Reklame Film A/S had irregularity in delivering cinema advertising in Denmark to the full extent specified in contracts. The matter was immediately investigated with external help, and on 31 January 2018, the company announced to a number of customers that it had underdelivered on national campaigns since May 2013, and that employees had manipulated data in the IT system to hide the underdelivery. The company announced that it would compensate customers a total amount of DKK 95m and that it had dismissed a few employees and handed over the matter to the police for further investigation. The board of Dansk Reklame Film A/S has also established additional control procedures to mitigate the risk of non-compliance with legal or contractual obligations. UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 23 OTHER The Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) During the last quarter of 2017, Egmont’s social compliance team mapped the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) against Egmont’s business areas. The goals were analysed against how compatible the overall goal and targets are with Egmont’s current business and where Egmont can make a positive impact and reduce negative impact. Goals 4 and 12 were identified as being the most relevant. Goal 4 has strings into most of the divisions but primarily relates to Publishing and Books. Goal 12 is tied to Egmont’s responsible supply chain programme, which is – for the time being – closely linked to Publishing and Books. Egmont has an impact on other goals and targets, but 4 and 12 are particularly relevant. The Danish Egmont magazine “Vores Børn” (Our Children) placed an ad in the December 2017 issue to highlight the work Egmont does to support goal 4. The activities to support the goals for the coming years will be decided in 2018. egmont ANNONCE.indd 1 06-12-2017 10:32:45 UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 24 Bamse and the Battle Against Fake News A rumour about a monster in the dark forest spreads like wildfire among Bamse6 and his friends. But is the monster real? And who started the rumour? Together with experts such as Internet researcher Elza Dunkels and others, the Swedish Bamse editorial team produced a special edition about highly topical issues like rumour-mongering and source credibility. It all started when the Bamse editorial team attended the reading conference Readme in Malmo, Sweden. It dealt with facts, lies and conspiracy theories, and the team were inspired to create a series on the subject. A special workshop was organised, and the team enjoyed the valuable help of pupils and students from various schools as well as of Internet researcher Elza Dunkels and the well-known viral expert and journalist Jack Werner. The results far exceeded the expectations, and thanks to the participants’ high level of engagement and creativity, the conference gave Egmont Publishing Sweden ideas for two new series. The first of the two stories “Bamse and the dark forest” is about Bamse’s friend Lille Skutt who sees a monster in the forest and warns everyone against it. It is only the journalist, Nina Kanin, who questions the rumour. In addition, teaching materials, Bamses skola (Bamse’s school), were created to supplement the comic stories. It teaches children about the internet and source reliability and gives practical tips on how to stop and think. The Bamse magazine was awarded the prestigious prize “Magazine of the Year” for its successful campaign against fake news. Bamse Buzz in the Media The news that Bamse is going to teach children to question news sources attracted massive attention in Swedish newspapers, radio and television, and also amassed a multitude of Twitter and Facebook comments. The story also appeared in several major international newspapers and media like the American Financial Times and Buzzfeed, the Italian Corriere della Sera, the Austrian ORF and DR, the Danish Broadcasting Corporation. Tradition of Raising Social Issues This is not the first time the Bamse comic has brought up serious topics. It has previously addressed issues as bullying, homosexuality and divorce. The comic’s creator never shied from talking about difficult issues and topical questions, but wanted to explain everything to children. 6) Bamse, the world’s strongest bear, is a Swedish cartoon character and loved by many Swedes UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 25 The Egmont Foundation – Charitable Activities 2017 The Egmont Foundation works to fight “modern poverty” – i.e. today many young people leave lower secondary school without being able to master reading, writing or math. We do this by focusing on targeted efforts to support the learning and life skills of children and young people in need, thereby reducing the impact of negative social inheritance. The majority of donations are made in Denmark. However, support is also provided in Norway in areas where the Egmont Foundation is able to create synergy between activities in the two countries. In 2017, the Egmont Foundation (hereafter Egmont Fonden) donated DKK 96.1m for initiatives aimed at vulnerable children and young people in Denmark and Norway. HIGHLIGHTS IN 2017 New Strategy In 2017, Egmont Fonden adopted a new philanthropic strategy for the period 2017-21. The overall objective of the strategy is to ensure that by 2030 all young people are able to complete an upper secondary education. This means in practice that all children and young people must be able to master reading, writing and math when they leave lower secondary school (Folkeskolen). And they must have the social and personal skills necessary for children and young people to cope in life. They must be capable of creating a good life. In 2017, the foundation’s donations amounted to DKK 96.1m for activities in Denmark and Norway. UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 26 HIGHLIGHTS IN 2017 Strengthening the Learning and Life Skills of Children and Young People Placed in Care Children and young people placed in care constitute one of the foundation’s most important target groups. Today, about 11,000 children and young people are placed outside the home, and just under half of them complete the final 9th grade examination, and six years after leaving lower secondary school only one in five has completed an upper secondary education. Society has failed in this respect, and the foundation wants to help resolve the problem. Children and young people placed in care have been the focal point for a number of foundation activities in 2017. One of Egmont Fonden’s most important investments in children and young people placed in care is the signature programme Learn for Life, which celebrated its fifth anniversary in 2017. Learn for Life is a well-established and recognised organisation which has highlighted that learning and well-being go hand in hand. In 2017, approx. 400 children placed in care (from 41 municipalities) are enrolled in the programme, which also counts a total of 350 volunteers. In 2017, Learn for Life was also recognised as a promising social practice under the criteria established by Socialstyrelsen (The Danish National Board of Social Services), as the initiative significantly helps increase the Danish and math skills of children placed in care and boosts their self-esteem and self-confidence. In April 2017, Egmont Fonden hosted its first Children’s Summit, which will be a recurring annual event. At the Children’s Summit this year, Egmont Fonden provided a platform for 30 children and young people placed in care to share their opinions on initiatives that can help strengthen their learning and life skills. The Egmont Report 2017 further highlighted what is needed to ensure that children and young people placed in care become able to complete an upper secondary education and thereby get a solid foundation for a good life. The report is based on child participation, interviews with researchers, case stories and new data. Egmont Fonden will also be deeply involved in strengthening the learning and life skills of children and young people placed in care in the coming years. UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 27 HIGHLIGHTS IN 2017 A Good Start for Children Throughout 2017, Egmont Fonden has worked with ”Småbørnsalliancen” (The Danish Alliance on Support for Young Children), which was established as a joint initiative by Egmont Fonden and the Danish think tank DEA. The alliance included key stakeholders in the area of children aged 0-6, and the alliance has discussed ways to mitigate the inequality in learning and life skills among young children. The result of the alliance is a pledge to support young children (”Småbørnsløftet”), which will be launched in January 2018. The pledge will be supported by a broad group of organisations, authorities, foundations, professionals, knowledge communities and dedicated individuals, and they will contribute knowledge, resources, and political and financial capital. Egmont Fonden supports ”Småbørnsløftet” by donating a total of DKK 75m for initiatives targeted at young children over the next two years. Focus on Reading Strengthens Learning and Life Skills Egmont Fonden has invested in a number of initiatives in 2017 to strengthen vulnerable children’s reading skills. This year the following five organisations received support for reading activities: Read for Life, Homestart, Reading dogs, Letterbox Club under Dansk Flygtningehjælp (The Danish Refugee Council) and Reading Friend under Norske Kvinners Sanitetsforening (Norwegian Women’s Public Health Association). Egmont Fonden has supported these reading initiatives with a total of DKK 9.35m. New Partnerships with Focus on Learning and Care In 2017, Egmont Fonden has entered into two new partnerships that focus on strengthening vulnerable children’s reading and life skills. Partnership with Red Barnet Ungdom (Save the Children Youth) In 2017, Egmont Fonden has entered into an ambitious partnership with Red Barnet Ungdom (Save the Children Youth). The organisation runs 30 learning cafes throughout Denmark. The aim of the partnership is to ensure that the number of cafes is increased to 120 so that 5,000 vulnerable children and young people with academic and social challenges can get help to boost their motivation for schooling. This will also improve their chances of completing an upper secondary education. The partnership covers the period 2018-2021, and Egmont Fonden has granted a total of DKK 1,892,000 for the initiative. A Helping Hand Since its foundation, Egmont Fonden has distributed individual support based on the provisions in its charter. Since 2013, individual support has been granted through partnerships with organisations that are in direct contact with vulnerable families, children, and young people. The intention is that financial support must go hand in hand with more long-term support such as counselling or social network activities. In 2017, Egmont Fonden also entered into a partnership with Efterskoleforeningen (The Association of Danish “Efterskoler” ) under A Helping Hand. The partnership aims to ensure that more young people from low-income families get help to pay for a stay at an “Efterskole”. The partnership will run for a period of five years, and the foundation has granted a total of DKK 5m for the initiative. In addition to the partnership with Efterskoleforeningen, Egmont Fonden has established partnerships with Red Cross, Mødrehjælpen (The Mother’s Care Association), Børnehjælpsdagen (The Children’s Aid Foundation) and Norske Kvinners Sanitetsforening (Norwegian Women’s Public Health Association) under A Helping Hand. A total of DKK 9.6m was distributed under A Helping Hand in 2017. 7) An ”Efterskole” is a residential school for students aged 14-18 UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 28 Accounting Policy for Climate Impact Reporting 2017 The CO2 emissions have been calculated with the help of the CEMAsys tool. CEMAsys calculates the CO2 emissions based on the international standard “A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standards” which has been developed by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Consequently, the reported tCO2 in Scope 2 and 3 are dependent on the chosen variable in the CEMAsys system. I) Energy consumption covers the following locations: Denmark: Vognmagergade (Egmont HQ and Books), Publishing, Nordisk Film Valby, and Nordisk Film cinemas. Sweden: The offices in Malmø and Stockholm as well as the warehouse in Malmø. Norway: The cinemas in Norway. District heating is not reported for the Norwegian cinemas. II) Waste (household waste) covers the following locations: Denmark: Vognmagergade (Egmont HQ and Books), Publishing, Nordisk Film Valby, and Nordisk Film cinemas. Sweden: The offices in Malmø and Stockholm as well as the warehouse in Malmø. Norway: The cinemas in Norway. It was not possible to receive numbers of the ratio between the different kinds of waste, so the waste ratio has been estimated based on the ratios for the waste from the Danish cinemas. The Waste, incinerated variable contains numbers from Vognmagergade (Egmont HQ and Books), the offices in Malmø and Stockholm as well as the warehouse in Malmø, Nordisk Film cinemas in Denmark, Publishing Denmark, and Nordisk Film cinemas in Norway. The Paper, recycled variable contains numbers from Vognmagergade (Egmont HQ and Books), the offices in Malmø and Stockholm as well as the warehouse in Malmø, Nordisk Film cinemas in Denmark, Publishing Denmark, and Nordisk Film cinemas in Norway. The Glas, recycled variable contains numbers from Vognmagergade (Egmont HQ and Books), the offices in Malmø and Stockholm as well as the warehouse in Malmø, Nordisk Film cinemas in Denmark, and Publishing Denmark The Metal, recycled variable contains numbers from Vognmagergade (Egmont HQ and Books), the offices in Malmø and Stockholm as well as the warehouse in Malmø. The Organic, recycled variable contains numbers from Publishing Denmark and Nordisk Film in Valby. The Plastic, recycled variable contains numbers from Vognmagergade (Egmont HQ and Books), the offices in Malmø and Stockholm as well as the warehouse in Malmø. The Hazardous waste, recycled variable contains numbers from Vognmagergade (Egmont HQ and Books), and the office in Stockholm. The Hazardous waste, incinerated variable contains numbers from Vognmagergade (Egmont HQ and Books). UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 29 III Waste (return products) covers: The paper (recycled) variable covers return numbers from UBD (Denmark), Bladcentralen (Norway), and Tidssam (Sweden). DBK (Denmark) had not reported numbers, when the report was finalised. The plastic (recycled) variable covers numbers from Tidssam and Bladcentralen. The numbers from Tidssam covers plastic foil for 50% of the childrens’ magazines and for Bladcentralen it covers Publishing and Kids division. The metal (recycled) variable cover numbers from Bladcentralen from the Publishing and Kids division. The organic (recycled) variable cover numbers from Bladcentralen from the Publishing and Kids division. The waste (recycled) variable covers numbers from Bladcentralen from the Publishing and Kids division. IV Goods transportation. The numbers are obtained through DSV in Sweden and Norway and cover the BGA products transportation to both countries. For Sweden, the numbers are estimated based on 83% because Egmont received numbers for January-October 2017. V Paper for products cover numbers from Publishing (Egmont Printing Service) and Books. The numbers from EPS cover magazines and books for Denmark, Sweden, Norway, UK, Poland and Germany. It was not possible to get data solely for Denmark, Sweden and Norway as the rest of the categories. Furthermore, the total is an estimate based on 80% of the production. EPS estimates that the ratio between magazines and books is 60%/40%. Lastly, the number is the amount of paper bought by EPS and not the amount of paper used for production. For Books the number includes books produced by L&R and Carlsen, but does not include co-productions with other publishers. The number therefore covers 93% of the total production. The number reported by the books division is kg (weight) present at the warehouse and not paper bought, as above. The number for paper for offices is collected through Lyreco and cover office facilities in Denmark, Sweden and Norway and is the amount bought in 2017. VI Packaging covers the amount of foil bought by EPS for products sold in Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Poland, Germany and UK. The cardboard packaging covers cardboard bought by Publishing Sweden for all products including BGA products. The popcorn cups in Denmark is the total volume (kg) of cups bought for the Danish cinemas. The amount from the Norwegian Cinemas covers the pieces (popcorn and snack cups) bought for the Norwegian cinemas. The cups are made of cardboard. UN GLOBAL COMPACT / Communication on Progress / 2017 Report 30 Egmont International Holding A/S Vognmagergade 11 DK-1148 Copenhagen K Denmark Tel +45 33 30 55 50 For more information on Egmont and our performance, please visit www.egmont.com. Questions or comments related to this report, please contact Egmont Social Compliance at fama@egmont.com Photos: Martin Bubandt, Tomas Bertelsen, Iddi Hassan
