COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COP 2017 Scope This Communication on Progress Report covers the operations of Eastern Produce Kenya Limited. It focuses on company’s activities in the year 2017 with a purpose of providing information about our ethical, social and environmental work. It also plays an important role in helping us monitor results step by step as they are achieved, thus, helps us shape our future social, ethical and environmental activities. It sets out the standards that our business strives to achieve, in the interests of all of our stakeholders, in the areas of: o Business Integrity o Workplace o Environment o Consumer o Community Statement of Continued Support Eastern Produce Kenya Limited is committed to implement the United Nations Global Compact as part of our continued belief in sustainable development, responsibility and accountability in our business. We ensure that our operating standards are of a consistently high level, and that our policies are translated into practical actions. Through this report on our progress, Eastern Produce Kenya Limited expresses its willingness to support and advance the ten principles of the UN Global Compact through our policies, processes, actions and products. Christopher Flowers Regional Director υ ABOUT EPK aspects of tea production, soil and leaf analysis, nursery practices and fertilizer regimes. The Eastern Produce Kenya Limited (EPK) is part of department is also active in providing Technical Camellia Plc., (www.camellia.plc.uk), one of the advice on Environmental, Ethical, Food Safety and world’s largest private producers of tea. The Occupational Health and Safety aspects of the Camellia Group owns tea gardens in India, Kenya, business. Malawi, and Bangladesh producing around 80 Linton Park Regional office situated in Nairobi million kg of tea annually. performs the company’s marketing and promotional Photo1: Employee housing units in one of our Eastern Produce Kenya Ltd (EPK) engages in tea functions. A team of experienced and dedicated estates growing and manufacture in Kenya, with tea estates individuals are based at these premises, providing a We believe that good management of employment centered in the beautiful Nandi Hills area, west of solid marketing foundation for the operations. and environmental issues is essential in ensuring the the Great Rift Valley. It employs over 10,000 long-term success of our business. We are therefore employees at any one given time. The equatorial STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS committed to devoting the resources necessary to climate, good soil conditions and fairly consistent Our Approach continually improve our performance with the same rainfall means that tea is produced throughout the The board of Camellia Plc. is responsible for vigor that we apply to other aspects of managing our year and is of a very high quality with well-rounded establishing the group's policy on Corporate Social business. flavor. Through continuous investment in the land, Responsibility and has given the Executive factories and human resources, EPK produces some Committee responsibility for ensuring that the policy Development 2017 of the highest quality teas Kenya has to offer. is implemented across the group in a manner 2017 was a good year for our operations. Thanks to EPK tea estates comprise of; Kibabet, appropriate to those countries and sectors in which all the employees, management and all other Kapsumbeiwa, Kipkoimet, Kepchomo, Kaboswa our businesses operate. stakeholders that made the year a success. Due to (Managed)*, Kipkeibon (Managed)*, Siret In 2009, the board adopted a new Corporate Social sustainability measures taken in previous years, we (Managed)*, Kaprachoge (Managed)*, Kibwari Responsibility Policy to replace the Statement of have remained fit to tackle the challenges and (Managed)*, Chemomi, Savani and Sitoi. Good Business Principles that had been in place since respond very effectively, whilst remaining focused agricultural and manufacturing practices and the 2005. The Corporate Social Responsibility Policy is on our business philosophy. A key theme in our methodology behind production and quality also available on the Camellia plc.’s website. business is the drive for environmental stewardship play an important part in the gradual progression of and waste water management. We are among the the company. Technical, strategic research and leading players in this field and our efforts were development teams have been set up under the rewarded in 2017, after we won the Gold medal for Technical Department is dedicated to improving all Environmental Sustainability in the North American Tea convention, Bronze medal from Kenya Forest We aim to integrate all performance indicators, safety, community involvement and environmental Service and 3rd Runners up on climate change from financial and non-financial, into one set of data that management Tea Directorate of Kenya. We upgraded the factory will allow us to monitor and manage performance to • Measure, report and communicate machinery in a bid to improve on quality and catch set targets continuously. We expect to enter the next The responsibilities for sustainability issues are up with technological advancement. Food Safety level of awareness of sustainability issues by aligned with our organizational and hierarchical Management Systems worked well in all the units actively using the data as part of our regular structure at the estate level. Corporate Affairs with excellent results from the FSSC 22000 external management review process. Manager coordinates and advises on all CSR issues, audits. Housing improvement in all the estates was EPK will in 2018 continue to implement and audit senior management is responsible for the social and also given priority. CSR requirements for supply chain as part of total environmental performance of the company. First We fine-tuned our marketing operations focusing on quality management. This will be done by sending line management is aware of sustainability customer service, “customer intimacy”, and cost out supplier questionnaires and visiting selected requirements and is encouraged to integrate and efficiency. Best practice and knowledge sharing was suppliers premises for verification. implement the sustainability initiatives in the day to enhanced by creating teams, focused on finding day operations, while living our core values. solutions to specific issues at the estate level. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The responsibility for managing the Company at the Risk Management and Organizational Engagement Outlook 2018 top level rests with the Board of directors, which Sustainability for us means assurance of long-term EPK is committed to consistently deliver meets every quarter of the year. We have defined success within a stable economic, social and natural incremental improvements in the areas that drive our Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to measure the environment. We believe that, with the values we sustainability goals. We aim to maintain our leading impact of sustainability actions on our operations. have established, and the policies and business market position, both in terms of quality products Through the board, the Regional Director, practices developed from these, we are well prepared and improved service by anticipating consumer and Operations Director, Production and Technical for the move towards sustainability. industry trends, and remain focused on ethical Directors determine the detailed actions to be taken Our success is greatly dependent on climatic business, environmental management and product in order to: conditions, plant disease, the cost of labor and the improvement using innovative programs. • Act with integrity, adhering to high standards of market price for the produce. In addition, exports We will continue tracking sustainability indicators behavior, encouraging leadership by senior from Kenya are subject to foreign exchange monthly and report to the Board quarterly. This will management, responsible decision making and fluctuations as products are priced in US dollars. not only improve the reliability and transparency of dialogue with stakeholders Developing countries such as Kenya tend to be the data, but will also enhance the link to the more • Be proactive in our focus areas of business politically less stable, and there are also long-term frequently tracked operational performance integrity, social responsibility, product and consumer issues concerning land ownership over which the indicators. company has little control but monitors closely. υ Our aim is to manage these risks and control our machinery operation in the tea factories. However, local climactic conditions and infrastructure activities cost-effectively. Our precautionary the people depending on our business for their development. approach enables us to take up profitable business livelihood are much more than listed above. opportunities, avoid or reduce risks that can cause Working with Suppliers loss, reputational damage or business failure, support While focused on the commercial need to procure operational effectiveness and enhance resilience to goods and services of the required specification and external events. quality on the most favorable terms, we work We apply the principle that where there are threats of collaboratively with our suppliers to ensure that serious or irreversible environmental or social availability is sustainable in the long term and that damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be Photo 2: Aerial view of employees housing units contracts are fair and business relationships are used as a reason for postponing measures to prevent in our estates in Nandi Hills mutually beneficial. environmental degradation or negative social impact Paying taxes In 2017, we paid duty and taxes to the government ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE as required by the countries legislation. The OUR ECONOMIC FOOTPRINT 2017 company is recognized as a distinguished taxpayer Through the taxes we paid, the jobs we provided and by the Kenya Revenue Authority. the supply and distribution businesses we supported, Impact on Small Holders Photo3: One of the 15 primary schools we were a significant contributor to the economy of Another significant financial impact of our constructed by the company for employees and the country. The sum total of these positive impacts operations on the economy is support to the surrounding communities children of school comprises our economic footprint. smallholders that supply green leaf and other raw going age to prevent child labor In the last year we invested capital in factories and material required by the Company. As part of good governance, we encouraged our equipment to ensure the consistent quality of our Assistance is provided in the form of training in suppliers to work towards the same corporate products and sustainability of our businesses. good farming practices, extension service provision, citizenship standards as our own business. All major roads and other infrastructure improvement and suppliers confirmed that they operated Supporting Employment maintenance. We continue to invest in increasing environmental, business ethics and health and safety EPK directly supports over 10,000 jobs in a wide farmers’ skills and knowledge in the use of policies and operated a system of performance variety of positions involving tea plucking and tea fertilizers, pesticides and tea varieties best suited to monitoring to ensure continuous improvement. In bush management, specialist skills, different crafts the coming years we will be working with smaller and the full range of business activities and φ suppliers to ensure a similar commitment to such as energy consumption and waste management. incorporated into the policies through a corporate citizenship principles. They also demonstrate that they have effective and continual improvement plan and program. reliable methods for monitoring progress. There are Furthermore: ENVIRONMENT monthly reviews, focusing on issues related to o We ensure that the environmental effects We recognize that our activities have the potential to environmental management set-up and evaluation of of our investments are assessed and affect the environment either positively or negatively actual performance. monitored in the planning, implementation hence aim to improve all environmental aspects of and operational stages. our business. In addition to using resources wisely, Description of our Processes or Systems o The business is designed and operated to we strive to minimize any negative environmental We support the principle of “wise-use” through comply with national and international effects that could be caused by our business hands on management and see this as key to legislation. activities. sustainability and the long term preservation of our o We do not knowingly support businesses We focus our environmental efforts on activities that natural resources. and practices which contravene any we believe have the greatest impact. Today we work As part of our business objectives we therefore: relevant international conventions to which on an overall level in major areas such as reducing o Seek the efficient use of natural resources; the country is a signatory. carbon dioxide emissions, using alternative energy o Seek investment opportunities where o We assess the environmental standards and sources, managing waste water, and reducing energy sound economic development is coupled practices for planned projects and achieved consumption. with the protection and improvement of by operational projects with reference to the environment; local regulations. This is to enhance Environmental Activities Co-ordination o Avoid investments where impacts on sustainability and encourage a long term Each business unit has a senior manager in charge of communities and the environment have not perspective in the way we conduct our planning and implementation of measures to ensure been properly considered and mitigated in business. that stores, factories, living quarters and engineering their design o All existing natural ecosystems, both workshops take environmental responsibility o The Company has the necessary processes aquatic and terrestrial, have been seriously. Each unit has its own action plan detailing for follow up, measurement and analysis, identified, protected and are being restored the work towards achieving the goals set for social including that of claims by workers or through a conservation program. The and environmental training, waste management, other persons or groups, to evaluate the program includes the reforestation of areas saving energy and water, as well as minimizing functioning of our social and within the farms that are unsuitable for environmental impact from transportation. environmental management system. The agriculture. The operations progressively introduce tougher results of these processes are recorded and o EPK maintains the integrity of aquatic or demands in the area of environmental management, terrestrial ecosystems inside the farms and χ do not permit their destruction or alteration waste. As part of this program, the sources and types biodegradable tubes for her tea tree seedlings and as a result of management or production of waste have been identified and the quantity other tree seedlings. Solid factory waste consists activities. (weight or volume) estimated. The activities of the mainly of tealeaves, plastics, paper, textiles, cotton o Production areas are located in places that integrated waste management program are in wool, glass, pieces of wood etc. Litterbins are cannot provoke negative effects on accordance with the types and quantities of waste provided at each factory for collection of waste with national parks, wildlife refuges, biological generated. separation at source. corridors, forestry reserves, buffer zones or We have appropriate treatment systems for all of The hospital waste is handled with the due care. other public or private biological wastewaters we generate. The treatment systems Incinerators are available to dispose of tissues and conservation areas. comply with applicable national and local laws and contaminated combustible material. The ash from o The farms implement a training and have the respective operating permits. There are the incinerator is buried accordingly. The company education program in order to guarantee operating procedures for industrial wastewater has a License to operate a waste treatment plant the effective execution of the social and treatment systems. namely an incinerator. environmental management system and its Our Factory waste water is handled through Waste oils and greases from the factories are programs. The training topics are Constructed wetlands. These are currently working collected and returned to Group Central Workshops identified according to the position and well with biological indicators such as fauna and for disposal by Shell Oil Company (on contract) and type of work carried out. flora showing good growth and diversification in greases from the wash down are handled by a system o Records are kept that include the species proving that it is effective. Ashes and of oil and grease traps. participants’ signatures, topics covered and clinkers generated from the combustion of firewood Human waste from management houses and the instructor’s name for each training or are placed on the compost heap. Solid factory waste factories are collected in septic tanks. The human educational event. The employees i.e. tea leaves are placed on compost heap for waste from the village is handled by use of the pit attending the trainings are as part of the recycling i.e. used as organic compost, an alternative latrines, which are properly decommissioned when normal workday. fertilizer source. full. The ‘VIP’ pit latrine types are well ventilated Office refuse is sorted and the combustible materials for reduction of bad odor and flies. Waste management are burnt in boilers and other material disposed of in The compost heaps for biodegradable rubbish Our operations have an integrated waste a pit. The metal scraps are collected and sold to a generated in the estate villages are built according to management program for the waste products we scrap dealer. Paper and plastic is disposed of by a very specific design from our social/ generate. This is based on the concepts of refusing or recycling where possible, but following the ban by environmental consultant. reducing the use of products that have actual or National Environment Management Authority As a further waste management strategy a waste potential negative impacts on the environment or NEMA on plastic bags, the company has since been classification report has been compiled and the human health waste as well as reusing and recycling abiding by the regulations and currently sourcing analysis conducted. ψ requirements for cooking fuel material. Trials have negative impacts have been reported regarding the Energy Consumption just been undertaken to see how much more efficient alteration of ground water movement from The tea production consumes both thermal, electrical jikos are than open fire cooking. surrounding communities due to the agricultural energy and energy derived from fuel oils. Although energy efficient jikos have been installed activities. Our goal is to reduce the energy consumption in across the estates, we are looking at the best way of Monthly water quality analysis is carried out and the relation to the quantity of products produced at each maintaining them, as the clay used in the original verification of the parameters done by External unit. Energy use is continuously monitored at each design has not lasted as hoped. New designs are laboratories. The parameters analyzed for include factory and estate. Action plans based on these under review. chemical, physical, Microbiological and nutrient results are made in order to improve efficiency and Further efforts have also been put to rehabilitate the composition. A possible source of contamination of raise awareness among workers. sites where clay and marrum for the roads are mined. the surface water is the factory wash-down effluents, runoff and the nutrients in the form of the fertilizers Transport Water Management applied in the fields. Fertilizer runoff has been The impact exerted on the environment as a result of We have instituted a water conservation program monitored in recent years. No pollution of water transport activities related to our operations cannot that ensures the rational use of water resources. The courses or swamps has been detected. The other be overlooked. We invested in acquiring a greater program activities make use of the best available possible sources of contamination of the surface insight into this relationship, not least to stipulate technology and resources. water are incorrectly established pit latrines and environmental criteria when negotiating the future We consider water re-circulation and reuse, spillage or leakages from the underground petrol and provision of transport and goods forwarding maintenance of the water distribution network and diesel storage tanks. Regular audits, of fuel pumps services. A plucked leafs route from field to Factory the minimizing of water use. We keep an inventory are conducted to determine deviations and enquiries can be long. Smart route planning, full utilization of and indicate on a map the surface and underground done to ascertain whether the storage tanks are the volume capacity in a trailer as well as the filling water sources found on our farms. The operations leaking. No extension or upgrading of current water with the right weight of goods is the most effective record the annual water volume provided by these resources is planned in the near future. weapon to reduce the environmental impact and cost sources and the amount of water consumed. We have of transport. obtained the relevant permits for the abstraction of Air Quality management water for all extraction points. The estates emissions into the air include smoke Households We have maintained riparian vegetation along the from the boilers, gases from maceration, dust from Within the households the main sources of energy rivers and streams in its estates. Areas previously tractors, vehicle emissions, as well as smoke from are Fuel Wood, Kerosene, Liquefied Petroleum Gas under Eucalyptus within these areas have been within the households (Charcoal stoves) and (LPG) and Coal. The conversion to energy efficient rehabilitated with indigenous. The wetland sections firewood across the estates. The point sources of firewood stoves is reducing the village’s within the estates are conserved accordingly. No emissions are the generators and the boilers. ω Air pollution may be caused by emission from the The total quantity of the different pollutants emitted protecting the riverbanks and hence controlling combustion of fuel wood. The main pollutants of from the factories depends on the production erosion and flooding incidences downstream. No concern are carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, capacity and operational efficiency of the factory. flooding or landslides have been reported on the Sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons, This can be expressed in terms of specific pollution estates since the inception of the tea plantation dust, fly ash, and particulate matter, which are load i.e. the total quantity of a typical pollutant project. produced during combustion. Indoor pollution may generated per quantity of tea produced. All pruning are left in the field as in previous years lead to negative impact to occupants and exposed Due to the publication of Kenya gazette supplement to improve organic matter, water retention, soil workers. No 74 of 13 October 2006 legal notice 131 Fossil cohesion and fertility. Vegetative protection to Common effects are respiratory disease including fuel emission controls. Vehicles are serviced prevent soil erosion at the edges includes Lemon allergies and bronchitis. Mitigation measures regularly as per Manufacturers guidelines and the grass, Agapanthus and vetiver grass. Sediment traps, including proper ventilations, tall stacks, provision fuel usage monitored on a monthly basis. spillways and barriers are dug in the gutters to of chimneys in kitchens, and fuel efficient Jikos are reduce the velocity of water and prevent erosion practiced on the estates. No evidence of any Soil management and conservation from the roadways into the tea fields. significant air pollution from the factories or High rainfall and undulating hills favor erosion. Comprehensive soil fertility databases are available vehicles is apparent and no complaints have been Isolated areas are prone to erosion but these are on request for each field, which is used to monitor received. identified by conducting soil profile analysis prior to changes in soil fertility A dust analysis was conducted in the factories by an fields being uprooted and replanted. independent consultant and remedial actions The Company implemented erosion control Natural Resources implemented as recommended. measures to combat the problem in all fields that Factories use dried eucalyptus wood as a fuel source were replanted which included, contours, soak pits, in their operation. The calorific value of the wood is vetiver grass, oats etc. The operating policy of the high and smoke emissions are reduced. Moisture management is to leave 30 m from water content of the eucalyptus is monitored on weekly bodies/courses uncultivated, to retain its natural basis to ensure conversion ratio is optimal. vegetation. This policy has been continued with Households within the villages are using improved felled areas in riverine areas being rehabilitated. Photo 4: Aerial view of the tea field intertwined cooking stoves for energy conservation efficiency Erosion control measures have been put in place to with forestry cover in a bid to enhance and ventilation. The use of improved jikos’ has secure areas that are unstable and on steep slopes. biodiversity. reduced fuel consumption and ensured that there is The management has continually carried out Apart from the indigenous forests there are no other less smoke in workers homes. rehabilitation of riparian vegetation river catchments natural resources of significance in the area. No as a way of conserving the environments while mineral resources have been found on any of the ϊ estates. Due to our environmental requirements LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK We do not ask for money from workers in return for certification by Rainforest Alliance was obtained in Our core value in relation to labor practice and employment. All our employees, apart from 2007 and recertified in 2012 to ensure sustainable decent work is to respect the dignity and well-being members of management, are unionisable and are agricultural practice and sound environmental of all those people who work for us. Looking after free to join a union of their choice. practices. To prevent any chemical degradation due the people who work in our businesses, wherever to the use of pesticide the necessary precautions are they may be based, is our priority. Total workforce by employment type, taken as per the Premier foods pesticide audit. As we aspire to be the leading player in the tea employment contract, and region Murram is mined for construction and repair of roads growing and production arena, we continued to In 2017 we employed an average of 8600 which is done mostly by contractors. Most of our invest significantly in our people in 2017. To retain Employees, down by 7% compared to 2016. estates have quarries on their land, from which this leadership position it was critical for us to stones are collected. Blasting for new stones has not develop our people by means of formal and on the Absenteeism been done for some time but when needed; the job training. In 2017 we remained focused on health and safety services of a licensed explosives operator are Our managers learnt how to lead and not just programs and increased our communication around utilized. manage. In 2017 we continued to expand our these issues. Examples include safety training for leadership development and training programs. This, employees, focusing on physical safety and Audits we hope, will make us a more attractive employer, employees’ wellbeing and welfare, and procedures Annual Environmental audits are done within our creating a sustainable competitive edge. to maintain a healthy and safe working environment operation and environmental management and etc. integration plans developed. The plans have We also focused on absenteeism, casual leave and indicators and clear implementation timelines. EMPLOYMENT sick leave monitoring. The figures were monitored Any new developments with anticipated major In 2017 our farms continued to directly hire the on a monthly basis and discussed at the various impacts are only implemented after Environmental workforce, except when a contractor was able to board meetings on a quarterly basis. Impact Assessment has been done and an elaborate provide specialized or temporary services. We environmental management plan put in place. strongly discouraged use of mechanisms to avoid the Lost Time Incidents Frequency Rate In addition, we work closely with certification direct hiring of workers and the obligations normally A reduction of the lost time incidents frequency rate bodies to develop standards and implementing associated with labor contracts. Employment of (LTIFR) by paying attention to and preventing baseline and pilot studies. foreign workers in our operations is subject to a accidents remains an important item on our agenda. work permit issued by the responsible government We have taken several initiatives including agency. rejuvenating the Joint health and safety committees, building their capacities, conducting accident ϋ investigations and instituting recommendations workers or related obligations, such as social among other measures. We will continue our efforts security payments, accident and injury insurance and Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational and focus in occupational safety and health in 2018. medical services that normally are the responsibility changes, including whether it is specified in of the employer. collective agreements Employee Development Our Employment Principles make clear our strategy As a practice, we formally and regularly consult and Developing our employees is key for us: we want of ensuring that our reward levels are highly inform workers and general community regarding our employees to continuously grow in their current competitive within the local area. We are confident any planned technical and organizational changes roles and responsibilities and develop their potential, that through regular external benchmarking with and their potential social, environmental and skills and competences. This is reflected in many legal provisions and other players in the field we economic impacts. different initiatives and aspects of our business. We remain a generous benefit provider. In 2017, the Our Employment Principles make clear that, where have invested in our employees’ capacity building salaries and wages paid to all categories of our restructuring is necessary, we are committed to and training. In 2014 we rolled out our new employees exceeded the national legal minima for doing so in a responsible manner. Where such corporate values through training programs across the various territories. situations do occur, our companies adopt responsible the operations that have been ongoing to date. local approaches and procedures to address each Another theme that remains important is the LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS instance, including severance pay and any other continuous development of our leadership Percentage of employees covered by collective measures as may be appropriate to the situation and capabilities, within departments and across the bargaining agreements location, including extensive outplacement support group. In all our businesses, all workers have the right to to help displaced employees to find alternative freely organize and voluntarily negotiate their employment. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are working conditions in a collective manner as not provided to temporary or part-time established in ILO Conventions 87 and 98 and local OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY employees, by major operations. legislation. We have and continuously divulge a All our farms have an occupational health and safety Temporary and part-time workers (both national and policy guaranteeing this right and we do not impede program to reduce or prevent the risk of accidents in foreign) have the same rights and benefits as workers from forming or joining unions, collective the workplace. permanent workers. They have been informed of and bargaining or organizing for ideological, religious, We provide the necessary equipment to protect are familiar with their rights, responsibilities, salaries political, economic, social, cultural or any other workers and guarantee that the tools, infrastructure, or pay, work schedule and other subjects normally reasons. We periodically provide opportunities for machinery and all equipment used on the farms is in forming part of a legal work contract. All our workers to make decisions regarding their rights and good condition and does not pose a danger to human operations do not maintain relations or contracts alternatives to form any type of organization for health or the environment. with third parties in order to avoid directly hiring negotiating their working conditions. ό while the management representatives are appointed training session, including its objectives, subjects by the Top Management. The representation to the covered, workers required to attend, materials used, committee is on a fifty-fifty basis and is dependent frequency and duration, and a list of those who on the number of employees at each workplace and participated. national guidelines on Occupational safety and We are also good neighbors and relate in positive Health Committees. Issues raised in the meetings are ways with our neighbors, surrounding communities Photo 5: Inside one of the factories. Note the dealt with by the Management representatives and and local interest groups. We periodically inform the housekeeping, marked walkways, guarded any policy or capital expenditure issues are surrounding communities, neighbors and interest machinery and fire extinguishers provision. forwarded to the Top management who gives a groups about our activities and plans, and consult All workers receive training on how to do their work response within Twenty One working days. Our with interested parties about changes that could have safely, especially regarding the application of employees confirm that they participate, either by potential impacts on the social and environmental agrochemicals and carrying out any hazardous work. direct communication with the administration or well-being of surrounding communities. We Measures are taken on our farms to avoid the effects through the occupational health and safety contribute to local economic development through of agrochemicals on workers, neighbors and visitors. committee, in verifying that policies, procedures and training and employment and try to prevent negative We also conduct risk assessments and identify other activities indicated in the occupational health impacts on the areas, activities or services that are potential emergencies and are prepared with plans and safety program are being complied with. important for local populations. and equipment to respond to any event or incident, as well as to minimize the possible impacts on Education, training, counseling, prevention, and TRAINING AND EDUCATION workers and the environment. risk-control programs in place to assist workforce Our Principles specifically cover Learning and members, their families, or community members Development and the provision of opportunities. We Percentage of total workforce represented in regarding serious diseases also emphasize the importance of personal formal joint management–worker health and We have a permanent and continuous training responsibility for growth. safety committees that help monitor and advice program to educate our workers on how to carry out Our training and learning strategy is to build on occupational health and safety programs their work correctly and safely, especially regarding capabilities through a focus on coaching and by On our farms all the Joint Health and safety the handling of machinery and agricultural enhancing our ability to connect, collaborate and committees meet on a quarterly basis as a guarantee equipment. share. We do not limit learning to ‘off the job’ that we complies with our occupational health and Our employees are familiar with the training education activities but we provide comprehensive safety program objectives. The members of these requirements for their job, and must be trained frameworks for development planning as well as committees are elected according to an established before starting work on the farms (induction performance management. procedure. The employees elect their representatives, program). We also maintain written records of each ύ We place considerable emphasis on creating a HUMAN RIGHTS We periodically provide opportunities for workers to coaching culture throughout our operations, as we The Company respects the ILO Convention and the make decisions regarding their rights and believe that training and development should take UN Global Compact Principle on Human Rights. alternatives to form any type of organization for place as close as possible to the work being done and (Eastern Produce Kenya is among the pioneer Global negotiating their working conditions. that coaching is the right way to develop leaders at Compact signatories in Kenya having signed on in Any type of forced labor is prohibited, including all levels, to share knowledge and to build better 2005). Our business units do not tolerate human working under the regimen of imprisonment, in business solutions. rights abuses, and are not engaged or party to any agreement with International Labor Organization We expect any restructuring to be carried out in a activity that encourages human rights abuse. (ILO) Conventions 29 and 105 and national labor responsible manner. Any of our companies We have a social policy that declares our laws. We do not withhold any part or all of workers’ implementing closure or downsizing are encouraged commitment to complying with labor laws and salaries, benefits or any rights acquired or stipulated to make a social assessment and to consider ways of international agreements that Kenya is a signatory to. by law, or any of the workers’ documents, in order to mitigating the impact. We expect them to be as The policy summarizes the rights and responsibilities force them to work or stay on the farm, or as a considerate as possible with severance pay and of the management and workers, with emphasis on disciplinary action. The units do not use extortion, redundancy support and, wherever possible, to human rights, labor aspects, living conditions, basic debt, threats or sexual abuse or harassment, or any support employees in gaining alternative services, occupational health and safety, training other physical or psychological measure to force employment through a mix of counseling, opportunities and community relations. The social workers to work or stay on the farm, or as a outplacement services and skills retraining. policy has been approved by the top management disciplinary measure. All management employees are expected to and divulged and made available to the Company’s We prohibit direct or indirect employment of fullor complete the performance appraisal process. The workforce. This policy is clearly displayed on every part-time workers under the age of 18 within our approach to performance and career development for estates main entrance. business units. A Register is maintained of any employees in our companies is managed locally. For All our employees have the right to freely organize person on attachment. Students on attachment are other employees, careers are stipulated in the and voluntarily negotiate their working conditions in guided by the following: Collective bargaining agreements. These systems a collective manner as established in ILO o There must be a confirmation from a enable objectives to be set for each employee for the Conventions 87 and 98. We have in place and recognized institution that the person in coming year and record achievement against those divulge our policy guaranteeing this right and do not question is a student. Procedures are in objectives. The systems also contain development impede workers from forming or joining unions, place to be followed before attachment is and career planning information which feeds through collective bargaining or organizing for ideological, confirmed. to our training and administration department. religious, political, economic, social, and cultural or o The students have the right to one rest day any other reasons. for every six days worked and rest breaks υτ during the workday the same as or more language, behavior and integration. This has resulted social, environmental and safety issues. Trainings frequently than contracted workers. to synergies, which have led to a strengthening of the and capacity building for employees on human rights o They do not form part of the farm’s entire company. issues were conducted and refresher trainings will be contracted workforce. We employ workers of different tribes and conducted in the coming year. Security personnel o They must not work at night. nationalities. The cultural diversity in relation to were trained on conducting body searches to o They must not handle or apply gender, age, ethnicity/origin, sexual orientation, enhance humane treatment of colleagues. agrochemicals or be in areas where agro disability/illness, religion, ideology, career, lifestyle Awareness creation to the general community and chemicals are being applied. and performance not only improves our company’s our suppliers was done through trainings, field days o They must not carry heavy loads nor do image, but will certainly increase the company’s and community outreach programs through the work that requires physical exertion potential. Our goal is to increase and take advantage Managed Clients Department. Suppliers were sent unsuitable for their age. of the potential, which is a result of the differences questionnaires to assess their human rights practices o They must be under the supervision of a and similarities within the workforce. and conformance to national and international responsible adult in order to guarantee that regulations. Contracts were also reviewed to capture they understand how to do their work Trainings and Awareness creation aspect of human rights and environmental safely. responsibility. Our business units do not discriminate in labor and hiring policies and procedures along the lines of Human Rights Risk assessment race, color, gender, age, religion, social class, A general human rights risk analysis was conducted political tendencies, nationality, syndicate and areas within our operations with high risk membership, sexual orientation, civil status or any identified and mitigation measures put in place. The other motive as indicated by applicable laws, ILO Photo 6: farmers and neighboring communities internal audit department and Technical Departments Conventions 100 and 111, and Global Compact. We during one of the Field days carry out scheduled and ad hoc inspections and offer equal pay, training and promotion opportunities In all our businesses, employees were trained on report to senior management on positive and and benefits to all workers for the same type of various aspects of Human rights and their rights as negative findings. As a result of freedom of work. We do not influence the political, religious, employees. This included communication on their association policy, the workers unions remained social or cultural convictions of workers. right to join a recognized workers union, right to a vibrant, with new employees being informed of their safe work environment and right to be considered for right to join a union. Meetings between union and Cultural Diversity employment without discrimination. EPK enhanced employees and union and management were held Cultural diversity has proven to be a great this communication by erecting notice boards at with issues raised by both parties sorted out. The advantage, despite the challenge in terms of strategic points for communicating policies related to υυ company continued to honor the current Collective company even encouraged the staff to go for bargaining Agreements and relevant labor laws. additional training courses during working hours. Employment continued to be freely chosen in the year, with employees leaving and joining at will. We Grievance Mechanisms and Whistle Blower continued to be the leading employer in the regions, System with good remuneration and benefits to employees. Eastern Produce Kenya Limited has a grievance Sexual harassment policy was reviewed in the year procedure in place. The policies established stipulate and communicated to all employees. Copies of the how grievances are to be raised and handled with the Photo 7: One of the many consultative meetings policies were displayed on the notice boards and company representatives. The procedures cover both held by Management for planning purposes, sessions held with employees to discuss its contents internal and external grievances including from all grievance hearing, and monitoring and and implementation. our stakeholders. A whistle blower system has been evaluation purposes We continued the verification of National Identity established where any human rights abuses are Every year external auditors both financial and Card as a confirmation of someone being over the raised through a secure and confidential way to the social auditors carry out audits for our operations. age of 18 years before engagement into the top management who then conduct investigations Corrective Action Requests are raised and measures company. The same was applied to all our and disciplinary procedures instituted. taken to correct and prevent the recurrence of the contractors and service providers and their We are working with Typhoo foods on piloting a issues raised. employees. Employees with children of school going Gold Standard with a strong focus on whistle age encouraged to take their children to schools. blowing and reporting. Measurement of (expected) outcomes and value These schools are constructed and equipped by the added for our company Company but open to both company employee’s Monitoring and Evaluation o Employees’ knowledge on their rights children and children from the surrounding All human rights aspects are monitored on a daily increased. community. Bursaries were given to bright students basis and reported by the businesses on a Monthly o Improved relationship between from the surrounding community and employees basis. The Technical departments and Internal audit management and employees and between children to support their education. departments carry out impromptu visits, checks and the employees themselves Education and training of the employees on need to audits and raise any issues of concern with the o Closely working with suppliers to improve co-exist and why we need each other were conducted concerned and reports to the Top management. their human rights and socioin collaboration with Non-governmental institutions. environmental practices All of these courses and trainings were free of o Generally improving the company image charge to the employees and community and the and transferring responsible business practices throughout our supply chain. υφ There is good working relationship philosophy. The management of each unit is In order to make sure that the same standards are between union and the company and the responsible for compliance with the company codes, followed throughout the organization, Linton Park employees. Improved wages and salaries thereby ensuring that social and environmental Regional Office has a Corporate Affairs Manager. to employees, which is well above the issues are integrated into daily business. The codes The Manager is responsible for calibrating socionational recommended wage for the are in form of confidential standing instructions environmental assessments in the region, for training industry. referred to as Company Blue, Red, Green, Yellow, and support of the auditors and units, and for o No complaints on forced labor or sexual white and black books. conducting own compliance audits. harassment received in the year. Third-party auditors conduct their own audits and Monitoring continued. also verify the results of internal audits by o All the employees and contractors engaged interviewing the employees, checking records and by the company have national identity practices to secure that company policies, local law cards. Children of school going age in and standards are followed. The work is done school together with the Technical and internal audit o There were reduced cross-cultural departments. conflicts. The cultural differences and the effect on collaboration and contact is Photo 8: Copy of the certificate awarded to the External and third-party auditing portrayed in the quality and diversity of Company as a distinguished tax payer in Kenya In order to ensure objectivity and verification, we the products. in 2011 use external auditing companies to verify our o An increase of innovational ability. We have internal auditors (Financial, environmental, working methods and results. These are PwC Different perspectives of creative problem Social and Food Safety Management System) at the (PricewaterhouseCoopers), SGS, Africert, Kenya solving are the result of the diversity of the units. The auditor’s task is to support the operations, Bureau of Standards, government officers etc. staff. including agreeing on action plans for improvements o A higher level of tolerance in the entire as well as explaining the requirements, performing Corrective actions business area monitoring and consultation visits and offering and When deviations are found, the auditors require – in executing training. The auditors have checklists with writing – an action plan from the unit detailing how COMPLIANCE detailed criteria on financial management, working the non-compliance will be rectified. An action plan Business integrity conditions, including child labor, on the environment must be sent to the Audit department or Technical Our Core value: To act honestly, fairly and with and on other socio-environmental aspects. Departments, within one month following the audit. integrity and respect in all business dealings. Acting The action plan includes a description of the lawfully and honestly is fundamental to our business The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Office corrective action, the person responsible and υχ timelines for each non-compliance issue to be employees, customers, suppliers, competitors, PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY rectified. The Top Management and auditors then shareholders and society at large. Overall Product quality and Safety responsibilities follow up to make sure that the necessary corrective The Code also stipulates policies and guidelines Product safety is paramount in all operations from actions have been completed according to the regarding the personal conduct of employees. All farm, transportation, processing, packaging and approved action plan and timelines observed. new staff receives a copy of the Code and a freighting to customers destinations. The Operations Supplier assessments have been initiated. Our major presentation on the Code as part of the induction Director has the overall responsibility for ensuring suppliers are issued with a supplier questionnaire process. They are required to sign a declaration that the objectives on food safety are met. This which checks on various socio-environmental stating that they have received it, have read and responsibility has been communicated to the requirements. If one is found to deviate from the understood it, and will comply with it. management in charge of the units. All our tea requirements, we are willing to work with them to A general corruption risk analysis was conducted factories have attained FSSC certification and rectify the situation. Only if there is no willingness and areas within our operations with high risk currently in the preparation phase for FSSC 22000 from the suppliers to improve, is the business identified and mitigation measures put in place. The surveillance audits relationship terminated, within the terms of the internal audit department and Technical Departments contract carry out scheduled and ad hoc inspection and report to senior management on positive and negative Anti-corruption findings. We are a British company and as such subjected to All our business operations have a whistle blower the new Anti-Bribery and Corruption legislation in procedure in place. The policies established stipulate the UK which is attributable to businesses owned by how corruption cases are to be raised and handled UK companies but not situated in the UK. with the company representatives. The procedures Photo 9: Hygienically packed teas with correct Various policies and procedures have been rolled out cover both internal and external cases from all our labeling and all relevant information indicated. to ensure compliance with this UK legislation. stakeholders. The effectiveness and integrity of the The Marketing and Technical Department represent We also participated in the development of the Code whistle blower system is maintained. Cases of the Company on all quality and food safety matters. of Ethics for Business in Kenya and were among the corruption are raised through a secure and They report to the Operations and Regional pioneer companies to have adopted the code. confidential way to the top management who then Directors respectively, to ensure the promotion of We have developed and adopted a Code of Conduct, conduct investigations and disciplinary procedures awareness of legal, regulatory and customer which complies with the highest standards of instituted. requirements throughout the organization. integrity, honesty and ethics in dealing with all our Senior Management in all our operations are stakeholders, including directors, managers, responsible for allocating the necessary resources υψ and infrastructure to ensure the effective identifies opportunities to improve products and performance of our business and to ensure product services. safety and quality is maintained. All our products are transported in packaging Every individual employee of Eastern Produce material labeled with product information that Kenya Ltd is responsible for meeting agreed follows the legal, regulatory and customer requirements and for conducting themselves in requirements. accordance with our principles and the code of In 2017, we did not receive any documented conduct. noncompliance concerning our products and services or health and safety impacts associated with our Quality and Food Safety Management Systems products. In this regard, there were no fines for Our programs are designed to reduce and manage noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning risks, and to promote the safe production, the provision and use of our products. We did not Photo 10: Safety signage within the factories distribution, use and disposal of waste. receive any complaints from customers regarding promotes awareness and enhances food handling As a manufacturer and marketer of black tea, we breach of their privacy or lose of customer data. practices. generally do not provide products to end-users, but Using an internationally recognized risk assessment to other players in the industry who later extracts methodology, our products are evaluated and constituents, blends or repackages the products for prioritized for potential adverse effects, and risk the end user. We therefore base our advertisements reduction and mitigation practices are implemented on word of mouth backed by strong evidence of at all stages of production. business integrity, ethical trade, and safety with We have documented our product stewardship assured quality. We comply with legal requirements, process which assesses health and safety impacts of sector regulations and customer requirements, our products and we conduct ongoing analysis and designed to assess product safety and also participate tests to assure quality and product safety. Through in voluntary initiatives. the marketing and technical departments, we provide services to process owners and customers. For internal requirements and in association with maintaining FSSC certification, the Marketing department conducts annual visits to buyers annually, reviews the results of these visits, and υω
