pwc.com UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2017 We’re proud to have been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2002 and are deeply committed to its mission to support companies to operate responsibly in line with the ten principles and take strategic action in advancing the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Chairman’s statement Our recent CEO survey tells us that CEOs are now more optimistic than ever before about global economic growth prospects over the next 12 months. For decades economic growth has fuelled social progress, lifting billions out of poverty, prolonging life expectancy worldwide, and facilitating a rich exchange of knowledge and talent that has spurred unprecedented productivity and innovation. “At no time has the Yet this progress has also come at a cost. We’re witnessing growing need for alignment of misalignment between global economic growth and social progress. Too many economic growth, people in too many parts of the world feel they are being left behind by a social progress and system that no longer promises them and their children a better life. And our environmental natural resources are being depleted at an accelerating rate, impacting our sustainability been natural eco-systems. more important and At no time has the goal of sustainable development, or put simply, meeting the at no time have we needs of future generations, been more important and at no time have we been better positioned been better positioned to tackle the challenge ahead. Through the UN to tackle the challenge Sustainable Development Goals we have a common framework for ahead. Governments governments, business and civic society alike to articulate and understand and business need to societal progress. Governments & business need to adopt and adapt to these adopt and adapt to the new measures of prosperity that look beyond economic growth and financial new measures of performance. prosperity provided by the SDGs.” We, alongside our global CEOs, remain optimistic. Not only about economic growth but our ability to work together as business, governments and civic society to realign our systems to deliver economic growth alongside social progress and within sustainable limits. We are committed to responsible business leadership and leveraging our scale, influence and skills to contribute to societal progress. We are pleased to share with you our Communication on Progress that updates on our efforts. This year, we continued to focus on operating our business responsibly, including: ● Raising the level of transparency over our efforts to monitor and continuously improve audit quality by publicly sharing the results of our audit monitoring. PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 pwc.com ● Bringing together our human rights commitments in a network statement to help make the strength of our existing commitments more explicit. ● Achieving an increase in our Global Inclusion Index our global measure of our own progress on diversity and inclusion made up of a range of leading and lag indicators. ● Reducing our GHG emissions by 0.5%, while growing our headcount by 6%, overall reducing our emissions per employee by 7%. 55% of our total electricity now comes from renewable sources. ● Launching a new Responsible Technology policy in our UK firm, designed to better help us respond mindfully to the massive changes technology is bringing to both our people and planet. Beyond our own operations we contribute to broader societal change through significant contributions to policy debate on major societal issues as well as sharing the skills and resources of our people through our community impact programs. ● In 2017 we contributed a broad range of research and insights to support our clients to achieve sustainable and inclusive growth, including, for example: ○ the ethics of pay in a fair society ○ protecting people not jobs in the workforce of the future ○ forces shaping the anti-corruption and bribery landscape ○ the women in work index & the gender pay gap ○ the low carbon economy index ● In 2017, through our involvement in Think20 (T20), a network of research institutes and think tanks that provides research based policy advice to the G20, we shared an analysis that sets out the case for realigning business, economies and society. In addition, we contributed to policy papers on Enabling a Sustainable Fourth Industrial Revolution, Accelerating Labor Market Transformation & Tax Collaboration and Capacity Building. We are continuing our engagement in 2018 and will contribute to a broad range of policy papers on major challenges being addressed by G20 leaders. ● We have been strategic partners to the World Economic Forum since the 1980s and continue to support to their mission to improve the state of the world through public-private cooperation. In 2017 we launched our Innovation for the Earth report at Davos and have been working as the official project advisor in the Fourth Industrial Revolution for the Earth publication series highlighting opportunities to solve the world’s most pressing environmental challenges by harnessing technological innovations supported by new and effective approaches to governance, financing and multi-stakeholder collaboration. ● From a community engagement perspective, nearly 60,000 of our people contributed over 750,000 hours to our community programs designed to build the capacity of the NGO sector, support social enterprises and help individuals build the skills they’ll need for the future. PwC is therefore proud to be reconfirming our support for the United Nations Global Compact for which we have been a signatory for 15 years. In pursuing PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2017 pwc.com our purpose to build trust and solve important problems, we embrace the challenge of Global Compact 3.0 and the call of His Excellency, Mr António Guterres, UN Secretary-General to “pursue impact like never before”. We thank you for your work to support business in this challenge. Bob Moritz PwC Global Chairman PwC | UNGC Communication on Progress 2017
