U N G LO BAL ’S ALEXBANK 016 -2 COMPACT ABOUT ALEXBANK Established in 1957 and a member of the Intesa Sanpaolo Group since 2007 today ALEXBANK is one of Egypt’s leading private sector banks. ALEXBANK has since launched an ambitious development strategy to move in line with Intesa Sanpaolo innovative systems and platforms of products services. ALEXBANK owns one of the largest private sector branch networks in the country, with a total of 170 branches located in every major Egyptian governorate and about 4700 employees. Strategic Milestones of ALEXBANK Sanpaolo IMI IFC Intesa Sanpaolo Bank of Alexnadria 1957 2006 2009 Established as Joint stock Company as a Sanpaolo IMI (Intesa Sanpaolo) acquired IFC purchased from Intesa Sanpaolo Commercial Bank fully owned by the %80 of the Bank’s share after a (ISP)%9.75 of the Bank’s Share Egyptian state privatization process. In December 2009 delisted from the Egyptian Stock Exchange. For more information Please visit www.ALEXBANK.com or follow us on /ALEXBANKOFFICIAL /AlexBankOfficial / company/bank-of-Alexandria ALEXBANK’S OVERALL COMMITMENT ALEXBANK’s commitment is implemented through various policies, values and standards: Labor: Health and Safety We maintain fair labor values, including working hours, conditions, wages At ALEXBANK, we aim to provide a safe and healthy working that are in compliance with the Egyptian Labour law. We condemn the environment in our operations and premises. use of forced labor and abusive child labor as defined by the Egyptian Labor law and Rights at Work. We respect our employees’ right to freedom of association. ALEXBANK has a staff union that is effectively elected by the employees of the bank giving them the freedom to express their ideas. Wages and Benefits Diversity and Equal Opportunities: We compensate our employees in a manner that supports their ability to We value diversity and provide equal opportunities for our people In ALEXBANK, meet their basic needs fairly and equally. We also offer our employees the we abide by the labor law and implement the disability quota required by the law. opportunity to improve their skills and capabilities. Alex bank employees are We do not discriminate in employment, contracting, wages, promotion, working paid a salary on a monthly basis in addition to allowances and Over time. conditions or in any other opportunity based on race, gender, gender identity, ALEXBANK employees obtain an annual collection profit share . Other variagender expression, genetic information, age, religion, ethnicity, sexual orientable pay include commercial incentive and/or discretional bonus. Merit pay is tion, marital status or disability. extended upon performance. In 2015, ALEXBANK introduced a New HR Care System embodying our employer edge with a holistic, dynamic and multi focused approach delivering the basic expectations for our qualified talents and promoting our image as a multinational/ international employer in the Egyptian Market. Thew new system includes: 1. Compatible Compensation Infrastructure 2. New Salary Mechanism Privacy We respect individual privacy . We protect personal information that 3. Defined Career Path we collect, use and disclose in connection with our business. 4. New Merit Dashboard 5. New Allowance System 6. New Overtime Mechanism 7. New Bonus Scheme 8. Modern Working Environment 9. Virtual Employees Branch 10. New Working Hours System 11. vacation Consumption Policy 12. Premises Logistics Upgrade Compliance 13. ALEXBANK’s Intranet We observe and strive for even more, demanding standards consistent with human rights policies to the extent so that we do not 14. Events and Corporate Culture violate local laws and regulations 15. Efficient and Versatile Medical Care System 16. Innovative Market Best Practice Benefits 17. Lifestyle Subsidized programs 18. Social Responsibility Programs 19. Promising Human Capital Investment 20. Fair and Strict Staff Penalty Rules and Procedures 21. Convenient Early Retirment Program 22. Employee Value Proposition Labor: Environment ALEXBANK supports a vast array of stakeholders from shareholders, At ALEXBANK, one of the pillars of the CSR strategy is the environemployees, customers, investors, suppliers, the environment and the ment whether it’s for the community or our employees. We work community at large to assure a long-term and sustainable approach. both internally and externally, such as trying to become an environALEXBANK must therefore create value and maximize its global impact not mentally sustainable and paperless bank, and also financing envionly in terms of business success but also continuously enhancing the ronmental projects in our community. local communities and Country. Customers Business Partners We consider the economic, social, geographic and cultural diversity We expect appropriate standards of conduct and respect for human rights, of our customers as we develop and market our products. consistent with our own, from our suppliers, contractors and partners. THE BANK AT A GLANCE: FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Shareholders’ Equity 6,394 Indirect Deposit 917 1,339 Net Proﬁt Direct Deposit 52,290 1,543,221 Customers (Customers’ deposits) Loan to customers (performing + nonperforming) 33,238 5035 Employees Total Assets 67,135 170 Branches As of Dec.2016 (IFRS), Amounts in mln EGP LETTER FROM THE CEO Dear Valued Stakeholders, In 2016 ALEXBANK continued to grow in results despite the challenging economic conditions. The year was again for our Bank a successful one on many levels, from business growth, human capital enhancement, compliance culture affirmation and commitment to the society. The Bank also witnessed a paradigm shift in its Corporate Social Responsibility that transformed it into a full-fledged partnering with the community by addressing societal needs and adopting the concept of “Creating Shared Value” to meet them. This was achieved through the launch of ALEXBANK’s flagship CSR initiative “Ebda3 men Masr”, whose aim is to empower marginalized communities of artisans dedicated to the production of traditional handicrafts, preserving Egypt’s heritage and reviving the craftsmanship sector in Egypt while paving the way for enlarged financial inclusion. “Ebda3 men Masr” partnered with several institutions, NGOs, governmental entities as well as individuals that share the same vision. Fair Trade Egypt, Egypt Network for Integrated Development (ENID) and Tunis Village in Fayoum are our main partners. To grow its human capital, ALEXBANK offered a diversified and inclusive training calendar to its employees. The CBE new regulations requiring each Bank to establish organizational units specialized in financing and banking services to be provided to small and medium enterprises lead to pay special care in setting training plans to enhance the skills and expertise of the employees working in such specific fields. To maintain its competitive position, the Bank also worked on diversifying and expanding its portfolio to cater to its customers’ needs across all the territories in which it operates. The above and a lot more are fruits of our employees’ passionate drive for results and commitment to the Code of Ethics, our customers’ loyalty and Intesa San Paolo Group’s experienced support. I am proud that this is ALEXBANK’s third Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), as ALEXBANK has been a signatory to the 10 principles of the UNGC since 2014. For this our business and non-business acts are mapped against these 10 principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, and Environment and Anti-Corruption to help us move towards a more sustainable entity. The 10 principles are deeply anchored to our Core Values and our Code of Ethics through which we conduct our business. In conclusion, we hereby reconfirm our commitment to the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and we also commit to share all the available information with our stakeholders using all our primary channels of communication. Thank you Dante Campioni CEO and Managing Director of ALEXBANK ALEXBANK IMPLEMENTING THE TEN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Being part of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, ALEXBANK conducts business in accordance with the laws and regulations and follows international guidelines and recognized principles for corporate responsibility, including standards for human rights, labor rights, the environment and anti-corruption. ALEXBANK’s culture and values are aligned with the UNGC Ten Principles and are at the heart of how we conduct business. We have integrated these Ten Principles into existing policies to be implemented in our daily activities. The ten principles can be clearly seen in our Code of Ethics, our business strategy and policies. The following report provides an overview of how the Ten Principles have been implemented across business and service lines: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internaPrinciple 10: Businesses should work tionally proclaimed human rights against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Principle 2: Make sure that they Environmental Human Rights are not complicit in human rights Principles Principles Labor abuses Principles Principle 9: Encourage the Anti-Corruption Labor Principle 3: Businesses should development and diﬀusion of Principles Principles uphold the freedom of association environmentally friendly technoloand the eﬀective recognition of gies the right to collective bargaining Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of responsibility forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The eﬀective abolition of child Principle 7: Businesses should support a labour precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ALEXBANK recognizes that human rights are an integral part of the business .We respect and support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Guiding Principles on Business. The Bank is committed to conducting its business in a manner that respects the rights and dignity of all its stakeholders (customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders). We focus on Human Rights Principles adherence for our staff and our community. Our Staﬀ Policies and guiding principles ALEXBANK HR policies The Code of Conduct The Code of Ethics The Whistle Blowing Policy which are composed of a which contains rules and which contains principles that which encourages all number of policies that policy statements that help govern the relationship of the employees to speak out if they outline the Group’s aims in employees in their daily bank with others such as have legitimate concerns areas such as diversity, decision making regarding suppliers, stakeholders, about malpractice or working environment, stress, issues such as gifts, conﬂicts employees ,…etc. wrongdoing within an health and employee training of interest, internal and organization. and environmental conﬁdential information, sustainability. anti-corruption and bribery. designed to enable the trainees to study in one Community as it offers a virtual network for collaborative learning with other members of the community both peers and experts to enhance their language skills. Performance , Merit and Motivation Around 58% of the bank population received merit based on the performance and the assessment system guidelines. For revenue generating roles in the Network , and to make use of the competitive spirit and to motivate employees, the league championship was created. It is viewed as a means, together with the incentive system, to achieve targets. The design of these competitions will generate benefits for all, regional managers, area managers, branch managers as well as employees. It includes all jobs serving customers. In each round, prizes will be presented to all employees of the top performing branch. In line with Parent Company guidelines and with clear understanding to keep overall costs of personnel below the overall figures year by year fixed in the business plan 2014-17 Bank decided to progressively introduce a New Incentive scheme for Direct Revenue generating roles in the network and head office who represent around 50% of our Bank population. ALEXBANK’S Employee and Pensioners Benefits ALEXBANK provides its employees and pensioners with several ongoing offers and benefits such as summer vacation offers with reduced prices with the option of paying on installments in addition to sports clubs memberships and nurseries with reduced prices. ALEXBANK also provides its employees and pensioners with an enhanced medical and dental services in addition to other valuable services and programs to its employees via one of the biggest Medical Care Service companies across the countryenjoying an extensive medical network, in addition to a full-fledged expertise in the banking sector. The medical care service provides all the needed medical assistance through a medical service provider with a spread medical network (Hospitals, Doctors , medicine and others). In addition to this, ALEXBANK places an obituary announcement in the public newspaper “Al Ahram” for deceased employees who passed away while still working with ALEXBANK. Recruitment and Internship ALEXBANK is deeply rooted among the local and regional talent community. Our strategy is to foster talent even before gradation through various undergrad internship programs in different functions inside the bank . More than 1000 undergrads from different Egyptian Universities across Egyptian Governorates spend 1 month each in the summer in our professional environment gaining on the job exposure . We also provide our interns with their first insight on how to build a professional profile (CV) and how to use LinkedIn as a professional networking platform, helping them understand their professional passion. Recruitment and Internship Career and ALEXBANK also extends selective Graduate Internship Opportunities (in 2015, 20 graduates Performance spent each an average of 6-9 months) in a professional experience to edify their knowlManagement edge and enhance their CV. For recruitment, ALEXBANK adopts a transparent system, announcing openly external vacancies through its official employer branding social platform (Linked In) where applicants Engagement and references are handled. Internal vacancies both locally and in the Group are transparently through IC and CSR activities announced and applicants are screened within rules and guidelines. Career and Performance Management ALEXBANK employees are supported through dedicated HR Account Managers that support their needs in terms of Performance Management and Career Development. Staff are helped to identify their professional passion and growth accordingly through interaction with the People Management and Development Function, which also supports the learning and training, 2015 Professional Development highlights were: Professional Development Managerial Programs 2015 witnessed various courses to develop leadership, helping the Head Office managers and Branch managers members of a team to be more efficient in their performances, and to understand the motivational incentives necessaries to the development of the team members and their cooperation, and participation for common objectives. This was done through interactive activities and role plays Communication and Business Acumen for professionals Professionals across the bank received soft skills training to gain the benefit of understanding where our time is spent and wasted, how to manage competing priorities, overcome procrastination, and increase focus, apply tools to plan, organize, and relieve stress, leverage our time through multitasking, delegation, and decision-making Handle corporate communications and meetings with greater ease. Staff were trained to develop and utilize measures to assess goal attainment and outcome achievement, managing work flow, ownership & accountability, enhancing self-confidence, strengthening skills, developing communication and Leadership skills as well as reducing stress. Developing the Commercial workforce The bank staff in revenue generating roles are treated annually to a refreshment of their selling, cross selling, upselling,.. etc as well as other commercial aptitude required to enhance their performance. This is in addition to constant Quality awareness sessions on Bank products and proposition to increase competitiveness. Control is the key ALEXBANK staff is kept a breadth the local and international regulatory requirements and mandates through e-learning and one to one and classroom sessions. This is to safeguard the Bank and staff performance through full knowledge , understanding and adherence to the governance and control framework. Specialized Diplomas and Educational Assistance Programs ALEXBANK is keen to keep sharp and up to date its workforce technical competences within the latest certifications and diplomas in the field. This includes CMA, CFA, Certified Credit Course and other technical tracks . In addition to this, the Bank also extends opportunity to support staff in their educational self-development initiatives through a support program. Language Skills It was a blended program offering e-learning activities and live sessions with a coach. This e-learning training, which is supported by ISP Group, was designed to enable the trainees to study in one Community as it offers a virtual network for collaborative learning with other members of the community both peers and experts to enhance their language skills. Performance , Merit and Motivation Around 58% of the bank population received merit based on the performance and the assessment system guidelines. For revenue generating roles in the Network , and to make use of the competitive spirit and to motivate employees, the league championship was created. It is viewed as a means, together with the incentive system, to achieve targets. The design of these competitions will generate benefits for all, regional managers, area managers, branch managers as well as employees. It includes all jobs serving customers. In each round, prizes will be presented to all employees of the top performing branch. In line with Parent Company guidelines and with clear understanding to keep overall costs of personnel below the overall figures year by year fixed in the business plan 2014-17 Bank decided to progressively introduce a New Incentive scheme for Direct Revenue generating roles in the network and head office who represent around 50% of our Bank population. ALEXBANK’S Employee and Pensioners Benefits ALEXBANK provides its employees and pensioners with several ongoing offers and benefits such as summer vacation offers with reduced prices with the option of paying on installments in addition to sports clubs memberships and nurseries with reduced prices. ALEXBANK also provides its employees and pensioners with an enhanced medical and dental services in addition to other valuable services and programs to its employees via one of the biggest Medical Care Service companies across the countryenjoying an extensive medical network, in addition to a full-fledged expertise in the banking sector. The medical care service provides all the needed medical assistance through a medical service provider with a spread medical network (Hospitals, Doctors , medicine and others). In addition to this, ALEXBANK places an obituary announcement in the public newspaper “Al Ahram” for deceased employees who passed away while still working with ALEXBANK. MAJOR TRAINING PROGRAMS IN 2016 Numbers of Trainees 3700 representing 80% employees of staﬀ population Number of Training Hours 88000 hours Average Training Hour/Trainee 24 hours Some of the Major Training Programs in 2016: In order to comply with the CBE new regulations requiring each Bank to establish organizational units specialized in financing and providing banking services to small and medium enterprises, a special care was paid in setting training plans to enhance the skills and expertise of the employees working in such specific fields. We were keen to spread a credit awareness within the employees working in SB and SME fields to establish a strong foundation in the Risk and Business sides. We have enrolled in 2016 , 60 more employees from the Managerial and Non Managerial Population in Credit Banking Certificate to prepare them for the new challenges. Technical Courses for Head Office and Branches Network Credit Certificate (No. of Participants 60) This Certificate provides participants with fundamentals of Credit as well as other techniques involving risk of trade operations from a credit perspective. Moreover, it gives the candidates perspective on the legal issues that govern the scope of credit activities. And allows participants to successfully complete final desk based on real case studies Rule Based (No. of Participants 85) The main aim was to introduce the new rule based framework product catalogue for SB and SME, it’s exclusively designed by Alexbank internally supported by the Parent Group and capitalizing on our internal coaches to deliver knowledge to the target population. SME Foundation (No. of Participants 90 ) This course is designed for Branches Network staff to provide them the fundamentals of small and medium enterprises, explaining the reasons for targeting small and medium enterprises in Egyptian banks, helping to design and develop a plan for implementation Retail Depts. Collections and Recovery (No. of Participants 40) The program provides participants with all methods used in the collection and settlement of retail banking Depts. determine the methods of classifying retail banking portfolio arrears and the importance of and how to deal with insolvent clients Treasury Introductions (No. of Participants 40) This course is designed to provide employees who deal with treasury products in order to raise the awareness of Treasury Products to ensure better practice and to get the most of dealing with treasury products Mahfazty (E wallet) Service (No. of Participants 551) Awareness sessions about the Mahfazty Service, delivered to BMs, CSOs, & CS Heads BCM Awareness (No. of Participants 54) Workshops providing an overview on the main topics of the new regulation and the Group Project, and more details analysis of the Group Model and Regulatory Framework and assessment of the entity In 2016 the CBE stresses on the independency of the Compliance function in banks and the importance of implementing a strong Compliance training plan for all branch tellers , head of cash, operation officers & central operation – to ensure raising their awareness and update their banking knowledge , to avoid any violation and to comply with CBE instructions. Accordingly we were working closely with the Compliance team throughout the year to spread the knowledge not only through the internal trainers/E Learning lessons for the control programs but we have also dealt with external suppliers to be acquainted with the latest updates in the market and to minimize the audit comments. Control Programs Specific training to prevent bribery/ AML (No. of Participants 2694) These courses are designed to enable participants to prevent bribery / Money Laundering in their daily work with a special focus on the bank policies and procedures Detecting Forgery& Falsification (No. of Participants 202) Participants acquire the skills needed for the detection of forged currency and falsified documents, supported by real case studies Advanced AML (No. of Participants 90) Workshops focusing on the updates on money laundering activities in Banking institutions as well as FC incoming remittances from AML perspective concerning customers and non customers dealing with Alexbank. It was designed for Compliance staff and also for Regional, Area and Branch Managers. Siron & Norkom Application (No. of Participants 1,113) This is an awareness session about the Siron Application useage, it was delivered to Branch Managers, CSOs, & CS Heads General Inductions New Hires Induction “Branches Network (No. of Participants 213) We were eager to prepare a condensed Induction program for our new hires in the Network before starting their journey in their branches. In cooperation with the Retail and Branches Network Team and Help Desk Team, we managed to arrange a 3 weeks program for 213 employees followed by an on the job training in their branches. Providing the new hires with all needed information to perform their roles in the most effective way, they also learn the required applications& learn their responsibilities within the bank Summer Internship Program (No. of Participants 450) Student Summer interns in Cairo and Alex gain knowledge about Alexbank core values, how it operates, its products & services, and a communication skills session developed internally by training team to enhance their employment potential Our Goals in 2016 were: Create Alexbank Ambassadors Branding Opportunity for Alexbank Contributing to Egyptian youth skills Enhancement Help Desk for Future Graduates Moving to success “positive impact”: We started the admission for the internship, the number of Alexbank page followers extremely increased A very strong induction day in Cairo & Alex conducted to 1,000 student giving to them introduction about the bank and its products & services, and a communication skills session developed internally by training team The impact was really great Since This new approach made Alexbank “Do it Differently from the Market” even in a topic that other banks might take it casually Created “Help Desk in Alexbank” represented in the training team, who stays in contact with more than 1000 students , through their LinkedIn profiles from the moment they apply for the internship till the end of their program Handling the students queries concerning their next step after graduation Participating in the selection process taking into consideration the most successful students by referring their profiles to the People Management Team Interpersonal and Soft Skills Team Building (No. of Participants 205) A one day experiential workshop for Head office Departments, gathering professionals, team leaders & managers all together to tackle Communication Skills & Change Management and Positive thinking and Positive Attitude, also Team Work & Team Harmony. By bringing people together, encouraging collaboration, teamwork and fun activities that help people see each other out of their offices which allow them to connect in a different setting and to think about the implications of these activities at their workplace, creating the ability to identify and motivate individual employees to form a team that stays together, works together, and achieves together. “Get to know each other” is a motto that is very valid for our organizational context, as employees working in big departments have minimal opportunity to know each other but only deal through phone calls and emails, also because some are spread across different geographical locations, limiting eventually communication and process harmony. In 2016, Team building days touched the functions below: “Retail Collection & Recovery”, which is a big function under the Chief Risk Officer that consists of over 100 employees, located in Cairo and Alexandria, gathered together in a full day of experiential learning and activities focusing on the 3 main competencies agreed with the function management: Quality Focus, Positive Thinking and Team work “Retail Credit Analysis”, which is also a big function under the Chief Risk Officer, located in Luxor, Assiut, Alexandria and Cairo, gathering all the employees for their first time in one place to get to know each other with team building activities helping to bond them, focusing on the 4 main competencies agreed with the function management: Customer Focus, Efficiency, Ownership, Positive Thinking “Creating a Healthy Community of Internal Trainers” was an event for Alexbank’s strong pool of Internal Trainers 35 Internal Trainers from the Compliance, Internal Control, Helpdesk, Branches Network and Different Retail Functions (Insurance, Assets, Liabilities, Magnifica, Microfinance) in one day of experiential learning and a celebration of their success. Those “technical experts” who are exerting great efforts to enhance our human capital development plan through developing materials, delivering trainings and travelling the regions seeking a high level of Knowledge transfer in different areas of expertise; whether new products, systems or controls. They are very generous to share their knowledge and experience with our newly hired and existing staff. Business Etiquett (No. of Participants 81) This course is designed to train employees to Take off the casual unprofessional mask, and wear the universal global professional one, work on adjusting a professional positive attitude, Practice on the business etiquette global rules, to win the edge of the global competition It is not just knowing what to discuss or how to address colleagues; it is a way of presenting yourself in such a way that you will be taken seriously. This involves demonstrating that you have the self-control necessary to be good at your job, expressing a knowledge of business situations and having the ability to make other comfortable around you. Poor business etiquette can cost you the trust of your colleagues and your customers, and the loss of valuable business opportunities. Accordingly we are working hard to deliver this training to all bank’s employees, we started with the Head Office staff even the Supporting Services (Office Boys and Drivers), we have delivered a 2 days business Etiquette Training to 80% from the targeted population in the Head Office Cairo and Alex. Some of the key E-learning Programs Violations related to Employee’s Financial Transactions V1 (No. of Participants 1068) Violations related to Employee’s Financial Transactions V2 (No. of Participants 854) Embargo and Red Flags (No. of Participants 348) Operational Risk (No. of Participants 83 ) ALEXBANK SUPPORTING STAFF FAMILIES AFS inter cultural educational program Wellspring camp – Employees’ children It is an intercultural program in cooperation with AFS where Wellspring camp is a famous initiative for the IC and CSR ALEXBANK is giving 2 of its employees’ children the chance Office. The camp takes place in Wadi el Natroun where 15 to study in Italy for one year on ALEXBANK expenses. This boys & 15 girls of employees’ children are chosen to spend 4 initiative started in 2010 as a summer camp, then was days full of activities which includes diversity of activities that changed to a scholarship opportunity. involves different mental and physical challenges, In 2016, the camp was organized 2 times where ALEXBANK supported 60 In 2016, ALEXBANK supported 2 of employees’ children and of its employees’ children to attend the camp and give the gave them the chance to study in Italy. children the chance to make new friends. ISP Follonica summer camp Follonica is a long waited camp for our employees. Every year 24 of employees children aged 9-12 yrs. (12boys & 12 girls) are chosen though an electronic draw to spend 2 weeks between fun, sports and new friendships in Tuscany, Italy. In 2016, Follonica methodology was changed to include an introductory session for parent’s and one to one meeting with the kid to avoid any misunderstanding and to prepare the parents and the children for the new experience they will go through. After the children returned from the trip, a parents’ meeting was held to inform the parents of what their children faced and to give them a gift from the Bank. KidZania ALEXBANK’s Tournaments during the month of Ramadan: During 2016 the IC and CSR Office organized 1 trips for employees’ children and grandchildren During the Holy month of Ramadan and for for KidZania. KidZania Cairo offers kids a variety of fun and 5 years now, the IC and CSR Office organizes interesting role-playing activities in a realistic city setting. Job Ramadan Tournament. Employees enjoyed playing football, activities such as doctor, firefighter, chef, or flight attendant Ping-Pong, basketball, tennis and chess. This year, the are associated with real-world brands, allowing kids to create tournament was different as cycling & squash was added to and learn with realistic results. During the first trip, 350 the employees’ games in addition to a special program for the children participated. During the day, children enjoyed the employees’ children giving them a chance to socialize with various activities and were offered a free meal also. other employees and enjoy Ramadan spirits. Employee Family Emergency Medical Support Program A program for providing financial support to emergency medical cases of families of bank employees. The program is based on a case by case basis for “Catastrophic” medical cases that the staff member cannot afford and has officially presented a request asking for financial support. The bank Doctor provides a medical approval for the medical cases and the CSR Office is in charge of the procedures. During 2016 the CSR Office supported 250 medical cases of employees’ families’ health emergencies. ALEXBANK’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE SOCIETY Those Who need Us Campaign “Those who need us” is a quarterly volunteering campaign by ALEXBANK Staff. This campaign enables all employees to suggest volunteering visits underprivileged communities or NGOs. Each month the Bank organizes a volunteering visit directed to a different cause. Also part of this is the quarterly blood donations campaigns where ALEXBANK employees donated 600 blood bags. Developing 5 villages in Edfu Center – Aswan Governorate in Upper Egypt A project in partnership with the Egyptian Zakat Foundation This is by developing 5 Villages in Edfu Center (AswanUpper Egypt) project aims to improve the living conditions of the very poor families through an integrated development in Edfu Center in Aswan especially in 5 of the most underpreviliged villages (El Akabia, El Hamam, El Hoosh, El Rakekyn and El Karabla Gharb). This project, will target 1000 underprivileged families including families who suffer from poor infrastructure, drop-outs from education, very poor individuals who have dependents , unemployed youth in addition to handicapped. This project aims at developing the target communities and transforming these communities to become self-sufficient by providing productive projects that offers them better economic conditions and generate income. The project also aims at providing them with an appropriate housing and protecting them against diseases that are a result of problems such as water and roofs. The project will enroll education drop-outs due to poverty in community schools to receive a technical education. The project will provide 250 revenue generating project as well as 12 classrooms in community schools to prepare them for work. The revenue generating projects include production units, sewing, fishing, ovens and textiles. There will also be jobs for technicians in electricity, mechanics , building and construction as well as carpentry. The project also tackles other problems such as transportation as there is no transportation between the villages. The bank will donate microbuses to help people move especially in the night and in case of emergency. ALEXBANK English Program for “Beit el Samary El Saleh” “Support to Banati shelter and center for Orphanage homeless children” project ALEXBANK English Program is a partnership with AXON (a A project in partnership with Sawiris Foundation for Social center that provides professional English courses). This Development and Banati Foundation for Homeless Children initiative targets 35 students. The initiative was divided into the main aim of the partnership supporting the shelter and 2 batches; the first one included 15 students which were a center for homeless children in Haram City in 6Th October categorized according to different levels (from 2 to 14) and area. This project aims at providing a better human life for the second batch was launched in March 2016 with the more than 240 girls and young mothers who are aged (2-18) remaining 20 students. yrs. The project will not only serve the girls but also will help the sons and brothers of these girls aged from (2-7) yrs. The center will also provide the aid to almost 1500 homeless children, vocational training as well as special training on health issues. This is in addition to recreational trips done to children seasonably. ALEXBANK’s “Cotton for Life” Initiative “Play with shadows” project ALEXBANK and Filmar Nile Textile signed In line with ALEXBANK’s CSR strategy & the request received a 5 year partnership under the name from the Library of Alexandria to partner in one of their “Cotton for Life” in cooperation with featured projects in 2016 named “The Play with Shadows” the Ministry of Education by the end of 2014. “Cotton for which proposed and will be managed by an Italian artist Life” aimed at enhancing positive long-term changes to the named Valentina Mera. The project mainly targeted children traditional methodologies so far adopted in the Egyptian who suffer from serious diseases such as cancer and heart cotton plantations and industrial processing. The activities disease and children living in hospitals and orphanages of the project supported Egyptian farmers to grow cotton across three Egyptian governorates which are: Alexandria, in a way that reduces stress on the local environment and Tanta and Aswan. The project aims at bringing parents and improves the livelihoods and welfare of involved communities. children living in hospitals and orphanages and keep them In 2016 the project included two components: Education & entertained and interacting with each other through different Up-cycling. workshops which last for 15 days. The main concept in the The Education component: This part aims at educating workshop is mainly related to Art therapy which is the search farmers & technical students as well as enhance positive of the physical well-being through artistic expression of long-term changes to the traditional methodologies in thoughts, feelings and emotions. The project was educational the cotton agriculture. The project will target this through game which stimulates children to play and learn through all the development of a new school in Borg el Arab and the forms of art and helps their development. full development of the national curriculum for students in agricultural schools. The up-cycling component: the project will readdress, in Italy and in Egypt, the balance between consumption and disposal in the textile production chain as well as re-think the fashion industry’s leftovers (pre-consumer waste: left over yarns surplus textiles, designer off-cuts, proofs and remnants etc..) reclaiming and up-cycling as a design solution to an environmental problem. Supporting the Sixth Annual “Tunis Village Festival for Pottery and Crafts” in Fayoum Under the umbrella of the CSR “Ebda3 men Masr” that aims to support , help , promote and preserve the Egyptian crafts and original artwork, and for the second year in a row, the Bank will support the Sixth Annual “Tunis Village Festival for Pottery and Crafts” in Fayoum from the 1st -3rd of December 2016 where ALEXBANK will partner with the ceramic artists and pottery craftsmen in Tunis village who produce handmade original pottery crafts that descend from history old practices on a broader scale than last year. The festival had many activities such as special workshops for pottery, a display of the oldest methods of pottery making across the world, documentary film shows, bird watching activities by the Qaroun Lake and touristic tours across Fayoum main sites. ALEXBANK’s support to the potters of Tunis village will give the chance to more than 30 potters and around 25 workshops to be exposed and meet buyers which will contribute to their social and economic welfare. ALEXBANK’s Giveaways Tanweera Foundation project Under the umbrella of Ebda3 men Masr initiative ALEXBANK in line with ALEXBANK’s CSR strategy & the request received decided to support and promote the Egyptian heritage, from Tanweera Foundation in Qena “Upper Egypt”one of artwork and craftsmanship, the bank will support Tunis the poorest governorates in Egypt ALEXBANK supported Village Potters in Fayoum Governorate through the “Tunis Tanweera Foundation by donating an amount of money village potter donation project”. This initiative is based on the in order to purchase air conditioners (to be used at the purchase of ALEXBANK of pottery artwork from the village and community library, the theatre of the NGO) and a monthly in return use this money as a donation to help the village in contribution to help/promote with the activities in the NGO many infrastructural work. starting March 2016 till December 2016. This is one of the urgent needs of the foundation as the place lacks good This initiative will be an internationally the Egyptian craftsventilation and the temperature is very high (Upper Egypt in manship as well as increasing entrepreneurial opportunities summer reaching 45 degrees). This donation helped the NGO for the economically and socially underprivileged communito host more children and have several activities. ties in Egypt. “Cluster formation for handicrafts & Entrepreneurship development in Upper Egypt” project in line with ALEXBANK’s 2016 CSR strategy to empower handicraft in Egypt and the Bank’s CSR recent initiative “Ebda3 men Masr” which aims to support and promote Egyptian crafts and original artwork at home and abroad in partnership with Egypt Network for Integrated Development (ENID). This project operates in Upper Egypt in 4 villages in Qena governorate (El Osayrat ,Qena city, El Gamaleya , Gezire Motera) supporting ENID’s initiative; The One – village – One product (OVOP) model tackling issues such as job creation, skills development, Employability in the MsMEs and Entrepreneurship programs. ENID is focused on the handicrafts cluster development. The idea focuses on that one village produces one competitive manufactured product and expands to form a viable economic cluster to complete the value chain to marketing and sales. The project contributes to the economic diversification and employment in different governorates in Upper Egypt among disadvantaged groups (youth and women in rural communities) specifically via training and capacity building for specific jobs in specific product markets. The project also aims at supporting the beneficiary’s artisans to deliver their products to the export markets especially in the sectors of textiles (home furnishing and fashion accessories) and Alabaster lighting fixtures. The targeted markets are in Europe (France and Italy) and the Gulf countries (Dubai and Jeddah). “Fair Trade Empowerment and Promotion in Egypt” project under”Ebda3 Men Masr” A project in partnership with with Fair Trade Egypt (FTE) which will support/empower selected artisans groups capabilities with a number of pre-identified interventions based on the needs assessment conducted by FTE. This project also aims at boosting Egyptian craftsmanship as well as increase entrepreneurial opportunities for the economically and socially underprivileged communities in Egypt locally and internationally with a special focus on women. The project will include interventions and activities for capacity building, product development, technical assistance and provision of tools and development to approximately 385 individual artisans clustered in 12 artisan groups in five different governorates as follows: Beheira, Fayom, Qena, Assyout, and Red Sea. The project will then fulfill the potential demand of handicrafts and will promote these crafts in domestically & internationally. The project aims to expand export of Egyptian quality handicrafts to Italy by conducting a comprehensive research on the Italian market to pragmatically increase opportunities of exports to Italy through increasing sales to the existing importer of crafts from Egypt and finding new ones. Ebda3 Men Masr supported the 1st International Handcrafts show in MEA region. Under the umbrella of the CSR initiative “Ebda3 Men Masr” which aims to support, help and promote, and preserve the Egyptian crafts and original artwork, ALEXBANK supported the First International Handcrafts Show – IHS in partnership with Egyptian Export Association which took place in the Egypt Expo Convention Authority – Fair Grounds in Nasr City from the 18th to the 25th of November 2016. The Bank’s participation to this event reflects also the bank›s leading role in supporting Egypt’s strategic plans to promote and preserve handcrafts and artworks production, to boost the economic activities and exports in a bid to turn Egypt into a truly regional hub for all economic sectors. The exhibition is an excellent opportunity to attract potential MSME customers to ALEXBANK and bringing them to the Bank. The opening ceremony will be attended by Minster of Social Solidarity, Minster of state for Environment affairs & Minster of Culture along with press representatives as well as ALEXBANK employees & masses will be able to purchase beautiful a press conference. ALEXBANK’s presence in the IHS through handcrafted products paying with their cards on ALEXBANK’s POS “Ebda3 Men Masr” (EMM), will support & give the chance for machines that have been made available to the exhibitors with 2500 artists and craftsmen across Egypt governorates to be no commission fees to ease the process of buying and selling exposed & meet international buyers contributing to their during the exhibition. social and economic development. The Egyptian Banking About the Show: IHS is the first international event for handicrafts Institute (EBI – the central bank of Egypt training institute) in the MEA region. It is a platform for marketing, trade exchange will be a main partner and will have a strategic presence in and direct sales for handcrafts of Egypt. IHS aims at strengthening Ebda3 men Masr tent with a booth to introduce this sector and promoting regional trade activities between the various Arab to bankability as well as the MSMEs programs. During the & African countries to benefit from the non-tariff barriers and exhibition, “Ebda3 men Masr” will be a main exhibitor with a foreign trade agreements. The show acts as a multicultural tent (300 square meter) where all its partners (Fair Trade dialogue center for contributing in the development of economy Egypt, ENID, Yadaweya, EBI,.. etc.) and various less privileged and tourism. craftsmen are given the opportunity to exhibit their work & crafts. This helps the craftsmen get international visibility and direct augment their sales. During the exhibition, Internal CSR Competition For Employees “CSR For My people 2016” “For My People” Competition is a clear reflection of ALEXBANK’s belief in creating a shared value that can be handled in the future by collaborating with our partners, and most importantly our employees. In 2016 CSR For My People focused on 8 main diseases that affect children’s lives in Egypt such as “Burns, Liver, Paralysis, Blindness, Hemophilia, Autism, Heart, Deafness”. “For My People” Competition started in 2012 with a remarkable engagement rate over the past five years with more than 132 proposals/projects received from staff and an average yearly number of votes of 3000 from via comprehensive development; whereas the percentage of the total of 5035 employees. (60% staff). During the previous People of special needs in Egypt has surpassed 12 million. year’s ALEXBANK funded 3 projects “for the year of 2012 & Hence, the project targets disabled children up to the age of 2013” & then ALEXBANK increased the number of projects 35 and children suffering from Autism under the age of 18. to be funded to be 4 “for the year of 2014 & 2015”. In 2016 D. Sponsorship with Hayaty NGO: The Project aims to prepare ALEXBANK decided to increase the number of the winning two intensive care units and a Unit for burns inside children projects from 4 to 6 projects which reflects the concept of section in AlMiry Hospital in Alexandria noting that there are covering all areas of the bank and reaching all employees 300 burned patients daily. areas. The CSR Office received 12 proposal from the staff E. Sponsorship with The Egyptian Association for liver patients during the month of Ramadan about different CSR venues or care: The projects aims to provide an exploring telescope for suggestions that they believe is applicable for ALEXBANK to liver patient in Suez .The Egyptian Association for liver patients fund. The cause of 2016 was Children’s health the competition care also helps in providing services for patient children with witnessed the sponsorship of 6 projects across all ALEXBANK liver diseases in Suez. regions for the first time since its launch as follows: F. “Will” Association for people with special needs: The Ngo needs A. Sponsorship with Fawzy moaz Hospital support society NGO: desperately an integrated unit from high quality computer to “The project aims at reducing children mortality rates through erase texts and transmit it to the computer with braille printer establishing and equipping an ICU that offers free access for besides a huge number of braille papers for printing and by patients at Fawzy Moaz Children Hospital. this way we can support in developing local communities. B. Sponsorship with WE complete each other NGO: The aim of Over 3000 blind will use those equipment in west el delta the project is to provide assistance to orphans with special governorates. The project will also help University students to needs, via improving their living and educational standards. translate the photos and sheets to printed books in braille It is noteworthy that the Society sponsors more than 10 way which will help in better scientific understanding for their children in Cairo Governorate. studies. Supporting the cultural club in the Association and C. Sponsorship with Community development & providing care those who visits it from blinds and low vision. for children with special needs association: The aim of the project is to provide a better life and future for the community ” Juried Art Exhibition in cooperation with the Serbain Street Children Iftar in cooperation Samusocial International Embassy in Egypt Egypt Foundation For the 3rd year in a row ALEXBANK supported the ALEXBANK organized its 4th annual CSR Iftar with a different implementation of the Art exhibition in for the Egyptian young theme related to “homeless children” during the Holy Month artists/graduate and undergraduate students of Faculty of Art of Ramadan which is famous for its tremendous giving spirits. Education of Helwan University to help them enhance their art This year the is the partnership will be with “Samusocial skills in coordination with the Serbian Embassy. The theme of International Egypt Foundation” by inviting around 700 the competition this year will encourage students to express invitees. ALEXBANK iftar in cooperation with “Samusocial traditional Egyptian artwork. International Egypt Foundation” aims at raising the spirit of this children as well as allowing them to enjoy a day full of activities such as (DJ, characters, Magicians, kids, drawings, competitions & Face painting” during the event ALEXBANK distributed giveaways for the children. This event was an opportunity for these children to mingle with the outside community & get exposed to different experiences which rarely happens to them. “Developing “Eastern Saft Preparatory School” in Beni Suef ALEXBANK’s Ramadan packaging Governorate project project incorporation with Fair Trade Egypt “FTE” ALEXBANK in partnership with Takatof Association for Development (TAD) completed the renovation of “Eastern Leveraging on the success of last Saft Preparatory School” in Beni Sweif Governorates, Upper year’s Ramadan staff donation Egypt. This project will target both the infrastructural as campaign & in continuation to well as the educational and human development programs ALEXBANK’s practice of not only in the school with an impact on 404 beneficiaries including limiting Ramadan gifts to its employees, but also using it 355 students (189 males and well as 166 females) and 49 as a mean to support the local communities, the bank will teachers and administrators of the school. This project aims partner with Fair Trade Egypt Foundation -already one of our to develop the school infrastructure shaping a new building CSR partners in 2016in a project named Palm Leaf Basketry other than the existing one that is about to fall, as well as involving 100 women from El Fayoum project to produce 5300 increasing the space of the school playground to increase baskets. The project also includes an internal staff donation its capacity and renovating the bathrooms. The project also campaign to provide classes to combat illiteracy to 100 include installation of water pipes as well as developing the women as well as the implementation of an effective sewage school fire system. In this project also, the introduction of new system for 3 villages. curriculums will take place which will support the students in their education as well develop the teacher’s capabilities for a better education system inside the school. ALEXBANK World Environment Day Celebration Blood Donation ALEXBANK celebrated the World Environment Day in 2016, for the 3rd year in a row, which helped to raise awareness about the efficient and sustainable use of resources through involving ALEXBANK employee’s children and grandchildren. The event includes environmental awareness sessions & interactive discussions related to a variety of environmental and health topics. Children enjoyed also environmental interesting activities in cooperation with Dalil Elkair NGO. LABOR PRINCIPLES The bank is governed by rules and regulation that govern the labour. These rules are related to wages, leaves, duties of each employee and termination. The Egyptian labour law supports this through its articles in terms of wages , leaves, duties, investigation in case of violation, working hours and breaks in addition to articles related to social and health services. ALEXBANK does not use forced, compulsory or child labor. Our people want to work for an organization that encourages and respects individuals, and this is one of our Core Values. Our target is to create a global culture of diversity. We are aware of the challenge of balancing professional achievement and personal wellbeing. We care about helping our employees succeed, and are focused on providing resources to improve their health and that of their families, creating a culture that appreciates differences, and offering more opportunities to grow both professionally and personally at work and in the communities where they live. We support freedom of association. ALEXBANK has a staff union that is effectively elected by the employees of the bank giving them the freedom to express their ideas. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Equator Principles Membership Since 2012, ALEXBANK has been a signatory of the Equator Principles, a framework for managing the impacts on the environment and on local communities that may arise from financing large projects. Project finance is a method of financing where lenders are repaid through revenues generated by the project, typically used to fund large, complex and expensive installations like power plants or mines. The Equator Principles is a risk management framework, adopted by financial institutions, for determining, assessing and managing environmental and social risk in projects and is primarily intended to provide a minimum standard for due diligence to support responsible risk decision-making. Energy Efficiency Project The new electricity system approximately saves 40% from the annual electricity Consumption. As part of the project, ALEXBANK sent three of the staff to a training program in coordination with the UNDP to learn about saving energy efficiently inside the premises. In 2014, we managed to complete 39 branches and in 2015 we managed to complete 7 branches and 2 floors in Abdel Khalek Tharwat Building. All the upcoming renovated branches will be by using the same kind of LED lights. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Ethical practice is a pillar of our existence as an organization. Our Parent Group has equipped us and all subsidiaries with regulatory policies and codes that we must deeply embed in our business culture. Our professional standing is inherently connected to our upholding of these regulatory tools in our daily practice, as individuals, as a company, and consequently as a professional community. ALEXBANK guarantees that whoever reports a case using any of the tools in good faith will be protected from any form of retaliation, discrimination or penalization, and ensures maximum confidentiality, except in cases otherwise indicated by law. These regulatory tools are to be carefully used, remembering that Policy does not cover concerns about an individual’s or collective terms of employment, since these are covered in the other internal legal acts. It is also not intended as a route to re-examine the findings of other formal procedures, such as disciplinary or complaint proceedings. ALEXBANK’s Code of Ethics This Code illustrates the values of ALEXBANK and aims to direct individual behaviors accordingly, with the knowledge that an understanding of social and environmental factors contributes to minimizing exposure to credit and compliance risks and strengthens the company’s reputation. A hard copy of the Code is delivered to each manager, employee or external collaborator upon appointment, hiring or at the start of a work relationship. ALEXBANK Whistle Blowing Policy Whistle blowing can be done to face the most significant concerns over any wrong-doing within the Bank relating to unlawful conduct, financial transgression or dangers to the employees. There are ongoing training sessions to raise the awareness held to the employees about the bank policies in addition to onsite visits are done to ensure that the employees’ Compliance with the Bank policies. Employees can report any malpractice with-in the bank at any time by sending an e-mail to compliance department. A WORLD OF REAL POSSIBILITIES.
