HSBC Holdings plc Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update Supporting sustainable growth April 2018 2 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc Hong Kong Stock Code: 5 HSBC Holdings plc Incorporated in England on 1 January 1959 with limited liability under the UK Companies Act Registered in England: number 617987 Our cover image The Singapore Supertrees are a cluster of large tree-like structures constructed in the heart of Singapore. Many of the Supertrees are embedded with environmentally sustainable functions – including generating solar energy, collecting rainwater, and acting as vertical gardens with more than 150,000 plants. These innovative structures create a green respite in the centre of the urban centre. Our photo competition winners The cover of this report showcases one of the images taken by one of our employees. The image was selected from more than 2,100 submissions to a Group-wide photography competition. Launched in June 2017, HSBC NOW Photo is an ongoing project that encourages our people to capture and share the diverse world around them with a camera. Contents 3 Contents 1 Group Chief Executive’s statement 5 2 Customers 8 3 Employees 21 4 Supporting sustainable growth 28 5 Governance 37 6 Links and information 41 4 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc About The information set out in this document, taken together with the information relating to ESG issues detailed in our HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 and the information available in the links below, aims to provide you with key ESG information and data relevant to our operations for the year ended 31 December 2017 and in order to comply with the Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide contained in Appendix 27 to The Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited (‘ESG Guide’). To the extent that we have not complied with the relevant provisions in the ESG Guide it is because we have chosen to focus on the issues that we consider are material to our stakeholders and on which we can have an impact. We will continue to develop and refine our reporting and disclosures on ESG issues in line with feedback received from stakeholders, and in order to comply with the ESG Guide. Unless the context requires otherwise, ‘HSBC Holdings’ means HSBC Holdings plc and ‘HSBC’, the ‘Group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiaries. Within this document the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China is referred to as ‘Hong Kong’. When used in the terms ‘shareholders’ equity’ and ‘total shareholders’ equity’, ‘shareholders’ means holders of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and those preference shares and capital securities issued by HSBC Holdings classified as equity. The abbreviations ‘$m’, ‘$bn’ and ‘$tn’ represent millions, billions (thousands of millions) and trillions of US dollars, respectively. Group Chief Executive’s statement 5 Group Chief Executive’s statement Throughout our 153-year history, HSBC has worked hard to meet its obligations to society and to help its customers and communities to thrive. This ESG report, the third we have produced, outlines the measures we are taking to live up to our responsibilities today, and illustrates our ongoing commitment to open, honest and meaningful non-financial disclosure. It covers a number of topics, from the way we engage with our employees and address their concerns, to our impact on the environment, and customer satisfaction across all our businesses. It provides an update on metrics that we have disclosed previously, and also a number of new items. These include new commitments to extend education and employment-linked training, both for our employees and for one million people across the globe, and details of how we are applying advanced analytics and AI to improve our customer service and enhance our ability to fight financial crime. We are also meeting our reporting obligations under the terms of the UN Global Compact, We can also do better by our employees. Our disclosures and renewing our commitment to the Compact’s 10 principles. highlight our progress, but there are still processes and ways of working that make it harder for all our people to do their jobs There are areas of our ESG performance in which we have and fulfil their potential. We are committed to removing those made genuine strides. We have transformed – and continue barriers, and to making HSBC a more diverse and inclusive to strengthen – our ability to detect and deter financial crime. organisation – particularly at a senior leadership level. We have been a leading international voice in calling for better climate-related disclosure, while also making good progress It is critical we get these things right. Our future success is in mitigating our own impact on the environment. We have determined by our ability to address these issues and by our materially improved the way we listen to customers, and have impact on people and the planet more generally. used that data to improve our services. As Group Chief Executive, my priority is to ensure HSBC The report shines a light on those successes, but also highlights meets its wider obligations and to set the highest standards where we still have work to do. We are committed to improving of transparency. Where things are working, we will ensure aspects of our performance where we can and must do better. standards do not slip. But where there is work to be done, we will do so with determination and clarity of purpose, and in a We have much further to go in improving customer satisfaction spirit of openness and honesty. and making it easier for our customers to work with us. We are now reporting on customer satisfaction in all four of our global The views of our stakeholders will continue to be of paramount businesses, and are working hard to make our services faster, importance as we carry out that work, and as we strive to less complex and more transparent. improve the quality and quantity of our non-financial disclosure. We will continue to listen and to learn, and to incorporate There are also issues for us to tackle around conduct. We have feedback into future Updates. remediation plans in place where work needs to be done, and we are investing heavily to ensure the necessary controls and I hope you find this report helpful. processes are present and robust. More broadly, we continue to pursue the highest standards of conduct throughout the John M Flint business. Group Chief Executive 6 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc HSBC’s purpose and values HSBC aims to be where the growth is, enabling business to thrive and economies to prosper, and ultimately helping people to fulfil their hopes and realise their ambitions. Our values define who we are as an organisation and make us distinctive. Dependable Open Connected We are dependable, We are open to We are connected standing firm different ideas and to our customers, for what is right cultures, and value communities, and delivering on diverse perspectives. regulators and each commitments. other; caring about individuals and their progress. HSBC at a glance 7 HSBC at a glance Our operating model consists of four global businesses and a Corporate Centre, supported by HSBC Operations Services and Technology (HOST), and 11 global functions. These include: risk, finance, financial crime risk, legal, marketing and human resources. Retail Banking and Wealth Commercial Banking Global Banking and Markets Global Private Banking Management (‘RBWM’) (‘CMB’) (‘GB&M’) (‘GPB’) We help millions of people We support approximately We provide financial We help high net worth across the world to manage 1.7 million business services and products to individuals and their families their finances, buy their customers in 53 countries companies, governments grow, manage and preserve homes, and save and invest and territories with banking and institutions. Our their wealth. for the future. Our Insurance products and services to help comprehensive range of and Asset Management them operate and grow. Our products and solutions, businesses support all our customers range from small across capital financing, global businesses in meeting enterprises focused primarily advisory and transaction their customers’ needs. on their domestic markets, banking services, can be through to large companies combined and customised operating globally. to meet clients’ specific objectives. Our Corporate Centre comprises Central Treasury (including Balance Sheet Management), our legacy businesses, interests in our associates and joint ventures, central stewardship costs, and the UK bank levy. Our strategy and performance We have a two-part long-term strategy: Headline results for 2017 are set out below, and reflect a strong performance in our major businesses. For a more detailed breakdown of our 2017 performance – Develop our international network to please visit our investor website. serve enterprises across geographies and facilitate international trade and For the full-year 2017 capital flows, thereby helping our clients to grow their businesses. Reported profit before tax Adjusted profit before tax $17.2bn $21.0bn – Invest in wealth and retail businesses with local scale to make the most of global social mobility, wealth creation and long-term demographic changes in our select retail banking and wealth management markets. Reported risk-weighted assets Total assets $871bn $2,522bn 8 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc Customers Executive summary We have made significant improvements to the way we listen to customers and their feedback has helped improve our products and services. However, there’s more we can do to simplify processes, improve the digital experience and ensure we deliver fair outcomes to all our customers. We will continue delivering on our conduct agenda in Global Banking and Markets to ensure all employees live up to our high standards. In addition, we remain committed to resolving outstanding investigations stemming from former practices within Global Private Banking. We are working to make things simpler, faster and better for Figure 1: details of our customer groups our customers. We conduct research and invest in technology Number of Adjusted to analyse and anticipate emerging market trends. However, customers Adjusted profit risk-weighted listening to customers and asking their opinion on our service (approx.) before tax ($bn) assets ($bn) is core to understanding their needs and concerns. RBWM 37m 6.5 121 This section discusses customer satisfaction across our four global businesses, and highlights the actions we are taking to drive continuous improvement. See Figure 1 for a breakdown CMB 1.7m 6.8 301 of customer numbers and profits generated. Taking responsibility for the service we provide GB&M 4,100 5.8 299 We define conduct as delivering fair outcomes for customers and not disrupting the orderly and transparent operation of GPB 45k 0.3 16 financial markets. As stated in our Annual Report and Accounts 2017, operating with high standards of conduct is central to For further details, see Annual Report and Accounts 2017 our long-term success and ability to serve customers. We have clear policies, frameworks and governance in place to protect them. These cover the way we behave, design products and services, train and incentivise employees, and interact with customers and each other. Our Conduct Framework guides activities to strengthen our business and increases our understanding of how the decisions we make affect customers and other stakeholders. Details of our Conduct Framework are available at www.hsbc.com, and more information on our legal proceedings and regulatory matters can be found in Note 34 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2017. Customers 9 Acting on feedback Acting on customer feedback has helped make our services more accessible and transparent. It has also prompted us 3 Tackling complexity to streamline and improve our processes, which provides RBWM customers said: customers with a better experience. HSBC’s processes and procedures were too complicated. Below, we have highlighted some examples of how customer What we did feedback has driven improvements across our four global Changed the way we operate to make banking easier. businesses. The following sections explore the approach taken For example: in each of the businesses in more detail. – in the UK, we have made it an easier process for people to get a mortgage – reducing the application period from five weeks to two weeks – we have implemented Live Sign which gives customers the 1 Making banking more accessible ability to sign and agree documents electronically – in Hong Kong, 99% of accounts are now opened via an RBWM customers said: employee tablet in branch Logging on to our online and mobile banking was too complex. CMB customers said: What we did It took too much time to complete tasks, such as opening an account. Made it easier for customers to access their accounts, while What we did ensuring robust security. For example: – we have introduced biometric (Touch ID & Voice ID) Continued to streamline our processes. For example, we have: verification to make it easier for customers to access their – launched an online tool for Know Your Customer (KYC) so small accounts, with 40% of logins not requiring passwords businesses without Relationship Managers can provide the – we are providing specialised training to our people so they can information needed for regulatory checks without visiting a better support customers using digital banking and give them branch advice about how to access accounts and keep them secure – introduced a simpler registration process for HSBCnet and better customer support through virtual assistant and Live Chat GB&M customers said: 2 Making fees and charges transparent Our processes could be frustrating and RBWM customers said: time-consuming. It was sometimes difficult to understand when What we did and why they would be charged for our services. Assembled dedicated teams to make processes simpler, better What we did and faster. For example: We enhanced our direct communication with customers to help – our new ‘confirmation.com’ platform lets our customers them understand their finances and avoid fees and charges: and their auditors obtain annual balance confirmations from – in the UK we have sent customers more than 600,000 our branches worldwide on a single platform, simplifying a overdraft alerts and 500,000 advance warnings of possible fees previously labour-intensive annual process. It has been trialled in key countries and will be rolled out globally in 2018 – RBWM complaints in this area fell by 5% in 2017 – in the UK, Global Banking employees can now use ‘MyDeal’ to access key information in real-time, and in one place, when CMB customers said: working on Debt Capital Markets and Equity Capital Markets They were not satisfied with our rates and charges. deals – freeing them up to spend more time with customers What we did GPB customers said: Improved transparency and introduced clearer communications, The due diligence related to opening and maintaining resulting in a 37% reduction in complaints in this area. Examples customer accounts was complicated. of improvements: What we did – balances are now displayed more clearly on Business We are working to improve the customer experience, by: Internet Banking – simplifying and digitising the paperwork for opening accounts – in the UK, we have introduced an automatic retry process for un-cleared cheques to help customers avoid charges due to – examining whether and how we are able to share, with customer insufficient funds in accounts permission, Know Your Customer data across business lines 10 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc Retail Banking and Wealth Management Retail Banking and Wealth Management (RBWM) strives to Figure 2: RBWM customer recommendation build long-lasting, trusted relationships with our customers. Recommendation scores* We know we can only achieve this by understanding what is important to them and using this insight to improve the 2017 2016 banking service we offer. UK 62 50 How we listen to our customers Hong Kong 61 39 We use a number of sources to listen to our customers, in order to get the clearest picture of the experience we deliver. France 68 47 Customer recommendation surveys US 57 52 In 2017, we surveyed two million customers on how likely they were to recommend HSBC as a bank to their friends and Canada 56 49 families, as well as their satisfaction with our various channels. Additional technologies have helped this understanding. Mexico 92 84 For example, we now have Speech Analytics in 19 markets, providing real-time insight on customers’ experiences of our Singapore 63 52 contact centres. Malaysia 79 79 In 2017, we saw an increase in customers likely to recommend us. Improved customer service, particularly in how we take China 81 91 ownership of problems and provide user-friendly interactions, UAE 88 79 have been key contributors to our performance. Customers are also increasingly recommending us for understanding them, Between 2016 and 2017, the methodology used to survey consumers has changed in especially their goals and ambitions (see Figure 2). a number of markets. Surveys have now migrated from telephone to email, which is a contributing factor to the large change in the results between 2016 and 2017. While we are recommended for being easily accessible in the *% of customers providing an 8 or above score out of 10. This is an indication of how UK and Hong Kong, this remains an area of focus in markets likely they are to recommend HSBC. where we have less presence. We will continue improving and promoting alternative ways to interact with customers. HSBC FUSION With 70% of business owners using the same bank for their HSBC Fusion is a dedicated banking service that gives business and personal finances, we saw an opportunity to customers greater control over their business and personal better serve and grow the relationship for those managing finances. This includes access to funding, advice and new firms with turnovers between $3m and $5m. opportunities, such as a centralised user experience for online banking and a new mobile app for easy access to To ensure we built a proposition around their specific needs, administrative tools for accounting, taxes and expense we spoke to more than 1,600 customers in nine markets management. HSBC Fusion was launched in 2017 in Malta, through interviews, focus groups and surveys. It revealed Mexico and China, and is expected to launch in a further five that personal and business lives were blended for small markets this year. business owners – and they wanted this recognised by their bank. This resulted in HSBC Fusion. Customers 11 Customer satisfaction surveys We have learnt from this and have invested to support our call Since 2016, satisfaction levels in branch have improved. In 2017, centres to ensure they are well trained to help our customers. Relationship Management maintained or improved generally We are now seeing satisfaction improve as we continue to high satisfaction levels, while those in contact centres and online provide support and updates to our customers. banking have declined (see Figure 3). While contact centre customer satisfaction has either declined The decline in satisfaction in our online banking service and or remained stable, overall dissatisfaction with contact centre contact centre is due to the launch of a new global online accessibility and time to answer calls has improved. We are banking system and enhanced security features. We invested investing significantly to respond to new customer needs in the new system to support the increased demand for digital driven by greater digital capabilities. All our contact centre services as the ways in which our customers interact with us, employees are receiving new training and support under and their expectations for ease and range of functionality, is the banner of ‘customer obsessed’, with a greater focus on changing. This has resulted in a fall in the use of our branches coaching and development, quality improvement, and problem and contact centre contact, and an increase in the use of digital. resolution. Our priority in 2018 is to resolve more problems the very first time customers get in touch. However, the pace of change resulted in higher complaints. Our online banking and contact centres were under pressure due to a higher than normal volume of calls. Figure 3: RBWM customer satisfaction scores Branch Contact centre Relationship Manager Online banking 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 % of customers providing an 8 or above score out of 10* UK 86% 86% 70% 71% 79% 75% 71% 81% Hong Kong 87% 83% 90% 96% 71% 71% 49% 63% France 74% 74% 68% 74% 70% 68% 72% 75% US 87% 85% 72% 63% 80% 80% 57% 66% Canada 82% 84% 66% 73% 85% 86% 34% 56% Mexico 90% 89% 82% 81% 91% 93% 81% 82% Singapore 73% 63% 88% 87% 62% 62% 46% 54% Malaysia 71% 69% 64% 70% 73% 67% 61% 63% China 93% 91% 94% 96% 73% 77% 46% 60% UAE 70% 69% 66% 71% 66% 62% 69% 70% *2016 Contact centre scores were measured on a 5 point rating scale, this was changed to an 11 point rating scale in 2017 with the exceptions of the US, Canada and Singapore. 12 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc When things go wrong Figure 4: RBWM annual complaint volumes – top 10 markets We ensure customers’ complaints are recorded and Complaints understood to learn what has gone wrong and why. The ways per 1,000 in which we deal with complaints and the speed they are customers resolved can also make a big difference to customers. Market Complaint volumes (000) per month 2017 2016 2017 2016 RBWM received approximately one million complaints in 2017 from our ten largest markets. This was a 6% increase in volume UK* 457.7 511.8 3.3 3.5 from 2016, with complaints as a percentage of customer base now at 3.6%. Higher complaint volumes were driven in part by Hong Kong 41.5 43.3 0.7 0.7 the launch of the new global online banking system, discussed in the prior section. The key complaint themes related to France 60.2 63.9 6.0 6.6 process and procedures, service, and fees and charges (see Figures 4 and 5). US 53.8 47.0 3.4 2.6 In 2017, we resolved 71% of all complaints on the same or Canada 24.9 16.9 2.7 1.8 next working day (excluding UK PPI complaints). We use Mexico 357.3 252.4 4.5 3.8 insight gathered from complaints and analysis of the root causes to drive improvements in our markets. Singapore 10.8 6.6 1.6 0.9 Taking responsibility for the experience we deliver Malaysia 5.5 10.0 0.5 0.8 We have clear procedures and governance in place to support our customers. Senior leaders have ultimate responsibility and China 4.3 3.5 0.7 0.8 are held accountable for customer service standards. These are monitored through key metrics aligned to performance UAE 26.6 32.1 6.8 7.8 objectives that target the delivery of fair outcomes and experiences for our customers. *Based on Financial Conduct Authority definitions and including First Direct. A complaint is defined as ‘any expression of dissatisfaction, whether up-held or In 2017, through our conduct programme we identified and not, from (or on behalf of) a former, existing or prospective customer relating to the provision of, or failure to provide, a specific product or service activity’. embedded changes to enhance our approach to understanding our customers. These included: Figure 5: RBWM complaint themes – Launching new procedures to ensure potentially vulnerable customers are correctly identified and supported. – Launching new conduct training for all global product managers. – Enhancing the way we capture and analyse customer exit reasons to improve our products and services, and rebuild customer relationships. Products designed with customers in mind We assess product and pricing changes against a global customer-focused framework, which provides improved consistency and clarity for our customers. In 2017, there were 156 new products and 119 feature or channel changes in our markets that were approved globally. This included two new lower carbon funds by Global Asset Management which will be 44% Process and procedures 10% Fees and charges delivered in 2018. 2016 36% 2016 12% Delivering the right products requires giving suitable training and tools to those designing the solutions. With this in mind, 23% Other * 2% Product features and benefits we have launched the Product Management Academy 2016 22% 2016 3% which has delivered training to more than 700 of our people more than 30 countries to ensure a consistent approach to 21% Service embedding customer thinking in the design process. * including PPI complaints in the UK 2016 27% Customers 13 Figure 6: investing in digital Artificial intelligence Using artificial intelligence and machine learning, the customer We have invested journey is being improved with a more personalised service. This technology will also help us to engage with our customers $2.3bn in a more timely, accessible and relevant manner. For example, advance analytics is used to predict which customers using in digital transformation online banking may call the contact centre. We can pre-empt across our global businesses this with in channel assistance (Live Chat) to reduce customer between 2015-2017 effort and provide immediate assistance. FINTECH PARTNERSHIPS Globally HSBC is working with fintechs to make banking simpler, 41% of RBWM better and faster for customers. We have allocated $200m to invest in fintech and enterprise start-ups, and have a customers are number of successful partnerships. digitally active We have also supported The FinTech Innovation Lab since 2013 and participate in Hong Kong, London, Dubai and New York. This programme invites entrepreneurs to pitch Over the past FIVE YEARS their financial technology (fintech) ideas to banks. The bank works with shortlisted entrepreneurs during a 12 week we have seen a 333% mentoring programme. increase in mobile SOCIAL MEDIA LISTENING banking In 2017, HSBC introduced new software to support our customers social media listening with improved global capabilities. The platforms give us: – Access to global social media content from a variety The future of digital banking of sources, getting us closer to feedback from Mobile customers and helping understand our competitor An increasing number of customers prefer to do their banking and brand position. digitally. We are continually enhancing the features on our mobile banking apps by listening to customer demand and – The ability to engage real-time with customers, tailoring services for each market in which we operate. The new helping us to identify, understand, and resolve issues, mobile banking app satisfaction ratings are strong in the UK and and feedback to customers on what we’ve done. Hong Kong with both achieving 4.7 out of 5 on the Apple App – Analytical capabilities to research publicly available store. Our strategy is to look at global technology trends in social media data, gaining insights that can influence multiple markets and to invest in the technologies that will be business decisions and develop thought leadership. most beneficial to customers. We have Digital messaging We are providing more personalised, tailored and relevant 122 active posting 131k messaging through digital and non-digital channels. social media accounts We can determine when customers are searching on our pieces of content website for solutions to their financial needs, and provide in 2017 real-time digital messages to assist. These messages can be personalised based on our deep customer understanding and we have received distributed across multiple channels in a coordinated and automated way. Features such as nudges or push notifications Our content has been‘liked’ 500k messages inbound are also used to keep customers updated on their enquiries, while reducing effort and providing financial guidance. These 2.8 million & SHARED an d res ponded to 257k 81k types of messages will help support customers through key times journeys across products and propositions. This has already queries been used in the UK with 300,000 online banking messages times sent in 2017, helping customers who have attracted banking charges in the last 12 months to avoid fees in the future. 14 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc Supporting customers As part of our ambition to support and protect customers, we are working on a number of initiatives. Financial inclusion Financial well-being Diversity and inclusion In Hong Kong, we have trained branch We have developed a global programme We have seen changes to traditional employees in basic sign language skills to improve awareness among customerfamily structures, such as de facto and produced a series of simple guides facing employees of the appropriate relationships where a growing number to help senior citizens adapt to the new money advice solutions to assist of people in society choose to delay Internet Banking platform. customers with financial difficulty. The marriage or not get married. In some programme helps identify customers in markets there remains a misalignment Improvements to our mobile app Easy need of additional support and directs in the cover the insurance industry is Invest have earned us a 2017 Good them to the most appropriate area to able to provide to customers, particularly Practice Award in Hong Kong from the meet their needs. regarding relationship status and Design for All Foundation, a not-forfinancial dependants. Our country teams profit international body. The app has We are delivering financial wellare reviewing existing products while accessibility features and assistive being seminars to help increase working within legal and regulatory technology on mobile devices. financial capability. These seminars environments. provide guidance on establishing and We have deployed more than 2,600 maintaining a budget, information on In Hong Kong, our travel and medical talking ATM machines globally. These savings, and education on frauds and products offer a family discount to enable our visually impaired customers to scams. married couples, same sex partners, transact through connected headphones, and de facto relationships. In Singapore, with the instructions being read out to In Singapore, we launched a debt our travel policy now recognises partner them. Most notably, in the UK, USA, consolidation programme to help relationships (same sex and de facto), Australia and India, we provide this consumers combine outstanding while in the UK and Mexico we expanded talking functionality at every HSBC ATM. balances from their existing unsecured the definition of children to more broadly credit facilities, enabling them to save cover financial dependants. This enables The UK was selected as a finalist in on interest. adopted children and foster children to the Financial Innovation Awards 2017, be beneficiaries. In the UK, we have also under ‘Best Financial Inclusion Initiative’ HSBC actively supports the ‘Take introduced gender neutral titles to reflect category for offering Video British Sign Five to stop Fraud’ initiative in the societal changes. Language (BSL) Interpretation and UK, which raises awareness of the Relay Service to our customers. Since techniques used by fraudsters. We have We are in the process of expanding its launch a year ago, the service has implemented messages in the new this work in our other product lines in been used more than 700 times by our beneficiary set up process to help protect RBWM. BSL communicating customers. This customers’ personal data. is a success in improving some of the key journeys our customers experience, To learn more about our commitment such as mortgage applications and fraud to increasing financial capability, see interactions. page 33. Customers 15 Commercial Banking Commercial Banking (CMB) serves the full range of businesses CASE STUDY from start-ups to large corporates and operates in 53 markets. We serve approximately 1.7 million customers globally who INDIA – NEW ACCOUNT OPENING typically operate internationally, or aspire to do so, The ‘Moments of Truth’ survey highlighted issues with and value HSBC’s global network and connectivity. the account opening process as only 25% of customers in India rated it as ‘Excellent’. Analysis revealed the main How we listen to our customers cause of dissatisfaction was how long it took to open an We have increased our listening capabilities by improving account. An internal review highlighted some delays were existing insight programmes and introducing software and caused by multiple internal checks. A pilot to streamline tools to help us stay better connected with customers. Our the process and consolidate checking brought this down insight includes complaints analysis and social media. from up to 25 days to four days. The ‘Excellent’ rating in India subsequently increased to 67% by the end of 2017. ‘Moments of Truth’ surveys CMB continued the roll out of event driven surveys in 2017. This is an ‘always-on’ approach to gathering customer feedback about key interactions such as the account opening Taking responsibility for the experience we deliver experience, initial set-up and usage of HSBCnet, interactions CMB’s formal Conduct Programme concluded in 2017 with our Global Trade and Receivables Finance teams, applying and the resulting governance, frameworks, policies and for Credit, and when Relationship Managers change. communications are now embedded. Conduct metrics measuring potential impacts on our customers and markets are We gather scores and comments to identify issues needing regularly reviewed and appropriate actions taken. For example, action and track key performance indicators to measure the sales quality testing results are closely monitored to ensure impacts of changes made. We now have more than 90 surveys that the products and services offered to customers meet live, spanning 35 markets. their needs. In 2017, we gathered feedback from more than 8,000 There is ongoing training for all employees, and both customers and have completed 20 improvements, with a established and evolving governance, to highlight customer further 55 underway, focused on the customer experience issues in decision-making forums. Pricing and billing continues across these key interactions. This has resulted in improved to be an area of focus to ensure a balanced exchange of value customer satisfaction. See the case study for an example of with our customers. A Global Pricing Executive Committee how this approach has improve the customer experience. has been established and a new global pricing framework will be introduced. Effective communications are core to Online panels ensuring all employees understand how to deliver our conduct We have implemented online customer panels that have commitments. more than 200 active members in the UK, Hong Kong, China, Australia, UAE, Mexico and the US. These provide fast Examples of employees making the right decisions in the feedback, allowing us to make improvements to the layout interests of customers during 2017 featured in articles and and functionality of our digital services. In 2017, they helped broadcasts across internal communications channels. These us improve the customer on-boarding experience, integrate stories, supported by online training, newsletters and globally accounting software, review digital lending, upgrade our broadcast talks by internal and external speakers on various mobile app, trial video conferencing, and even change the way Conduct issues, will continue in 2018. we communicate with customers. 16 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc When things go wrong Figure 7: CMB annual complaint volumes (000) – top 8 markets In 2017, CMB handled more than 57,000 complaints – a 7% 2017 2016 increase on 2016 with 75% coming from customers in the UK, 7% in Hong Kong and 7% in France. Operational complaints UK* 43.1 37.8 remained the highest in volume and these are related to the regular transactions that our customers do most frequently like Hong Kong 4.1 3.2 making payments and changing the details of their accounts. Complaints arise when we are too slow or make mistakes. Asia Pacific 1.1 1.2 The largest increase in complaints was related to our requests Europe 4.8 6.6 for customers to provide more information about themselves Middle East and North Africa 1.8 2.4 and their businesses as part of more rigorous procedures implemented by the bank to prevent financial crime. If Latin America 1.2 1.2 customers don’t provide the details needed, we sometimes restrict their use of our services. In certain cases their US 1.2 0.9 accounts will be closed to guard against the risks of fraud and money laundering. Canada 0.4 0.8 As well as addressing the root causes of the complaints, we *Volumes for the UK are received complaints from eligible complainants aligned are rolling out a global online training programme aimed at to the current FCA reporting. Volume of complaints for all other markets, complaint reason breakdowns and commentary are based on total volumes of customer-facing teams. The training improves our ability to resolved complaints. recognise complaints and emphasises the importance of recording, understanding and resolving them (see Figures Figure 8: CMB complaint themes 7 and 8). 29% Others 8% Branch 2016 32% 2016 10% 26% Operations 7% Fees, rates and charges 2016 25% 2016 10% 12% Contact centre 6% Internet banking 2016 10% 2016 8% 12% Processes and procedures 2016 5% Customers 17 Global Banking and Markets Global Banking and Markets (GB&M) helps multinational Figure 9: GBM customer survey results customers to grow and manage their businesses through a wide range of products and services. These are designed to address customers’ universal banking needs. Global Banking biannual Advocacy Rapport customer engagement survey Emotion We continually strive to earn our customers’ trust and make Loyalty Every year we Value it easier for them to do business with us. We are working on Trust measure seven better understanding their needs, strengthening our controls, Satisfaction improving our service offering and technology, and ensuring our team embraces and lives up to our core values and conduct aspects of engagement agenda. We made good progress in 2017 but we know there is still much more to do. How we listen to customers In 2017 Our customers are international, often with sophisticated needs, and always with high expectations of customer service. six of the seven engagement metrics They have clear views on the service we offer, so improving showed a positive trend how we listen and react to their opinions and concerns is at the centre of our thinking. 96% felt our service – We have implemented a number of bespoke surveys had stayed the same that capture our customers’ feelings about the service 64% or improved we provide. Information on our Global Banking biannual considered HSBC as one of customer engagement survey, and HSBC Securities Services their top 3 banks in 2017 survey, can be seen in Figure 9. HSBC Securities Services – We subscribe to market insight to receive information on customer engagement survey competitive positioning across the trade, cash management, and banking markets. Overall 82% – We receive relationship feedback through our client planning considered their relationship process, and sometimes via complaints. We are updating with HSBC good or excellent our complaints tracking to ensure we have consistent to recommend standards in place. 77% likely our services When things go wrong We receive some of the most powerful feedback from complaints. Following the roll out of our new Customer Our Client Escalation Committee is made up of senior managers Feedback policy in late 2015, we have improved our underlying and strives to improve the quality of service for our customers, systems and processes to allow for greater transparency and as well as dealing with issues when they arise. The Chair will improved reporting of our customers’ concerns. assign an executive from the committee to sponsor each case and ensure the agreed action plan is completed. The committee Our people are trained to ensure customer concerns and encourages issues to be escalated and addressed before they complaints are handled as consistently and quickly as result in frustration, ensures employee conduct is delivering fair possible, and all complaints are monitored and reported in our outcomes for our customers, and identifies the root cause of governance forums. repeat issues that need to be addressed. 18 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc Values, culture and market integrity Improving our culture We are continually working on improving our conduct agenda. Although we have made progress, we are enhancing and Major changes over the last four years, covering training, accelerating progress made in strengthening and remediating communication, incentives, policies, procedures, surveillance our systems and controls and broader compliance culture technology, reporting and monitoring have undoubtedly through a newly established Global Banking and Markets improved our culture, our behaviour and our discipline. Conduct Committee, led by our Global Banking and Markets CEO. Market experts are providing input. The agenda focuses The recent conclusion of two long-running investigations into on Culture and Behaviours, Customers (including Suitability, historical practices were clear reminders of how ensuring Conflicts of Interest, Pricing and Transparency), Markets the highest standards of professional conduct to deliver (covering Market Conduct, Trade Execution and Competition), fair outcomes for customers and to protect the orderly and Governance and Controls, and Strategy and Business Planning. transparent operation of the markets remains paramount: Progress is being tracked and reported through our own governance channels, as well as being reported to the DoJ, FRB – On 29 September 2017, the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) and our regulators in line with our agreements with them all. fined HSBC $175.3m in relation to unsafe and unsound practices in our foreign exchange trading business covering Conduct is core to how we operate and manage our business. the period from 2008 to 2013. The related Consent Order We have already implemented improvements to algorithmic highlighted that the bank failed to detect and address trading to manage risk around benchmark orders, and updated conduct by certain traders, including misusing confidential our policies for sales, order handling, managing confidential customer information, as well as using electronic chatcustomer information and conflicts of interest, pre-hedging rooms, to communicate with competitors about their trading and market abuse. We have engaged external firms to audit positions. The FRB’s Order requires us to improve our our internal controls and to enhance our voice, trade and audio controls and compliance risk management concerning both surveillance. We have created global and regional conduct foreign exchange and wider designated wholesale markets governance forums to provide supervision and oversight over for commodities and interest rate products. the implementation and effectiveness of our conduct agenda. – On 18 January 2018, HSBC also entered into a three-year An extensive plan is in place, and we aim to deliver this as Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the US Department fast and efficiently as we can. Our success will determine of Justice (DoJ) to resolve its investigation into HSBC’s how well we deliver the right outcomes for our customers and historical foreign exchange sales and trading activities within stakeholders, consistently and reliably, for many years to come. our Global Markets business. The conduct described in the agreement occurred in 2010 and 2011 and we paid $101.5m Key areas of focus include: in fines and restitution. – Customer-facing improvements: We are focusing on suitability and appropriateness, new product approval, HSBC has acknowledged its failings and, since the historical pricing and transparency. Ensuring customers have the right conduct described in these agreements, introduced a number products at a fair price. of measures designed to make the control environment more robust. We have dedicated, and continue to dedicate, – Surveillance: We have a major programme to install the latest significant resources to strengthen our systems and controls. technology and surveillance methods and to build out the Improvements to our conduct agenda started more than three supporting team. years ago and are already in place. However, we continue – People: We are embedding conduct considerations into to look for ways to enhance our controls and to embed the the full employee life cycle, including hiring, training, culture that is at the heart of good conduct. We know we still performance management and reward, promotions and have much more to do. HSBC is committed to ensuring fair exits. Building a stronger speak-up culture, together with outcomes for its customers and protecting the orderly and our whistleblowing programme, are important aims of this transparent operation of the markets. approach. We also believe a more diverse workforce would help us to deliver better outcomes to our customers. See The investigations focused specifically on our markets activity, Employee section for more details, including a case study on but they have also given us good reason to look again at every improving gender balance on page 24. aspect of our conduct within the Global Banking and Markets business. They were clear and specific reminders of the importance for us to continue improving. More than ever, this is a top priority for our senior management team, as well as for every employee. Customers 19 Global Private Banking Global Private Banking (GPB) aims to support the owners and How we listen to our customers principals of the Group’s corporate customers, helping them GPB conducts an annual customer engagement survey. In the to grow and preserve their personal wealth from generation 2017 survey, more than 800 customers shared their views (see to generation. Figure 10 for key findings). Our customer service teams comprise Relationship Managers, Figure 10: GPB results from 2017 annual customer engagement survey. investment counsellors, product and credit specialists, and wealth planners. They develop a thorough understanding Overall satisfaction increased from of each customer, including their family, business, lifestyle, ambitions and philanthropic activity. Specialists from Global 7.8 to 8.3 out of 10 Private Banking and other parts of HSBC, including Commercial Banking and Global Banking and Markets, are then engaged to provide the best possible service from across our global network. Addressing the past 73% of respondents have had a relationship In recent years, GPB has taken significant steps to address with GPB for more than five years, and historical control weaknesses, most notably in Switzerland. 47% for more than 10 years. This has included the full implementation of the Group’s Global Standards for financial crime risk management and the adoption of a comprehensive tax transparency policy. Where 73% 47% we used to offer banking services to customers in more than 140 countries, GPB now focuses on 34 strategic markets, with customer assets actively managed down by $135bn between 5 years + 10 years + 2013 and 2017. While GPB has resolved a number of legacy issues relating to 91% felt the solutions that we recommended the past, investigations into former practices are ongoing in offered value for money. a number of countries at the time of publication. In addition, GPB’s role as private bank and trust adviser to high net worth This was up from 88% in 2016. individuals may sometimes result in HSBC Private Banking receiving media attention in customer disputes. 91% 88% What we expect from our customers As part of our efforts to manage financial crime risk, today’s GPB customers are required to certify their tax status and 2017 2016 undergo regular periodic and event driven reviews, according to their risk category and in line with changes to their circumstances. They are also subject to continuous transaction monitoring and negative news screening. When things go wrong Given the direct access our customers have to their Relationship Managers, any issues are usually resolved quickly. Where this is not possible, a formal complaints process is invoked and monitored through the GPB Risk Management Meeting. 20 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc Taking responsibility for the experience we deliver in customer service teams. The learning focuses on helping Treating customers fairly and ensuring a fair exchange of value colleagues deliver key outcomes specific to their role, such as are fundamental principles for the pricing levels and design customer satisfaction, effective management of conduct and of GPB’s products and services. Our standards ensure GPB risk, and business performance objectives. pricing is fair, properly governed and monitored. Global product heads are responsible for developing and reviewing, at least GPB has also introduced specific conduct objectives, with annually, the fair value exchange criteria for their product types a focus on customer outcomes, into the global scorecards or asset classes. for all its people. Customer-facing colleagues are required to demonstrate the delivery of fair outcomes and show products Over the past two years, GPB has embarked on a global are marketed and sold in line with sales guidelines. Product programme to review internal practices to ensure that conduct design teams are asked to demonstrate that products and is being managed effectively. As a result, enhancements have services are designed to meet the different needs of customers, been made across a number of processes, such as improved are competitive, are clear, and offer a fair exchange of value. sales and suitability controls, re-enforced through training initiatives to ensure customers are consistently receiving fair Products designed with customers in mind outcomes. We are committed to providing the best possible service to customers. This is guided by our product approval process and Training our people for good outcomes sales quality standards. This covers everything from assessing GPB has developed and launched the role-based learning the suitability of products and services to ensuring we fulfil curriculum for Relationship Managers and other key roles our duty. Employees 21 Employees Executive summary Our people are critical to our success and it is important that we listen to them and encourage them to speak up. We try to foster a culture that encourages and promotes the right behaviour, where people feel empowered to voice their opinions and concerns. We believe gender balance and diversity across the organisation will help to create an environment where people can thrive in their own careers, and enable us to better support our customers and the communities we serve. Listening to our people Understanding how our people feel about HSBC is vital. It helps We continue to test the views of a representative sample of our us ensure that we are giving them the right support to fulfil their people on a range of topics via our monthly employee research, potential and do the right thing for our customers. Employees Snapshot. The 2017 results reveal that employee sentiment on are asked for feedback and encouraged to speak up. certain key topics has become more positive over the past year but also show that other areas have remained flat or fallen We use CultureScope, an award-winning insight tool, to (see Figure 11). assess how people feel and think about how they behave in the workplace. This is then compared to the behavioural Snapshot results are presented to the Group Management preferences that underpin HSBC’s values of being Dependable, Board and relevant executive committees of the global Open and Connected. A close alignment between personal and functions and businesses, regions and countries. This ensures organisational behaviours indicates a healthy culture. the attitudes and sentiments of our people inform decisionmaking at all levels of HSBC. Action can then be taken, both Our 2017 results revealed encouraging signs in a number of locally and globally, to tackle areas of concern. key areas. It showed that our people place a high importance on laws, rules, values, and obligations; that there is an Feedback from HSBC Exchange is shared and acted on in emphasis on long-term delivery and results; and that goals are a similar way. Exchange sessions are safe forum meetings, achieved through partnerships and alliances. without agendas, attended by people from across the organisation. They can discuss what matters to them, share However, CultureScope highlighted other areas where HSBC views and suggest ideas, while managers and leaders attend can do more to support the culture to which it aspires. These to listen. include: providing more support and guidance that empowers our people to make decisions; encouraging them to express Our insight shows us that where our people participate in more of their great ideas and opinions; and helping them make Exchange they are more positive about their experience at stronger connections between the work that they do and the HSBC. They feel more able to speak up, are more trusting of experiences of our customers. managers and leaders, and report higher levels of well-being. It is our intention that all of our people have the opportunity to take part in an Exchange meeting each quarter. 22 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc On average throughout 2017, 43% of our people reported that Recognising those who live our values they had attended one within the previous three months, down By embedding a culture that promotes the right behaviour, we two percentage points from the figures quoted last year. To encourage those who live our values. make Exchange meetings mandatory would go against the Our global peer-to-peer recognition programme, ‘At Our Best spirit of the programme. Instead, we encourage managers and Recognition’, which is available in more than 50 countries, employees to arrange them by regularly communicating the allows our people to recognise one another for demonstrating clear benefits they provide to individuals, teams and HSBC. our values throughout the year. Individuals receive points which can be redeemed for a wide range of merchandise in a We continue to focus on making improvements and creating a catalogue. values-based, healthy organisation for everyone. In 2017, more than 700,000 recognitions were made to a total value of nearly $10m. Figure 11: select results from Snapshot survey 2017 2016 SPOTLIGHT I am seeing the positive During 2017, we piloted a ‘Spotlight’ feature, designed to 65% 61% impact of our strategy shine the light on a specific global priority for a defined period of time and encourage employees to recognise I feel confident about HSBC’s future 72% 69% their colleagues. The pilot topic was ‘fighting financial crime’ with more than 100,000 recognitions made. Some of the stories were later I trust the senior leadership in my area 66% 68% shared as inspirational case studies on our global intranet, HSBC NOW. This included how our people applied their I believe that the senior leadership training and used financial crime controls to protect HSBC in my area makes decisions that take 53% 56% people like me into consideration and prevent suspected criminals, from sex traffickers to sanctions evaders, entering the financial system. I feel proud to work for HSBC 76% 76% CASE STUDY I would recommend this company 64% 63% FOCUS ON FINANCIAL CRIME as a great place to work Conditions in my job allow me to be Commercial Banking launched a two-day bespoke financial 58% 58% crime programme for 6,500 Relationship Managers and about as productive as I can be Team Leaders in 2017. This programme used HSBC subject I feel able to speak up when I see matter experts, including those from our Financial Crime 74% 76% behaviour which I think is wrong Risk, Regulatory Compliance, Sanctions and Tax functions, to create case studies and content, and was co-facilitated by I believe HSBC is genuine in its commitment Commercial Banking leaders. 70% 72% to encourage colleagues to speak up All Snapshot results based on Q417 data. Employees 23 Whistleblowing Figure 12: whisteblowing statistics by theme Having a culture where our people feel able to speak up is important. Though individuals are actively encouraged to raise concerns about wrongdoing or unethical conduct through the usual reporting and escalation, we understand that in some circumstances employees would prefer a more discreet way to raise their concerns. 2017 TOTAL HSBC Confidential, established in 2015, provides a platform that enables employees to raise concerns on any issues, 1,585 outside the usual escalation channels, in confidence and 2016 without fear of retaliation. HSBC Confidential is available to TOTAL all of our people, past and present, in all global businesses, 1,102 functions and entities across the world, including secondees, external consultants, contractors and agency employees. People Compliance* Multiple channels have been established to raise issues, including telephone hotlines, online and email, and these 63% 15% channels deal with a broad range of concerns at different 2016 62% 2016 12% severity levels. Security and fraud Other HSBC does not condone or tolerate any acts of retaliation 16% 6% against anyone who reasonably believes that the concern 2016 21% 2016 5% that they have raised is true. We consider any retaliation in *Includes Financial Crime Compliance and Regulatory Compliance those circumstances as a disciplinary matter, and all such matters are escalated to senior management. The making of malicious or false claims is also incompatible with our values. Figure 13: whistleblowing statistics by business and function line Concerns raised are investigated thoroughly and independently, drawing on the expertise of a variety of departments, including Compliance, Human Resources, Legal, Fraud, Information Security, and Internal Audit. A total of 1,585 cases were raised during 2017, which represents an increase of 44% on the 1,102 in 2016 (see 2017 TOTAL Figures 12 and 13). The year-on-year increase highlights heightened awareness of HSBC Confidential and the ongoing 1,585 efforts of the Group to encourage employees to speak up. Of the 1,139 cases closed in 2017, 30% were substantiated (2016: 2016 TOTAL 34%) following independent investigation. 1,102 Common themes included issues with employees behaviour or RBWM CMB conduct, allegations of fraud, and weaknesses with information security. Remedial activity has been undertaken where 52% 7% appropriate. This has included disciplinary action, adjustments 2016 56% 2016 6% to variable pay and/or performance and behaviour ratings. Global Functions and HOST GB&M The Group Audit Committee is taking overall responsibility for reviewing the Group’s whistleblowing policy and procedures, 25% 4% 2016 33% 2016 4% and receives regular updates on relevant concerns raised under these procedures, together with management actions taken Not specific to one area GPB in response. 10% 2% 2016 Nil 2016 1% 24 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc A healthy and diverse workforce Diversity and inclusion ‘ I am committed to building our To be truly effective we must create an environment that is diverse and inclusive, where everyone feels they can thrive. leadership teams to reflect the gender Continued success will require a workforce that reflects balance of the customers and societies our customers and the societies we serve. Our definition of diversity goes broader than inherent characteristics to include we serve. It is our responsibility as other differences that make individuals unique, such as cultural leaders to enable our people to fulfil fluency, global experience and work styles. We encourage their career potential and shape diversity of thought from our leaders and our people so we can deliver on our purpose. organisations that can thrive.’ John M Flint, Group Chief Executive. Gender balance Gender balance is an important part of creating a diverse and inclusive environment. HSBC is supporting the 30% Club’s CEO Figure 14: gender diversity statistics Campaign, with an aspirational diversity target of 30% women in senior roles by the end of 2020. All Group Management Male % No. of employees Female % 2016 Female % Board members are accountable for diversifying their senior leadership population and ensuring succession plans draw on the Group’s broad workforce diversity. In 2017, 26.8% of our 12 Holdings Board 5 29 30 senior employees were women, ahead of our goal of 26.3%. 71 For 2018, we are looking to achieve 27.6% or above (see Figure 14 for detailed targets). 12 Group Management Board 2 14 8 86 We are increasing the focus on gender balance in our Combined Executive recruitment, succession planning and other development 135 Committee and Direct Reports* 45 25 – plans. These include leadership programmes, sponsorship and 75 mentoring schemes. In addition, we participate in groups and forums such as CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™ in the 6,540 Senior employees** 2,393 27 25 US, and Women Directors in Malta, to share best practices 73 and identify solutions. Balance, our largest global employee resource group, brings employees together on the gender 112,390 All employees 122,239 52 52 agenda and partners with other diversity networks. 48 % figures have been rounded * Combined Executive Committee and Direct Reports was reported for the first time as at 30 June 2017 to the UK’s Hampton Alexander Review and includes the Executive Directors, Group Managing Directors and their CASE STUDY direct reports (excluding administrative staff). **Senior employees refers to employees performing roles classified as ACCELERATING FEMALE LEADERS IN GB&M 0, 1, 2 or 3 in our Global Career Band Structure. The priority within GB&M is improving the representation of women at senior levels. GENDER PAY It had emerged that our female talent was less well-known Gender pay has been a particular area of focus since the than their male counterparts for managing director level introduction of UK gender pay gap regulations. Our pay promotions. This prompted last year’s launch of Accelerating strategy is designed to attract and motivate the very best Female Leaders, which is a programme to increase their people, regardless of gender, ethnicity, age, disability or visibility and connectivity. We are already seeing positive any other factor unrelated to performance or experience. trends around promotion rates, while almost two-thirds of participants are engaged in strategic projects. We are confident in our approach to pay and if we identify any pay differences between men and women in similar ‘We know that we need to approach our diversity and roles, which cannot be explained by reasons such as inclusion opportunities from a number of different angles performance/behaviour rating or experience, we make to drive sustainable change,’ said Samir Assaf, Chief appropriate adjustments. Executive, GB&M. ‘Our Accelerating Female Leaders programme is an important lever in our vision for a more Our UK Gender Pay Gap disclosure can be found on the gender-balanced future.’ Measuring our Impact page at www.hsbc.com Employees 25 Parents and carers Ethnic diversity We care about work-life choices and believe it’s important to As a global organisation, HSBC benefits from ethnic diversity. help employees manage family responsibilities. Of those who Our people have the opportunity to share demographic completed Snapshot this year, 40% identified as being parents information in HSBC’s Snapshot survey, which helps us build of dependent children, with 17% stating they were carers. This a better understanding of the employee experience for is defined as having a non-parental caring responsibility. different groups. It’s our intention to create an inclusive environment that In the 2017 Snapshot, 8% of our people identified as belonging supports our people’s needs both inside and outside of the to an ethnic minority, and 68% of them aspire to move up at workplace. We also recognise these may change at different least one global career band within HSBC. Initiatives aimed points in their careers and for reasons that go beyond family at supporting different ethnic minority groups vary according responsibilities. to location. These include increasing the representation of members of Canada’s indigenous population via specific recruitment efforts. There is also a dedicated leadership Figure 15: estimated gender / parent representation by Global programme for UAE nationals, while African-American/Black Career Band* employees are involved in a reverse mentoring scheme in the GCB 0-3 GCB 4-6 GCB 7-8 US. Our Embrace network of employee resource groups also engages colleagues on issues around ethnicity and race. Men/Not Fathers Figure 17: 2017 year-end headcount distribution by ethnicity 19% Fathers 24% 27% and nationality* Top 3 by ethnicity* 12% Senior leadership Overall 30% White 40.8% Asian 53.9% 20% Asian 26.5% White 16.7% 55% 21% Latin American 2.9% Latin American 6.7% Mothers 14% Top 5 by nationality* Senior leadership Overall Women/not mothers 12% 25% 41% British TOP 34.7% Chinese 22.0% * Combining HR headcount by gender and global career band with colleagues who identified as parents of dependent children in Snapshot Chinese 508.3% Indian 16.4% French 6.8% British 15.8% Age diversity Indian 5.5% Mexican 6.7% The demographic mix of HSBC’s people by age varies Australian 2.5% French 4.0% significantly by region. *includes employees who chose not to disclose their ethnicity/nationality as well as any locations where regulatory restrictions apply. Group Ethnicity is a high Figure 16: 2017 employee age bands by region (%) level descriptor standardising multiple underlying ethnicity entries. Asia 36 41 16 6 1 Figure 18: HSBC awards in 2017 HSBC AWARDS Europe 2017 Company of the Year – 1 19 33 26 18 3 European Diversity Awards Latin America A Times Top 50 Employer for Women – Third year in a row 30 43 20 6 1 Top Global employer in Stonewall’s Workplace Equality Index Middle East – Third year in a row. Winner, Global Trans Inclusion Award 25 49 22 4 HSBC employees named on the following: North America HERoes Champions for Women – UK Top 50 (Women) 12 29 28 24 7 Top 30 Ethnic Minority Future Leaders list < 20 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 >60 Global Top 10 Women and Men lists Age band The Financial Times’ 100 Leading Ethnic Minority Power List 26 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc Employee well-being A healthy workforce is essential to creating a culture that HSBC global well-being survey sets HSBC apart and helps our people thrive. HSBC has a To further understand and support our employees’ needs, global well-being programme to provide all employees with 2017 saw the second annual HSBC global well-being survey. information and resources to make positive choices that The research explored mental health, work-related stress, enhance their overall health and well-being. We believe that physical health, financial health, career development, flexible when we look after our people they, in turn, take better care of working, supportive network and resilience. We had 28% of our business (see Figure 19 for how our well-being programme global employees responding and the results will help shape is delivered). our well-being programme. Figure 19: key areas of our well-being programme. of our people report feeling 37% work-related stress. Health and wellness providing resources that enable our The top contributors to stress are workload, management of employees to be at their physical, mental and emotional best processes and systems, lack of growth opportunities, fear of making a mistake, and work extending into personal time. The survey showed that 69% of employees feel equipped Wealth and finances to manage their work-related stress through planning equipping our people with the tools they need to take and prioritising, support from colleagues and exercise. In control of their finances addition to the obvious benefits, the research also revealed that these individuals are more likely to recommend our products and services. Lifestyle and leisure policies and opportunities to help everyone of our people experience manage their work time effectively as well 64% positive mental health as enjoy time outside the office There is a strong relationship between positive mental Values and culture health and resilience. Our insight also indicates that highly ensuring our workplace is resilient employees feel more able to speak up, challenge values-based and inclusive processes and procedures that they think will be bad for our Development customers, and feel more productive. and progression providing support that of our people report a long-term helps our people create 21% physical health condition the careers they want Individuals with a long-term physical health condition Environment report higher work-related stress, higher financial strain and enhancing our physical working lower levels of positive mental health. These stressors can environment be partly mitigated through supportive line management, improved resilience and flexible working. Everyone at HSBC is responsible for ensuring they are able to work at their best, fostering an environment where well-being is a priority. of our people are finding 16% it difficult to manage financially After the launch of our global approach to well-being during 2016, we have made significant progress to bring this to life in Approximately 65% of employees would like to improve their 2017. Examples include: financial well-being. To learn more about our commitment to our employees’ financial well-being see page 33. – The launch of an HSBC Food Pledge, in partnership with our outsourced catering provider. For example, water hydration stations, vegetarian options, fresh fruit available, drinks 49% of our people across HSBC work flexibly available with no added sugar, more low fat milk, nutrition website and introduction of @Eatwell logo on food dishes. Those who work flexibly are more positive about many – The introduction of Employee Assistance Programme well-being factors, including their working relationships and services in all locations (see Health and Safety on page 39 ability the make work-life choices that are right for them. for more details). Employees who reported flexible working, high levels of resilience and the ability to manage work-related stress were – The provision of financial education seminars including also more likely to want to stay at HSBC for longer. ‘Your Financierge’ (see page 33 for more details). Employees 27 Developing our people Learning is one of the keys to success at HSBC. Investing in Introducing HSBC University learning helps our people to excel in their current roles and HSBC University, the new home of Learning at HSBC, launched thrive in the future. It also helps them implement policies, across the Group in October 2017. This encompasses new deliver great things for our customers and aligns behaviours learning programmes and premises, as well as investments in with HSBC’s cultural aspirations. delivering learning beyond the classroom. Our people participated in a wide variety of learning last HSBC University gives employees access to relevant, timely year, including programmes helping them understand their and high-quality learning, regardless of their role. Role-specific responsibilities in risk management, fighting financial crime and learning is available by business line and function, designed to effectively managing people. support our people from new-to-role through to expert. We introduced a more focused and efficient approach to The University also has new management programmes to mandatory training, targeting critical areas such as anti-money support our strategic leadership needs and connect people laundering, bribery and corruption. This approach, as well as across the Group. These programmes are for employees the completion of our two-year, ‘At Our Best’ programme, at all levels and include Leadership Essentials and Team resulted in a reduction of training hours for all our people. Management Essentials, tailored for new people managers, and Leading Businesses and Functions, a strategic programme Figure 20: training statistics at HSBC for our more senior leaders. Training hours 7.2 million Supporting our people managers Our employee insight has consistently highlighted the important role of our people managers. Everyday Performance 2016 = 11m and Development (EPD) encourages managers to move away from the traditional cycle-based performance management activities. It focuses on more frequent and meaningful Training days per FTE conversations about their team’s performance, development, 3 days and well-being throughout the year, both formally and informally. These frequent check-ins result in our people feeling more 2016 = 5.5 days productive, more able to state their opinions, more trusting of leadership, and more positive about their future with HSBC. Our Q4 2017 Snapshot results indicate that 63% of our people Instances of training courses feel these conversations have an effect on their day-to-day 7million achievement of performance objectives. 2016 = 11m EPD is one of the critical themes of HSBC University’s People Management Essentials, attended by more than 6000 managers in 2017. We will continue to provide this training to our managers while refreshing and updating content. For Instructor-led training example, an Inclusive Hiring Essentials course will be added to 440,548 the programme in 2018. CASE STUDY BUILDING DIGITAL CAPABILITY 2016 = 622,221 Our RBWM leaders recognised the opportunity to improve E-Learning completions their digital development. We partnered with industry experts across the globe to explore topics such as 4.5 million exponential growth through digital innovation, customer centricity, and leadership. Participants worked together to 2016 = 5.5m apply their new skills on 21 existing business challenges. The programme was extended to nearly 700 leaders across RBWM and supporting functions. 28 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc Supporting sustainable growth Executive summary We recognise our wider obligations to the communities in which we operate, and understand economic growth must also be sustainable. We have taken genuine strides forward, including setting out a series of commitments to assist in the global transition to a low-carbon economy. As we recognise the increasing importance of skills in today’s economy, we are looking to help people access education and training. We will continue to engage with our stakeholders, and set policies that change in line with technology, science and societal expectations. In our last ESG supplement we introduced our new approach and principles around sustainability in HSBC. Our sustainability Sustainable finance approach focuses on three main areas: sustainable finance; Facilitate financial flows to sustainable networks and entrepreneurship; and future skills. enable a transition to a We continue to prioritise these areas to support sustainable low-carbon and sustainable growth within our own organisation and for our customers. economy. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (‘SDGs’) are 17 goals and 169 targets to be achieved by 2030. This is a call to action to protect the planet, end poverty, and ensure peace and prosperity. HSBC has a responsibility to contribute to this globally agreed framework for action. By aligning our Sustainable networks values, conduct and business activity, the SDGs set the context for our long-term ambition. and entrepreneurship Foster new business We have highlighted how our three sustainability focus areas development and sustainable contribute to specific goals, as illustrated in the image. HSBC international growth. was the first corporate to issue an SDG bond in benchmark size and further details may be found in the Sustainable Development Goal Bond case study on page 29. We will complete further reporting on the SDGs, including targets, Future skills later in 2018 via the SDG bond progress report. HSBC will Providing our customers, our continue to contribute to many of the SDGs, through our communities and our people financing and investments, as well as how we conduct with the skills and knowledge business and operate. needed to thrive in the global economy. Supporting sustainable growth 29 Sustainable finance We define sustainable finance as any form of financial service Our progress on sustainable finance commitments that integrates environmental, social and governance (ESG) 1 Provide $100bn of sustainable financing and investment criteria into business or investment decisions. Sustainable by 2025 finance covers the financing and investment activities needed to support the SDGs. – Facilitated more than $10.5bn of green, social, sustainability bonds in 2017. The Paris Agreement aims to limit the risk of an increase in – Trained more than 2,500 customer-facing employees on temperatures to 2°C above pre-industrial levels. An estimated sustainable finance. $100tn of investment is needed in new green infrastructure – Established internal forums in eight key markets with three over the next 15 years to provide a 66% chance of meeting more to be added in Q118. this goal. We recognise the critical role finance has to play – Continued product development and innovation, including and HSBC aspires to be a leading global partner in financing, new low-carbon investment funds in Asset Management and managing and shaping the transition to a low-carbon world. inaugural corporate SDG bond issued by HSBC Holdings plc (see case study on this page). A key objective for the bank is to provide financing to enable the transition to a low-carbon economy and to help customers 2 Source 100% of our electricity from renewable sources manage transition risk. Sustainable financing includes by 2030, with an interim target of 90% by 2025 providing credit and lending facilities, advisory services, – Renewables power purchase agreements signed to cover investment products, and access to capital markets. 27% of our electricity consumption, up four percentage points from 2016. In our November ESG Supplement, we made five sustainable – Decreased electricity consumption per FTE by 15% since 2011. finance commitments. Here, we are providing the first update on our progress. – Continuing to develop opportunities in US, Europe, Asia, and Middle East and collaborate with partners in different markets. CASE STUDY 3 Reduce our exposure to thermal coal and actively manage the transition path for other high carbon sectors HSBC’S SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOAL BOND – Embedding climate risk in risk policies and processes. In November 2017, HSBC Holdings issued its inaugural – Initiated the review of our energy policy (see page 34 $1bn SDG bond. This was the first benchmark for details). sustainability bond that highlighted the United Nations SDGs as use of proceeds. HSBC acted as sole bookrunner 4 Adopt the recommendations of the Task Force on and sole structuring adviser. Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) to improve HSBC’s Sustainability bond focuses on seven of the 17 transparency UN SDGs. These include good health and well-being, quality education, clean water and sanitation, affordable – Published first TCFD disclosure in our Annual Report and and clean energy, industry, innovation and infrastructure, Accounts 2017, page 27. sustainable cities, and communities and climate action. – Further disclosure of quantitative data on impacted industry sectors planned for 2018 reporting. The transaction gained strong momentum, with the issue – Our sustainability governance and executive accountability is comfortably oversubscribed for the maximum available outlined on page 37. deal size of $1bn. 5 Lead and shape the debate around sustainable finance Patricia Espinosa, Executive Secretary of UN Climate and investment Change, said: ‘A dramatic expansion in creative financing is going to be crucial for catalysing the transition to – Launched Centre of Sustainable Finance site (see www. a low-carbon, sustainable world. It is happening, but sustainablefinance.hsbc.com). needs to happen with greater urgency, speed and scale. – Published five reports covering key themes including greening So, congratulations to HSBC for this innovation and its the Belt and Road Initiative, energy evolution and climate explicit support for the SDGs and the Paris Climate Change change risk assessment, among others. Agreement – we look forward to many more financial – Participated in more than 100 sustainable finance related institutions following suit.’ events and conferences. 30 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc Transition risk Sustainable operations HSBC aims to help customers manage the risks associated with HSBC plays a key part in supporting the transition to a the transition to a low-carbon economy and has identified three low-carbon economy, both via our own operations and by potential issues: supporting customers in their transition strategies. – Transition risk: The transition to low-carbon economy is We believe it is important to lead by example. For this reason, a significant change for financial services providers, our back in 2011, we set 2020 targets to drive our operational customers and investors. It reflects the possibility that a sustainability ambition. counterparty’s ability to meet its financial obligations will deteriorate due to the global movement from a high-carbon In 2017, we stretched many of these targets as we had to a low-carbon economy. This could be driven by tighter met 2020 targets ahead of time. With two years left of our environmental regulations, adoption of energy efficient and strategy, we continue to work with our suppliers to reach disruptive technologies or market changes. HSBC may be these targets. In addition, and to align to our sustainable exposed to such risk in numerous ways, not only from direct finance commitments, we also committed to a longer-term lending and market dealing, but also from a reputational commitment to source 100% of our electricity from renewable perspective through the financing of a CO2 intensive sources by 2030. business. – Adaptation risk: Adapting to a changing climate is critical for Figure 21: targets for sustainable operations society. HSBC will need to adapt as climate change affects our operations, markets, and investment decisions. 2020 Goal* Progress to date set from 2011 baseline 2017 – Physical risk: More frequent climate events with economic losses arising. HSBC will assess the impact of these climatic events on our customers and on our own assets. 75% 60% We are engaging with customers to understand which risks Waste may affect their businesses – and supporting them on their reduction transition to a low-carbon economy. Internally, HSBC is taking steps to embed the management of these risks into our strategy. This involves: 66% 64% – Identifying which customers need to adapt rapidly to such a Paper transition, helping them address climate-related issues, and reduction spotting potential business opportunities for HSBC. – Ensuring robust internal governance processes and incorporating an initial assessment of transition risk into our Credit Risk Management processes. We have reduced our – Assessing HSBC’s position versus the agreed CO2 emissions CO2 emissions by 41% reduction scenario of the United Nations. 41% since 2011 – Meeting evolving regulatory requirements and complying with the recommendations of the TCFD. *The 2020 goals are the updated targets published in 2017 Supporting sustainable growth 31 Sustainable networks and entrepreneurship As a leading global trade bank, HSBC has a unique role to play Our commitments to sustainable networks in supporting a shift to sustainability in global supply chains. In 1 Introduce supply chain solutions which embed 2018, HSBC was named the world’s number one trade finance sustainability. bank by Euromoney. We have committed to help finance the shift to a low-carbon economy. Seek commercially viable, targeted supply chain propositions to support environmental, and where possible, ethical performance improvements in our customers’ supply chains. In many industry sectors, the environmental impact of a company’s supply chain exceeds the greenhouse gas 2 Support apparel factories, tanneries and mills in emissions over which they have direct control. According to estimates, 80% of global trade passes through supply chains. China, India, Vietnam and Bangladesh to shift towards sustainability through charitable partnerships. They are one of the most important levers for businesses to create a positive effect on the world. Working with charity partners, including WWF, WaterAid and the Apparel Impact Institute, provide funding for programmes that While companies of all sizes participate in supply chains, help suppliers in the apparel sector to understand and improve the procurement standards of buyer firms can be a driver for their environmental and social impact. sustainability in small and medium-sized corporates. Research conducted by HSBC found that although just 18% of mid3 Support the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil and market enterprises rated sustainability actions as important to partner with NGOs, industry bodies and customers to their business today, 46% said it would be important to them increase demand for certified sustainable palm oil. over the next three years. Led by HSBC teams in Asia, we will increase our support for research and collaboration to remove barriers to flows of certified We want to operate in a world where global supply chains sustainable palm oil and provide practical support to demonstrate support sustainable economic growth by offering opportunities what’s possible in the shift to sustainability in the sector, in line for decent work and minimising negative environmental with our no deforestation, peat or exploitation commitment. impacts. Our aim is to support the sustainable development of our customers’ supply chains and foster new business 4 development and sustainable international growth of small Expand our review of ethical risk so all suppliers to and medium-sized enterprises (‘SMEs’) and entrepreneurs. HSBC in high risk locations and services complete selfWe will partner with customers, NGOs and other stakeholders assessments by 2020. to transform supply chains towards sustainability. Identify high-risk categories and sourcing locations for ethical impact in our own supply chain. Suppliers of high-risk categories As part of this, we are committed to aligning our community and those operating in high-risk locations will be required to investment programmes to support sustainability in sectors, complete a self-assessment questionnaire on their policies and including apparel and palm oil. We already have a policy performance. that sets standards for our palm oil customers, which was last updated in February 2017. We reported our progress on implementing our palm oil policy in our November ESG CASE STUDY Supplement. GANGES LEATHER BUYERS PLATFORM On the right, we outline our commitments to support Launched by WWF, HSBC joined the Ganges Leather Buyers sustainable supply chains, and will provide further details on Platform in 2018, which supports companies wishing to our plans to support SMEs and entrepreneurship later in the reduce pollution in their supply chains. It raises awareness of year on hsbc.com. the effect of tanneries and supports businesses in reducing water risk and encouraging sustainable tannery practices. HSBC joined the platform to share knowledge of trade finance and support sustainable improvements in the Europe-India apparel supply chains. Membership is drawn from leading apparel and footwear brands. This platform is a unique and pioneering approach that has the potential to become a substantial advocacy tool for improved sustainability in the leather sector supply chain. 32 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc Future skills HSBC has been a long-term supporter of education across the Our commitments to employability globe, especially helping disadvantaged young people access 1 Provide industry-leading learning and development for our primary, secondary and higher education. Over this time, we people to help them thrive now and in the future. have seen the rising importance of employment-linked skills development. While still crucial, completing secondary school – Create an environment where our people can unlock their or getting a degree is no longer a guarantee of success in a potential by developing managers who commit to the longworld of emerging new technologies. We’ve also seen how term careers of their people, foster a culture of curiosity, new technology and rapid demographic change can expose innovation and collaboration, and grow and share talent. those with a lack of financial information and awareness to – Ensure that our people thrive by developing their personal increasing wealth inequality. ability to learn, reflect, adapt and evolve, and to take In response to what we have learned, we are focusing one of ownership of their own development through careers that may span several different types of job and organisations. the three pillars of our sustainability strategy on future skills. As announced in our November 2017 ESG Supplement, we will – Build out HSBC University, which launched in 2017, to work to increase levels of employability and financial capability. provide opportunities and tools for our people to develop the knowledge and skills required in their current role, but also Our aim is to support future skills with the full range of the roles of the future, at HSBC and beyond. resources available to us. These include our products and services, our charitable donations, the skills and passion of 2 Help people in our communities develop the skills for the our people, and the strength of our brand. To that end we have jobs of today and tomorrow through the HSBC Partnership developed four future skills commitments to focus our efforts for Skills. and set out our aspiration. – Support charitable partnerships that will help one million Employability people develop employment-related skills through focusing Our commitments have been designed to support employability $80m in funding for these projects by 2020, including through two key interventions where we can make a difference. launching a new global programme in 2019 focused on three These are supporting employment-linked skills development in key future skills: STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and the community and helping our people to fulfil their potential Mathematics) skills, soft skills, and global skills. and thrive in their careers. On the right, we outline our – Engage our people, and where possible our customers, to commitments to support employability. share their career experiences, knowledge and skills with the communities we operate in through volunteering. – Use our expertise and resources to support educational institutions, governments and NGOs to ensure education and training programmes provide the skills employers need. CASE STUDY INCREASING EMPLOYABILITY IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE PRINCE’S TRUST The Prince’s Trust was founded by HRH The Prince of Wales the Developing Future Skills of a Generation initiative. The in 1976 to support disadvantaged young people. The Trust funding will enable more young people to participate in The helps 11 to 30-year-olds, who have been struggling at school Trust’s signature employment programme, ‘Get Into’, while or are currently unemployed, to transform their lives. supporting the organisation to test, scale and evaluate new employability interventions. HSBC and The Prince’s Trust will HSBC has been supporting The Prince’s Trust since 2012, also continue to offer the HSBC Traineeship, HSBC’s bespoke and currently funds delivery of The Trust’s programmes in the version of the ‘Get Into’ employment programme. In 2017, UK, Channel Islands, and Malta. This support has enabled the HSBC Traineeship gave 129 unemployed young people more than 14,000 young people to re-engage with education, four weeks of work experience at HSBC. At the end of the training or employment. programme 22 of those young people secured employment at HSBC, 27 secured employment with another employer, As a result of our new focus on employability, HSBC UK seven went on to education or training, and the remaining recently renewed its support of The Prince’s Trust through participants continued to be supported by The Trust. Supporting sustainable growth 33 Financial capability Our commitments to financial capability We have provided funding and volunteers for programmes 1 Make building financial capability a central part of the building financial capability for many years. Our new financial HSBC customer experience. capability commitments are building on this heritage by focusing more of our charitable support on this area. We – Use our enhanced digital capabilities to partner with our are using the reach of our digital channels, research, and customers to grow their financial capability. new propositions to provide our stakeholders with the skills, – Empower our customer-facing RBWM employees to support attitudes and tools needed to manage their finances and make our customers and communities in growing their financial the most of their money. capability. CASE STUDY 2 Help people understand their financial needs and make the YOUR FINANCIERGE most of their money through education. Your Financierge is an HSBC service giving employees of our – Increase the reach of our Financial Well-being seminars global corporate customers access to professional guidance through our new RBWM Your Financierge service. for life’s financial decisions. From new starters to senior – Leverage our RBWM global research studies, such as the executives, the needs of employees can be very different, Future of Retirement, to provide tips, tools and links to and Your Financierge offers a range of banking services resources that build financial capability. tailored to each individual. – Support our people to increase their levels of financial wellbeing, with a focus on key issues identified through our The service includes the opportunity for employees to attend Global Well-being Survey. Financial Well-being Seminars delivered at the customer’s – Support charitable partnerships that will help one million premises, which are designed to inform and empower them people increase their level of financial capability through to manage major life events. These cover issues such as focusing $35m in funding for these projects by 2020. making the most of your money, starting your career, buying your first home, and managing and growing wealth. In 2018, – Engage our people to volunteer with these charity the expectation is for Your Financierge to be rolled out in 11 partnerships, and share their financial knowledge with the of our core markets globally. communities in which we operate. In the UK, the service has been running since 2016 with a dedicated Financial Well-being team providing education CASE STUDY sessions via seminars and one-to-one financial health HSBC CONNECTED MONEY checks. As of December 2017, the team had delivered 660 events reaching more than 15,000 employees. In addition HSBC is creating a mobile app to improve our customers’ to working externally, the team also provides our people relationship with money and instil confidence in the with access to these sessions and have delivered 77 internal financial decisions they make. events across the UK, engaging with approximately 2,000 HSBC colleagues, supporting them to enhance their levels of This app, launching in the second quarter of 2018, enables financial capability. customers to see their UK bank accounts, credit cards, mortgages and loans even those with other providers. Features are being added to help customers build good financial habits. These include the ability to gain insights into spending habits, find out how much money is in their HSBC current account until payday, and savings rules to help put money away more easily. 34 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc Sustainability risk management We define sustainability risk as the risk that financial services HSBC has already introduced or tightened policies to restrict provided to customers by the Group indirectly results in lending to companies that cause deforestation (2014), develop unacceptable impacts on people or the environment. new coal-fired power plants (2011) and develop new thermal coal mines (2016). We will continue to review our sustainability How we manage sustainability risk risk policies, and will issue our updated energy policy in the next HSBC’s sustainability risk policies cover agricultural two months. commodities, chemicals, defence, energy, forestry, freshwater infrastructure, mining and metals, UNESCO World Heritage HSBC is committed to supporting customers as they Sites, and Ramsar-designated wetlands.In addition, the finance make a transition which is good for the climate, economic sector’s Equator Principles provide a framework for financial development, and business. institutions to assess and manage the social and environmental impact of large projects to which they lend. Group HSBC’s exposure to coal mining Sustainability Risk, which is part of the Global Risk Function, In 2016, we updated our Mining & Metals policy, prohibiting is responsible for managing our sustainability risk policies and the financing of new thermal coal mines and new customers our application of the Equator Principles. dependent on thermal coal mining. We also committed to report publicly on our exposure to the coal mining sector. Group Sustainability Risk also approves or declines relationships or transactions where sustainability risks At the end of 2017, our exposure to coal mining was $0.8bn, are assessed to be high. More than 800 of these were reduced by $0.1bn from 2016. This represents 6% of our total reviewed in 2017, while our operating companies assessed exposure to the mining and metals sector. In both years, the similar risks of a lesser magnitude. We have a global total exposure of the mining and metals sector was equivalent network of 77 sustainability risk managers with regional or to 1% of the Bank’s total wholesale lending. national responsibilities for advising on – and managing – environmental and social risks. Equator Principles in 2017 Under the terms of the Equator Principles, we report annually We provide training and capacity building within our operating on the transactions completed under the Principles, a summary companies to ensure sustainability risks are identified and of which can be found in Figure 22. mitigated consistently to our standards. For example, in 2017, Group Sustainability Risk rolled out a training module for In 2017, total deal volumes under the Principles were down, in relationship and risk managers globally on our sustainability line with overall trends in the market. In 2017, we completed risk policies, and their own responsibilities, to ensure the financing of two solar energy projects under the Principles, consistent implementation. By the end of the year, more than both in the US. We have also gone beyond requirements, 9,000 of our people had completed this training. by having all project finance loans within the scope of the Principles reviewed by independent experts who check their Sustainability risk is monitored quarterly by the Risk environmental and social impacts to ensure good practice. Management Meeting of the Group Management Board, with interim updates as required. Figure 22: transactions completed under the Equator Principles Climate change 2017 2016 Climate change represents an urgent and potentially Summary No. $m No. $m irreversible threat to human societies and the planet. This was Project finance loans 10 844 16 1,506 recognised by the 195 countries that signed the 2015 Paris Agreement on climate change. HSBC supports the aims of the Project-related corporate loans 7 1,566 7 939 Agreement, as set out in our Statement on Climate Change in Project-related bridge loans 0 0 1 60 October 2016. All loans 17 2,410 24 2,505 To meet the Paris Agreement target, the world can only have Project finance advisory services 3 n/a 3 n/a a finite amount of additional emissions of carbon dioxide, Totals 20 2,410 27 2,505 referred to as the ‘carbon budget’. Countries are therefore expected to tighten their approaches. Further details will be available at www.hsbc.com/sus-risk Supporting sustainable growth 35 Policies and policy developments How we do business is as important as what we do. We also had meetings or exchanged correspondence with six We want trusting and lasting relationships with our many civil society groups where alleged human rights abuses were stakeholders to generate value in society and deliver long-term raised. We always investigate credible allegations of human shareholder returns. Our ‘social licence’ to operate partly rests rights violations as they are reported to us via engagement on our engagement with customers, our people, shareholders, with stakeholders. Serious issues are passed to the Group regulators, and civil society, including charities and other nonManagement Board. governmental organisations (NGOs). During 2018, we will develop and publish a human rights policy HSBC conducts business according to international law, to sit alongside our existing sustainability risk policies. This will regulations of the countries and territories in which we operate, cover issues such as forced labour, harmful or exploitative child and with due regard to various guidelines and principles for labour, trafficking, land rights, the rights of indigenous people, ethical business. workers’ rights, and the health and safety of communities. Project finance is subject to the Equator Principles (see We aspire to the highest standards and have developed public sustainability risk management, page 34). policies around particularly sensitive economic sectors. Often these include specific prohibitions where the environmental or Supply chain code of conduct societal impacts can be particularly acute. HSBC’s Ethical and Environmental Code of Conduct for Suppliers, which is updated periodically, requires suppliers Our sector-specific policies are not set in stone and will change to respect the human rights of their employees and the in line with technology, science or societal expectations. communities in which they operate, as well as to comply with We consult with stakeholders in the development of our all relevant legislation, regulations and directives. Suppliers policies and rely on their feedback to help us identify where must prohibit the use of forced labour and child labour, respect improvements can be made. labour rights, including non-discrimination and the right to freedom of association, and give workers, whether local or Human rights migrant, the right and ability to leave employment when they Our approach to human rights is set out in our 2015 Statement choose, to the extent possible under local law. During 2018, on Human Rights. This highlights a number of international we will undertake a risk-mapping exercise to identify the most codes to which HSBC is a signatory, or for which it has salient human rights risks in our supply chain by geography expressed support. In particular, in line with the UN Guiding and sector. Principles’ (UNGPs) Protect, Respect and Remedy framework, HSBC recognises the duty of states to protect human rights Modern Slavery Act and the role played by business in respecting them. We also We will issue our second statement under the UK’s Modern noted that ‘human rights issues are complex and that the roles Slavery Act later in 2018, on www.hsbc.com. This reports on and responsibilities of business and other stakeholders are the our own operations and supply chain, as well as examining subject of a continuing international dialogue. We are open some of the ways HSBC works with the wider financial and willing to engage in this dialogue, where appropriate and community and law enforcement agencies to act against constructive’. modern slavery. In 2018, we attended the UN Business and Human Rights Forum and have joined the Thun Group, an informal group of bank representatives working to understand further UNGPs and how they are applied across different banking activities. HSBC remains committed to the UN Global Compact, including participating in its UK Modern Slavery Act Working Group. 36 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc Defence policy CASE STUDY In 2000, HSBC decided progressively to withdraw from TACKLING MODERN SLAVERY financing the manufacture and sale of weapons. The policy undergoes regular review. Our involvement in the HSBC is committed to helping tackle modern slavery and defence sector has two distinct elements: through our asset human trafficking. We talk to a range of stakeholders, management business, where HSBC acts on behalf of its including governments, non-governmental organisations customers and where the underlying investment decision is not and academia, to share our expertise and the role banks made by us; and through our financing activities – for example, can play. In October 2017, we were invited to the Business loans or other credit, debt or equity markets activity – where Against Slavery Forum, chaired by the UK Home Secretary. we work directly for a customer. Employee training has an important role to play. In the In our engagement with customers we have greater influence UK and Malta we have delivered workshops to customerwhere the relationship is direct, and we raise issues of concern facing employees in areas identified as at higher risk of with them when we receive credible information. We have less human trafficking and are looking at expanding to other influence through our asset management business, but we retail bank markets in Europe. A training video for all do still engage with companies when issues are brought to employees helps them understand the scale of the problem our attention. and spot the signs. Financing We are also developing indicators linked to our banking Under our Defence Equipment Sector Policy, HSBC will not systems to identify proactively types of businesses where provide financial services to customers who solely or primarily trafficked individuals often work. manufacture or sell weapons. Since 2010, this policy has explicitly referenced cluster bombs and antipersonnel mines. It can be hard for those who have been trafficked to get This means we won’t finance customers involved in any way bank accounts because of their immigration status and/or with these indiscriminate weapons. lack of identification documents. In the UK, we are piloting a survivor bank account to provide controlled retail banking Where a customer undertakes a mix of weapons, weaponsfacilities to victims of modern slavery identified via the related or other business, HSBC may form a relationship with National Referrals Mechanism. The aim is to help them that customer, but will not provide financial services directly to re-integrate with society and break the cycle of abuse. subsidiaries only involved with weapons. We will not establish After a pilot in two areas in Q118 it is planned to develop any relationship with a holding company where subsidiaries it further and present findings to industry to get wider manufacture or sell antipersonnel mines or cluster bombs uptake, by Q318. or where the conglomerate’s business relates primarily to weapons, such as more than one-third of turnover. Information-sharing plays a vital role in tackling financial crime, including modern slavery and human trafficking. In Asset management Canada, for example, we participate in Project Protect, a HSBC Global Asset Management serves the bank’s customer partnership between Canada’s financial intelligence unit base of retail and private customers, intermediaries, corporates (FINTRAC), financial institutions and law enforcement. This and institutions, managing their investments in both gives a channel for accounts with potential indicators of segregated accounts and pooled funds. Since 2010, investment modern slavery, such as multiple motel bookings or frequent in companies linked to the production and/or marketing of ATM deposits in the middle of the night, to be flagged to cluster munitions, antipersonnel mines and depleted uranium law enforcement. has been excluded from all its active fundamental equity and fixed income strategies. The exclusion was extended to index and systematic active strategies in 2015. This applies to all third party asset managers and covers HSBC’s passively managed funds that track proprietary indices or use an optimised replication approach. Since 2016, the cluster munitions, antipersonnel mines and depleted uranium policy also covers index funds, which buys all the underlying constituents to fully replicate the index, and Exchange Traded Funds managed by HSBC. Full disinvestment by these funds was completed in 2017. The list of companies subject to exclusion is compiled with assistance from thirdparty research and reviewed semi-annually, in addition to our own due diligence. Governance 37 Governance Executive summary We remain committed to high standards of governance and are subject to corporate governance requirements in both the UK and Hong Kong. Over the past five years, we have transformed our ability to manage financial crime risk and are committed to further refining our approach, applying advanced analytics and artificial intelligence to target suspicious activity. We continue to embed our sustainability commitments into our governance process throughout the organisation. Corporate governance To complement these publications, there is regular dialogue We are committed to high standards of corporate governance with institutional investors. Enquiries from individuals on across the bank. A comprehensive report on our corporate matters relating to their shareholdings and HSBC’s business are governance practices is set out on pages 121 to 174 of our welcomed. Annual Report and Accounts 2017. Risk governance The role of the Board The Group Risk Committee has non-executive responsibility for The Board of HSBC Holdings plc aims to promote the Group’s the oversight of enterprise risk management, risk governance long-term success, deliver sustainable value to shareholders and and internal control systems (other than internal financial control promote a culture of openness and debate. systems, which are overseen by the Group Audit Committee). Led by the Group Chairman, the Board sets the Group’s strategy Financial crime governance and risk appetite. It also approves capital and operating plans The Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee has nonfor achieving strategic objectives on the recommendation of executive responsibility for the oversight of matters related management. The Board comprises a majority of independent to financial crime and system abuse, in particular anti-money non-executive Directors. Their role is to challenge and scrutinise laundering, sanctions, terrorist financing and proliferation the performance of management and to help develop proposals financing. and anti-bribery and corruption. on strategy. They also review the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the Group’s Sustainability governance risk profile. The Board has oversight of the Group’s sustainability and ESG initiatives with the Group Management Board being accountable Board diversity for their delivery. This accountability is reflected in the long-term The Nomination Committee is responsible for the incentive scorecard for Executive Directors of HSBC Holdings implementation of the Board’s diversity policy, measured against plc, and selected scorecards of Group Managing Directors. two objectives: (i) at least 30% of candidates being women; and (ii) only using external search consultants that have signed up to Commencing in 2018, the Board will receive a half-yearly the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms. sustainability update, covering topics such as progress against the three sustainability pillars and NGO engagement. This Shareholder engagement further entrenches our sustainability agenda, ensuring it remains Communication with shareholders is given high priority prominent at the most senior levels of the Group. In 2017, by the Board. Directors are also encouraged to develop an five presentations on sustainability were made to the Group understanding of the views of major shareholders. As Senior Management Board. Independent Director, Jonathan Symonds is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved or for Our Group-wide Climate Business Council coordinates which the normal channels would be inappropriate. sustainable finance activities across the bank, supported by various working groups within global businesses, functions and Extensive information about HSBC and its activities is provided to regions. Similarly, an ESG steering group, chaired by the Group shareholders in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017, the Strategic Finance Director, leads our approach on ESG topics, including Report and the Interim Report as well as at www.hsbc.com. considerations related to external disclosure and materiality. 38 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc Financial Crime Risk Management HSBC has a responsibility to help protect the integrity of the STAYING VIGILANT global financial system. In order to fulfil that responsibility, we have made, and continue to make, significant investments in Our people are well versed in spotting suspicious activity, our ability to detect, deter, and prevent financial crime. We raising more than 138,000 unusual activity reports during have exited customers, products, and countries where we 2017. In total, almost 150,000 suspicious activity reports, deemed the financial crime risk too high to manage. We are which are a product of both unusual activity reports and also working with governments and other banks to advance our transaction monitoring processes, were filed with law our collective interests in this area. These steps are enabling us enforcement during the year. HSBC is a strong advocate of to much more effectively reduce the risk of financial crime. public-private partnerships, working with law enforcement to share information in a more open way. In the past year, In 2012, we launched our Global Standards initiative, focused we joined three new country partnerships. The tackling on putting in place the most effective standards to combat modern slavery case study on page 36 provides an example financial crime across our operations globally. As part of this of how our people stay vigilant. effort, we designed and implemented new, globally consistent policies on anti-money laundering and sanctions that often extend beyond the requirements of local laws and regulations. Ensuring our defences operate effectively Among other steps, we hired experienced senior personnel In 2017, we made significant progress on our agenda. to lead the effort and significantly strengthened the bank’s We have: Financial Crime Risk function, which is five times larger than – Finished putting in place the new and upgraded systems in 2013; put in a place a robust investigations capability; and processes. improved and expanded our financial crime compliance – Completed a country-by-country assessment against training initiatives; built advanced analytical capabilities the core capabilities set out in our financial crime risk designed to help us target illicit conduct with greater framework. This gave us a clear view of our progress and sophistication and precision; and upgraded or replaced key plans to ensure we embed the capabilities and integrate compliance IT systems. them fully into our day-to-day operations during 2018. Putting defences in place – Finalised the target operating model for the Financial Crime A number of major IT systems have been rolled out, including Risk function, which puts in place a sustainable structure at those for customer due diligence (CDD), monitoring and a global, regional and country level, and across all lines of screening. Our centralised CDD system, which was in place in business. all countries and business lines by the end of 2016, enables a – Introduced a strengthened financial crime risk management consistent risk assessment process to be applied to customers. governance framework, mandating Financial Crime Risk Our transaction monitoring systems analyse the transactions Management Committees with a standardised agenda at processed by HSBC, which are approximately 550 million country, region and global business line level. This was every month. supported by a new dashboard of consistent management information based on a set of standardised financial crime Since 2015, we have invested $1bn in new and upgraded controls. systems. The end result is a substantially improved IT infrastructure to help detect and analyse financial crime. We Becoming more intelligence-led constantly explore technologies to help us build on our existing We will continue enhancing our systems and ensure our capabilities, including working with, or investing in, financial improvements are fully integrated into our day-to-day risk technology (fintech) firms. management practices, as well as being effective and sustainable over the long term. We are renewing our focus on Our approach to learning and training includes programmes anti-bribery and corruption as part of a dedicated three-year which help our people understand their responsibilities, programme to advance the bank’s anti-bribery and corruption including a specific focus on financial crime risk. Please see risk management capability. As part of our commitment to the pages 22 and 27 of the Employee section for details. UN Global Compact, we are committed to working against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Governance 39 Over the coming years, we aim to evolve significantly our CASE STUDY approach to financial crime risk management by using our size and scale to use all the data available to us and apply advanced DEFERRED PROSECUTION AGREEMENT analytics and artificial intelligence. In December 2017, HSBC announced its five-year Deferred Prosecution Agreement entered on 11 December 2012 This will help us overcome some of the inherent limitations with the US Department of Justice had expired. in the current industry-wide approach to financial crime risk management that uses a small amount of available information HSBC is pleased that the Department of Justice has and results in a high number of false alerts. recognised our progress in strengthening our anti-money laundering and sanctions compliance capabilities over the This new approach, which we are calling intelligence-led past five years. Our work in this area will continue to be financial crime risk management, will help us make a step consistent with our strategic objective of implementing the change in our effectiveness at fighting financial crime and set a most effective standards to combat financial crime across new standard that aims to lead the industry. our operations globally. Under the Deferred Prosecution Agreement, an We will be faster and more accurate at detecting suspicious independent compliance monitor was appointed in July activity and ever more granular in our risk assessments. We 2013 to produce annual assessments of the effectiveness will generate actionable insight that we can use ourselves and of the Group’s anti-money laundering and sanctions provide to law enforcement to help keep criminals out of the compliance programme. The Monitor has also been serving financial system. This will benefit the bank, our customers and since July 2013 as HSBC’s Skilled Person under a 2012 society at large. Direction issued by the UK Financial Conduct Authority and will continue in that capacity for a period of time at the For further information about HSBC and financial crime risk, FCA’s discretion. please see our website. Cybersecurity Health and safety HSBC – along with other public and private organisations – HSBC is committed to providing a healthy and safe working continues to operate in an environment of increasing and more environment for our people, contractors, customers and visitors sophisticated threats of cyber attacks. Cyber risk is a priority on HSBC premises and where impacted by our operations. area for senior leadership and is regularly reported at Board Putting our commitment into practice, we have delivered level to ensure appropriate visibility, governance and executive a health and safety education and information training support for our ongoing cybersecurity programme. programme to all of our people. We have set up a range of programmes to help us understand the risks we face and We continue to invest significantly in our ability to prevent, improve the buildings in which we operate. This includes: detect and respond to cyber attacks. We work closely with law – The application of our health and safety policies and enforcement and financial services peers, such as the National procedures continue to be integrated throughout our supply Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) and the Financial Services chain, particularly in developing markets, supporting the Information Sharing and Analysis Center (FS-ISAC). We have overall improvement of safety standards in these countries. also recently established security innovation labs and are actively engaged in fintech partnerships. We continue to invest – Our local Employee Assistance Programme services were in a programme of education on cyber risk for our colleagues, used as part of a rapid response to ensure the safety of equipping them with the knowledge necessary to detect the employees and customers following the Mexico earthquake main cyber threats. See page 64 of our Annual Report and and severe weather events in Hong Kong and the USA. Accounts 2017 for more information. – We developed and implemented an improved risk assurance and oversight function to ensure our health and safety management system was performing appropriately, including conducting full reviews of health and safety management in 12 countries. See page 139 of our Annual Report and Accounts 2017 for more information. 40 Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) Update HSBC Holdings plc Tax Our approach to tax HSBC’s taxation We are committed to applying both the letter and spirit of As highlighted below, in addition to paying $6.8bn of its own tax the law in all territories in which we operate. We aim to have liabilities during 2017, HSBC collected taxes of $8.1bn on behalf open and transparent relationships with all tax authorities, of governments around the world. A more detailed geographical ensuring that any areas of uncertainty or dispute are agreed breakdown of the taxes paid in 2017 is provided on page 60 of and resolved in a timely manner. As a consequence, we believe the HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017. that we pay our fair share of tax in the jurisdictions in which we operate. HSBC has reduced the number of legal entities located in very low or nil tax jurisdictions from 121 at the beginning of 2015 to We have adopted the Code of Practice on Taxation for 58 by the end of 2017. This process will continue throughout Banks1 which was introduced in 2009 and manage tax risk in 2018 and 2019, ensuring that the HSBC entities remaining in accordance with a formal tax risk management framework. such jurisdictions are regulated entities essential for conducting business. We apply a number of tax initiatives which were introduced after the global financial crisis with the aim of increasing Customer taxation transparency. These initiatives address both the tax positions of The GPB business has ongoing tax-related investigations in companies and of their customers. These include: various countries as a result of historical allegations of tax evasion and tax fraud, primarily in HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) – The US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (‘FATCA’). SA. These investigations mainly relate to periods prior to – The OECD Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial 2011. Further information is provided in note 34 of the HSBC Account Information (the ‘Common Reporting Standard’). Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017. – The Capital Requirements Directive IV (‘CRD IV’) Country by We have made significant investment in strengthening our Country Reporting2. processes, training our people and enhancing customer – The OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (‘BEPS’) initiative. acceptance processes in order to minimise the risk of our banking services being used to facilitate tax evasion. For – The UK legislation on the corporate criminal offence (‘CCO’) certain types of customer this will involve asking them to certify of failing to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion. their tax status. 1 See the UK Government’s code of practice on taxation for banks 2 See hsbc.com for our approach to tax transparency Figure 23: taxes collected and paid. Taxes paid – by type of tax Taxes paid – by region Taxes collected – by region TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL $6.8bn $6.8bn $6.8bn $6.8bn $8.1bn $8.1bn Tax Taxon Tax onprofits on profits profits UKbank UK UK banklevy bank levy levy UK UK UK LatinAmerica Latin Latin America America Asia Asia Asia North NorthAmerica North America America $2.9bn $2.9bn $1.0bn $1.0bn $2.7bn $2.7bn $0.5bn $0.5bn $2.8bn $2.8bn $1.1bn $1.1bn Employertaxes Employer Employer taxes taxes Other Other Other Asia Asia Asia MENA MENA MENA Latin LatinAmerica Latin America America Rest Restof Rest ofEurope of Europe Europe $1.2bn $1.2bn $0.4bn $0.4bn $2.3bn $2.3bn $0.4bn $0.4bn $1.8bn $1.8bn $0.8bn $0.8bn IrrecoverableVAT Irrecoverable Irrecoverable VAT Withholding VAT Withholdingtaxes Withholding taxes taxes Rest Rest ofEurope Restof of Europe Europe North NorthAmerica North America America UK UK UK Other Other Other $1.1bn $1.1bn $0.2bn $0.2bn $0.6bn $0.6bn $0.3bn $0.3bn $1.4bn $1.4bn $0.2bn $0.2bn 41 Links and information In this section, we have provided further information on HSBC’s approach to ESG issues. It contains links to further content, policies, and topics discussed in this document. Please visit the links to obtain a more in depth understanding of our initiatives covering the ESG issues that may be of interest to you. Environmental, Social and Governance Update, April 2017 Environmental, Social and Governance Supplement, November 2017 Customers and employees Governance Our Charter Board Diversity Policy Statement on Conduct Remuneration Practices and Governance Diversity and Inclusion Policy Anti-Money Laundering Policy Statement Gender Pay Gap report Sanctions Policy Statement Whistleblowing Policy Statement of Anti-bribery Principles Health and Safety Policy Supporting sustainable growth Tax Transparency Measuring our impact Centre for Sustainable Finance Global Asset Management Responsible Investing Global Banking and Markets Sustainable Financing Statement on Climate Change UN Principles of Responsible Investment UN Principles of Sustainable Insurance Sustainability Risk Policies Equator Principles Ethical and Environmental Code of Conduct for Suppliers Statement on Human Rights Statement on Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Political Engagement Statement Sustainable Operations © Copyright HSBC Holdings plc 2018 All rights reserved No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of HSBC Holdings plc. Published by Investor Relations, HSBC Holdings plc, London In case of queries, please email: sustainable.finance@hsbc.com Issued by HSBC Holdings plc 8 Canada Square London E14 5HQ United Kingdom Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7991 8888 www.hsbc.com
