Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 Contents Editorial Policy Editorial Policy and Contents 1 The Mitsubishi Logistics Group (the “Group”) has issued Top Message 2 this Environmental and Social Report each year since fiscal 2007 to fulfill its accountability about the effects of Introduction of Businesses 4 its business activities on society and the environment. To disclose the goals, details and achievements of its Promotion of CSR CSR activities from the perspectives of the Group’s CSR Manifestation of The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business 6 management, this Report describes precisely and in an Management Philosophy and the Code of Conduct, etc. easy-to-understand manner the promotion of CSR as well Promotion of CSR for every employee; Emphasis on communication 9 as each of the seven core subjects described in the Confirmation of major CSR activities 10 “Guidance on Social Responsibility” (JIS Z 26000, ISO 26000). This Guidance is a global standard for CSR Organizational Governance established by the Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) and Corporate Governance; Promoting the realization of 12 the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). our corporate philosophy and strategies Review of goals, standards, etc.; Entrenchment of the compliance of 13 Boundary of the Report and Reporting Period standards, etc.; Confirmation of the implementation of action plans Boundary of The Report covers Mitsubishi Logistics Respect for Human Rights the Report: Corporation (the “Company”) and Group Improvement of awareness of human rights; companies. Respecting human rights through business activities 14 Reporting This Report covers our business activities for the Period: period from April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017. To Appropriate Working Environment ensure comprehensive disclosure, however, Respect for labor-management relations; Employment and the importance 15 certain relevant information regarding events that of the employment relationship; Rewarding and friendly working conditions occurred prior to and/or after this period have Ensuring the security of workers 18 been included. Human resources development and training 19 Publication Date Environmental Conservation (Previous publication date: February 2017) Reduction of CO2 emissions as a measure for 22 February 2018 reducing climate change (Next planned publication date: February 2019) Use of renewable resources; Contribution to the 25 recovery of the eco-system Reference Guidelines Fulfillment of Sincere and Fair Business Activities ■ JIS Z 26000: 2012 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) ISO Prohibition of unfair advantage in competition and 26 26000: 2010 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) promotion of fair and open competition ■ Ministry of the Environment: Environmental Reporting Guidelines (Fiscal Year 2012 Version) Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services Provision of socially and environmentally beneficial high-quality services 27 ■ Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4.0 Promotion of disaster measures to maintain service functions 29 Contacts for Inquiries Regarding the Environmental and Social Report Coordination with Local Communities and International Society Contribution to cultural activities; Contribution 31 CSR · Compliance Team, General Affairs Division, through donations, etc. Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation Nihonbashi Dia Building, 19-1, Nihonbashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Statement Supporting the UN Global Compact Tokyo Practice of the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles 34 103-8630, Japan TEL: +81-3-3278-6657 Company Profile 35 FAX: +81-3-3278-6694 You may view some of the relevant data and the reference table for Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Web Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4.0 on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site. “Extended version.” http://www.mitsubishi-logistics.co.jp/english/csr/pdf/extended_version.pdf HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version “GRI Guidelines reference table” http://www.mitsubishi-logistics.co.jp/english/csr/pdf/griguideline.pdf HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>GRI Guidelines reference table Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 1 Top Message Mitsubishi Logistics Group focuses friendly activities and engages business activities, contributing to affluent and sustainable society. Introduction Mitsubishi Logistics continues to uphold its corporate philosophy, which states, “Engage in sincere and fair business activities to secure appropriate profits and promote steady growth, appropriately compensating our stakeholders while contributing to the realization of an affluent and sustainable society.” To realize this corporate philosophy, the Group has stipulated the Code of Conduct. Our Group companies work in cooperation to carry out our logistics business both in Japan and around the world, organically and comprehensively managing each business area through our information network, starting with our core warehousing business, and including overland transportation, port and harbor operations, and international transportation. Our real estate business focuses on leased buildings constructed on company-owned property. Of especial note, the involvement of our logistics operations in every industry countrywide provides a key function in the economic foundation as a highly public social Akio Matsui infrastructure not only in peacetime but also in case of natural disasters or other emergencies. We continue President to make the utmost effort to support the daily lives of people everywhere and the business activities of our customers at every level of product procurement, production and sales. Second Year of the Management Plan (2016–2018) The current fiscal year is the second year of the Management Plan (2016-2018), which started in April 2016. Overseas, the U.S. economy continued to steadily recover and a moderate recovery was seen in Europe. The economy in China also saw a pick-up trend. The Japanese economy continued to recover gradually as employment conditions improved, and personal consumption and investment in plant and equipment showed signs of growth. 2 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 n global environmentn sincere and fair he realization of an In these circumstances, this plan is designed to strategy in the management plan, and have move forward with measures already under way, incorporated such initiatives in specific measures. without changing the fundamental concept of Our logistics and real estate business activities are pursuing the growth potential in overseas businesses deeply connected to society. To earn recognition for while ensuring profitability in the domestic the value of our existence as a member of society businesses. and continue to grow in the future, the Group needs The management plan has defined the ideal to steadily implement the goals set forth in the plan. In image of the Mitsubishi Logistics Group by the end particular, taking into account the increased demand of said plan that we ought to pursue as follows. for reducing natural disaster risk stemming from the global increase in natural disasters, we are promoting the construction of Disaster-Resistant and Eco“To be a problem-solving partner of Friendly Warehouses equipped with reinforced customers backed up by trust and disaster-prevention functions and enhanced global environmental measures, as well as Disaster-Resistant brand power.” and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings that have similar functions. As part of this initiative, in September 2014, the Nihonbashi Dia Building (of which the lower floors are used as the Company’s Head Office and trunk Initiatives for CSR management rooms) was completed. We also intend to continue initiatives for global environmental measures from the perspective of biodiversity. With the establishment of our Code of Conduct in 1997, we have clearly demonstrated our stance and approach toward further enhancing our level of Conclusion adherence to relevant laws and regulations, disclosing appropriate corporate information, addressing and resolving global environmental issues, and providing The Company celebrated its 130th anniversary on safe, high-quality and socially useful services. In April 15, 2017. In these long, turbulent 130 years addition, the Company approved and declared in May since the Meiji period, we were able to continue our 2014 its support for the UN Global Compact, which is business thanks to the hard work of our a set of universally accepted CSR-related principles. predecessors, who responded to the trust of our The Company considers complying with customers and diligently contributed to society internationally accepted norms in the areas of human through business activities. We are proud to have rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption as inherited their spirit. fulfilling its social responsibility in As the Mitsubishi Logistics Group continues, now its business activities and leading and in the future, to place top priority on sincerity and to an affluent and sustainable fairness, supporting customers’ value creation based society. To firmly instill this stance on principles that give weight to the global throughout the entire Group, we environment while fulfilling our responsibilities to have clarified that we promote society with stable growth, we ask for your continued CSR activities as a specific understanding and support. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 3 Introduction of Businesses Residences Residences Office buildings Office buildings The Mitsubishi Logistics Group provides high-quality services to Retail facilities Retail facilities support people’s affluent lives and corporate activities through the Logistics segment businesses centering on the warehousing and distribution business and the Real Estate segment businesses centering on the leasing of buildings. RealReal estate estate development development and and leasing leasing Air transportation Air transportation Warehouses Warehouses and and distribution distribution centers centers Harbor Harbor transportation transportation Domestic Domestic OceanOcean transportation transportation TrunkTrunk roomroom service service Overland Overland transportation transportation TruckingTrucking and and railway railway transportation transportation Logistics Logistics information information system system Logistics Logistics services services Warehousing and Distribution Business Overland Transportation Business We are able to meet a broad range of customized logistics needs through In Japan, we extend and reinforce the optimal distribution system for each customer the full integration of warehouses and distribution centers, which are through a tactical combination of our national, trunk-line transit network, which is located at major ports and key inland transportation areas nationwide; our supported by Ryoso Transportation within the Group and excellent local counterparts, transportation and delivery networks; and the logistics information and independent collection and delivery services linking local areas. We have systems that organically link them. In this business, fixed temperature expanded our transportation service for small-quantity, joint delivery needs especially storage and refrigerated warehouses for pharmaceuticals and fresh and for foods and pharmaceuticals. In addition, we offer cargo feature-specific, diversified processed foods are sufficiently offered in addition to ordinary warehouses transportation/delivery services including ocean freight container transportation for for room temperature storage to ensure the provision of safe and efficient import and export cargo and the transportation of heavy goods such as plant facilities. storage/distribution processing/delivery services using our original Moreover, we endeavor to realize eco-friendly, safe and secure transportation services information technology and the latest by drawing on our information technology and promoting green management. facilities. Meanwhile, we strive to reduce the Furthermore, with the start of the “DP-Cool” Service, a high-quality pharmaceuticals environmental impact by promoting green delivery service with temperature control provided by Dia Pharmaceutical Network Co., management. Furthermore, we are active in Ltd., our subsidiary that specializes in the delivery of pharmaceuticals, we strive to the construction of advanced facilities that realize the further sophistication of transportation quality. aim to coordinate with local communities under the concept of Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouse equipped with a solar power generation system and emergency power generators. One such model warehouse is Misato Warehouse No. 2, which was completed in March 2013. 4 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 Real Estate Business We are involved in the real estate business in all six major cities of Japan—Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe and Fukuoka. In addition to activities such as the redevelopment of properties based on the optimum application of each property’s features and the leasing of approximately 50 real estate facilities (offices, retail facilities and residences), totaling almost 900,000 m2 of total floor space, we are involved in the sales of condominiums. We are also active in developing Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings, which will help our customers enhance their business continuity and reduce their environmental burden. Air transportation Air transportation Import/Export Import/Export Overseas Overseas Shipping Shipping AgentAgent and and Customs Customs clearance clearance OceanOcean transportation transportation Harbor Harbor transportation transportation Overland Overland transportation transportation Shipping-related Shipping-related TruckingTrucking and and operations operations railway railway transportation transportation Harbor Transportation Business International Transportation Business We provide secure high-quality logistics services including In response to increasingly diversifying customers’ logistics container terminal operations for integrated containerized needs, we propose optimum transportation routes door-toshipments at all major Japanese ports, namely Tokyo, door worldwide tailored to every customer’s request by taking Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe and Hakata, to meet every advantage of our global network and a variety of transportation kind of customer need. We also offer a wide range of other means such as vessels, aircraft, railway and trucks. Meanwhile, marine shipping related services such as importing/exporting our overseas operating bases provide comprehensive logistics of vessels, ship registration, and agency operations for services such as cargo transportation, customs clearance and special ships such as oil-drilling rigs. storage of goods, as well as logistics related support services such as consulting on legal systems and procedures in the respective areas for customers who plan to launch into foreign markets. Furthermore, we intend to not be limited to transport operations but to further promote worldwide our logistics know-how, which the Company has accumulated over its history of more than 130 years. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 5 Promotion of CSR The Mitsubishi Logistics Group utilizes the “Guidance on social responsibility,” complies with the “seven principles of social responsibility”* in the practice of its social responsibility and strengthens various activities categorized under the seven core subjects of social responsibility. Each core subject is of equal priority, and is equally important. The Mitsubishi Logistics Group streamlines an integrated mechanism (with components such as philosophy, principles, policies, systems, dialogue and confirmation) to ensure that a socially responsible corporate culture exists within the Group and is conducted through the practice of CSR-based activities, aiming to increase its corporate value. * See the chart on the right. Manifestation of The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy and the Code of Conduct, etc. Mission, Vision, Sense of Values, Principles and the Code of Conduct The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy (“Sankoryo”) The Mitsubishi Sankoryo is a managerial creed articulated by the fourth president of the Mitsubishi organization, Koyata Iwasaki. The spirit and values of this Sankoryo remain alive and current today as a basic philosophy of an internally and externally open group being shared by the constituent Mitsubishi Group companies that are independent from each other. The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy “Shoki Hoko” “Shoji Komei” “Ritsugyo Boeki” Corporate Responsibility to Society Integrity and Fairness Global Understanding through Business Strive to enrich society, both Maintain principles of Expand business, based on materially and spiritually, transparency and an all-encompassing global while contributing toward openness, conducting perspective. the preservation of the business with integrity and global environment. fairness. Code of Conduct We have established the following Code of Conduct to realize our corporate philosophy (see page 2: Top Message) based on the spirit of the Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy. Code of Conduct We engage in business activities to secure appropriate profits and promote steady growth, appropriately compensating our employees and stockholders while contributing to the realization of an affluent and sustainable society. 1. We shall comply with laws, ordinances and rules that enable us to honestly and fairly carry out business activities without deviating from social norms. 2. We shall appropriately disclose corporate information in a timely manner to enhance broad communications with society. 3. We shall continue to have no contact or relations with any antisocial forces that might pose a threat to the public order and safety of civil society. 4. We recognize the importance of environmental issues and shall actively cooperate with diverse activities for environmental preservation. 5. We shall provide people with safe, high-quality and socially valuable services, and endeavor to conduct social contribution projects as a “good corporate citizen” while taking into account coordination with local communities and international society. (Established on December 16, 1997, and revised on August 29, 2005) Each subsidiary shall establish its own Code of Conduct in compliance with this Code of Conduct. 6 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 Seven Principles of Social Responsibility Seven Core Subjects of Social Responsibility and Their Expressions in the Group An organization An organization should be Holistic Coordination with Respect for should respect human transparent in its decisions approach rights and recognize Respect for and activities that have Local Communities and Community Human Rights Transparency International Society both their importance human rights impact on society and the Involvement Human and their universality. environment. and Rights Development An organization Accountability Organizational Governance should respect Respect for An organization An organization Provision of Safe, Appropriate Consumer Labor international norms international should be Ethical should behave Observance of High-Quality and Issues Organization Practices Working of behavior, while accountable for its adhering to the norms of impacts on society behavior ethically at all these principles Useful Services Environment times. principle of respect behavior and the for the rule of law. environment. Fair Operating The An organization should An organization should Practices Environment Respect for accept that respect for Respect for respect, consider and Fulfillment of Sincere and stakeholder Fair Business Activities Environmental the rule of law is the rule of law respond to the interests of Interdependence Conservation mandatory. interests its stakeholders. (Source: Prepared with partial modification by the Company based (Source: Edited by the Company based on the “Guidance on Social Responsibility (JIS Z 26000)”) on the “Guidance on Social Responsibility (JIS Z 26000)” chart) Environmental Policy The Mitsubishi Logistics Group has formulated the Environmental Policy to clearly present its Group-wide stance on consideration of the global environment based on our “Code of Conduct.” Environmental Policy The Mitsubishi Logistics Group recognizes the importance of environmental issues, promoting activities for environmental preservation through corporate activities that are friendly to the environment while contributing to the realization of a sustainable society. 1. We comply with laws and regulations relating to the environment. 2. We endeavor for the training and enlightenment to raise the awareness of executives and employees about the environment and positively commit ourselves to environmental preservation activities with the recognition that involvement in environmental issues is indispensable to our corporate activities. 3. We strive to restrict our environmental impact by efficiently utilizing the resources and energy that are essential to our business activities, implementing eco-friendly logistics equipment and facilities, purchasing eco-friendly goods and promoting the reduction of waste volume and recycling. 4. We regularly verify our initiatives regarding environmental issues to continually improve our involvement. 5. We make the Environmental Policy known to all parties affiliated with the Group and disclose it publicly. (Established on December 29, 2006) Environmental Voluntary Plan We have formulated the MLC (Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation)-Group Environmental Voluntary Plan as “concrete guidelines” regarding the Environmental Policy to review and implement specific measures in view of “measures to cope with future tightening of regulations” and “maintaining and ensuring the competitive edge of our businesses.” The specific measures of the guidelines include efforts related to facilities and equipment such as implementation of solar and wind power generators and greening of rooftops and walls, and efforts related to handling equipment and vehicle including enforcement of idling-stop practice and eco-driving, as well as selection of environmentconscious suppliers. Based on these measures, the Group promotes Group-wide environmental measures including appropriate responses to laws and regulations. Our Declaration of Quality Our Group has formulated “Our Declaration of Quality” to be an enterprise that grows by gaining the trust of stakeholders including customers in accordance with the “Code of Conduct.” Our Declaration of Quality Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation works hard to ensure that our corporate activities help to create an affluent and sustainable society. Providing services that are safe, high quality and of benefit to society is one of the most important pillars supporting our corporate activities. It is with this in mind that we strive continuously for quality improvement. 1. We always think from the customer’s standpoint and listen to the customer with sincerity, working to provide quality services that will win the trust and satisfaction of all our customers. 2. We abide by the relevant laws and regulations, and by conducting periodic inspections and implementing improvement efforts daily in the areas of safety and quality, our Group-wide quest is to achieve constant quality improvement. 3. We value communication and endeavor to provide an energetic work environment in which each member of the Company can be motivated by sincerity and pride to strive for quality improvement. (Established on September 1, 2008) Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 7 Promotion of CSR Management plan (2016–2018) (Basic Policy) The current fiscal year is the second year of the three-year Management Plan. Mitsubishi Logistics Group has formulated the following four items of Basic Policy to reinforce foundations for its growth potential and profitability. The Group intends to increase its corporate value and achieve future growth by executing each of these diverse measures in accordance with the Basic Policy. Basic Policy 1. Improve and expand our logistics business to adapt to the change of the global supply chains of customers in Japan and around the globe 2. Reinforce and expand the revenue framework of the real estate business 3. Enhance the service quality of Group services and the promotion of CSR 4. Select and concenter of management resources The outline of the management plan is as follows: 1. Ideal image The management plan has defined the ideal image of the Group to be pursued as a corporate group in compliance with the four-item Basic Policy. (see page 3: Top Message). 2. Plan period Consolidated operating revenue Consolidated operating income FY2016–FY2018 (covering three years) (Unit: ¥billion) (Unit: ¥billion) 3. Performance targets 300 20.0 Figures of consolidated business results 250 240.0 17.5 15.5 (Unit: ¥billion) 208.7 15.0 12.7 Operating Operating Ordinary Net 200 12.5 revenue income income income* 150 10.0 Actual results 7.5 208.7 12.7 16.0 10.6 100 for FY2016 5.0 50 Targets for 2.5 240.0 15.5 17.5 11.6 FY2018 0 FY2016 FY2018 0 FY2016 FY2018 *Referring to “Profit attributable to owners of parent” 4. Investment plan During the plan period, the Group plans to make investments totaling ¥60.0 billion (¥30.0 billion in logistics and ¥30.0 billion in real estate). In-house Decision Making Responses to Stakeholders’ Expectations Corporate governance system Stakeholders recognized by the Mitsubishi Logistics Group (Chart of corporate governance system) (Chart of stakeholders) Enhance our commitment General Shareholders Meeting to customer satisfaction, Provide ideal working earning our customers’ environments while Board of Corporate Board of Corporate Independent trust through high-quality ensuring the safety and Directors Auditors Auditors Auditor logistics and real estate Customers Employees professional growth of services. the employee. Corporate Auditors’ Chamber Aim to manage internal Perform fair information strictly and Shareholders Mitsubishi Public business activities disclose information at by complying with Executive Committee (Consultative body consisting of directors Chairman of the Board President the appropriate time & investors Logistics administration laws, rules and and in the appropriate social norms. with special titles) Managing Directors manner, in accordance Group Internal Control with the law. Respective Divisions, and General Managers’ Chambers of the Head Office Committee Local Meeting Suppliers 6 branches Internal Audit CSR and Compliance Develop common communities Sincere and fair business Department Committee interests with local activities based on 57 subsidiaries (including communities as a good mutual trust. Group Management corporate citizen. Meeting 20 overseas subsidiaries) Risk Management 15 affiliates Committee 8 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 Web You may view the news releases on the actual performance data on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” Promotion of CSR for every employee HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version CSR & Compliance Handbook Information disclosure The Group prepared the Mitsubishi Logistics Group CSR & Compliance Handbook (63 pages in A5 format) Our IR information site is open on the Company’s Web to nurture the awareness of each employee on CSR site. We strive to transmit information by providing and compliance. The handbook was “Management planning and policy,” “Stock distributed to all executives and information,” “IR calendar,” “financial data” and “IR employees within the Group in information” (Flash report, Annual report and Results January 2012 for their daily reference. briefing). We position the handbook as a For the convenience of foreign shareholders and starting point to help them address investors, English-version sites are also available to small questions and significant issues disclose significant information thereto. in their routine business operations. CSR & Compliance Dialogue between shareholders/investors, Handbook analysts and top management Easy-to-understand shareholders’ meetings CSR and Compliance Awareness Survey When we hold a shareholders’ meeting, we strive to provide easy-to-understand information for the The Company and domestic Group companies provide convenience of attending shareholders by using video Web-based surveys on awareness based on the business reports with narration. Mitsubishi Logistics Group CSR & Compliance Results briefing Handbook and the Environmental and Social Report to Company holds results disseminate the understanding of CSR and compliance. briefings twice a year (May The surveys aim to increase employees’ awareness by and November) for investors providing occasions in which every employee thinks of and analysts. In addition to familiar issues and finds the answers. the explanation of the settled accounting results, the top Results briefing for analysts Training on CSR and Compliance management of the Company explains management policies and the progress of management plans, conducts Q&A and transmits a variety As measures to address the status of compliance with the of management information. We are active in encouraging “Code of Conduct” and any issues noted in the internal audit dialogue with market players not only through results, we endeavor to establish good working environments by transmission of the information desired by investors and disseminating and entrenching our corporate philosophy and analysts but also by integrating the feedback of useful the “Code of Conduct” and promoting CSR. views therefrom in our actual business judgment. As for compliance, we hold training sessions concerning You may view the materials for the results briefing on compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Web Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in the IR Information page. Subcontract Proceeds, etc. to Subcontractors with an emphasis on training and confirmation regarding the methods for HOME>INVESTOR RELATIONS>IR Information>Presentation managing and handling relevant documents, and the obligations and prohibitions of the main subcontracting enterprise. Internal reporting system Web Actual performance data on the CSR and compliance awareness survey and the training on CSR and compliance can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” To ensure early detection of actions that violate legal ordinances or corporate regulations, as well as actions that are HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version in danger of violating such rules, the Mitsubishi Logistics Group has established a corporate ethics help line (Contact: CSR·Compliance Team, General Affairs Division) as an internal Emphasis on communication whistleblowing and consultation mechanism to reinforce compliance management. To raise the degree of recognition and encourage use of Timely and appropriate news releases the system, at the time of the “Check of the Compliance of the Code of Conduct” in December 2016 we checked whether all As the Group emphasizes the principles of social executives and regular employees of the Group were familiar responsibility such as accountability and transparency with our internal reporting system and whether they intended in organizational decision making, news releases on to use the system. Consequently, it was confirmed that almost business activities are disclosed at the appropriate time all the respondents expressed an affirmative opinion, and in the appropriate manner. suggesting widespread recognition of the system. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 9 Promotion of CSR Confirmation of major CSR activities The Group is committed to CSR activities so that socially responsible behavior will be disseminated among employees as a voluntary corporate culture. Checklist for the confirmation of major CSR activities Core subjects Tasks Objectives/Goals Promoting the realization of our corporate Organizational philosophy and strategies Reinforce CSR and compliance Governance Review of goals, standards, etc. Respect for Human Improvement of the awareness of human rights Respect human rights Rights Demonstrate every employee’s personality and competence, undertake necessary security procedures, Rewarding and friendly working conditions and support the coexistence of employees’ working life and home life Appropriate Working Ensuring the security of workers Ensure the security of workers Environment Develop competent human resources who meet the Human resources development and training requirements of global human resources and who can manage global operations Reduction of CO2 emissions as a measure for Further reinforce environmental countermeasures reducing climate change Environmental Preserve resources by reducing the environmental Conservation Use of renewable resources impact Global environmental measures from biodiversity Contribution to the recovery of the eco-system perspectives Fulfillment of Prohibition of unfair advantage in competition and Reinforce CSR and compliance Sincere and Fair promotion of fair and open competition Upgrade information security management Business Activities Provision of socially and environmentally beneficial Improve service quality high-quality services Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services Promotion of disaster measures to maintain service Maintain infrastructure in case of disasters functions Coordination with Contribution to the community’s cultural activities Contribute to cultures in local communities Local Communities and International Society Contribution through donations, etc. Support to victims of disasters 10 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 We summarize hereunder the setting of “Objectives/Goals,” the planning of “Activity process” and the confirmation of “Achievements/Results” with regard to major CSR activities that are categorized under the Seven Core Subjects in accordance with the “Guidance on Social Responsibility” guidelines. Division/Chamber/ Activity process (Plan) Achievements/Results Branch and/or Group companies in charge Briefing meetings on our Management Plan held at each branch by Managing Director in charge of personnel and planning. General Affairs Division Disseminate the corporate philosophy and the management plan. Worksite meeting held every month (dissemination of our corporate philosophy Personnel Division Deliberate how to promote CSR at the CSR and Compliance Committee. and our Management Plan). Planning & Business Strive to improve the understanding of the “Code of Conduct” and the Mar. 2017: Held the CSR and Compliance Committee meeting (for CSR promotion). Coordination Division awareness of compliance. FY2016: Check for compliance with the “Code of Conduct;” Number of participants: 4,247. Other Divisions, Chambers FY2016: Compliance Awareness Survey; Number of participants: 3,265 (Web-based check). and Branches Strive to disseminate the awareness of respect for human rights among all employees by establishing a dedicated promotion system. FY2016 Human Rights Enlightenment Training held with 49 participants. Personnel Division Conduct education on human rights. Streamline the personnel system in the pursuit of creating worksites where Self-declaration once a year and interviews for appraisal conducted three times a employees can demonstrate their personality and competence. year. Execute industrial safety and health-related measures to maintain and enhance employees’ health. Conducted “Health Promotion” seminars and annual health checkups. Personnel Division Beneficiaries of the child-care leave system: 8; beneficiaries of the care leave Promote a work-life balance to support the sound development of the nextsystem: 29. generation children. Work on industrial safety and health-related activities among operating bases Monthly convening of Industrial Safety and Health Committee. Personnel Division in an aim to prevent industrial accidents. Number of serious industrial accidents in the Port and Harbor Operation Business: Harbor Transportation Promote the prevention of industrial accidents and conduct periodic disaster zero. Business Division prevention drills and meetings in the Port and Harbor Operations Business. Branches FY2016 logistic training with 263 participants. Endeavor to develop human resources that can contribute not only to corporate growth but also to social development. Problem-solving practical training with 14 participants Personnel Division Regional supervisor training with 19 participants Promote the construction of Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Warehouses and Disaster-Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings, which focus on ensuring business continuity in case of a disaster and considerations for the global environment. FY2016: The existing lighting devices (around 660 units in total) at our warehouses Technical Division Enhance the shift of existing lighting devices to LED lighting by utilizing were changed to LED lighting. Branches governmental subsidy funds. We promote the implementation of large-scale solar power generation Feb. 2017: The Nihonbashi Dia Building received the “26th BELCA Award” facilities in existing facilities in line with the government’s policy of enhancing presented by the Building and Equipment Long-life Cycle Association Technical Division the use of renewable energy. Since Mar. 2016: The Eitai Dia Building has been certified as a “Near-Top-Level Real Estate Expand the use of environmental-friendly vehicles, such as “i-MiEV,” Facility” under the Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance. Division Mitsubishi Motors’ electric vehicles. Since Dec. 2013: The Nagoya Dia Building has been certified as an “Eco-friendly Branches Promote the reduction of waste. Workplace” by Nagoya City. Conduct reforestation through volunteer activities and donations as a partner General Affairs Division of reforestation of Kanagawa Prefecture. Oct. 2016: Reforestation activities held with 27 participants Tokyo Branch Yokohama Branch Hold training sessions for the compliance of the Act against Delay in Payment FY2016: Compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract General Affairs of Subcontract Proceeds, etc., and the prevention of insider trading. Proceeds, etc.; Number of participants: 1,804 (Web-based check). Division Distribute information security questionnaires to disseminate the awareness FY2016: Newcomers’ training on Prevention of Insider Trading; Number of participants: 49. Information of security. Number of respondents to the FY2016 Information Securities Questionnaire: 2,887. Systems Division Regular quality improvement conference held. Quality education at monthly safety conferences and information exchanges at Planning & Business Take specific initiatives for quality improvement at each of the operating sites, regular conferences with customers conducted. Coordination Division subsidiaries and affiliates. Commendation system for improvement activities implemented. Personnel Division Reestablish our information systems for warehousing and distribution center Since Mar. 2014, a new warehousing and distribution center operations system Warehousing and Distribution operations to improve the quality of logistics. (G-MIWS) has been implemented on Branches, and the implementations are Business Division scheduled to be complete during the first half of FY2017. Information Systems Division Deepen people’s understanding of the logistics of relief supplies in case of General Affairs Division large-scale disasters. Total number of support/relief goods logistics base facilities: 11. Warehousing and Pursue additional designations of our facilities as support/relief goods logistics Fire prevention patrols in facilities of the Company and the Group conducted Distribution Business base facilities, which is a concept primarily advocated by the Ministry of Land, (annually). Division Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. Technical Division Thoroughly implement disaster prevention measures at facilities. Branches [Yokohama Bay Quarter] Aug. 2016: Held the “Charity Ennichi (Street Fair).” Aug. 2016: Held the “Radio Exercise.” Real Estate Division Hold supporting events for reconstruction from the Great East Japan Held running club events (monthly) Yokohama Dia Earthquake. [Nagoya City] Building Hold activities that aim to coordinate with local communities and international Installed flower beds in the greenbelt near Nagoya Station. Management society. [Kobe Harborland umie] Corporation Apr. 2016: Provided the venue for the “Spring Traffic Safety Fair 2016” Nagoya Branch [Harborland Dia Nissei Building] Kobe Branch Nov. 2016: Conducted evacuation drills in preparation for tsunamis potentially caused by Nankai Trough earthquakes General Affairs Division Raise and provide relief funds for disasters that happen in Japan and Apr. 2016: Provided relief funds for local disaster victims of the Kumamoto Other Divisions, Chambers overseas. earthquakes and Branches Group companies Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 11 Organizational Governance To ensure socially responsible positive decision making, it is necessary to establish organizational processes to optimally utilize the Group’s philosophy, strategies and standards. As for organizational governance, the Group recognizes and strengthens such issues as “Promoting the realization of our corporate philosophy and strategies,” “Entrenchment of the compliance of standards, etc.,” “Confirmation of the processes of implementation for action plans” and “Review of goals and standards, etc.” Corporate Governance Basic Strategy and Detailed Strategy (Excerpt) Basic stance 1. Foster a corporate culture that supports new challenges. Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation recognizes the 2. Promote service quality improvement activities. enhancement of corporate governance as a significant 3. Reinforce risk management including natural business issue that will enable us to carry out our social disaster countermeasures and security mission and responsibilities as a publicly listed measures. company and to aim for sustainable growth and 4. Pursuit of thorough compliance by reinforcing the development. Accordingly, we are endeavoring to in-house check system. boost corporate governance through multiple initiatives, 5. Implement CSR activities based on the UN such as: enhancing the function of the board of Global Compact’s 10 principles. directors and board of auditors by appointing outside 6. Continue to implement global environmentdirectors and auditors; establishing an internal control friendly business activities. system through drafting the rules of conduct for our 7. Continue to develop technologies and facilities executives and employees, setting up the Internal based on the concept of “Disaster-Resistant and Control Committee, the CSR and Compliance Eco-Friendly Warehouses” and “DisasterCommittee, and enhancing an internal audit system; Resistant and Eco-Friendly Office Buildings.” instituting a risk management system via the Risk Management Committee; and, finally, by reinforcing disclosure through the early publication of financial In executing the Basic Strategy and the Detailed statements. (See page 8: the chart of corporate Strategy above, the Group complies with the seven governance system) principles of social responsibility under the Guidance on Social Responsibility. The Group companies have stipulated the “Code of Conduct” in line with the seven principles, and their employees strive to self-check and Promoting the realization of our confirm their behavior by using the CSR & Compliance Handbook. corporate philosophy and strategies Disseminating the corporate philosophy and the management plan (Basic Strategy) The Group has expressed the goal of “contributing to the realization of an affluent and sustainable society” in its corporate philosophy (see page 2: Top Message) to make its intent of strengthening social responsibility Worksite meeting (Tokyo Branch) Worksite meeting (Osaka Branch) known to every party concerned within the Group. To facilitate this goal, the Company formulated in its management plan the following Basic Strategy and Detailed Strategy (excerpt) and endeavors to disseminate it at worksite meetings and other occasions. Worksite meeting (Kobe Branch) Worksite meeting (Fukuoka Branch) 12 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 Review of goals, standards, etc. team. The General Affairs Division supports the follow-up checks on any issues noted in the audit results, if any, and reports the results to the management team. Deliberating at the CSR and Compliance The Audit Division keeps close contact with the corporate Committee (meetings held in March) auditors and provides them with internal audit information to cooperate with the corporate auditors’ audits. To promote CSR activities in the Group, the CSR and Compliance Committee was established in September 2006. In fiscal 2016, the committee met in March and deliberated on the reports and revisions regarding CSR Confirmation of the activities in accordance with the Guidance on Social Responsibility, which is used as the basis for the implementation of action plans Environmental and Social Report, as well as on the improvement of Confirming the appropriateness of compliance based operations via internal control on the self-check of the status of The Board of Directors of the Company resolved the “Basic complying with Policy on the Improvement of an Internal Control System” to the “Code of ensure the appropriate execution of duties by executives and Conduct.” regular employees and the appropriateness of corporate affairs. CSR and Compliance Committee Furthermore, the Company improves the systems necessary for ensuring the appropriateness of financial reporting and prepares and submits the Internal Control Entrenchment of the Report regarding the evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control relating to financial reporting in accordance with the compliance of standards, etc. Financial Instruments and Exchange Law. Disseminating the awareness of Confirming the process for bonded operations, etc., compliance under the Authorized Warehouse Operators’ Program The Group endeavors to disseminate the awareness of The Authorized Warehouse Operators’ Program, one of the compliance based on corporate ethics in every employee AEO Systems *1, is a system for certifying managers of through the employee’s self-check on the status of complying bonded warehouses and bonded factories as authorized with the “Code of Conduct,” which was formulated as the warehouse operators after they meet set conditions social norms for employees in executing their duties, as well concerning compliance and other regulations. These as by thoroughly promoting training on compliance. authorizations ensure preferential treatment such as simplified The self-check on the status of compliance previously procedures and exemptions from permit fees, etc. the targeted the Company and domestic Group companies. Company received approval as an authorized warehouse Effective from fiscal 2013, the scope of the self-check has operator and further enhanced compliance activities in been extended to cover overseas Group companies using customs-related processes and all other import/export English texts. services. In April 2016, the authorization has been renewed, and we will continue to strive to provide highly reliable and Web Actual performance data on the compliance situation of dependable logistics services for our customers. the “Code of Conduct” may be viewed on Mitsubishi Meanwhile, the Company, Group companies Monryo Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” Transport Corporation, Keihin Naigai Forwarding Co., Ltd., HOME> CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social and Ryoyo Transportation Co., Ltd. acquired certification as Report>Extended version Authorized Customs Brokers as of June 2017, September 2012, June 2014, and April 2017, respectively, under the Business processes are confirmed via AEO System. An authorized customs broker is a customs internal audit clearance operator subject to various preferential privileges, which is authorized by the customs office to arrange for The internal audit of the Company is performed mainly by the security management and compliance regarding cargo. The Audit Division in accordance with the internal audit regulations Company strives to further improve the quality of customer and the internal audit plan. The audit operation is supported service going forward. by branch auditors and audit assistants positioned at Head Office and respective branches. The purpose of the internal *1. Systems that provide measures that ease and simplify customs procedures for business operators who have constructed cargo security management audit is to precisely grasp the status of corporate affairs and frameworks in compliance with laws and regulations, aiming both to secure the financial position so as to be of help for management’s and smoothen international logistics security, as well as to enhance Japan’s prevention of fraud, errors and faults, and rationalization such international competitiveness. The policy for implementing and constructing AEO Systems is set within the as improvement of business operations and raising operating SAFE Framework of Standards to Secure and Facilitate Global Trade efficiency. The Audit Division reports the results of audits adopted by the WCO (World Customs Organization). Japan’s AEO Systems comply with said policy.  (Source: Japan Customs Web site) regarding the Company and subsidiaries to the management Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 13 Respect for Human Rights Respecting human rights is the basis for complying with laws and regulations and fulfilling social responsibility. Regarding the respect for human rights, the Group recognizes and addresses such issues as “Improvement of employees’ awareness of human rights.” Improvement of the The Company considers that this outsourcing can help more physically challenged people to work on a awareness of human rights continuous basis and play active roles in society while having independent lives. Striving to disseminate the awareness of Slogan on human rights (some of slogans Submitted to the Company) respect for human rights with every employee by establishing a dedicated promotion system Slogan on human rights (Employees’ section) The Company is committed to enlightening of human rights Making others’ business your business issues among employees with the aim of creating a “positive worksite atmosphere in which every employee’s human rights one attitude to change the world are respected and personal competence and personality can be fully demonstrated.” Specifically, every year the Company offers a human rights enlightenment course of 1–2 hours in the stratified training curriculum under the established human rights training promotion system. In fiscal 2016 a total of 49 employees participated in the Reflection on the training, which targeted new comers. Human Rights Training At the training sessions, participating employees not only Airi Nakamura received lectures but also exchanged views on diverse Rokko Cold Storage Office, Kobe Branch concrete examples to deepen their understanding. The Company endeavors to raise the awareness of n the training, of which the human rights by inviting slogans on human rights I theme was “Corporate enlightenment even to loaned or dispatched staff members. In and Human Rights,” we learned about parallel with this approach, we have established a issues such as “gender problems,” “power harassment-dedicated counseling contact that takes initiatives harassment,” and “racism and ableism.” Moreover, to prevent or resolve various worksite harassment cases. participants exchanged opinions using examples of how discrimination can happen in everyday life, Web Actual performance data on human rights training can which led us to think of creating a more positive be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” workplace. Through the training, we were made aware of HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social the fact that every day, we make judgments based Report>Extended version on subconscious prejudice and assumptions. It may be impossible to fully “erase” these ingrained Respecting human rights stereotypes within us, but it is not difficult to “be aware” of them. It made me think that being aware through business activities makes a big difference in the way one looks at the world. Outsourcing works to a provider of continuous Furthermore, I felt that the connection between people is most important for building a friendly employment support service, where physically working environment. Relationships based on challenged people are working mutual respect can be built if every single person The Company outsources digitizing works of in-house learns how to step into others’ shoes. Spreading documents and data to Japan Church World Service, harmony among people is how we build a friendly Inc., Tokyo Itabashi Welfare Factory where continuous working environment, as well as a better society. employment support service is provided to physically challenged people, who may have difficulties in conventional work settings. 14 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 Appropriate Working Environment An appropriate working environment serves to stabilize employees’ living standards, is the source of meaning in employees’ lives and is indispensable for safety and health, productivity growth, human resource development and so forth. Regarding the appropriate working environment, the Group recognizes and addresses such issues as “Respect of labor-management relations,” “Employment and the importance of the employment relationship,” “Rewarding and friendly working conditions,” “Ensuring the security of workers” and “Human resource development and training.” Respect for labor-management relations professional or experienced applicants by making the most of the Company’s Web site and various kinds of PR media. Status of employees Having close communications with the (as of the end of March 2017) Item In fiscal 2016 labor union Number of regular employees (consolidated) 4,419 The collective labor agreement entered into between the Company and the Mitsubishi Logistics Union stipulates the Number of temporary employees (consolidated) 2,476 responsibility of the Company and that of the union as follows *Group companies have no statistical data regarding employees’ on the stance of labor-management cooperation. average age and years of service. Number of regular employees 1. (Company’s Responsibility) (non-consolidated) 863 (555 men and 308 women) The Company shall proactively strive to maintain Average age (non-consolidated) 39.8 years and improve the working conditions and promote the welfare of employees to improve the status of Average years of service 16.7 years employees and ensure stable livelihoods. (non-consolidated) Number of temporary employees 2. (Union’s Responsibility) (non-consolidated) 679 The labor union shall strive to maintain public order at the worksite and promote the working capabilities of its affiliated employees, as well as fully cooperate with the Company for the growth of the Company’s business based on democratic foundations. Rewarding and friendly working conditions Strive to improve the environment in which both Labor-management consultations and negotiations are employees and the Company can raise mutual values handled at the Management Conference, which is attended by representatives of both parties. The basic philosophy of the Company’s personnel policy is to There are two types of Management Conference: the assist its employees to grow and improve their work-life Central Management Conference, which is held between Head balance and to assert that both employees and the Company Office and the union’s headquarters, and the Operating Site can raise mutual values through the sustainable growth of the Management Conference, which is held between each branch Company. and each lodge. Each conference meets once per month. To realize this philosophy, the Company endeavors to improve worksite environments so that employees can demonstrate their individuality and competence to the utmost with improved motivation and better workplace environments, Employment and the importance through a variety of personnel and educational systems. of the employment relationship Streamline the personnel system in the pursuit Endeavoring to ensure human resources of creating worksites where employees can systematically and stably while respecting demonstrate their individuality and competence equal employment opportunities and diversity The Company strives to improve worksite environments In recruiting employees, our basic policy is to respect equal in which every employee can fully demonstrate his/her employment opportunities and diversity. individuality and competence. In our recruiting activity, we have introduced an open Self-declaration system entry system without making any distinction as regards the According to the self-declaration system, the Company’s school of graduation or faculty that takes into account the fair employees declare their satisfaction rating with their employment of applicants from a long-term perspective to current duties and career plan among others, once a systematically and stably ensure human resources. year. The declaration includes the desired conditions of We offer a wide range of opportunities to both new and their next workplace, etc., so that the Company may Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 15 Appropriate Working Environment pay attention not only to employees’ business duties but the “Shorttime regular employee system,” the “Nursing care also to every employee’s life plan. The content of the leave system,” the “Care leave system” and the “Family care declaration is actually used for personnel transfers and leave system” to assist with the coexistence of employees’ the career development program. working life and home life. Furthermore, the Company Evaluation and treatment of employees encourages the enhanced use of annual paid vacations to The Company treats employees in accordance with fair, reduce working hours in a year and has introduced a transparent and well-received appraisal systems. Direct systematic granting system (six days per year) of annual paid interviews between managers and subordinates, which vacations under labor-management collaboration. are held three times a year (at the time of target setting, midyear retrospection and year-end retrospection) are especially emphasized. The evaluation results are used for an appropriate division of labor within the business Having Taken Child-care Leave unit and advice on career planning. Yuki Saiki Ohi Office, Tokyo Branch Execute industrial safety and health-related have taken child-care measures to enhance employees’ good health I leave twice. The first time To effectively fulfill its obligation of safety, which is required with my eldest daughter of every corporation, the Company proactively takes went quickly because everything about child-caring initiatives to maintain and promote employees’ health. was new for me, but I was more at home when caring for my eldest son, and it was nice to be able Regular medical checkup to enjoy the precious yet fleeting time of his A medical checkup is conducted once a year that focuses babyhood. I was also able to lessen the stress my on tests for lifestyle-related diseases. Although long daughter must have felt with all the changes from working hours have become a social problem in recent having a new brother around. I felt that the childyears, the Company has implemented a framework to care leave system has helped me in a lot of ways. minimize the health risks of employees due to a heavy After returning to work, my daily life still revolves workload through enhanced interview guidance from around my children. However, with the enormous industrial physicians to those with long working hours. support of my family and every team member of my workplace, I was somehow able to balance work Health promotion and child-caring. I am truly grateful to my Health promotion seminars are held for the purpose of colleagues for this. maintaining good health and improving the lifestyle of employees. At these seminars, in addition to lectures (on mental health and eating habit guidance) given by experts, simple aerobics dance programs are offered to encourage employees to engage in light physical exercise. Having Taken Care Leave Wataru Kurihara Involvement in mental health activities focusing Office Building Team, Real Estate Division on “prevention and recurrence prevention” have a three-year-old The Company considers it important to support every employee in having a purposeful life by ensuring I daughter and a threemonth-old son. systematic and constant care for his/her mental health. My daughter has been going to daycare since To promote mental health care in accordance with the before she was one-year-old, due to my wife and I “Guidelines for maintenance and promotion of mental both working and the fact that no close relatives health for workers” of the Ministry of Health, Labour and live nearby. Welfare, the Company has taken a variety of initiatives When she first started attending daycare, my such as reinforcement of in-house education and training, daughter often fell sick and could not attend or had cultivation of dedicated staff in charge at operating sites, to leave early due to high fever and other illnesses. implementation of the stress check system following the Whenever situations like these occur, either my Partial Revision of the Industrial Safety and Health Act and wife or I had to leave work to tend to our child, but improvement of networks via collaborations with external thanks to the care leave system, a lot of stress has professional organizations. been taken off my wife. With the care leave system, follow-up work such as the taking-over of my job duties and the Promoting the work-life balance to support the adjustment of work schedules became necessary, sound development of the next-generation children and might be an extra workload for my colleagues, but they were understanding and supportive. Pursuant to the implementation of the Act on Advancement Taking advantage of this system while working of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children, diligently at the office, I plan to be a father who can the Company formulated the “Ordinary Business Owner expertly balance both work and family. Action Plan” and implemented the “Child-care leave system,” 16 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 Acquisition results for various systems Results (number of beneficiaries) System Description FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Leave of absence is allowed for a desired period until a Child-care leave 6 7 8 13 8 child becomes 2 years old. Short-time Service hours may be reduced by up to 2 hours per day for 17 17 18 17 22 regular employee nurturing a child. Nursing care Leave of absence is allowed for a desired period within one 1 0 0 0 0 leave year to take care of a family member in need of nursing care. Care leave Paid leave for nursing care of a child (up to 10 days per year) 27 31 27 27 29 Paid leave for nursing care of a family member in need of Family care leave 1 1 0 0 4 nursing care (up to 10 days per year). * The number of beneficiaries in the child-care leave and nursing care leave are calculated based on the year they started taking their leaves. Promoting welfare measures to help employees store up the energy to work A variety of systems are available in compliance with Participated in the Mitsubishi the three catchphrases of “Provision of security,” Firms’ Regatta Tournament “Recreation” and “Promotion of residential house Miki Asaka acquisition” for the promotion of employees’ welfare. Minamihonmoku No. 1 Office, Yokohama Branch itsubishi Firms’ Regatta Major welfare programs of the Company: M Tournament is an annual 1. Provision of security boat race event in which teams of five from each Retirement benefits, corporate pensions, family allowance, Mitsubishi Group company compete against each other. housing allowances, condolence money, celebration of a birth, This was the second time I participated, competing in the the ESOP (Employee Stock Ownership Plan) association, women’s kayak event. Working together with my seniors group insurance, the reserve for pension and asset formation, and colleagues, we were able to win the event. multipurpose accommodation loans and the granting of Although we progressed through the preliminaries company-owned houses to employees via job transfers that day, our four rowers did not work well together at all, 2. Recreation resulting in sentiments of regret. However, the kind advice Recreation facilities, in-house sports events (baseball, tennis and words of encouragement from the seniors of the and futsal), the Mitsubishi firms’ martial arts tournament, Company’s boat department rekindled our spirits, and refresh leave (long-service and midlevel workers) we faced the finals with the experience from the 3. Promotion of residential house acquisition preliminaries. We understood the event was not only Reserve for house acquisition and asset formation, in-house about winning or losing; putting having fun and working loans and tie-up loans as a team first added to the joy of obtaining a good result. Of course, winning made me happy, but what also made me happy was having built relationships with my colleagues outside work through the event, as well as To ensure employment opportunities for the being able to communicate with employees from other elderly, motivated retiring employees are provided companies. with places to demonstrate their competence In terms of employment opportunities for the elderly, the Company has strived to guarantee the employment of employees up to 62 or 63 years old before the establishment 2016, the Company’s employment rate of said employees of the related laws through measures such as a job was 1.86%, lower than its legally mandated 2.00% placement service to help them be reemployed by employment ratio. We will continue to steadily strengthen subsidiaries or affiliates and the reemployment of those with improvements of the worksite environment in which physically expertise in certain business fields. challenged persons can easily demonstrate their capabilities In response to the establishment of the relevant laws, we and competence, aiming to reach our legally mandated established our continuing employment system to ensure employment ratio as soon as possible. that applicants can continue to work up to 65 years old under certain criteria, and the system has been applied to Employment ratio of physically challenged employees around 90% of those applicable. June June June June June June 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Improving access in the work environment to increase Number of physically the employment of physically challenged people challenged employees 16 18 17 16 16 14 (actual) There are physically challenged employees who work in Employment ratio (%) 2.06 2.30 2.15 2.05 2.05 1.86 diverse operations of the Company. However, as of June 1, Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 17 Appropriate Working Environment Ensuring the security of workers We are making efforts to improve working environment and grasp situations by taking measures for the ever-changing environment, including Striving to conduct industrial safety and health reviewing the format of regular security activities via collaborations among operating bases patrols. In this manner, we will always look in the pursuit of prevention of industrial accidents for new ways to improve safety and health, actively implement ordinary safety Each branch has an “Industrial Safety and Health Committee” (and a promotion activities and continue daily Health Committee at Head Office) to share information with operating enlightenment activities. We believe that bases including operation-commission and cargo-handling those efforts will help prevent industrial companies to which operation is outsourced with regard to diverse accidents and ensure the safety of initiatives related to industrial safety workers. and health. In addition, we strive to Safety patrol (Rokko C-4 Specific initiatives executed at the Office, Kobe Branch) prevent industrial accidents by respective ports are summarized in the conducting safety and health table below. education and safety patrols inside and outside the facilities. Industrial Safety and Health Description of specific initiatives taken at the respective ports and results/achievements Committee (Fukuoka Branch) Description We hold a briefing meeting before the ship operations to confirm the Overland transportation: Strengthen ensuring content of the intended operation, check the work uniform including the safety with safety measures and the prevention fluorescent vests and call workers’ attention to safety (daily). A safety and health meeting is held jointly with the relevant suppliers of accidents in the transportation field (monthly). Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. (an overland transportation-dedicated We implemented safety patrols at operating sites jointly with the relevant suppliers (monthly). company in charge of the overland transportation business of the (Quarterly joint patrols are conducted with the participation of superiors.) Company), aims to increase the security of transportation and ensure We regularly confirm and replenish safety gear (safety belts for high-place safety through concerted efforts with the recognition that ensuring operations, fluorescent safety armbands, emergency stretchers, etc.). the security of freight transportation is the pillar of our business Information such as cases of accidents is shared with other operators management. operating at the same harbor terminal at operators’ liaison meetings, In addition, fully recognizing the public nature and importance of etc., and the content is shared at safety conferences at our worksites the trucking business apart from compliance with relevant laws and and with suppliers. regulations such as the Motor Truck Transportation Business Act and We promote the speed limit for dedicated, in-yard trucks, which are driven within the container yards (via the successive installation of the Road Traffic Act, in Ryoso Transportation, they check operations excessive speed lamps). at all times from a safety viewpoint. As initiatives for daily accident We participate in outside workshops and training sessions (as needed). preventive activities, they also hold safety conferences conduct Results/Achievements safety patrols and head office and all-branches marketing staff No serious industrial accidents were reported in fiscal 2016. conferences, and conduct thorough checks at all car-allocation bases using a high-performance alcohol detector unit to check at the roll call whether any crew members have been drinking. In addition, they implement initiatives for industrial safety and health via appropriate instructions and education given to crew members based on the results of regular medical checkups, to which Measures to Ensure tests for lifestyle-related diseases have been added, and regular Safety and Security diagnosis of the driving competence of the truck crews is conducted. Nobuyasu Tsutsumi Planning & Business Coordination Division, Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. Harbor transportation: Promote the prevention of industrial accidents and conduct periodic e at Ryoso Transportation are committed to ensuring W and managing safety and security as part of our disaster prevention drills and meetings. important social responsibility. As a trucking business The port and harbor operations inevitably involve a great variety of operator certified as an excellent safety (G mark) enterprise, we cargo handling work in association with various receipts and strive to comply with laws and regulations for safe and secure deliveries at ports. For smooth and safe cargo handling operations, operations. Furthermore, on the environmental front, we obtained Green Management Certification in 2005 and strive to reduce the we implemented various activities based on the countermeasures environmental burden. prepared by each operating site. Furthermore, we hold regular While undertaking such initiatives, in response to the before-work meetings and monthly increasing diversification and sophistication of customers’ needs, safety and health meetings jointly with we establish a system for sharing and communicating information, relevant suppliers at which we analyze safe transportation and improvement in transportation quality by industrial accidents and cargo implementing dutyand position-based education and safety accident cases in order to raise meetings aimed at raising awareness of employees. (Group awareness of safety and health and Safety and health meeting company of Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation) share the intent with all workers. (Rokko C-4 Office, Kobe Branch) 18 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 Training at the 2nd year Training at the 6th year The Supervisor Grade 2 training Human resources development and training business skills and the organization’s strength through training by service year of employment. At the same time, the Company offers several training programs to raise employees’ Endeavor to develop human resources that can expertise such as management capabilities, readiness for contribute not only to corporate growth but also globalization and operational capability to enable employees to social development to acquire professional skills in response to the content of their business duties. Ideal image of desired human resources With the “Code of Conduct” in mind, every employee aims to undertake a role not only in corporate growth Extending the Content of the Logistics but also in the development of society by conducting Training himself/herself in the following manner. At the logistics training, the lecturers are dispatched mainly from among active employees so that employees assigned to posts at logistics sites can improve their necessary expertise 1. Keep faith in others, and conduct yourself with integrity and a sense of fairness. and skills. 2. Conduct yourself autonomously. In fiscal 2016, lectures regarding related laws, business 3. Respond flexibly to environmental changes. activities and introduction of initiatives undertaken in the 4. Demonstrate expertise and act with a sense of creativity. warehousing business, etc. were held with 263 participants 5. Have a good teamwork spirit and cooperate with your coming from the Company and also subsidiaries and colleagues. affiliates. Furthermore, the lectures were recorded on video to develop an environment where they can be viewed as an e-learning course in order to secure opportunities to take Training system lectures for employees who are unable to attend the training. The Company focuses on developing human resources that can precisely respond to internal and external needs. The Company therefore strives to upgrade employees’ Reflection on the Logistics Training “Outline of Harbor Reflection on the Logistics Transportation Business” Hiroyuki Ito Training “Outline of Warehouse Harbor Transportation Dept., Osaka Branch Storage Operation” Mari Sugizaki n the Outline of Harbor Transportation Business, I Ohi Office, Tokyo Branch I acquired a wide range of knowledge regarding various laws and regulations related to port and harbor y participating in this training, I got my operations, as well as the prior consultation system peculiar to B knowledge organized on warehouse the Japanese port service industry and the historical transition of storage operation that I had understood only port logistics operations, etc. vaguely in daily duties. Furthermore, I reconfirmed In the past, without highly functional cargo handling the points to bear in mind in conducting business equipment, operations fully dependent on manpower were regarding related laws and regulations including the dangerous and inefficient. Nowadays, with gantry cranes and Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract large lifts for container ships that have become mainstream, safe Proceeds, etc., and General Terms and Conditions and efficient port logistics operations have been achieved. of Warehousing. Through this course, I felt that we are able to conduct daily In conducting daily operations, basic rules tend operations receiving these benefits. Going forward, I would like to be overlooked. Recognizing that carelessness to utilize what I learned in this course at my workplace and strive could lead to a major problem, I strive to focus on to engage in business with a heightened awareness of the laws my daily operations. and regulations related to my work. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 19 Appropriate Working Environment Conducting training for young staff members before their held training for the employees in managerial positions overseas dispatches (Overseas Operations Training) for eight months from June 2016. In the training, in addition to the four group training Targeting young staff who participate in the young staff sessions, personal guidance was given whereby overseas dispatch program, we provided training on participants consulted the lecturer about their own deepening the understanding in the international issues. At the end of the training, each participant gave transportation business. With practical training a presentation to executives on issues related to one’s contents including the explanation of the Company’s own work and solutions to them. position and role in the international transportation business, lecturers in-house and from outside build the training program for participants to make a smoother Conducted training targeting Regional start for their overseas OJTs. Furthermore, we supervisors proactively invite participants from the Group companies and affiliates In accordance with the Management Plan, we and utilize this training conducted training for Regional supervisors at the program for the Sengokuhara Training Center, on January 26-27, 2017 international transportation for the purpose of improving their capabilities and business training in the enhancing motivation. whole Mitsubishi Logistics On the day of the training, 19 persons attended Group. from each branch to reflect on their work to date and Overseas Operations Training grasp their attitudes to work and thinking habits. They also reconfirmed their expected roles as Regional supervisors and learned communication skills for Conducted problem-solving practical playing leading and central roles in operation. training These programs helped participants interact with As a part of human resources development in employees from other accordance with the Management Plan, with an aim to branches and divisions and learn procedures to identify workplace-related issues helped enhance the and to develop solutions through actual operations, we motivation of each participant. Regional supervisor training Reflection on the Problemsolving Practical Training Kenichi Uematsu Manager of Warehousing and Distribution Business Dept. A, Yokohama Branch Reflection on the he training provided by the lecturer who was Training Targeting T involved in developing the “Toyota Kaizen System” Regional Supervisors included explanation of the philosophy and effects Michiko Maeda of said method, and experiment for improvement at one’s Shinko Office, Kobe Branch workplace using a problem-solving technique derived from the Toyota Way. Unlike past training which focused on t the regional supervisor training, we explaining established concepts, the training focused on A exchanged opinions in groups and learned exercises for solving the immediate problems of each the roles to be fulfilled as regional officers. participant with a newly learned technique, taking as long as With various opinions expressed, I again nine months. In a tense atmosphere from start to finish, I realized the importance of close communication in acquired a practical behavioral habit. conducting business, on top of giving instructions Serving as an office manager at that time, I set to junior employees or performing a leadership role “improving storage efficiency” at the warehouse as a theme for follow-up overall. I felt that the creation of a work for improvement. As I had previously acted based on environment which facilitates open communication intuition backed by my successful experiences, the problemis the key for that. solving process to identify the root cause by logically asking The lecturer’s humorous talk and myself “why? why?” was a fresh and exciting idea. communication with participants from other Using this method, various new actions were branches were both inspiring, and we were able to undertaken. Results were almost in line with hypotheses, share the issues we face at each workplace and however, in implementing actions, I tended to push spend a meaningful time. Going forward, I would instructions onto my subordinates. Promoting improvement like to devote myself every day to create a better while sharing the same vision with subordinates is not an work environment and improve operations by easy task, which will likely become a subsequent topic. utilizing what I learned from this training. 20 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 Human resources (training) systems General employee development course: Basic role: Engage in a wide variety of corporate operations as core executives who facilitate business growth and management in a variety of regions including overseas. Career ProblemCareer Human skills development CSR and Health SelfCross-industrial compliance Management Logistics Global stages solving promotion development exchange General Management Manager class Life plan strategy seminar Health promotion seminar Problem-solving practical training Managerial staff class Training for newly appointed managerial staff (Understand management skills, corporate ethics, etc.) Correspondence education Assistant Mitsubishi Marketing Association manager Management training by theme (Leadership (compulsory), labor management (compulsory), accounting Mitsubishi Shichikenkai Workshop class (compulsory), problem resolution, etc. (selective course)) Midlevel Logistics training *1 Supervisor Grade 2 training Overseas operations training *2 employees (Improve perspectives via action learning, acquire basic management skills) Young Training at the 6th year employees (Problem-solving, followership, career design, etc.) overseas dispatch Young employees Training at the 2nd year program English and (Logical thinking, global mindset, FKS, safety and health, etc. (take certain lectures in the Logistics training course)) Chinese Newcomers’ first-half training / Newcomers’ second-half training conversation (Business manners, basic knowledge on general corporate operations, courses visits to logistics facilities and real estate of the Company, etc.) Region-type employee development course: Basic role: Become familiar with and understand the characteristics or features and local business duties of a certain region in preparation for the smooth fulfillment of corporate operations. Career Health SelfHuman skills Career development CSR and compliance Logistics Global stages promotion development Senior leader Health promotion class of regional employees Life plan seminar Overseas operations training *2 seminar Leader class Correspondence education of regional Regional supervisor training employees (Confirm expected roles, leadership) Logistics training *1 Training on regional employees Midlevel (Discover one’s own strengths and weaknesses, improve communication capabilities) employees Young Training at the 6th year (Problem-solving, career design, etc.) employees Training at the 2nd year (CSR, FKS, safety and health, etc. (take certain lectures in the Logistics training course)) Newcomers’ first-half training / Newcomers’ second-half training (Business manners, basic knowledge on general corporate operations, visits to logistics facilities and real estate of the Company, etc.) *1: Major lectures for the Logistics training Registered customs specialist qualification course FKS (Fuji Logistics Kaizen System) Safety and health course Warehousing Business Act and contracting practices Laws and regulations related to trucking business and practices course Outline of warehouse storage operation Marketing for the service industry Business activities of warehousing business Outline of harbor transportation business Our information system overview and information system trend in the logistic industry Introduction of actual initiatives, etc. *2: Major lectures for the Overseas Operations Training Explanation of B/L and NVO business Import shipping agent business Export shipping agent business Overseas logistics proposals, etc. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 21 Environmental Conservation Environmental issues are not only local issues of the region where our business bases are located but are also globally interconnected. Environmental accountability is a global-level social responsibility that affects the future of people. The Mitsubishi Logistics Group strengthens such environmental issues as the reduction of CO2 emissions as a countermeasure for climate change, the use of renewable natural resources and contribution to recovery of the eco-system. Reduction of CO2 emissions as a (abbreviated as “Eco-Mo Foundation”). Some of our business bases approaching their 10th year renewal in March 2017 measure for reducing climate change were commended for their many years of certification. Certified under the Logistics Efficiency 1. Certification acquisition status of the Company Improvement Act *1, we are integrating logistics All offices of the Warehousing Business Division Port and Harbor Operations Division bases and reducing the environmental burden. (Part of the container terminals of the Port of Yokohama and the Port of Kobe) Obtaining the same certification under the following seven business plans, we made transportation and distribution 2. Certification acquisition status of the Group Truck transportation business (Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., and systems more efficient by integrating logistics bases for Kyushu Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd.) and warehousing business customers who used to employ multiple logistics bases, (Chubu Trade Warehousing Co., Ltd., Kusatsu Soko Co., Ltd., and the thereby reducing the number of delivery trucks. By Warehousing Business Division of Monryo Transport Corporation) collecting customers’ freight and implementing joint delivery, we reduce emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2), contributing to a reduction of the environmental burden. *2. The Foundation for Promoting Personal Mobility and Ecological Transportation is a public utility foundation that has been certifying and registering business 1. Osaka Branch, Sakurajima Warehouse No. 2, North operators making efforts to reduce the Building (Started operation in November 2005) environmental burden at a level exceeding the standards outlined in the Green 2. Osaka Branch, Sakurajima Warehouse No. 3 Management Promotion Manual since (Started operation in April 2008) October 2003. 3. Nagoya Branch, Tobishima Warehouse (Started operation in November 2008) Green Management Certification 4. Tokyo Branch, Misato Warehouse No. 1 (Started Commendation for many years of certification operation in December 2008) 5. Osaka Branch, Ibaraki Warehouse No. 3 (Started operation in October 2012) We ensure compliance with the Law 6. Tokyo Branch, Misato Warehouse No. 2 (Started operation in March 2013) Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, etc. 7. Nagoya Branch, the extended space of Tobishima As a “Designated Business Operator” under the Law Warehouse (Started operation in September 2015) Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, the Company is obliged to reduce per-basic unit energy use more than *1. The Logistics Efficiency Improvement Act (Act on Advancement of Integration 1% on an annual average on a mediumto long-term and Streamlining of Distribution Business, implemented on October 1, 2005) The purpose of this law is to promote operations conducive to efficient basis at facilities we own and rent. Moreover, we submit logistics and reducing the environmental burden by integrating logistics bases a regular report on energy saving and a mediumto and conducting transportation, distribution, storage and logistics processing long-term energy-saving plan to the Ministry of Economy, comprehensively. Business plans under this law are approved as a comprehensive efficiency plan and supported by the authority. Trade and Industry. The values we reported to the In addition, the same law has been amended in May 2016 in view of further Ministry in fiscal 2016 (the actual results for fiscal 2015) integrating and streamlining the logistics industry with the concern of labor shortage. Aiming to support measures such as modal shift and cooperative show that our energy-saving measures resulted in about delivery that are conducted by cooperation of related parties including 7% reduction of per-basic unit energy use compared with logistics companies and shippers, it became effective in October 2016. the base year fiscal 2011. We are also striving to reduce CO2 emissions at our real estate facilities subject to the Through obtaining the Green Management Certification, Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance. we are promoting environment-friendly business activities. Web The actual results of our environmental conservation efforts The Group obtained the Green Management Certification *2, and our total CO2 emissions reduction directive under the which pursues profitability and environmental conservation by Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance can be promoting environment-friendly business activities from the viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” certification registration organization Foundation for HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Promoting Personal Mobility and Ecological Transportation Report>Extended version 22 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 Conducting compliance with the Act on Rational In fiscal 2016, a total of about 660 existing lighting units Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons were renewed to LED lighting at three facilities (Tokyo Branch, Aomi Warehouse No. 1; Yokohama Branch, Daikoku According to the “Act on Rational Use and Proper Warehouse B; and Fukuoka Branch, Tachinoura Warehouse Management of Fluorocarbons *3,”it is required of users that A). inspection on commercial refrigerators and air conditioners A reduction of approximately 990 thousand kWh in etc. using fluorocarbons (Class 1 specified products), or electric energy, which corresponds to approximately 2.0% of the report of the leakage amount of fluorocarbons from the the annual electric energy consumption at the Company’s aforementioned products when it exceeds a specified level. warehousing facilities, is expected by renewing the existing The Company is appropriately responding to the law by lighting to LED lighting (6,900 units in total). preparing the systems and operational guidelines related to inspection and leakage control. In addition, in fiscal 2016, the Company’s calculated leakage amount of fluorocarbons Changed the signage lighting on the exterior was 468.6 [t-CO2], which was below the level of 1,000 walls of Yokohama Bay Quarter to LED lighting. [t-CO2] that is subject to reporting leakage amount to the Since its opening in 2006, Yokohama Bay Quarter, a Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (the retail facility directly connected to Yokohama station, has minister having jurisdiction over the warehouse industry). been a popular shopping mall where visitors can enjoy *3. Overview on “Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons” shopping and dining while feeling the ocean breeze. To (implemented in April 1, 2015) reduce its environmental impact, we changed the The Act requires users (owners, in general) of “Class 1 specified products” signage lighting system on its exterior walls to LED (commercial air-conditioners, refrigerators and freezers, etc.) to implement “simple inspection of all specified products” and “periodic inspection by a lighting from neon bulb lighting in fiscal 2016. person with specialized knowledge.” Furthermore, it also requires users to By changing the signage lighting on the exterior walls report the calculated leakage amount of fluorocarbons if the amount exceeds the specified level of 1,000 [t-CO2] per year. to LED lighting, we plan to reduce annual electric energy Actual data of the calculated leakage amount of fluorocarbons may consumption and CO2 emissions by approximately 70% Web be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” compared to neon bulb lighting. HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version We are promoting solar power generation. Implementing eco-friendly loading equipment In line with the governmental policy of enhancing the in the Harbor Transportation Business Division use of renewable energy to cope with global warming and other issues, the Company is promoting the In accordance with the Environmental Voluntary Plan, the adoption of large-scale solar power generation facilities Company has preferentially implemented transfer crane, at its existing warehousing facilities using the a type of eco-friendly loading equipment, at the Nanko Renewable Electric Energy Feed-In-Tariff (or fixed-price C-9 terminal in Osaka Branch. We downsized the engines purchase system of electricity from renewable energy). and power generators, resulting in a 35% decrease in CO2 emission compared to conventional models. Implementing Eco-friendly Loading Equipment (Environment-focused initiative at Nanko C-9 terminal) Koji Nishimura Harbor Transportation Dept., Osaka Branch he Nanko C-9 terminal improvement work, T which has been carried out under the responsibility of our department since November 2015, was completed and it is now Transfer crane under smooth operation. In line with this work, we refurbished the Promoting renewal of the existing lighting system handling equipment in the terminal and introduced to LED lighting to achieve significant energy saving. 10 eco-friendly transfer cranes built to a higher standard compared to conventional ones. We strive To save energy and reduce CO2 emissions with regard to the to contribute to customers by further improving the lighting systems inside the Company’s warehouses, we are operating efficiency and continue to work on promoting renewal of the existing lighting systems nearing reducing the environmental impact. the end of their lives, to high-efficiency lighting equipment. Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 23 Environmental Conservation Renewing the power receiving and transforming The Nihonbashi Dia Building received equipment at the Tokyo Dia Building to achieve the BELCA Award (Best-reform division) significant energy savings. The Nihonbashi Dia Building received the “26th BELCA At buildings No. 1, 2 and 4 of the Tokyo Dia Building, we (Building and Equipment Long-life Cycle Association) Award” are upgrading the power receiving and transforming from the Building and Equipment Long-life Cycle Association. equipment reaching the end of their lives. In this renewal, Established in 1991 for the purpose of contributing to the by replacing existing power receiving and transforming long-term use of buildings, the “BELCA Award” is a equipment with high-efficiency transformers, we plan to commendation system for existing architectural structures, reduce electric power loss by approximately 70% under which structures and related people (clients, architects compared to the state before replacement. and contractors) are awarded in the “Best-reform division” for the buildings with excellent renovations, and in the “Long-life division” for the buildings with appropriate maintenance and The Eitai Dia Building has acquired certification preservation over the long term. as a “Near-Top Level Facility” under the Tokyo The Nihonbashi Dia Building was constructed by Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance. converting Edobashi Building, a historic architecture selected by Tokyo Metropolitan Government, into a new building with The Eitai Dia Building has been certified as a “Near-Top a focus on business continuity planning (BCP) and Level Facility” under the Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental environmental performance, while preserving 70% of its Security Ordinance since fiscal 2015, under the Green exterior walls and 40% of the structural framework (pillars, Building Program for “Top-Level Business Facilities in beams and floors of the building). This enhancement of Measures Against Global Warming” certification system. *4 architectural value was highly commended, and received an The “Certified Top-Level Business Facilities in award in the “Best-reform division.” Measures Against Global Warming” are “business facilities In redeveloping warehouses and office buildings, we will that have made outstanding progress in the consider their surrounding environment by rebuilding and implementation of measures against global warming” renovating them in line with each property’s features. recognized by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government as offices complying with the standards designated by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government under the Tokyo The Nagoya Dia Building continued to be certified as Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance. Under the an “Eco-friendly Workplace” by the mayor of Nagoya mandatory targets for reduction in overall greenhouse gas The Nagoya Dia Building (Buildings No. 1 to 3) was emissions and an emissions trading program, less certified as an “Eco-friendly Workplace” by the mayor of stringent reduction targets are applied for the certified Nagoya in December 2013 in recognition of its voluntary facilities. *5 and proactive environment-focused initiatives undertaken Although the Eitai Dia Building, which was completed on a daily basis, including energy and water saving as in 1991, is quite aged, the proper renovations, renewal well as sorting and reduction of garbage. Since then, our and maintenance of the facilities and equipment were promoting of energy-saving measures such as adopting highly evaluated and certified as a Near-Top-Level Facility LED lighting was highly commended and the building in fiscal 2010, and a Top-Level Facility in fiscal 2014. continued to be certified in December 2016. In fiscal 2015, the governor has strengthened the We will strive to continue environment-friendly standards, and demands regarding environmental building management. consideration have increased. However, through updating the air-conditioning heat source for computer rooms to a high-efficiency version, conducting performance Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. obtained Green verification (commissioning) of the adopted facilities and Management Certification in its trucking equipment and continual improvement of the building business, striving for environmental conservation. management in cooperation with the tenants of the Addressing environmental issues building and a building management company of the For trucking business operators, addressing environmental group, we were certified as a Near-Top-Level Facility issues is one of the highest priorities. again. Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd. (“Ryoso Transportation”) At other facilities of the Company as well, we will has obtained the Green Management Certification *1 at all continue to make aggressive efforts to further reduce the six of its branches (seven operational bases) starting in environmental burden by promoting renovations and 2005, striving to reduce environmental burden. renewals of facilities and equipment to environmentIn fiscal 2016, Ryoso Transportation improved gas friendly versions, and improving management and mileage by 8.2% compared with fiscal 2006. operation. Specifically, in their efforts to promote eco-driving to *4. By annually reporting on conformity with the certification standards to improve gas mileage and reduce emissions of air pollution the Tokyo Metropolitan Government, the certification will be extended substances, they are conducting vehicle inspections and up until fiscal 2019. *5. The mandatory targets for reduction in overall greenhouse gas maintenance with their own high standards. They also emissions for Top-Level Facilities are reduced by half and those for adopt low-pollution vehicles that meet the latest restriction Near-Top-Level Facilities by a quarter. regulations for gas emissions. 24 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 Promotion of “Green Purchasing” Ryoso Transportation is also striving to purchase Use of renewable resources products and services with less environmental burden. At Ryoso Transportation, they are aggressively We are using the electric car i-MiEV purchasing retread tires, *6 eco-stationery, etc. manufactured by Mitsubishi Motors Corporation. *6. A retread tire has new rubber pasted on a used base tire, thereby As one measure under the Environmental Voluntary Plan restoring the tire’s original functionality. that the Company formulated, we are promoting the replacement of gasoline cars, which consume gasoline and  hange of total gas mileage at all operational sites of Ryoso C Transportation Co., Ltd. (fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2016) (Unit: km/L) emit much CO2, with electric cars that emit no CO2 exhaust. We have formulated an electric car introduction Fiscal year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 plan considering the use of various subsidies for electric Vehicles for cars and the completion status of the relevant infrastructure business 2.45 2.53 2.59 2.63 2.58 2.59 including high-speed charger equipment for adopting such use (100.0) (103.1) (105.6) (107.5) (105.5) (105.7) cars. In fiscal 2016 vehicles came up for renewal and following the revision in the number of company vehicles in Fiscal 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 use, the number of vehicles decreased, but 25 electric year Vehicles for vehicles are now in use in our head office and all branches. business 2.52 2.48 2.53 2.62 2.65 use (102.9) (101.3) (103.4) (107.0) (108.2) Web The data on the status of using electric cars can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” Parentheses indicate index numbers setting the mileage for fiscal 2006 as 100.0. HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social 114 Report>Extended version 112 110 108.2 107.5 107.0 108 105.6 105.5 105.7 Contribution to the recovery of the eco-system 106 103.1 102.9 103.4 104 101.3 102 100.0 100 98 Conducting reforestation through volunteer 96 94 activities and donations as a partner of 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Fiscal year) reforestation of Kanagawa Prefecture We are promoting environmental conservation To address the global environment from the perspective of preservation of biodiversity, we participated in a partnership with regard to information system equipment. program of reforestation of Kanagawa Prefecture and initiated In adopting information system equipment including related activities in April 2011. servers and PCs, we select models that use less In October 2016, the fifth reforestation activity was held at energy. the prefectural forest in Tanzawa Lake. Participants included 27 executives and employees from Head Office, Tokyo Branch We are promoting environmental conservation not and Yokohama Branch, and with the instructions from the Kanagawa prefecture certified forest instructor and the support only at our operational sites but also at our offices. from the Prefectural Water Source Environment Conservation Promotion of summertime and wintertime energy Division, we performed tree thinning works and took a walk saving along the mountain trails. We strove to save energy by participating as a Group Participants were divided into four groups, and in in the Cool Biz campaign during the summertime (May accordance with safety instructions, they thinned trees by hand. through October 2016), which calls for offices to set During lunch time, the instructor gave a talk on nature their air-conditioning thermostats basically at 28˚C, as conservation, which helped participants increase the well as in the Warm Biz campaign during the wintertime awareness of environmental issues. (November 2016 through March 2017), which calls for offices to set their air-conditioning thermostats basically at 20˚C. In addition, as a year-round initiative, we strive to save energy including by reducing the number of lights in use to the extent not detrimental to operation and switching off OA equipment when not in use. Promotion of Green Purchasing of stationery and other office supplies When the Group companies purchase office supplies, we not only consider quality and price but also choose products with less environmental impact—Green Purchasing. Thinning works Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 25 Fulfillment of Sincere and Fair Business Activities We earn trust from society by fulfilling our responsibilities regarding ethical activities. By conducting fair and open competition in our activities, we can showcase our compliance to society. To fulfill our sincere and fair business activities, we recognize the issues of appropriate management of information and compliance with laws and regulations such as the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc. and the insider trading prevention law and strive to establish a foundation of trust from society. Prohibition of unfair advantage in competition Furthermore, in fiscal 2016, as a measure against cyberattacks via e-mail (targeted e-mail virus attacks), we and promotion of fair and open competition conducted training and education on cyber-attacks for executives and all employees, and raised their awareness of We conduct training concerning compliance with information security in daily operations. the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Web Actual performance data on execution of questionnaire Proceeds, etc. and the prevention of insider trading. with regard to Information Security can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” In March 2017, we conducted training concerning the Act HOME> CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc., Report>Extended version covering the Company and its domestic Group companies. A total of 1,804 employees who are in charge of implementing the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Management of Information Security etc., and related associates from each division attended the 1. Security of customer information (personal training and learned the purpose of the law, the scope of information) applications, responsibilities and prohibited matters using 2. Security of intellectual property rights related questions on our Web site. In February 2017, we 3. Confidentiality obligation conducted training related to the prevention of insider trading 4. Compliance with laws and regulations, for a total of 49 newcomers and verified their understanding obligation of compliance with regulations and using related questions on our Web site. penalties 5. Management of information assets Web Actual performance data of the training concerning thorough 6. Formulation of security measure standards compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract (Development standard, management standard, Proceeds, etc. and prevention of insider trading can be viewed on outsourcing standard) Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” 7. Monitoring and supervision HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social 8. Protecting systems from computer viruses Report>Extended version 9. Access authority control 10. Information security education We focus on information security to provide high-quality and secure services for customers. To provide the best services for our customers, the Company Management of Network Security formulated various rules related to information systems. We 1. Management of connection to ML-net (In-house have disseminated our information security policy to all network) executives and employees. 2. Rules for e-mail use To ensure the smooth business activities of the Company, 3. Rules for dispatching information we formulated specific compliance matters as to the use and 4. Rules for connection with networks outside the management of our in-house network. Also, we appoint a Company LAN manager from each branch’s information system section and OA promotion staff from the relevant section of each division that uses the network, ensuring safety and the Also, part of the operations of the Tokyo Branch trunk effective use of our in-house network. room office and Dia Systems Corporation (our subsidiary to In fiscal 2016, we conducted a web-based questionnaire develop and manage our information system) both acquired with regard to information security in October 2016 ISO27001 certification, an international information security (answered by 1,459 persons from the Company), and in management system standard, and receive periodic December 2016 (1,428 persons from Group companies) evaluation by a certifying organization-approved third-party thereby raising the awareness of information security among organization, thereby attesting to our efforts to improve our the cumulative 2,887 people who answered the information security. questionnaire. 26 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 Provision of Safe, HighQuality and Useful Services To fulfill our mission as a logistics and real estate business operator relied on by society, we intend to promote measures to focus on disasters to continue to provide socially and environmentally useful and high-quality services and maintain service functions even during emergencies. Provision of socially and environmentally on various measures. We will continue to aim to enhance customer satisfaction. beneficial high-quality services Each operating site and affiliated company We will continue to promote the improvement of conducts specific quality improvement measures. quality, aiming to be a company that enhances the quality of our customers’ products. To offer high-quality services, the Mitsubishi Logistics Group conducts daily efforts to improve the quality at each The Mitsubishi Logistics Group continues to promote operating site and affiliated company. The content and its various efforts tenaciously to improve the quality of results of such efforts are horizontally developed across services to get acknowledged by customers as a the Group. Some of these measures are as follows. constantly reliable partner. We aim for high quality from the customers’ perspective. To become a corporation that is continuously chosen by customers, we conduct business activities based on ideas and actions from the customers’ perspective. To achieve customer satisfaction, we have broadened the framework of quality enhancement to include the quality of operations, business duties and the corporation itself. Photos of 4S Activities at Kobe Branch Moreover, to ensure trust from customers, we will build on our efforts at ensuring good quality to become a Measures taken at divisions or branches and Group companies corporation that can boast “quality” as its strength. Divisions or Branches Content of measures Our Quality Declaration has been disseminated. and Group companies We put up an “Our Quality Declaration” notice at each Warehousing and Held meetings attended by managers from all the operating worksite, distributed the “Our Quality Declaration” Distribution Business Division bases to share information on improvement of quality. cards to all employees of the Mitsubishi Logistics Determined issues on operational procedures by monitoring Group and explained about it during stratified trainings, Tokyo Branch the interior of warehousing facilities. etc., to further disseminate the information. (See page The 4S Activities Promotion Committee patrolled the Yokohama P7: Our Declaration of Quality) Branch warehousing facilities and made evaluations on each checklist item. We connect employee satisfaction to customer Promoted 4S activities in all work places. The Promotion satisfaction. Kobe Branch Committee checked the status of implementation every To offer high-quality services to customers, we regard month and conducts commendation. Employee Satisfaction (ES) as an indispensable element. Ryoso Conducted a safety patrol at all the operational sites including We strive to enhance the motivation of each employee. Transportation the business sites of contractors to prevent accidents and Co., Ltd. raise awareness of safety. We believe that creating a good work environment Kyokuryo Conducted a safety patrol inside the premises every month to where employees can engage in business activities with Warehouse Co., Ltd. prevent accidents. confidence and contact customers with a smile will Shinryo Koun Provided technical training to improve workers’ technical eventually lead to Customer Satisfaction (CS). Co., Ltd. capability. Mitsubishi Logistics Improved and implemented the human resources China Co., Ltd. development system at all the Group companies in China. The Warehousing Business Division has Shanghai Collected accident-related information at each division and Linghua Logistics department, analyzed the tendencies and gave feedback to all quality management groups. Co., Ltd. managerial staff. At the Warehousing Business Division, for the purposes Yokohama Dia Collected information on complaints from customers through Building Management outsourced companies and shared the information at of maintaining and improving the quality of business Corporation meetings with the tenants. activities of the entire Division, the Head Office and all Striving to improve service quality by establishing the branches have a quality management group. We Dia Buil-Tech Business Improvement Committee and conducting Co., Ltd. improvement proposal activities complete operational documents and share information Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 27 Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services We commend improvement activities that will lead to service quality improvement and streamlining of business processes. The Company introduced a commendation system for improvement activities with an aim to vitalize the voluntary improvement activities in July 2016. Under this system, each group sets its own theme, performs improvement activities based thereon, and the award is given once a year to the group that particularly contributed to the service quality improvement and streamlining of business processes. In addition, as the system is open to anyone who engages in the Company’s business including suppliers, it is designed to enable each worksite and team to come together and join the improvement activities. In the second half of fiscal 2016 when we first solicited participants, 42 groups (314 people) joined the activities. Their wide-ranging themes included not only the activities within warehouses such as review on the operation flow lines and improving storage Improvement activities efficiency, but also business improvement and streamlining of clerical work in offices. To further improve the quality of logistics operations, we are The administrative side of this system provided adopting the G-MIWS (a new information system related to support as needed to help each group thoroughly analyze problems, identify the causes and perform warehouse storage operation and delivery center operation). efficient improvement activities. As a successor model of the current system, MIWS/ Although being small, by continuing company-wide MESH (Mitsubishi Intelligent Warehouse System/ efforts, the activity may produce great results. To have Mitsubishi Efficient and Speedy Handling System), the the improvement activities ingrained in our corporate Company developed a new system, G-MIWS, of which culture, we will operate the system while sharing sequential installation at worksites started in March activity examples in the Group with the use of an 2014. We will complete the installation of the G-MIWS at internal database and in-house journal. all locations during the first half of fiscal 2017. The “G” of Completing the Installation About Improvement Activities of the G-MIWS System Kenichi Hosoi Takashi Hasegawa Planning Team, Planning & Business Development Dept., Information Coordination Division Systems Division am engaged in the operation of the nstallation of the G-MIWS system started in I commendation system for improvement I April 2014 has been completed at all activities as a member of the secretariat. locations. We were able to proceed with the With nearly a year having passed since the installation without major problems thanks to the launch of the system, I am keenly aware every day user divisions that supported the preparation for that many groups are engaged in the improvement installation while carrying out their normal activities with enthusiasm. operations and the support staff from Dia Systems As a secretariat member, I would like to Corporation who tackled difficult tasks. continue initiatives to firmly instill and entrench this The completion of the installation marks the end system, while introducing the details of activity of of a project, however, rather than ending with each group as a fruit of their efforts and creativity, system conversion, going forward I would like through issuing the in-house journal “Improvement improve the problems found in the installation News.” process, promote the utilization of useful functions The accumulation of small improvements will left unused and reinforce other functions to meet lead to a major advance. We at the secretariat look operational needs with an eye to further increasing forward to your active participation. work efficiency and achieving quality improvement. 28 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 “G-MIWS” signifies “global,” aiming to expand the In addition, communication training on the use of Company’s logistics business to integrate nationwide transceivers was conducted monthly in the Group and overseas logistics, which was included in the Basic companies to acquire the knowledge of its use, so as Policy of the Management Plan. Our system is available to strengthen the disaster measures system. in English and Chinese for overseas use and is designed Moreover, by increasing the number of offices to be effective in standardizing operations, improving implementing the Earthquake Early Warning system, service quality and reducing costs. By exporting various we strive to promptly collect information needed to types of logistics-related data, we will analyze ensure employees’ safety. operations, formulate sales strategies, provide useful information for customers’ decision making in a timely manner and provide even higher-quality logistics services than ever to fully support customers’ business development from the aspect of logistics. Promotion of disaster measures to maintain service functions Transceiver (MCA radio) Earthquake Early Warning System Taking measures to prevent fire and We are working on crisis-preventive measures respond to the occurrence of fire. and measures to focus on crises promptly In February 2017, a fire took place at the warehouse of and effectively in case of such occurrence. a major mail order company. The warehouse was for The basic purpose of our crisis management measures in-house use, and was not a commercial warehouse as is to predict various crises that can seriously affect stipulated in the Warehousing Business Act, however, corporate management, prevent such crises and, in all the commercial warehouses received a heads-up case of occurrence, focus on the crisis quickly and from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and effectively to minimize human and material damage Tourism that governs the warehousing industry. The that affects corporate management and restore the Company, even before this incident, had been normal operational structure quickly. Especially, with an conducting thorough employee education, enhancing aim to become disaster-resistant in software and security, and, upon constructing a warehouse, taking hardware, we have developed “Disaster-Resistant and fire preventive measures from the aspects of structure Eco-Friendly Warehouses,” “Disaster-Resistant and and facility. In addition, we have established a constant Eco-Friendly Office Buildings.” communication system with local fire stations and conduct periodic fire drills every year in preparation for the occurrence of fire. Through continuing such To fulfill our corporate social responsibility, we intend to: measures and initiatives, we will strive to provide highly reliable services for our customers. 1. Ensure the safety of employees, their families and related people; 2. Preserve corporate facilities (e.g., the Company’s warehouses, buildings and facilities) and the freight received; and 3. Strive to quickly restore and continue operation. To respond to trust in our corporation from society, we will: 1. Strive to avoid adverse effects to stakeholders (customers, shareholders and business partners), and 2. Contribute to the quick stabilization of local communities. Fire prevention patrol Reinforcing the emergency and disaster measures system As an emergency measure, we implemented largescale disaster measure training with mandatory employee participation. The training involved use of a mobile phone safety confirmation system, going or coming to a work site by walking and checking restoration procedures from disaster damage, etc. Fire drill Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 29 Provision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services We are strengthening our information Receiving Life-saving Training system crisis management structure to focus on disasters and other crises. Effective from fiscal 2016, Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., a To ensure continuous use of the information system even during an management company for the Company’s leased emergency, we established a disaster countermeasures center in the buildings, ensures that its executives and employees Kansai region to back up data and implemented a duplicate receive Basic Life-saving Training. They invited lecturers information system for our in-house from Kyobashi Fire Station in Tokyo and learned network and the Internet environment. In cardiopulmonary resuscitation, hemostatic methods and addition, the Company has formulated a how to use AED devices with an aim to alleviate human manual focused on information system suffering in the event of accidents and disasters. disasters and other measures as Participants of the current fiscal year included 40 countermeasures taken during operation executives and employees. The company has them of such systems against information Disaster countermeasure retake the training every three years so as to keep their system accidents and failure. center in the Kansai region license with an effective period of three years valid. Going forward, we strive to protect worksites, customers The Company’s 11 facilities are support/relief goods and lives of our families and make a disaster-resistant organization. logistics base facilities designated by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. The Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, learning from its reflection on the Great East Japan Earthquake, held an advisory conference, attended by experts, logistics business operators Reflection on the Lifeand people related to industry organizations, among others, to compile saving Training the “Basic concept on the support/relief goods logistics system,” Shota Suga which aims for the efficient and smooth delivery of support/relief goods Tokyo Dia Building Management to afflicted areas at the time of a disaster. Office, Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd. The General Manager of the Warehousing and Distribution Business Division of the Company assumed a position as a committee participated in the Life-saving Training to member representing warehouse operators, requested by the Ministry I receive education mainly on of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, and actively cardiopulmonary resuscitation and how to commented from the perspective of a warehousing business operator. use AED devices, and learned necessary These discussions concluded with the shared recognition that for the procedures to be followed in the seven minutes delivery of support/relief goods at the time of a disaster, it is essential until the rescue crews arrive (in the Tokyo to fully utilize the expertise and facilities of private logistics operators. metropolitan area). In fiscal 2011, 395 private facilities nationwide, mainly in the In the practical training, we carried out drills Kanto, Tokai and Tonankai regions, where a large-scale earthquake is assuming situations where rescue is required. In foreseen in the near future, were designated as support/relief goods the event that we encounter an injured or sick person suffering ventricular fibrillation or logistics bases, including the Company’s seven facilities located in the cardiopulmonary arrest, I felt that performing what Kanto, Tokai and Hanshin regions. In fiscal 2012, two other facilities of we learned in a calm manner is the key, and also the Company (in Fukuoka and Saga) were newly designated as relief fully realized the difficulty in taking appropriate supplies and material facilities. actions. In this sense, the training was a very In fiscal 2013, two other facilities of the Company (both in Aichi valuable experience for me. I will strive to fully utilize Prefecture) were newly designated as relief supplies and material this experience to pass the baton of lives of injured facilities which brought the number of the Company’s facilities to 11. or sick persons to the rescue crews. We will thoroughly prepare to fulfill our public role as a warehousing (Group company of Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation) business operator so that each of the designated facilities of the Company can function well during a future large-scale disaster. Web Data on our 11 facilities designated as support/relief goods logistics base facilities can be viewed on Mitsubishi Logistics’ Web site in “Extended version.” HOME>CITIZENSHIP>Environmental and Social Report>Extended version Kinjoh Warehouse, Nagoya Branch Chuo Futo Warehouse, Fukuoka Branch 30 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 Coordination with Local Communities and International Society To contribute to the development of local communities and international society, we must focus not only on the site where our business base is located but also understand our relationship with society and recognize our common interests with society. To maintain harmonious relationships with local and international societies, we will contribute to cultural activities and health services and make donations. Cooperating with the local community Contribution to cultural activities through sports. We conducted a charity auction and a At “Yokohama Bay Quarter,” as its facility storefront charity fair. falls on the starting point of “Yokohama Marathon,” a civic marathon, we have hosted a monthly running club At the “Yokohama Bay Quarter,” the Company’s event since September 2014 with the aim of commercial real estate facilities in Yokohama, we held contributing to the local community and bringing our charity fair on Saturday, August 20, 2016. On this excitement to the marathon event. In 2016 that marked seventh charity fair, popular traditional fair games such the third year of this event, we newly created a track as shooting games and yo-yo fishing were enjoyed by for novice runners and had about 50 participants every three generations of people. Employees from facilities month. management company Yokohama Dia Building In addition, through this club operation, “North Management Corporation wore Happi costumes and Dock” U.S. Army base also situated in Kanagawa-ku of acted as salespersons in this handmade event, and it Yokohama City contacted us, and we co-hosted a was lively with a lot of visitors despite the scorching hot marathon race with the U.S. forces. In “Yokohama weather. In addition, in commemoration of the 10th North Dock FALL RUN” held in November 2016, over anniversary of the opening of the facility, this year we 1,000 runners joined the event, thereby deepening our collaborated with the popular ice lollipop “Gari-garicooperation with the local community through sports. kun” of Akagi Nyugyo Company Limited, which We aim for our facilities to coexist with local celebrated its 30th year in the market. Visitors, mainly communities through such initiatives in the future as children, had a great time with the mascot appearing at well. the venue and other attractions. The revenues from the event were donated to the Great East Japan Earthquake relief fund via the Japanese Red Cross Society. We will continue to hold the events that can entertain visitors, aiming to make a facility indispensable to the regional community. Running club event Contribution through donations, etc. Making donation to an orphanage at our overseas subsidiary in Vietnam At our overseas subsidiary in Vietnam, we visited and made donations to an orphanage in Ho Chi Minh City, and deepened our interactions with children by folding Origami and drawing, etc. Charity fair Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 31 Coordination with Local Communities and International Society We conducted a public benefit tree planting event in China. As part of our CSR activities in China, a public benefit Reflection on the Public tree planting event like last year was conducted on Benefit Tree Planting Event Saturday, March 4, 2017, in collaboration among Zang Zheng Mitsubishi Logistics China Co., Ltd., Shanghai Lingyun Assistant Manager, General Affairs Dept., Global Forwarding Co., Ltd., Shenzhen Lingyang Mitsubishi Logistics China Co., Ltd. Global Forwarding Co., Ltd., Shanghai Branch, Shanghai Linghua Logistics Co., Ltd., and Fuji Logistics o foster awareness of environmental (China) Co., Ltd. T protection through the importance of forest This event helped enhance the environmental preservation, I planned, held and participated awareness of the employees and their families and in the public benefit tree planting event initiated by Mitsubishi Logistics China Group, as part of our CSR provided an opportunity outside work for them to activities in China. interact with each other to build friendships. With this year marking the third time since 2015, the event was conducted at a park in a suburb of Shanghai on Saturday, March 4, 2017. A total of over 40 persons participated including 25 staff members of Group companies and their children and family members. Blessed with good weather, participants were divided into five groups, briefed on how to plant by the instructor, and planted 15 seedlings in cooperation with each other. Tree planting activity Forgetting their daily work and coming in contact with nature, all the participants worked together and deepened communication with each other. We conducted a “CSR Trip” in Thailand From the standpoint as both a planner and a participant, to me it was a very meaningful activity As part of our CSR activities in Thailand, creation of where I was able to watch everyone enjoy with salt licks for wild animals and tree planting activities in enthusiasm. the elephant sanctuary were conducted on Saturday, (Group company of Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation) June 18, 2016, as part of the program for the annual company trip hosted by Mitsubishi Logistics Thailand Co., Ltd. A total of 142 employees of the company around Nagoya Station, to install flower beds to liven joined the up and bring color to the front of the Nagoya Station activities and owned by Nagoya City. deepened Since fiscal 2011, we have been contributing to the interactions beautification of the environment in front of the Nagoya among them Station by planting flowers two times a year in spring while improving and autumn. awareness of CSR. We are cosponsoring Diamond Cup Golf as a community contribution. Participating companies within the Mitsubishi Group The flower bed in spring/autumn cosponsored a notable golf tournament, Diamond Cup Golf, which contributes to local communities and helps <Contents on the signboard of the nurture junior golfers through charitable activities. flower bed of hospitality> Valuing the underlying concept and purposes of this This flower belt is managed by the tournament, the Company cosponsored this event as help of flower supporters with the one of the participating companies. aim of creating a community with lots of flowery colors. The flower bed of hospitality Installed flower beds in the greenbelt near the Nagoya Station We provided a venue for the traffic safety fair at Kobe Harborland umie. Our Nagoya Branch responded to the request from the Meieki Development Council, made up of landowners At “Kobe Harborland umie,” the Company’s 32 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 commercial real estate facility in Kobe, a traffic safety We hold radio exercise events at awareness event “Spring Traffic Safety Fair 2016” was Yokohama Bay Quarter held in line with the “Spring nationwide traffic safety campaign.” The venue for the event was provided by At “Yokohama Bay Quarter,” for eight days during the the Company. school summer vacation season in August, radio On the day, there was a performance by the exercises were held at the main plaza. 2016 marks the musical band of Hyogo Prefectural Police, a traffic third year of organizing this event, all managed by safety awareness event by the rugby team Kobe Steel employees of Yokohama Dia Building Management Kobelco Steelers, and a demonstration of effectiveness Corporation. Despite the early start at 7 o’clock in the of seat belt usage by Japan Automobile Federation morning, participants have increased year by year, (JAF), etc. Visitors listened attentively to the explanation including senior couples living close by, small children with of traffic safety provided by Hyogo Prefectural Police. their fathers before work, and on the last day, we had more than 150 participants. Going forward, we would like to bring further excitement to the local community while helping this shopping mall to become a familiar place. The fair We conducted an evacuation drill to prepare for tsunamis at a commercial facility At “Harborland Dia Nissei Building,” the Company’s commercial building in Kobe, we conducted an Radio exercises evacuation drill jointly with the Harborland area to prepare for tsunamis, in line with the Kobe City Comprehensive Disaster Management Drill held on Sunday, November 13, We participate in local cleanup and 2016. other activities. In the case of the largest class tsunami caused by Nankai Trough earthquake, the whole area is predicted to Our operating bases nationwide also participated in suffer from floods with a tsunami arriving in 90 minutes at local cleanup activities voluntarily. In addition, our the earliest, according to Hyogo prefecture. Osaka Branch participated in the local blood donation On the day of the drill, about 100 employees working activities together with our customers in spring and at shops in “Kobe Harborland umie” retail building autumn. We will strive to contribute to the local participated. They were assigned roles as evacuation communities by continuing these activities. guidance teams and shoppers, and conducted an evacuation drill to lead everyone to the top of the building within the 90 minutes before the tsunami arrives. As the retail wing of the said building welcomes lots of shoppers every day, the cooperation of the shop employees is essential in giving evacuation guidance. Through this drill, we confirmed the method of coordination in the case of disaster and raised the awareness of disaster prevention of the building as a whole. We strive to make safe facilities where customers can Cleanup activities at the Head Office visit at ease through the repetition of drills in the future. Tsunami evacuation drill Blood donation activities at Osaka Branch Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 33 Statement Supporting the UN Global Compact. The Group promotes its CSR activities pursuant to the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. Practice of the UN Global UNGC’s 10 principles Compact’s 10 principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of The Group agreed to adhere to the UN Global internationally proclaimed human Compact (hereinafter “UNGC”) and endorsed approval Human rights; and in May 2014. Rights The UNGC is a voluntary Principle 2: Make sure that they are not corporate responsibility complicit in human rights abuses. initiative for businesses that are aiming for sustainable Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the growth as a responsible freedom of association and the member of society. The UNGC effective recognition of the right to asks companies to voluntarily collective bargaining; participate in creating a global Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of framework to take creative forced and compulsory labor; Labor leadership. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child At the World Economic Forum in Davos, labor; and Switzerland, in 1999, Kofi Annan, then SecretaryPrinciple 6: The elimination of discrimination in General of the United Nations, proposed that respect of employment and companies should observe the 10 principles in the occupation. areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption to solve various problems that could Principle 7: Businesses should support a occur due to internationalization and the global precautionary approach to expansion of businesses. In July 2000, the UNGC was environmental challenges; launched at the UN Headquarters in New York. As of July 2015, more than 13,000 companies and Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote organizations around the world were members of Environment greater environmental UNGC. responsibility; and Based on its “Code of Conduct,” the Group will Principle 9: Encourage the development and strive to practice the UN Global Compact’s 10 diffusion of environmentally principles as a good member of international society. friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against Anti-Corruption corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Web Global Compact Network Japan’s Web site http://www.ungcjn.org/index.html 34 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 Company Profile (As of March 31, 2017) Company name Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation Head Office Nihonbashi Dia Building, 19-1, Nihonbashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8630, Japan Establishment April 15, 1887 Capital ¥22,393 million Revenue (fiscal 2016) Consolidated: ¥208.7 billion Nonconsolidated: ¥146.8 billion The number of employees 4,419 of the Mitsubishi (excluding 53 workers on leave to work outside the Group, 1,324 temporary staff and 1,152 Logistics Group employees on loan/dispatched from outside the Group) The number of 863 employees of the (excluding 148 employees on leave to work for other companies, 116 temporary staff and 563 Company employees on loan/dispatched from inside and outside the Group) Branches Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe, Fukuoka Major Businesses Logistics Warehousing; trucking; port and harbor operations; international transportation; marine freight transportation; customs clearance; development, sales, management and administration of logistics information systems; etc. Real Estate Buying, selling, leasing and management of real estate; contracting of construction work, its design and supervision; operation of parking lots; etc. Companies in the Consolidated subsidiaries (52 companies) scope of Tohoku Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., Sairyo Service Co., Ltd., Dia Pharmaceutical Network Co., Ltd., consolidation Tokyo Dia Service Co., Ltd., Dia Systems Corporation, Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., Unitrans Ltd., Keihin Naigai Forwarding Co., Ltd., Touryo Kigyo Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics Co., Ltd., Tokyo Juki Transport Co., Ltd., SII Logistics Inc., Fuji Logistics Operations Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics Support Co., Ltd., Kinko Service Co., Ltd., Chubu Trade Warehousing Co., Ltd., Meiryo Kigyo Co., Ltd., Ryoyo Transportation Co., Ltd., Kyokuryo Warehouse Co., Ltd., Hanryo Kigyo Co., Ltd., Shinryo Koun Co., Ltd., Naigai Forwarding Co., Ltd., Kyushu Ryoso Transportation Co., Ltd., Monryo Transport Corporation, Hakuryo Koun Co., Ltd., Seiho Kaiun Kaisha, Ltd., Saryo Service Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Logistics America Corporation, Mitsubishi Warehouse California Corporation, Mitsubishi Logistics Europe B.V., Fuji Logistics Europe B.V., Mitsubishi Logistics China Co., Ltd., Shanghai Linghua Logistics Co., Ltd., Shanghai Qingke Warehouse Management Co., Ltd., Shanghai Lingyun Global Forwarding Co., Ltd. Fuji Logistics (China) Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics (Dalian F.T.Z.) Co., Ltd., Fuji Logistics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Logistics Hong Kong Ltd., Fuji Logistics (H.K.) Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Logistics Thailand Co., Ltd., P.T. Mitsubishi Logistics Indonesia, P.T. Dia-Jaya Forwarding Indonesia, Fuji Logistics Malaysia SDN.BHD., Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., Yokohama Dia Building Management Corporation, Chubo Kaihatsu Co., Ltd., Nagoya Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., Osaka Dia Buil-Tech Co., Ltd., Kobe Dia Service Co., Ltd., Kobe Dia Maintenance Co., Ltd., T’ACT Co., Ltd. Subsidiaries and Affiliates Accounted for by the Equity Method (3 companies) Nippon Container Terminals Co., Ltd., Kusatsu Soko Co., Ltd., Jupiter Global Limited Financial Data Business results (Consolidated) (Unit: ¥billion) Assets (Consolidated) (Unit: ¥billion) Operating revenue Operating income Ordinary income Total assets Net assets 250 15 20 500 300 276.8 433.0 435.3 263.0 257.5 12.7 203.6 204.3 206.8 208.7 12.5 12.3 12.1 16.0 396.2 413.2 250 200 192.2 198.1 12 11.4 11.3 400 375.1 227.8 236.6 15 14.5 14.5 14.1 14.4 14.0 353.2 211.5 200 150 9 300 10 150 100 6 200 100 5 50 3 100 50 0 0 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (fiscal year) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (fiscal year) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (fiscal year) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (fiscal year) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (fiscal year) CSR·Compliance Team, General Affairs Division, Mitsubishi Logistics Corporation Nihonbashi Dia Building, 19-1, Nihonbashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8630, Japan TEL: +81-3-3278-6657 FAX: +81-3-3278-6694 Extended version The following are some data related to the Environmental and Social Report 2017, which was collected at the end of fiscal 2016. Environmental conservation Environmental conservation activity data (by business) *Basic unit denominator (figures from Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, etc.) uses figure that have strong correlations with each business. Unit Basic unit denominator CO2 emissions Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 CO2 emissions basic unit Thousand m2 <Floor area> 1,372 1,424 1,439 Warehousing and distribution Thousand t-CO2 36.4 34.1 35.0 business kg-CO2/m2 26.5 23.9 24.3 Thousand tons <Handling tons> 71 28 18 Harbor transportation business t-CO2 8 7 8 kg-CO2/thousand tons 112.7 246.8 440.3 Million km <Total transportation distance> 4.1 3.9 4.4 Overland transportation Thousand t-CO2 3.7 3.5 3.8 business kg-CO2/thousand km 911.8 889.3 861.5 Thousand m2 <Operational area> 681 716 710 Real estate business Thousand t-CO2 42.6 41.1 40.4 kg-CO2/m2 62.6 57.4 56.9 CO2 emissions Thousand t-CO2 82.8 78.7 79.2 Environmental conservation data (by usage, by emission type) Water use (water supply, sewage) Electricity use Fuel use (City gas, LP (Liquefied Petroleum) gas, kerosene, heavy oil, diesel oil, gasoline) Heat use (Heated water, cold water, vapor) (Thousand m3) (Million kWh) (Thousand GJ) (Thousand GJ) 1,000 932 960 919 200 200 100 74.9 75.3 73.7 750 150 136 138 137 150 140.7 75 99.0 104.0 500 100 100 50 250 50 50 25 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 (Fiscal year) 2014 2015 2016 (Fiscal year) 2014 2015 2016 (Fiscal year) 2014 2015 2016 (Fiscal year) CO2 emissions Waste emissions (tons) Waste emissions (m ) 3 (Thousand t-CO2) (Thousand tons) (Thousand m3) 100 4 20 82.8 17.2 78.7 79.2 75 3 15 1.9 1.9 2.0 9.5 50 2 10 4.7 25 1 5 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 (Fiscal year) 2014 2015 2016 (Fiscal year) 2014 2015 2016 (Fiscal year) *Calculation standard Volume related to electricity, fuel and heat uses, CO2 emissions and basic unit denominator from the warehousing and distribution business, the harbor transportation business and the real estate business are based on the reported values in the Company’s report based on the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. The international transportation business is included in the warehouse and distribution business, given the small number of operating sites. Although the overland transportation business is not under the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy, fuel, CO2 emissions and basic unit denominator were calculated for one of the Company’s major trucking subsidiaries based on the standard in the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. Business sites for the harbor transportation business were restricted to two places where the Company is in charge of transportation referenced to the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. For electricity usage and CO2 emissions, the reported amounts for the Company’s subsidiary in the logistics business (the one company under the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy) were added. The CO2 emission volume was calculated based on the electricity, fuel and heat volume used under the guidelines of the Law Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. For water use, the volume of water used by the Company is indicated. The waste emission shows the volume of waste emitted by part of the Company (excluding the real estate business, etc.) and a number of the Group companies. Tokyo Metropolitan Environmental Security Ordinance Large Status of using electric cars (units introduced) scale companies CO2 emissions Unit: t-CO2 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Emissions Total number of Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 9 14 19 22 27 27 25 standard cars in use (4) (5) (5) (3) (5) (0) (0) (Introduced cars) Tokyo Dia Buildings 33,531 29,593 26,607 24,419 29,820 Eitai Dia Building 10,132 5,836 5,341 5,227 6,508 Calculated leakage amount of fluorocarbons Unit:t-CO2 Ohi Cold Storage Office 4,394 3,645 3,620 3,100 2,197 Total 48,057 39,074 35,568 32,746 38,525 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Reduction 8,983 12,489 15,311 9,532 Leakage 1,027 468 amount romotion of CSR Number of persons participated in awareness surveys and trainings aimed at disseminating the ber of news releases Unit: case corporate philosophy and better understanding of CSR and compliance.  Unit: persons Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements istics 3 2 2 Awareness surveys concerning l Estate 1 0 0 CSR and compliance 7 5 5 In-house 1,586 1,462 1,458 R 3 3 3 Domestic Group companies 2,943 1,848 1,807 er 4 4 5 Total 4,529 3,310 3,265 al 18 14 15 Group training concerning CSR and compliance In-house 60 — — Domestic Group companies 69 — — Total 129 — — rganizational Governance ber of persons participated in check aimed at dissemination wareness of compliance Unit: persons Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 achievements achievements achievements ck on status of compliance “Code of Conduct” n-house 1,556 1,416 1,421 omestic Group companies 2,671 2,684 2,745 verseas Group companies 90 79 81 otal 4,317 4,179 4,247 espect for Human Rights ber of persons participated in human rights enlightenment course issemination of awareness of human rights Unit: persons Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 achievements achievements achievements man rights 39 48 49 ghtenment course ulfillment of Sincere and Fair Business Activities ber of persons participated in compliance lecture for prevention Number of persons participated in compliance lecture for the Act against sider trading  Unit: persons Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, etc.  Unit: persons Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements achievements ouse 40 44 49 In-house 807 757 757 ber of respondents to information security questionnaire Domestic Group companies 1,019 1,143 1,047 Total 1,826 1,900 1,804 Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 achievements achievements achievements ber of questionnaires conducted Three times Twice Twice ber of respondents (Persons) 2,679 2,978 2,887 rovision of Safe, High-Quality and Useful Services ber of persons participated in training for earthquake measures Support/relief goods logistics base facilities at a glance Fiscal 2014 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Area used for Year/month of achievements achievements achievements Block Branch Facility name transportation of construction cution period March 2015 — — support/relief goods Head Office, Tokyo Aomi Warehouse No. 1 1997.6 1,000m2 ce — — Tokyo Branch Kanto Daikoku Warehouse B 1988.1 1,000m2 Yokohama ber of participants (Persons) Around 50 — — Daikoku Warehouse C 1994.4 1,000m2 Kinjoh Warehouse 1994.5 1,000m2 Tokai Nagoya Tobishima Warehouse 2008.11 1,000m2 Honjoh Warehouse 1992.1 1,000m2 Osaka Sakurajima Warehouse No. 1 1998.3 1,000m2 Kinki Rokko Warehouse D 1988.1 1,000m2 Kobe Rokko Warehouse E 1993.10 1,000m2 Chuo Futo Warehouse 1995.10 1,000m2 Kyushu Fukuoka Tosu Warehouse 2003.4 1,000m2 Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017 GRI Guidelines version 4 (G4) reference table (Listed only indicators for Core level) General Standard Disclosures Reference Item Indicators Contents page number Strategy and Analysis Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, G4-1 or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the 2~3 Top Message organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the organization. 35 Company Profile G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 4~5 Introduction of Businesses G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 35 Company Profile Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where G4-6 either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability 35 Company Profile topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 35 Company Profile Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of G4-8 35 Company Profile customers and beneficiaries). Report the scale of the organization, including: ∙ Total number of employees ∙ Total number of operations G4-9 35 Company Profile ∙ Net sales ∙ Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity ∙ Quantity of products or services provided a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. G4-10 e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are 15 Status of employees legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. − − G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 4~5 Introduction of Businesses Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: ∙ Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions G4-13 − − ∙ Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operation ∙ Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination Commitments to external initiatives Initiatives for quality G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 27~30 improvement and disaster measures Top Message, List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives G4-15 3, 34 Statement Supporting to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. the UN Global Compact List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: ∙ Holds a position on the governance body G4-16 − − ∙ Participates in projects or committees ∙ Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues ∙ Views membership as strategic Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-17 b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or 35 Company Profile equivalent documents is not covered by the report. a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. Editorial Policy, G4-18 1, 6~9 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. Promotion of CSR Confirmation of major G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 10~11 CSR activities Reference Item Indicators Contents page number For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: ∙ Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization ∙ If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select Introduction to CSR G4-20 one of the following two approaches and report either: 12~33 Activities The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material ∙ Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: ∙ Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization ∙ If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or G4-21 − − elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified ∙ Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons G4-22 − − for such restatements. G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. − − Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 6~11 Promotion of CSR G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 6~11 Promotion of CSR Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement G4-26 by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was 6~11 Promotion of CSR undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how G4-27 the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 6~11 Promotion of CSR Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile Boundary of the Report G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. 1 and Reporting Period G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 1 Publication Date G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 1 Publication Date Contacts for Inquiries Regarding the G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 1 Environmental and Social Report GRI Content Index a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. G4-32 − − c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. Assurance a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. G4-33 − − c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. Governance Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest 8 In-house Decision Making G4-34 governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, 12 Corporate Governance environmental and social impacts. Ethics and Integrity The Three Principles of Mitsubishi’s Business Management Philosophy, Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of G4-56 6~7 Code of Conduct, Environmental Policy, conduct and codes of ethics. Environmental Voluntary Plan, Our Declaration of Quality Specific Standard Disclosures Reference Item Indicators Contents page number Disclosures on Management Approach a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the material Aspect or its impacts. Initiatives for Seven Core c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: G4-DMA 6~33 Subjects of Social ∙ The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach Responsibility ∙ The results of the evaluation of the management approach ∙ Any related adjustments to the management approach Mitsubishi Logistics Environmental and Social Report 2017
