CITY WEST WATER ANNUAL REPORT 2018 ABORIGINAL ACKNOWLEDGEMENT City West Water respectfully acknowledges the Traditional Owners of the lands and waters upon which we work and operate, the people of the Kulin Nation. We pay our deepest respects to the traditional custodians past, present and future. We acknowledge the continued cultural, social and spiritual connections that Aboriginal people have with the lands and waters, and recognise and value that the Traditional Owner groups have cared for and protected them for thousands of generations. We will further develop our partnership with the Traditional Owner groups to ensure their contributions to the future of the water management landscape and to maintain their cultural and spiritual connection. ARTWORK DESCRIPTION: “Water is the heartbeat of Melbourne and provides the inspiration behind this Reconciliation Action Plan artwork. Elements from the City West Water logo are depicted in the artwork by the surrounding western suburbs landscape of rolling hills and smaller rivers/estuaries from the City West Water catchment area leading into the main river system of the Maribyrnong River, which eventually meanders to meet the Yarra River in the CBD. Various food sources found along the river banks, and the boats mooring are depicted. Bunjil, in Aboriginal mythology, is the Kulin nation creator and spiritual leader and is depicted as an eagle who protects the land and people below.” – Jodie Brennan, Mazart Design Studio. Artwork and design by Mazart Design Studio | www.mazartdesignstudio.com | Supply Nation certified. CONTENTS OUR YEAR IN REVIEW 2 OUR BUSINESS 38 Message from the Chair and Managing Director 2 Organisational structure 38 Financial overview 43 ABOUT US 4 Annual reporting of major non-residential Our Vision 6 water users 50 Sustainable Development Goals 7 Total residential bill 51 Key initiatives and projects 8 Comprehensive Operating Statement 60 Balance Sheet 61 OUR PEOPLE 10 Statement of Changes in Equity 62 People enable our ambition 10 Statement of Cash Flows 63 Notes to and forming part of the Financial OUR CUSTOMERS 14 Statements64 Community service obligations 18 Statutory Certification 120 OUR COMMUNITIES 24 APPENDIX 1:  123 Sustainable water use 24 Disclosure of information on letter of expectations Ministerial Reporting Direction 07 123 Drought response reporting 27 Sustainable and resilient water services systems 28 APPENDIX 2:  129 OUR ENVIRONMENT 30 The United Nations Global Compact 129 Environmental management 30 APPENDIX 3: 133 Further statutory obligations 36 Bulk water entitlement reporting 133 APPENDIX 4: 135 Disclosure index 135 2 Our year in review OUR YEAR Message from the Chair and Managing IN REVIEW Director Building on efficiencies achieved by our business, our Price Submission will see customers receive lower prices and better services. Specifically: • City West Water will retain the lowest average household water bills for any metropolitan city in Australia • we’ll be delivering the largest price decrease for nonresidential customers (large and small businesses, schools, councils and hospitals) in the state • as well as lower prices, we’re also going to be offering a range of additional services for our customers, both digital and in person, and vulnerable customer initiatives that will David Middleton David Ryan Chair Managing Director help us progress our journey towards putting customers first and benefiting communities. City West Water is privileged to service We remain mindful of the community we operate in and Melbourne’s CBD and western suburbs; an area the myriad of benefits that flow from urban greening for the that includes some of the fastest population community that we serve. This year we are proud that we growth corridors in Australia and also, the along with our partners continued participation in Greening largest industrial customer base in Victoria. the West projects. With such growth comes responsibility. In this OUR COMMUNITY Annual Report you will get to understand how Local events play a role in building inclusion and social we are tracking in servicing our city. connections, and our Community Investment Program aims to support the diverse community we serve. Through In 2018 we achieved some significant this program our Choose Tap mobile water fountains were milestones for our customers, our provided to 95 events in our community – from Relay for community and our business, including our Life to the African Music and Cultural Festival providing free Price Submission to the Essential Services drinking water to around 1 million people. Commission (ESC), commencement of the We also supported 36 events across all of our Local Spencer Street Sewer Upgrade, and becoming Government areas via financial and in-kind support. a signatory to the United Nations Global The highlight of our Community Investment Program is Day Compact. at the Zoo, which this year celebrated its 10th anniversary. Founded by City West Water, Day at the Zoo provides a OUR CUSTOMERS platform for newly arrived communities to meet with key This year we continued our journey towards achieving our government organisations and learn about the support that vision of being an exceptional service provider that puts is available to them in a fun, engaging and safe environment. our customers first and benefits the community. Building More than 1,300 community members from across upon our business strategy, we have started developing our Melbourne and 17 government organisations participated in Customers First Strategy, which will define how customer this year’s event. engagement and value will remain at the heart of all we do In the spirit of thinking globally and acting locally, this year and drive our business decisions and direction. we signed up to the United Nations Global Compact. Of paramount importance this year was our five year Price This means that we will support and embed the UN’s Submission to the ESC. In preparing the report, we undertook Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into our business our largest ever customer engagement program so that our operations and strategy. These goals are a call to action for all customers’ views and values were fundamental to what was governments, businesses and individuals to act in a manner proposed. Our year in review 3 which will put the world on a more sustainable path while The strong financial performance provides us with a making positive changes for both planet and people. We are significant source of funding that helps finance our capital committed to playing our role in supporting the achievement program. Furthermore, the improved performance also of these Goals. results in favourable returns to our shareholder, the State Government of Victoria, through tax and dividend payments. OUR GROWING CITY During 2018, we made total dividend payments of $62.6 As outlined in Water for Victoria, the State’s long-term million and paid income tax equivalent of $43.5 million to the direction for managing our precious water resources, there State Government of Victoria. are a number of focus areas that will help us support the communities, environment, economy and infrastructure of LOOKING TO THE YEAR AHEAD our growing city. We’re excited to build on our achievements in 2018 and are Our capital program for new water and sewer mains is vital focusing on our priorities for the year ahead. These include: for future proofing our city. It includes projects in and around • building on our Customers First Strategy by providing our Melbourne’s CBD; the major ones being the Spencer Street customers with the services they expect from us including: Sewer Upgrade, Collins Street water main renewal, and the decreasing email response times; reintroducing face to Arden Street water main renewal in North Melbourne. face customer service; improved digital services allowing Some of these assets are over 100 years old, and we are customers to transact with us in ways that suit them; bill committed to ensuring they will provide safe and reliable relief for customers with a verified leak on their property services to our community for the next 100 years. and the introduction of simpler residential water usage billing Melbourne’s growth has helped us reach a record 829 development applications – an increase of 150 from the • stepping up investment in upgrading water and sewerage previous year. These applications allow developers to connect networks ($535 million over the next five years) including water and sewerage services to new housing developments, completing the Spencer Street Sewer Upgrade, and supplying vital infrastructure to Melbourne’s growing starting key projects in Lonsdale, Elizabeth and Collins population. Streets in Melbourne’s CBD; all of which will help to future proof our growing city OUR PEOPLE • continuing to explore ways of working with our partners Our people are the enablers of our excellent customer service to collaborate on projects, and share assets and resources and our ongoing investment in them continues. The main to increase efficiencies and opportunities to reduce events in this area this year were: community disruption • the launch of Choose Exceptional; a culture and leadership • building on our Choose Exceptional and culture programs program for all our staff which assists everyone to learn to develop our people and help them reach their full and grow professionally and personally, as well as enhance potential team effectiveness and deliver better outcomes for our • further working on the UN SDGs and integrating them customers into our business at all levels. • the delivery of our Diversity and Inclusion Strategy which In accordance with the Financial Management Act 1994, we focuses on education in Aboriginal and Torres Strait are pleased to attest that our Annual Report for the year Islander values, celebrating cultural and linguistic diversity, ending 30 June 2018 is compliant with all statutory reporting increasing gender diversity and improving flexible requirements. working arrangements. By embracing and celebrating our differences, a productive work environment is created We extend a sincere thank you to all our people and the where everybody feels valued and we reflect the diversity Board for their support, efforts and achievements throughout of the community we serve the year, and we are grateful for having such a fantastic team at City West Water. • the launch of a new Health and Safety Strategy which enables a focus on values, empowerment and a proactive We look forward to another successful year in 2019 as approach to safety, all of which helps us deliver a better we continue to enhance the services we provide to our workplace for our people and contractors, and a better customers and community as our great city grows. customer experience. OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE We delivered a profit before tax of $112.8 million against a budget of $92.1 million. The result was mainly driven by David Middleton David Ryan the continued growth in our region that has led to higher Chair Managing Director developer related revenues for the year. Our focus on efficiency, which has resulted in lower costs compared to Melbourne 28 August 2018 budget during the year, also contributed to the favourable position. 4 About us ABOUT US We operate under Statements of Obligations issued by the Minister for Water under section 4l of the Water Industry Act City West Water is a statutory water authority 1994. The statements impose obligations on us regarding incorporated under the Water Act 1989. It the performance of our functions and exercise of powers. We is one of three retail water corporations in are required to monitor compliance with the obligations set metropolitan Melbourne owned by the State out in the statements, report on non-compliance and take of Victoria. The Minister for Water for the remedial action as required. period from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018 was The ESC is our economic regulator. It approves the prices the Hon. Lisa Neville MP. we charge our customers, as well as the standards of service we deliver. We are required to submit a five year Pricing Submission to the ESC which details outcomes Our core business is the supply of water, sewerage, trade that we intend to achieve, as well as proposed prices. The waste and where available, recycled water services to ESC undertakes a public review of our Pricing Submission customers in accordance with our Customer Charter. We in consultation with all stakeholders. The new Pricing service 418,000 residential properties, 41,000 non-residential Determination took effect from 1 July 2018 and will be customers (which includes schools, councils, industrial, effective for five years. commercial and small businesses) and over one million Our drinking water quality is regulated by the Department customers. We manage $1.8 billion of infrastructure across a of Health and Human Services under the Safe Drinking service area of more than 700km2. Water Act 2003. Our recycled water quality is regulated Each year, we supply around 100 billion litres of drinking by the Environment Protection Authority (EPA) under the water to residential and non-residential customers and Environment Protection Act 1970. The operation of our sewage transfer approximately 94% of sewage and trade waste treatment plant is also regulated by the EPA. collected to Melbourne Water’s Western Treatment Plant at Werribee. The remaining 6% is treated at our Altona Treatment Plant. About us 5 APPROXIMATELY 460,000 HOMES AND BUSINESSES SERVED EACH YEAR WE MANAGE $1.8 billion OF INFRASTRUCTURE ACROSS A SERVICE AREA OF MORE THAN 700km2 WE DELIVER AN ESTIMATED 100 billion LITRES OF DRINKING WATER TO OUR CUSTOMERS PER ANNUM 94% OF SEWAGE AND TRADE WASTE COLLECTED FROM CUSTOMERS IS TRANSPORTED TO MELBOURNE WATER’S WESTERN TREATMENT PLANT AT WERRIBEE AND THE REMAINING 6% IS SENT TO THE ALTONA TREATMENT PLANT 6 About us Our Vision To be an exceptional service provider that puts customers first and benefits the community OUR AMBITION OUR PEOPLE CUSTOMER VALUE IS AT THE HEART OF ALL WE DO. OUR AMBITION IS ENABLED BY OUR PEOPLE. We are driven to: Our people are: • deliver exceptional services that are affordable, safe and • agile – responsive to customer needs and a changing reliable world • be accessible and easy to deal with • diverse – reflect the community we serve • make all decisions in our customers’ best interests and • trusted – make evidence-driven judgements, exercised with future generations in mind. with integrity. WE ARE PASSIONATE ABOUT COMMUNITY LIVEABILITY AND WELLBEING. We strive to: • care for, and where possible, to enhance the environment with an eye to the future and the challenges imposed by a changing climate • be vibrant partners in the life of our community • anticipate community needs and take the lead within our areas of influence • provide a fair return to our shareholder, the State Government of Victoria, to support it to meet its objectives to improve the lives of all Victorians. SUCCESSFUL ACHIEVEMENT OF OUR AMBITION IS BUILT ON SIX STRONG FOUNDATIONS: ACHIEVEMENT DYNAMIC STREAMLINED CULTURE TECHNOLOGY DELIVERY GREAT PURPOSEFUL EXTENSIVE KNOWLEDGE PARTNERSHIPS LEADERSHIP OF THE WATER CYCLE About us 7 Sustainable Development Goals In 2018, we signed up to the United Nations Global benefits the community. We also understand the intrinsic link Compact – the world’s largest corporate sustainability between water and achieving the remaining Goals. initiative. As a signatory to the Global Compact, we are For instance, Goal 3: Good Health and Wellbeing reflects dedicated to supporting each of the associated 17 SDGs, our urban greening efforts delivered through our Greening as well as bringing life to the Water Services Association of the West initiative. Goal 5: Gender Equality aligns closely Australia’s water industry commitment to the Goals, of which with our Diversity and Inclusion Strategy where we are driven we are a partner. As outlined in Water for Victoria, water to achieving a gender balanced workforce by 2020. Goal is fundamental to our communities, the environment, a 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities is supported by prosperous economy and thriving communities; and at City the actions in our Urban Water Strategy, particularly our West Water, the SDGs provide us with a lens through which commitment to increasing stormwater irrigation to green to view our operations to ensure that we continue to make a spaces, while our carbon emissions pledge can be linked with positive impact across each of these areas both now and into Goal 13: Climate Action. Goal 17: Partnerships for the Goals the future. is founded upon our ability to achieve each of these goals, Our core business is reflected in Goal 6: Clean Water and encouraging continued dedication to knowledge sharing and Sanitation, and this supports our vision to become an collaboration both within and outside of the water industry. exceptional service provider that puts customers first and More information can be found in Appendix 2. OUR VISION: To be an exceptional service provider that puts customers first and benefits the community. WELLBEING OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR PEOPLE OUR COMMUNITY OUR BUSINESS 8 About us Key initiatives and projects 2017 JULY • launched Innovate Reconciliation Action Plan 2017-19 • commencement of West Werribee Aquifer Storage and Recovery scheme trial. SEPTEMBER • the State Government recognised our achievement of reaching 45% female representation across our workforce • Pricing Submission lodged with the ESC. 2018 JANUARY • launched Health and Safety Strategy. NOVEMBER DECEMBER • launched Family Violence Policy • launched our Choose Exceptional culture and leadership program. • major works began on the Spencer Street Sewer Upgrade. About us 9 MARCH APRIL • celebrated 10 years of Day at the Zoo as part of • began work on the Cultural Diversity Week Upper Stony Creek Transformation Project. • launched the Financial Inclusion Action Plan (FIAP) • hosted a state-wide family violence forum in partnership with the ESC. JUNE MAY • received ESC’s Pricing Determination • signed up to the United • installed solar panels at Altona Treatment Nations Global Compact Plant and the SDGs. • launched our Climate Resilience Strategy • launched Strategy and Policy Map showing our key strategies and plans for the business • reached a record 829 development applications • appointed our Senior Project Manager, First Nations Values of Water, in collaboration with the other metropolitan water corporations. 10 Our people People enable OUR PEOPLE our ambition Our People are: At City West Water, we cannot achieve our AGILE vision without a great team. We work to equip our people to deliver exceptional service and Our people are responsive to customer needs and value for money. expectations within a changing landscape. They are flexible and adaptive, meaning they are open to change and new Our employees are selected on the basis of ways of working. ability, knowledge and skills in fair and open DIVERSE competition that ensures equal opportunity. Our workforce is a mirror to the wonderfully diverse community we serve. Our differences provide us with opportunities to learn, grow and make our workplace vibrant and respectful. TRUSTED Who we are Our people are supported through our business processes to make considered decisions that are driven by the best outcomes for our customers. Honesty and integrity are hallmarks of how we relate to one another and it shows. FEMALE REPRESENTATION 45% MALE REPRESENTATION FULL TIME EMPLOYEES 55% 81% PART TIME EMPLOYEES AVERAGE AGE OF EMPLOYEES 17% 44 TOTAL NUMBER CASUAL/FIXED TERM EMPLOYEES OF EMPLOYEES 443 2% Our people 11 OUR ACHIEVEMENTS City West Water is committed to deeply embedding diversity and inclusion into our business. The following outcomes have been achieved this financial year. 2020 TARGET 2018 ACTUAL OUR WORKFORCE gender 45% CHOOSE EXCEPTIONAL PROGRAM In December 2017 we launched a new personal leadership WILL BE balanced WOMEN development program for all employees titled Choose Exceptional. It is the first time we have embarked on such 50% 42% an endeavour and it is a major highlight for our staff development and wellbeing. OF CWW LEADERS WILL BE FEMALE Through this program employees gain a greater understanding of our values and learn how they can help drive a culture where achievement is championed. The process is integral to our mission to become an exceptional service provider that puts customers first and benefits the OF OUR EMPLOYEES community. WILL IDENTIFY AS The program explores the notion that everyone is a leader and that leadership is a behaviour rather than a position. It also provides practical skills for employees in areas such 2.5% ABORIGINAL OR TORRES STRAIT 0% as personal development, career management and critical ISLANDER PEOPLES conversations as well as giving and receiving feedback. These skills will allow our people to deliver better outcomes for our customers and encourage our employees to find new ways OF OUR EMPLOYEES 25% CAN SPEAK A 42% to put our customers first. LANGUAGE OTHER “By equipping employees with THAN ENGLISH the skills to support their personal leadership journey, we seek to enhance OF OUR WORKFORCE WILL IDENTIFY AS team effectiveness and continue to strengthen an environment of trust.” 35% HAVING CARING RESPONSIBILITIES 40% Louise Meadows, General Manager, People and Capability OUTSIDE OF CWW OF OUR EMPLOYEES The skills and tools from the program bring to life our three cultural 10% WILL IDENTIFY AS HAVING A DISABILITY 3% expectations: We Learn and Grow, We Value People and We Drive Performance. OF OUR WORKFORCE 7% WILL IDENTIFY AS BELONGING TO THE LGBTQI COMMUNITY 4% 12 Our people EMPHASIS ON DIVERSITY We also have policies for the prevention of harassment and bullying and for equal employment. Our people have a right Our approach to diversity and inclusion affirms that to work in an environment free from harassment, bullying harnessing differences will create a productive work and discrimination. Any behaviour to the contrary will result environment and will ultimately lead to one where everybody in disciplinary action up to, and including, dismissal. feels valued. It also provides an environment where people’s talents are being fully utilised and organisational goals are met As part of this, all employees are trained in equal opportunity through employee engagement and innovation. and bullying prevention. Employee Support Officers are available to provide information to employees about rights During the year, we continued to build on strong governance and obligations in this area. and advocacy for our Diversity and Inclusion Strategy with the formation of a Diversity and Inclusion Steering Committee consisting of senior leaders across the organisation. The COMPARATIVE WORKFORCE DATA Steering Committee supports the delivery of the following: The table below outlines City West Water’s workforce, and • gender diversity provides a snapshot of the diversity of employees in our organisation. Employees have been correctly classified in • Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander values workforce data collections based on working arrangement • cultural and linguistic diversity and employee level. • flexible working arrangements. 2018 2017 Educating staff about diversity and inclusion is ongoing. Full time 357 361 During the year, senior leaders participated in inclusive Part time 75 75 leadership training and staff attended a series of Aboriginal Casual/fixed term 11 12 and Torres Strait Islander cultural awareness programs. We have also established a ‘Senior Project Manager – First Total employees 443 448 Nations Values of Water’ role, in collaboration with the other Key management personnel 9 9 metropolitan Melbourne water corporations to: Executives 5 9 • build a two-way conversation and engagement with Traditional Owners Administration staff 429 430 Total employees 443 448 • work with Traditional Owners to understand their knowledge and values regarding water Full time equivalent 422.7 417.3 • understand the best way to ensure early, meaningful input into water industry strategies. HEALTH AND SAFETY We are proud to host this role on behalf of our wider industry. We foster an environment where people make good safety choices we ‘live and breathe’ safety and wellbeing for our OUR ACHIEVEMENTS people. We apply the employment principles of the Public We are committed to providing healthy and safe workplaces Administration Act 2004. Employees are selected and for employees, contractors, customers and the community promoted on the basis of ability, knowledge and skills in who access and/or interact with our places of work. fair and open competition that ensures equal opportunity. Employees receive fair and equitable treatment without regard to race, colour, sexual preference, age, physical or We value providing an enjoyable and safe mental disability, pregnancy, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. work environment that enables us to deliver great customer experiences. We have in place a Disability Policy and a Disability Action Plan. We work to meet our obligations under the Disability Act 2006, the Disability Discrimination Act 1992, the Equal Opportunity Act 1995, and the Charter of Human Rights and Responsibilities Act 2006 with the aim of eliminating barriers for people with a disability from accessing goods, services, facilities and employment. Our people 13 We know a positive safety culture with shared attitudes, Demonstrating our strong commitment to safety this year we: values and beliefs is vital and we strive to lead this through • successfully implemented all 34 best practice safety review our health and safety policy commitments of: actions • leading an inclusive and positive health and safety culture • introduced quarterly contractor health and safety • enabling capable and accountable health and safety engagement forums and critical risk improvement leadership by all employees working groups, which included related external organisations and authorities • continuously improving our health and safety performance, systems and practices • established a working group to respond to incidents involving interference with, or damage to gas assets • engaging, coaching and upskilling our employees and contractors • developed and implemented our five year health and safety strategy to shift our compliance, reactive and • complying with the law and exceeding it through role control driven approach, to be more focused on values, modelling health and safety industry leadership empowering people and being proactive. • maintaining AS 4801 (Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems) certification • providing effective management processes for the identification, analysis, assessment, treatment and ongoing monitoring of health and safety risks. “Safety isn’t just about protecting us from something, but protecting us for something. For the people, places and things we love and care about deeply that bring us joy.” Cherie Logan, Health and Safety Manager, City West Water CITY WEST WATER EMPLOYEES’ HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE 2018 2017 2016 Hazards reported per 100 full time equivalent employees 7.9 7.9 3.6 Incidents per 100 full time equivalent employees 9.0 8.8 7.7 Lost time standard claims per 100 full time equivalent employees 0.0 0.0 0.72 Average cost per claim (includes non-lost time claims or medical) $7,250 $10,065 $22,314 Serious injury frequency rate per million hours worked 3.6 5.9 7.9 INJURY FREQUENCY REDUCED BY 39% 14 Our customers OUR CUSTOMERS 1,050,000 USE OUR SERVICES residential customers 418,000 RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES SERVED 41,000 NON-RESIDENTIAL (and rising with some of the fastest growing PROPERTIES SERVED areas in Australia in our service area) WE DELIVER APPROXIMATELY 100 billion 96 billion LITRES OF WASTEWATER LITRES OF DRINKING WATER TO COLLECTED OUR CUSTOMERS PER ANNUM 1.8 million METER READINGS PER YEAR 7,600 TRADE WASTE CUSTOMERS (producing 50% of metropolitan Melbourne’s trade waste) Our customers 15 CUSTOMER SERVICE RESULTS “We have some significant initiatives We strive to be an exceptional service provider that adopts a ‘customers first’ approach in everything we do. We consider and technology investment planned for it a privilege to be a provider of essential services to our customers especially as they do not get to choose their water what will be an exciting future. retailer. Our Footscray based customer operations centre responded Our Customer Operations Team is to over 344,000 calls in 2018, assisting customers with a range committed to bringing the voice of our of enquiries including moving house, payment plans, eBilling and usage and service charges. These calls were responded to customers to the forefront in key decision within 26 seconds on average. making to further embed our ‘customers Recognising that our customers are central to our operations, this year we conducted our biggest ever customer first’ approach to everything we do.” engagement program to help inform our Price Submission Sandra Maganas, Customer Operations Manager, to the ESC and ensure we are delivering services that our City West Water customers value. As a result of that work, a number of new initiatives have been implemented. The highlights being: • a new process to better support customers APPROXIMATELY 1,000 experiencing a leak We’ve implemented a new process for managing enquiries related to a leak by reducing the financial burden of higher than normal water consumption and significantly reducing the turnaround times on leak adjustment applications. This results in less CUSTOMERS PER MONTH ARE SIGNING UP stress, less customer effort and reduced financial impact TO DIRECT DEBIT OVER THE PHONE • direct debit phone access We can now set up a direct debit for our customers over the phone, removing the significant customer effort previously required involving COMPLETION OF LEAK ALLOWANCE paperwork and multiple steps. We’re now easier to deal ADJUSTMENT REQUESTS REDUCED FROM 4 days 1day with • payment extensions available via SMS We now offer the ability to request a payment extension over the phone, TO via our website or by sending us an SMS. Requesting payment support has never been easier RECEIVED 1,500 • better supporting customers through major disruptive works We have used the International Association for Public Participation (IAP2) engagement spectrum to improve communication with our customers and community, during projects PAYMENT EXTENSION REQUESTS VIA SMS • making it easier to report a fault Over 3,200 submissions via the Snap Send Solve app, allowing customers to quickly and conveniently report faults in INCREASE FROM 6% OF CUSTOMERS under 30 seconds on their phone or tablet RECEIVING EBILLS IN 2017 TO • continued roll out of eBills eBills are increasingly popular with customers with over 20% of customers signing up. 21% 2018 IN 16 Our customers 2019-2023 PRICING DETERMINATION we deliver and what we could do next, to better meet their expectations. We lodged our Price Submission with the Essential Services Commission in September 2017, which was a significant Every effort was made to incorporate customer feedback, achievement for our business. The ESC provided their preferences and values in our submission. We will deliver the determination on our submission in June 2018. following outcomes over the next five years: The ESC is the independent economic regulator of the water Outcome 1: Services to homes and businesses are safe, sector in Victoria, and this review of pricing is done every reliable and efficiently delivered five years. The outcome of the ESC’s pricing determination Outcome 2: Customer service is accessible and enquiries are provides the framework for our service standards, prices and promptly resolved tariffs for our customers from 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2023. Outcome 3: Billing and payment options are efficient and Our submission was assessed against the ESC’s new convenient performance model that rewards: Outcome 4: Customers in hardship are supported • lower prices to customers as a consequence of better managing risks Outcome 5: The whole of the water cycle is managed in an environmentally sustainable way • demonstrable evidence of meaningful engagement with customers and delivering on customers’ expressed Outcome 6: City West Water is a valued partner in servicing a preferences for levels of service growing Melbourne. • significant improvements in operational efficiency and in the value of services delivered to customers. REAL PRICE REDUCTIONS Our proposals for prices and standards of service were rated Delivering high quality services efficiently and keeping bills as ‘advanced’ against each of the above criteria. affordable are our priorities. Our submission built upon the efficiencies we have achieved over the past five years and as a result of these efficiencies, from financial year 2019 there will be, on average, a fall in We are particularly proud to retain the lowest prices for all of our major customer groups. average household bills for any metropolitan city across Australia. Price reductions outlined in the determination from the ESC are estimated to be as follows: • average residential price reduction of 11% after inflation CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT • overall non-residential price reduction (including trade waste) of 4.3% after inflation Customers’ values and preferences were fundamental in shaping our submission. We undertook extensive customer • overall non-residential price reduction (water and sewer engagement with our residential and business customers only) of 4.1% after inflation to understand what they valued most about the services • overall trade waste price reduction of 5.3% after inflation. Our customers 17 ENGAGEMENT ON PRICE SUBMISSION 2,200+ 856 RESIDENTIAL AND NON-RESIDENTIAL YOUR SAY WEBSITE VISITS CUSTOMERS ENGAGED 42 QUICK POLL RESPONSES CO-CREATION WORKSHOP WITH 38 IDEAS SHARED 8 CUSTOMERS 10 RESIDENTIAL FOCUS GROUPS, INCLUDING 2 WITH CULTURALLY AND LINGUISTICALLY DIVERSE COMMUNITIES 1,009 PRICE STRUCTURE FORUM WITH ONLINE CUSTOMER 42 customers VALUE AND 2 BUSINESS WORKSHOPS WITH 695 PRICE 30 CUSTOMERS IN TOTAL STRUCTURE SURVEYS 4 MEETINGS WITH THE CUSTOMER COMMITTEE 300+ INTERVIEWS 16 BUSINESSES CONVERSATIONS AT SHOPPING CENTRE 6 COUNCILS AND COMMUNITY FESTIVAL POP-UPS 6 COMMUNITY GROUPS 6 VULNERABLE CUSTOMER ADVOCACY GROUPS 8 INDUSTRY ADVOCACY ORGANISATIONS 18 Our customers Community service obligations City West Water provided the following community service obligations during the current and prior financial years. SUPPORTING VULNERABLE CUSTOMERS 2018 2017 ($’000) ($’000) Provision of concessions to customers 23,129 24,136 Rebates paid to not-for-profit organisations under the water and sewerage rebate scheme 553 529 Utility Relief Grants scheme 334 335 Water concessions to those on life support machines (haemodialysis) 18 21 We continue to engage with our customers to find ways UTILITY RELIEF GRANT SCHEME to best support the most vulnerable in our community. The Utility Relief Grant Scheme provides assistance to We especially value the community we operate in and we residential customers who are unable to pay their utility are proactively committed to doing this through various bills as a result of a temporary financial crisis. Assistance is programs and events: provided to low income households which, as the result of a short term (within the last 12 months) financial crisis, PROVISION OF CONCESSIONS TO PENSIONERS are unable to pay for a current account and are at risk of AND CARDHOLDERS restriction of supply. A grant is available to a holder of a Customers who hold a pension concession card, a pension concession card, a health care card or a Department Department of Veterans Affairs gold card or a health care of Veterans Affairs gold card which is not marked ‘dependant’. card are entitled to a 50% concession on water and sewerage Applicants must meet certain criteria to demonstrate that charges, up to an annual maximum. The 2018 maximum was unexpected financial hardship has left them unable to meet $331.10. If a customer is receiving one service only, they are their water bill obligations. We invoice DHHS for the value of entitled to a concession of up to half the annual maximum. those concessions. We invoice the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) for the value of those concessions. WATER CONCESSIONS TO THOSE ON LIFE SUPPORT MACHINES (HAEMODIALYSIS) REBATES PAID TO NOT-FOR-PROFIT Residential customers requiring in-home haemodialysis are ORGANISATIONS UNDER THE WATER AND entitled to a rebate on water usage and sewage disposal SEWERAGE REBATE SCHEME charges. DHHS determines the rebate amount based on the average annual water usage of an in-home haemodialysis The State Revenue Office (SRO) defines certain organisations machine of 168,000 litres a year. The rebate is in addition to as not-for-profit. Such organisations serve the community any other pension or concession to which a customer may be in the fields of education, health or nursing care, religious entitled. Customers who hold a pension concession card, a worship, charity, outdoor sporting or recreation activities or Department of Veterans Affairs gold card or a health care card war veterans’ organisations. These organisations are entitled are entitled to the rebate. We invoice DHHS for the value of to pay a concession amount on the service charge portion of those concessions. their bills. We invoice SRO for the value of those concessions. Our customers 19 FINANCIAL INCLUSION ACTION PLAN “The Financial Inclusion Action Plan We have joined a growing number of Australia’s leading companies and not-for-profits to better support the 2.4 aligns closely with our customermillion people across the country who are experiencing severe financial vulnerability. centric aims and also reflects our work In 2018, we were recognised as one of 30 trailblazers in with culturally diverse and vulnerable establishing a Financial Inclusion Action Plan (FIAP) to help support customers and staff who are experiencing financial customers. hardship. Our FIAP outlines the measures we are taking to strengthen We are proud to work with the FIAP financial inclusion and resilience for our customers and employees experiencing exclusion and hardship. It also Partnership Group to develop and supports our current partnerships with financial councillors, implement our own Financial Inclusion community legal centres, family violence support workers, settlement services and contractors within our service area Action Plan to better support our and beyond. customers, employees and the broader Our FIAP reinforces our commitment to supporting our people who may be impacted or need help to support those community to establish financial who are. security and realise their financial goals.” David Ryan, Managing Director, City West Water 20 Our customers FAMILY VIOLENCE POLICY LAUNCH • delivering family violence awareness training to key business units and upskilled training for staff with direct In November 2017, we launched our Family Violence Policy. customer contact The policy includes a set of guiding principles which seek to support: • developing a family violence customer support process • the psychological and/or physical wellbeing of people • upgrading systems to further limit access to customer affected by family violence accounts. • people who are affected by family violence, either directly or indirectly, by providing them with support that is CELEBRATING 10 YEARS OF DAY AT THE ZOO sensitive, respectful and without judgement Ten years ago staff from City West Water, the Metropolitan Fire Brigade and Victoria Police approached the Chair of the • the provision of services which are accessible for our Victorian Multicultural Commission to partner in an event customers and people and are flexible enough to respond aimed at raising awareness and understanding of essential to individual needs services. The primary target group was newly arrived refugees • the private and sensitive management of any personal and humanitarian entrants who may be vulnerable due to information. culture, language or literacy. Held annually since 2009, and led by us during Cultural Diversity Week, the event celebrates To further embed our commitment to addressing family Melbourne’s multicultural community and promotes social violence, in March 2018 we co-hosted a forum (Family inclusion and resilience. Violence – From Awareness to Action) with the ESC. This forum was an extension of the work the ESC has been doing Each year the popularity of the event has grown and across the state, which originated from the Victorian Royal attracted more participants and more government partners. Commission into Family Violence. In 2018, the original partners were joined by 13 other likeminded sponsors and partners. The forum, which was attended by people from the water, banking, energy and not-for-profit sectors, turned the lens Supporting our communities and customers is central to inward to examine how corporate Australia, government what we do, and we are honoured to have shared this day entities and the community sector can and should be with so many other organisations that have the same values. involved in changing how we all address family violence. In addition to the forum, we rolled out a range of key initiatives that deliver on the principles outlined in the policy including: • providing employees with referral details to access family violence support Our customers 21 In addition to this event providing access to a wide range of government agencies, Day at the Zoo has had ... PARTICIPANTS FROM 44 countries WHO SPEAK OVER 77 languages REPRESENTING MELBOURNE’S RICH DIVERSITY Over 8,000 COMMUNITY MEMBERS HAVE ATTENDED THIS EVENT SINCE IT BEGAN 22 Our customers WATER AWARENESS CAMPAIGNS AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT We are committed to raising awareness with customers about the water cycle and water efficiency. We achieve this through educational and cultural programs, as well as actively IN 2018 WE PROVIDED FREE DRINKING promoting the State Government’s Target 155 campaign that WATER THROUGH OUR CHOOSE TAP encourages customers to limit their water consumption to HYDRATION STATIONS TO OVER 155 litres per person per day. We are proud of our water awareness and community involvement campaigns. This year the following were launched or continued: 1 million • ‘Meet the Water Wallies’ online campaign sharing advice on CUSTOMERS ACROSS 95 how individuals and families can save water CULTURAL AND • water wise classroom presentations for primary and secondary school students and education materials COMMUNITY EVENTS targeted at students with English as an Additional Language • teacher resources provided to local schools including a lending library of activities and online curriculum resources about saving water • fundraising and participation in WaterAid’s Water Innovators Challenge 2017. Our Team Potability won ‘Best Fund – Asia Pacific Region’ and ‘Runner Up for Best Learn – Asia Pacific Region’ • we launched our Innovate Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) in NAIDOC (National Aborigines and Islanders Day Observance Committee) week in July 2017. Our RAP seeks the inclusion of Aboriginal values and traditional ecological knowledge in water planning • we supported two young people on work placements via Whitelion’s Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander program and engaged Traditional Owner groups in the creation of the Melbourne Sewerage Strategy development process • a number of employees also participated in Cultural Heritage awareness training as well as internal and external celebrations during NAIDOC week and National Reconciliation week. “City West Water understands the importance of building and maintaining meaningful, respectful relationships with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples and organisations in order to achieve mutually beneficial outcomes.” Justin Mohamed, CEO Reconciliation Australia Our customers 23 24 Our communities OUR Sustainable COMMUNITIES water use URBAN WATER STRATEGY INTEGRATED WATER MANAGEMENT FORUMS Our Urban Water Strategy plays a significant role in preparing Integrated Water Management (IWM) involves the our service area for a challenging water future, as we seek consideration of the entire water cycle and the multiple to successfully navigate the impacts of climate change and services it provides when planning, delivering and operating population growth. infrastructure. Our strategy sets a benchmark for our service provision now The Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning and into the future and will aid us in understanding, adapting (DELWP) has established IWM forums to identify, coordinate and providing for growing demand for water. It outlines the and prioritise opportunities and areas that would most benefit likely increase in our service area in 50 years, to an estimated from collaborative water cycle planning and management. population of 2.3 million and 940,000 dwellings. The forums have been designed to help local governments, In meeting this growth it outlines a number of key actions, water corporations, catchment management authorities, the such as our ambitious plan to deliver 9.7 billion litres per year Victorian Planning Authority and Traditional Owners work of alternative water by 2065. In addition, we aim to explore together to ensure the water cycle efficiently contributes opportunities in established areas which have a potential to the liveability of a region. They are based on waterway to substitute six to eight billion litres per year of drinking catchment boundaries and there are five forums across water with alternative water. It also includes our Drought Melbourne. Preparedness Plan for the next five years which ensures long We have been a key contributor and participant in three IWM term sustainable water use. forums (Werribee, Maribyrnong and Yarra catchments) and we have contributed to the development of each Strategic WATER RESOURCE MANAGEMENT Direction Statement, which sets out the vision and outcomes We are a member of the metropolitan Water Resource we are seeking to achieve and projects required to deliver on Management (WRM) group. The purpose of the group is to these. We are working collaboratively with Melbourne Water, provide timely advice and recommendations on matters councils and others on a number of projects. One example relating to short and long term water security for Melbourne. is the Arden Macaulay redevelopment precinct where we The WRM group is in place to: are working with City of Melbourne and Melbourne Water to look at integrated servicing solutions to provide the best • prepare, monitor, deliver and review long term strategic community outcomes. responses as outlined in Urban Water Strategies, the Melbourne Water System Strategy and Water for a Futurethriving Melbourne STORMWATER HARVESTING PROJECTS One of the findings of our customer engagement for our • coordinate timely and efficient actions to achieve water new Price Submission was that customers want us to invest security objectives in a manner that sustains the health, in stormwater harvesting projects to enhance water supplies liveability and prosperity of Melburnians and generate more liveable communities. We continue • ensure preparedness to proactively manage any periods of to partner with councils within our service area to deliver water shortage through development of the annual Water stormwater harvesting projects to irrigate public open space. Outlook and drought preparedness planning. To date we have six storm water harvesting projects in operation supplying up to 285 million litres of stormwater per year for irrigation of sports grounds. Our communities 25 In addition, in our Price Submission, we have committed to months prior to extraction. This will enable the chemistry of a stormwater harvesting fund. This will allow us to co-fund the stored water to be examined in detail. It is hoped that stormwater harvesting projects for open spaces, parks and in the long-term, this will allow us to store recycled water sports fields in our region. generated in colder months for use in the warmer months when demand for water is higher. Councils, developers and private organisations can apply to the fund. We’re seeking impactful projects that will bring real liveability and environmental benefits to Melbourne’s west WEST WYNDHAM CLASS A RECYCLED and our greater service area. WATER PROJECT During 2018, in partnership with Brimbank City Council and Following the successful commencement of supply in Hobsons Bay City Council, we have undertaken improvement November 2016, we have continued to supply over 7,200 works on the Keilor Public Golf Course and Laverton Creek properties in Werribee, Wyndham Vale and Manor Lakes with Recreation Reserve to improve the stormwater harvesting fit for purpose Class A recycled water. Class A recycled water performance of these projects. is supplied to customers through a separate purple meter and purple pipes. The cost of the upgrade works are co-funded by the beneficiaries of these schemes or by government Class A recycled water is an environmentally sustainable contributions. water source customers can use to flush their toilet, water their garden and wash their clothes. It’s also suitable for open space irrigation and a range of commercial purposes. AQUIFER STORAGE AND RECOVERY Operational trials on the West Werribee Aquifer Storage and The project will ultimately supply Class A recycled water to Recovery scheme commenced in July 2017 using Class A around 82,000 homes in the growing West Werribee area, recycled water from the Werribee recycled water plant. for commercial customers and open spaces. Recycled water Recycled water has been injected, stored and recovered will help to meet the challenges of a changing climate and in several short cycles and extensive monitoring of the growing population by relieving demand on our drinking aquifer and the water quality has taken place. The trials have water supply. confirmed that filtration of the recycled water is required At capacity the West Wyndham Recycled Water project prior to injection. Installation of temporary filtration has been will save around 3.5 billion litres per year of drinking water completed. The next phase of the trial will involve injecting currently used to flush toilets, irrigate open spaces and for a larger volume of recycled water and storing this for several commercial purposes. 26 Our communities WATER CONSUMPTION City West Water provides a range of different types of water to customers in our service area. The table below details how much water was used in our service area by residential and non-residential customers in 2018. 2018 TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION DATA Number Volume (ML)6 Residential customers Drinking water 418,189 59,246 Recycled wastewater 8,220 57 Recycled stormwater Non-residential customers Drinking water 40,855 42,785 Recycled wastewater 64 2,554 Recycled stormwater 7 120 Total customers 1 459,044 Total drinking water volume 102,031 Total recycled water volume 2,731 Total consumption 104,762 Average annual consumption 2 99,338 Weekly residential drinking water consumption 1,139 Non-revenue water Leakage 3 10,190 Firefighting 4 575 Other 5 2,155 Total non-revenue water 12,920 Total water all sources 117,682 Average per capita daily residential drinking 156 water consumption (litres per person per day) 1. Customers that receive recycled wastewater or stormwater, also receive drinking water. 2. Average annual consumption calculated between the 2014 and 2018 reporting periods. 3. Balance of non-revenue water, known as real losses, which includes bursts, leaks and background losses. 4. Firefighting is part of a category called Authorised Unbilled Usage which includes firefighting, fire service usage, water haulers’ usage, water main flushing, and sewer cleaning. 5. Other non-revenue water is known as apparent losses which includes unauthorised usage such as theft, misuse, illegal tampering, and incorrect meter reads. 6. ML = million litres CORPORATE WATER CONSUMPTION This figure shows the water used at our Footscray head office. Water use has increased over the past financial year due to more people working out of our head office. 2018 2017 Water consumed 1,585kL Water consumed 1,369kL 3.74kL per full time equivalent employee 3.26kL per full time equivalent employee 257.04 litres per m2 of office space 222.01 litres per m2 of office space Our communities 27 Drought response reporting Metropolitan water retailers are required to prepare a Drought • progressively working with all local councils to develop Preparedness Plan to manage the event of water shortage. an aligned approach to drought preparedness for priority Permanent water use rules are in place for metropolitan open spaces Melbourne as at 30 June 2018. • annually reviewing the level of water availability and In accordance with this plan, each year we collaborate with providing advice to the Minister for Water on the need for South East Water, Yarra Valley Water and Melbourne Water to a desalinated water order publish the Water Outlook. It is an adaptive management tool • focusing on recycled water initiatives, for example, which is used by the metropolitan water utilities to: construction has been completed and testing is underway • monitor the dynamic balance of supply and demand each at West Werribee for an aquifer that could store Class A year recycled water • guide the implementation of actions identified previously • proactively auditing programs which target various by long term strategic planning exercises to influence vulnerable customer segments across Melbourne (funding the observed and potential future balance of supply and for this is provided by DELWP) demand • seeking health initiatives to link sustainable water supplies • regularly provide information regarding the balance of to enable healthy communities through increased greening supply and demand, and any actions being undertaken by • undertaking active leak detection, reticulation mains the water utilities. renewals, pressure management, intelligent network The performance of Melbourne’s water supply is evaluated technologies and rapid response to bursts and leaks according to storage levels on 30 November each year • continuing to deliver education materials to our local relative to three zones: schools and community organisations • high zone optimising supplies to secure our water supply • actively participating in IWM forums and leading the • medium zone take action to reduce demand and development of place-based IWM plans. improve supply • low zone emergency actions required to maintain our DROUGHT PREPAREDNESS PLAN AND BY-LAW water supply. Developed in accordance with the Guidelines for Assessing the Impact of Climate Change on Water Supplies in Victoria, Released on December 1, 2017, the most recent Water the Drought Preparedness Plan in its current form has been in Outlook assessed that Melbourne’s water availability is secure place since June 2012, with the Permanent Water Use Plan in for the near future. A number of short and medium term place since November 2011. actions to improve future drought response were outlined. A summary of the agreed actions are: Under Permanent Water Use Rules, playing fields and other open spaces are able to be watered all year round. The water • continuing to inform both residential and non-residential restrictions schedule (which is contained in the City West customers about rules that ensure the wise use of water Water Corporation Water Restrictions By-law 001/2012 as at all times. For residential customers, this is continuing enacted by the Drought Preparedness Plan) also allows for to deliver the State Government’s Target 155 voluntary an approved Water Use Plan at all four stages of restrictions. water efficiency program. In addition, it includes ongoing This is designed to allow watering to take place during water development of the Victorian Water Efficiency Strategy restrictions to maintain open spaces and playing fields so as which identifies opportunities to work together to deliver to be available all year round. water efficiency measures • tracking demand against the forecast of 150 litres per person per day by 2020 for residential drinking water use across Melbourne as detailed in Water for a Future-Thriving Melbourne 28 Our communities Sustainable and resilient water services systems SUPPORTING FUTURE GROWTH: SPENCER STREET SEWER UPGRADE “The new sewer is being built to The Tunnel Boring Machine worked its support the rapid population growth way along Spencer Street, starting at of Melbourne’s CBD, which will see Lonsdale Street at approximately 10 32,000 new residents by 2050. It’s vital metres underground. On average our sewers have the capacity to cater it was running for 20 hours a day, for that growth.” seven days a week and laying 18 Kate Houlden, Project Delivery Manager, City West Water metres of new sewer each day. In November 2017 we began the Spencer Street Sewer Upgrade in Melbourne’s CBD. GREENING THE WEST The upgrade reflects our commitment to developing This year, we have continued to enhance community sustainable and resilient water service systems by preparing liveability and human health through a number of ongoing for future growth. Greening the West projects. These have included the One By the time the project is finished expected in early 2019 Million Trees initiative, Greening the Pipeline and the Upper over 700 metres of new sewer main will have been installed Stony Creek Transformation Project. via tunnel boring and pipe jacking beneath Spencer Street. Facilitated by us, Greening the West is a regional initiative This method ensures that the impact is minimised on driven by a steering committee of partners including local residents, businesses and commuters. councils, Melbourne Water, Parks Victoria, DELWP, DHHS, The seamless delivery of the project to date, despite its high VicRoads and community and industry representatives. profile location, is a major success for all staff involved. Green urban spaces with trees do more than make places look pretty. Studies show they are integral in combating climate change, while playing a major role for the environment and boosting human health. Urban greening can provide functional habitat Contact with nature can improve mood, and for conservation and connectivity. lower levels of stress, anxiety and depression. Vegetation can reduce greenhouse gas Attractive, accessible green space encourages emissions through sequestering carbon greater levels of physical activity. dioxide. Shade, evapotranspiration and insulation provided by greening can assist to reduce the Leafy vegetation can improve air quality. impact of extreme temperature events and reduce peak energy demands. Our communities 29 GREENING THE WEST 2011 • steering committee formed • 50 trees planted in Brooklyn • rainwater tank for Braybrook community hub 2013 • strategic plan released 2014 • winner of 2014 Victorian Health Promotion award • 300 trees planted at Whitten Oval • green walls installed in 2 schools in CASE STUDY: UPPER STONY CREEK partnership with Victoria University NATURALISATION • $25,000 state funding secured for 2 million trees 2015 “The Upper Stony Creek Transformation • featured in Plan Melbourne and the State Project will help deliver Greening the Government Water Plan West’s vision to enable sustainable, • $5 million Federal Government grant for 1 Million Trees project in Melbourne’s West liveable, healthy communities • replanting of trees at the Altona Treatment through urban greening. It will also Plant • Greening the Pipeline project begins drive more sustainable water use, 2016 as well as enhancing health and • Upper Stony Creek Transformation Project liveability outcomes for our customers funded in Brimbank and set an example of • Upper Stony Creek Transformation Project joint winner in the Stormwater Victoria awards what’s possible across the west.” • winner of Government Leadership in Urban Development award by the Urban Cameron FitzGerald, General Manager Strategy and Development Institute of Australia Planning, City West Water • winner of the Program Innovation award by the Australian Water Association Work began in April 2018 to transform the Upper Stony Creek in Sunshine North from a concrete drain into a natural 2017 revegetated creek with vibrant community spaces and • Greening the Pipeline Stage 1 completed walking paths. 2018 The project will rehabilitate a 1.2km stretch of the creek, between Furlong Road and Gilmour Road and will include • Upper Stony Creek transformation project a stormwater harvesting system. Works are expected to be commences completed by 2019. • 23 partner organisations reached The project is jointly funded by the Australian Government, • 1 Million Trees initiative set to be finalised by DELWP, Melbourne Water, City West Water, GreenFleet, October Development Victoria and Brimbank City Council. 2019 • Next generation of Greening the West strategy. 30 Our environment OUR Environmental ENVIRONMENT management “This year, we have focused our This Strategy is based on the latest climate science and commits us to: efforts on developing our Climate • invest in water efficiency and assist our customers to Resilience Strategy and certifying our become the most water efficient in the state Environmental Management System • leverage renewable energy and battery storage to provide energy security and reduce emissions to the new ISO14001 Standard. We • play a leading role in increasing canopy cover in are proud of the environmental Melbourne’s west commitments we have made and • invest in infrastructure that delivers functional and liveability benefits to our community. look forward to delivering improved The Climate Resilience Strategy is supported by a environmental outcomes for the comprehensive framework of annual targets and initiatives that will improve how we plan for and operate in a changing community we serve.” climate. Some examples of these initiatives are listed on page 32 and 33. Sean Hanrahan, Senior Strategist, City West Water Our vision is built upon streamlined delivery, great partnerships and purposeful leadership. We are driven to care In 2018 we installed 180kW of solar for and where possible, enhance the environment with an eye to the future and the challenges imposed by a changing panels at our Altona Treatment Plant climate. In 2018 we have focused on: and partnered with other Victorian • reducing our total carbon emissions by 80% compared to water corporations to investigate the our baseline by 1 July 2025 and looking to adopt a leading pathway to achieve net zero emissions by 2030 creation of a Large Scale Renewable • developing partnerships with other water corporations for Energy Project to provide 30% of renewable energy generation electricity from renewable sources. • becoming a leader in climate adaptation • increasing canopy cover through projects such as Greening the West and the Upper Stony Creek transformation project. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY City West Water’s environmental policy provides guidance CLIMATE RESILIENCE STRATEGY on meeting our environmental obligations and strategic objectives to protect the environment and drive continual Our Corporate Strategy outlines our vision to become improvement. a leader in climate adaptation. We are committed to responding to the impacts of climate change on our services, The policy outlines the following environmental measures: customers and the broader community. These commitments • maintaining an ISO14001 certified Environmental align with our support of the United Nation’s SDGs, in Management System (EMS) to manage environmental particular Goal 13: Climate Action. aspects and impacts Our Climate Resilience Strategy outlines the actions we will take over the next three years to position ourselves as a leader in climate adaptation and build a shared understanding with the community we serve of the impacts of climate change. Our environment 31 • aligning environmental strategic objectives with targets We have a commitment to ensuring and actions through our Environmental Sustainability Plan (ESP) to address these significant risks and continually environmental management is a priority improve our environmental performance during day-to-day operations. The • taking actions necessary to respond to the challenges of information below demonstrates how we climate change are tracking on some of our environmental • reviewing targets and actions set out in the ESP at regular measures and there is more information intervals provided in the table on page 32. • reporting progress against targets and actions set out in the ESP to our Board • publicly reporting on environmental performance via our 32% Annual Report and our website. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Our EMS provides the framework to ensure we manage WE HAVE EXCEEDED OUR environmental risks and impacts on the environment in TARGET OF TIME REDUCTIONS IN a coordinated and effective manner. The EMS follows the OUR CREWS ATTENDING SEWER ‘plan, check, do and act’ cycle outlined in the ISO14001 Environmental Management System standard. EMS SPILLS AND BLOCKAGES BY certification was retained for the system in 2018. The EMS 32.2% 8% has an Aspects and Impacts Register which ensures the organisation has in place appropriate controls to manage environmental risks and meet statutory obligations. In addition, the EMS also provides a framework for City West Water to contribute to broader environmental outcomes WE HAVE EXCEEDED OUR through the delivery of our ESP. TARGET IN SEWER BLOCKAGE REDUCTIONS PER 100KM OF SEWER MAIN BY 8.4% 75% WE HAVE EXCEEDED OUR TARGET OF SEWER SPILL 10% improvement REDUCTIONS PER 1,000 PROPERTIES BY 75.4% WE WILL INCREASE ENERGY EFFICIENCY BY 10% OVER THE NEXT THREE YEARS 10% renewable 10% OF OUR ELECTRICITY NEEDS WERE SOURCED FROM RENEWABLE SOURCES IN 2018 32 Our environment ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS Protecting and caring for the environment is an important part of what we do, and we aim to reduce impacts to the environment as much as possible, particularly from our sewerage services. The following table outlines City West Water’s environmental performance against targets. ESC regulated standards 2018 Actual 2018 Target Variance (%) 2017 Actual Sewer blockages per 100km of sewer main (no.) 22.9 25.0 8.4 20.4 Interruptions to sewerage services restored 97.5 97.2 0.3 96.9 within five hours (%) Unaccounted for water (%) 11.2 9.4 (19.1) 9.3 Average time to attend sewer spills and 30.5 45.0 32.2 31.3 blockages (minutes) Sewer spills per 1,000 properties (no.) 0.3 1.2 75.4 0.9 Other targets Response to sewer spills within 1 hour (%) 100.0 100.0 95.8 Spills due to pump station equipment failure (no.) 0 0 0.0 0 Non-food waste customers non-compliant with 0.8 ≤2.0 60.0 0.9 trade waste agreements (%) Compliance with EPA licence for discharge quality 100.0 100.0 0.0 100.0 limits from Altona Treatment Plant (%) ISO 14001: 2004 (Environmental Management) Retained Retain Retained ISO 22000: 2005 (Sewage quality) Retained Retain Retained HACCP (Water Quality) Retained Retain Retained Our environment 33 GREENHOUSE GAS AND ENERGY REPORTING The table below measures our corporate energy performance for 2018 Tonnes CO2-e Performance Indicator Commentary Baseline 2018 Target 2018 Result Water treatment and supply1 300 490 Small increase driven by population growth. Sewage treatment and 8,757 11,361 Altona Recycled Water Plant management2 not operational for some of the baseline period. Transport 1,118 1,217 Small variation, no material change. Other 2,226 1,133 We moved to a smaller and energy efficient Head Office during baseline period. Offsets purchased (1,188) Offsets comprise of renewable energy generated (eg: Solar PV) and 10% green energy purchased for all our owned and operated assets. Total 12,401 13,400 13,013 1. Water treatment and supply includes energy expended from stormwater harvesting schemes. 2. Wastewater treatment volumes are supplied only for sewage treated at City West Water sewage treatment plants. The majority of sewage is conveyed to Melbourne Water’s Western Treatment Plant. Energy expended by City West Water in this conveyance is included in the energy use figure. 34 Our environment ENERGY RECOVERY ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY RECOVERY PROJECTS AT THE ALTONA TREATMENT Following the installation and commissioning of three energy PLANT recovery devices on high pressure pumps at the Altona Salt Reduction Plant, energy consumption has been reduced by We have a commitment to reduce our total carbon emissions 12%. by 80% compared to our baseline by 1 July 2025 and to adopt a leading pathway to achieve net zero emissions by The devices have delivered significant cost savings and are 2030. This commitment was developed using guidance unique in the way they capture and transfer energy. provided by DELWP and tested with our customers through our 2018 Pricing Submission consultation. Two programs which are examples of our commitment are as “The devices capture hydraulic energy from follows: the high pressure reject stream of seawater SOLAR INSTALLATION AT THE ALTONA SALT reverse-osmosis processes. This energy is REDUCTION PLANT then transferred to low pressure feed water An essential element of achieving our proposed emissions reduction is to roll out an installation program of behind with over 98% efficiency. the meter renewable energy generation. The adoption of solar photovoltaic (PV) array systems (or solar panels that we see on homes and businesses) has grown significantly in Because the devices themselves do not Australia, and is now an increasingly affordable option given the rising price of fossil fuel based electricity. consume power, the overall energy The Altona Salt Reduction Plant was identified as a suitable consumption of the reverse-osmosis location for behind the meter solar panels due to its energy intensive treatment processes and significant areas of process is drastically reduced.” unutilised roof space and site grounds. Shanli Zhang, Plant Process Engineer, City West Water Following an analysis to determine the most suitable rooftop solar system, a design and technical specifications for the nominated option were completed. The proposed system is expected to: • generate 206 MWh of sustainable electricity each year. This is the approximate amount of electricity used by around 28 typical Australian households per year1 • maximise self-consumption of that energy, with 99% consumed on site ENERGY SAVINGS OF • directly offset 5% of the facility’s grid demand and • reduce our CO2 emissions by 227 tonnes each year. This is the equivalent to taking almost 49 passenger vehicles off 550 MWh/year the road for one year 2. ON ALTONA TREATMENT PLANT PUMPS. THIS EQUATES TO AN ANNUAL SAVING OF 1 EPA Calculator 2 EPA Calculator $49,000 Our environment 35 Trade Waste GREASE TRAP INSTALLATION INITIATIVES via email and SMS. To support the messaging program we also introduced a system that improves the management of We’ve improved the way we approach the greasy waste correspondence to customers and tracks the reminders that program by offering an incentive to new food businesses to have been sent to them to prompt pump-out. This will enable install a grease trap when setting up their shop. Customers us to better target customers with appropriate reminders. who don’t install grease traps present an elevated blockage risk compared to those who have installed grease traps. These customers are ranked according to the risk they pose to our GROWTH IN WASTE TO ENERGY system and receive higher trade waste charges than those We continued connecting customers with organic waste who have a grease trap in place. This increases fairness across treaters, who have put their waste to use producing biogas the customer base and offsets additional asset management instead of it going to landfill. costs. This year the volumes of waste being utilised for energy production have grown more than 230% as Melbourne Water increased their intake allowance, under licence by the EPA, “City West Water has developed at the front of the Western Treatment Plant. The increased intake acceptance allows Melbourne Water to offer this waste trade waste risk rank frameworks to treatment service to more of our customers with high strength drive continuous improvement and organic waste who would normally struggle to find a costeffective outlet for their sludge within our service area. customer fairness in commercial food This initiative has resulted in reduced trade waste charges for waste management.” some of our largest customers and is likely to extend the life of our assets and reduce the risk of blockages as customers have Josephine D’Aloia, Commercial Customer Services Team a greater incentive to remove sludge from their trade waste Leader, City West Water streams. PUMP-OUT COMPLIANCE UPDATE The grease trap pump-out compliance target was close to being met in 2018, with a result of 50% being achieved, falling short of our 55% target. This represents an increase of 5% on 230% increase last year’s result. This year’s improvements have been achieved largely though the introduction of a new customer messaging IN WASTE TO ENERGY VOLUMES program that sends overdue reminder notices to customers 36 Our environment Further statutory obligations VICTORIAN BIODIVERSITY STRATEGY We are actively restoring and improving the site over a 10 year time-frame prior to maintaining it in perpetuity. We are We remain committed to meeting statutory biodiversity currently in the sixth year of that 10 year period. requirements and working with stakeholders to value and improve biodiversity. Projects undertaken regularly at the site to improve habitat value include: As part of our commitment, we’re in the process of developing our Biodiversity Action Plan which will be launched • managing weeds and pests in late 2018. • maintaining fencing and security Implementing this plan will allow us to deliver our statutory • assessing the habitat obligations management more effectively and most importantly deliver improved environmental outcomes for • conducting ecological burning. Melbourne’s west. Once developed, our plan will aim to: VICTORIAN WATERWAY MANAGEMENT STRATEGY • value biodiversity The Victorian Waterway Management Strategy emphasises the • protect ecosystems to make sure they are healthy, proactive minimisation of impacts on waterways by water connected and resilient to threats corporations and catchment management authorities. • engage stakeholders and provide synergy with other land We have been actively involved in the development of management stakeholders, as well as achieve landscape Melbourne Water’s Healthy Waterways Strategy. This strategy level benefits. sets out a vision for healthy and valued waterways that are We have created a native vegetation offset site on our land at integrated with the broader landscape to enhance life and Ballan Road, Wyndham Vale. The site is actively managed to liveability. It sets out targets and performance objectives for offset native vegetation removed to construct water supply each of the waterway catchments across our region. and sewerage assets. We continue to work with Melbourne Water and local In addition, this site is home to rare and endangered flora and councils to maximise the use of water sources such as fauna. stormwater and recycled water while balancing use from traditional catchments and dams by implementing integrated water cycle management projects. Our environment 37 STATE ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION POLICY We run a sewer hydraulic compliance program to progressively bring the sewerage system into compliance (WATERS OF VICTORIA) with the one-in-five containment standard in the policy. NonThe State Environment Protection Policy (Waters of Victoria) compliant catchments are identified through standardised governs how we and other agencies must work together to hydraulic modelling exercises in line with the rest of the protect and restore Victoria’s surface water environments. industry. From there, options are developed to address any We operate a sewage treatment plant at Altona which has a identified deficiencies and put forward for approval. Currently wastewater discharge licence from the EPA. The organisation the Taylors Lakes catchment is known as a non-compliant has complied with its wastewater discharge licence catchment and we are working with Melbourne Water to conditions, minimising impacts to the protected beneficial identify possible solutions. uses of Port Phillip Bay. A summary of the performance of the Altona Treatment Plant is reported to the EPA on an annual basis. Additionally, water quality and flow data is reported to the ESC and the National Pollutant Inventory. We meet the requirements of the policy through a range of activities, including: • renewing assets and undertaking preventative maintenance to minimise spills and seepage of wastewater through sewer overflows, leakages and collapses • complying with EPA guidelines on environmental management for managing wastewater recycling • ensuring that protected beneficial uses are not impacted outside the licensed mixing zone, as verified by monitoring in accordance with an EPA approved monitoring program • entering into trade waste agreements to divert contaminated stormwater to sewer. 38 Our business Organisational OUR BUSINESS structure Board of Directors People, Diversity Health, Safety Risk Management and Executive and Environment and Audit Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Managing Director David Ryan General Manager, General Manager, General Manager, Chief General Manager, Strategy and Chief Financial Customers and Infrastructure Information People and Planning Officer Community and Delivery Officer Capability Cameron Michael Wootten Fran Duiker Maree Lang Vacant1 Louise Meadows FitzGerald 1 Jennifer Rebeiro commenced as Chief Information Officer on 17 July 2018. Our business 39 GOVERNANCE The Hon. Lisa Neville MP was appointed as the Minister for Environment, Climate Change and Water in December 2014, then as Minister for Water on 23 May 2016. As Minister for Water the Hon. Lisa Neville is responsible for urban water, irrigation water, groundwater, water corporations and governance, allocation and trading, permanent water use rules and water restrictions. The Minister for Water appoints the directors of City West Water and the State Government sets their remuneration. Directors are eligible for reappointment for subsequent terms. The Board is responsible for setting and overseeing the policies, objectives and strategies of City West Water and for ensuring that risk is appropriately managed. The Board met eight times in 2018. It is committed to performing its role in accordance with the highest standards of corporate governance. There were three committees of the Board for 2018. The Risk Management and Audit Committee met five times in 2018. The Health, Safety and Environment Committee and the People, Diversity and Executive Remuneration Committee both met four times in 2018. The Board approves budgets and significant projects, reviews corporate policies and strategies and oversees progress on key issues affecting the corporation. The Board comprises eight non-executive directors and the Managing Director. Each director brings specialist skills to City West Water. All non-executive directors (including the Chair) are appointed by the Minister for Water. The Managing Director is appointed by the Board. Effective from 1 October 2017, there were changes to our Board, with board members Kim McAliney and Philip Clark departing and two new appointments, Tania Fryer and Christopher Lovell. The Board seeks independent review of its performance on a regular basis and reports to the Minister for Water and the Treasurer of Victoria on the outcomes of these reviews. 40 Our business Members of the Board DAVID MIDDLETON MARY BETH BAUER CHAIR DIRECTOR B. Eng, M. Eng, MBA, GAICD BA, FAICD, ACA, CPA(US) Mr Middleton was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015. Ms Bauer was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015. Mr Middleton was a Director at Yarra Valley Water from Ms Bauer has over 20 years’ experience as a senior executive, October 2011 to September 2015. Mr Middleton has held advising CEOs and boards across Australia in a diverse range various roles at CH2M Hill and is currently Managing Director of industries. Ms Bauer has a very strong focus on governance, for Australia and New Zealand. He is currently Chair at CH2M and her professional experience includes finance, audit Beca Limited, and serves on both CH2M Hill Australia Pty and risk, business strategy development, financial markets, Ltd and Halcrow Pacific Pty Ltd boards. Mr Middleton has mergers and acquisitions, and all aspects of investor and extensive international experience in the water industry and stakeholder relations and strategic communications. She also brings a network which includes leadership in major water serves on the Fisher Leadership Board and is one of Australia’s utilities in Australia, Asia and the UK. He has previously held leading experts on stakeholder engagement. operational roles with Melbourne Water, Western Water and Committee Membership: Goulburn Valley Water. People, Diversity and Executive Remuneration Committee (Chair) Committee Membership: Risk Management and Audit Committee People, Diversity and Executive Remuneration Committee Health, Safety and Environment Committee BRUCE COHEN Ex-officio member of all other Board committees DIRECTOR DAVID RYAN B.Comm, LLB, M.Comm, Ph.D (Pub. Pol.) MANAGING DIRECTOR Dr Cohen was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015. B.Env.Sc, MBA, MCorp Env & Sus Mgt, GAICD Dr Cohen is the principal at BKE Consulting. During his career he has been a Director at Melbourne Water, Snowy Hydro Ltd Mr Ryan was appointed as Managing Director on 14 June and Victorian Energy Networks Corporation, as well as the 2016. Chair of VicTrack and the Victorian Commission for Gambling Mr Ryan has over 15 years of experience in the water sector. and Liquor Regulation. Mr Ryan is a graduate of the Australian Institute of Company Committee Membership: Directors, a Director of VicWater and is a past President and Risk Management and Audit Committee current Director of the Institute of Water Administration. Committee Membership: CONSTANTINA DERTIMANIS Health, Safety and Environment Committee DIRECTOR ELIZABETH PARKIN Grad Dip. International Studies, BA DIRECTOR, DEPUTY CHAIR Ms Dertimanis was appointed to the Board on 28 April 2016. B. Bus, F. Fin, ANZCA, FINSIA Ms Dertimanis is a public policy professional who has extensive experience as a senior advisor to State and Federal Ms Parkin was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015. Ministers. She has worked on high profile United Nations Ms Parkin has held a number of executive management roles projects advocating in partnership with global NGOs. Ms and is currently Group Manager Business & Organisational Dertimanis is a Director of the Queen Victoria Women’s Centre Performance at Dairy Australia. She is Deputy Chair of First Trust where she provides advice to the government on the Samuel, a director of The Longevity Group and a Trustee of impact of issues that affect women in the community. the Northcote Trust Fund. She was previously a Director at Committee Membership: Yarra Valley Water and North East Region Water Authority. Health, Safety and Environment Committee Committee Membership: People, Diversity and Executive Remuneration Committee Risk Management and Audit Committee (Chair) People, Diversity and Executive Remuneration Committee Our business 41 TANIA FRYER PHILIP CLARK DIRECTOR B.Eng, MBA, MAICD, MAusIMM LLB(Hons), BA, LLM(Comm), GAICD Mr Clark was appointed a Director to City West Water on 1 October 2013. Ms Fryer was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2017. Mr Clark is a private business advisor with Phil Clark and Ms Fryer has over 20 years’ experience in technology, Associates and a Director of ATEC International, a social telecommunications and law. Ms Fryer was previously an enterprise providing bio-digesters to rural Cambodia and executive at Telstra and prior to this was a lawyer at Allens African Energy Resources Limited, and chairs their Audit and Linklaters, specialising in technology and intellectual Risk and Remuneration Committees. He was previously Vice property. Ms Fryer also serves on the board of Grey President, Resource Development and Vice President, Health, Innovation Group and State Committee JDRF (Juvenile Safety and Environment for BHP Billiton Coal and has had an Diabetes Research Foundation). extensive career with BHP spanning over 30 years. He was Committee Membership: also the Chair of Engineers Without Borders for six years and the Chair of Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, Risk Management and Audit Committee Melbourne Branch. Health, Safety and Environment Committee Ceased as a Director 30 September 2017. BILL JABOOR KIM MCALINEY DIRECTOR FCP, GAICD, Adv Dip. Public Safety (E.Mgt), JP, BJ MBA, BA, Grad.Dip Local Government Management, Ms McAliney was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015. Assoc.Dip. Business Studies Ms McAliney sits on several boards including the Greater Mr Jaboor was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015. Metropolitan Cemeteries Trust and the Victorian Veterans Mr Jaboor has over 45 years experience working in Council. Ms McAliney is currently a councillor at the different roles within local government across Victoria and Wyndham City Council and served as Mayor of the City Queensland. Over the past 20 years he has been CEO at the of Wyndham in 2008 and 2012. Ms McAliney’s career has cities of Brimbank, Hobsons Bay, Greater Shepparton and spanned over 25 years. It includes experience in accountancy Benalla. He is currently Chair of Victoria Legal Aid, a Member firms, aged care, and a multi-national company to, most of the Department of Justice and Regulation Independent recently working for a national crisis counselling service. Review Panel and Board Member of Community Chef. Her professional memberships include CPA Australia, the Committee Membership: Australian Institute of Company Directors, and the Royal Victorian Association of Honorary Justices. Health, Safety and Environment Committee (Chair) People, Diversity and Executive Remuneration Committee Ceased as a Director 30 September 2017. CHRISTOPHER LOVELL DIRECTOR BA, LLM, FAICD Mr Lovell was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2017. Mr Lovell was previously a Director of the Barwon Region Water Corporation and Deputy Chair. Mr Lovell is the Chair of Holding Redlich, Lawyers. He is a Director of Clemenger Group Limited and VicForests, a member and currently the Chairman of the Executive Committee of Law Exchange International, and the current Independent Chair of Parkville Precinct Reference Group and the CBD Community Reference Group for the Melbourne Metro Tunnel. Committee Membership: Health, Safety and Environment Committee People, Diversity and Executive Remuneration Committee 42 Our business BOARD COMMITTEES issues. It does this by providing oversight of, and direction to City West Water’s occupational health and safety and environment policies and procedures and related audit and RISK MANAGEMENT AND AUDIT COMMITTEE reporting processes. In addition, it ensures the continuous The Risk Management and Audit Committee assists the Board improvement of City West Water’s policies and procedures for of Directors in fulfilling its governance responsibilities by health and safety and the environment. reviewing financial reports and other financial information produced by City West Water. In addition it provides oversight PEOPLE, DIVERSITY AND EXECUTIVE of, and direction to, City West Water’s internal control systems, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE legal and regulatory compliance processes, auditing and reporting processes, and risk management systems. All The People, Diversity and Executive Remuneration Committee members of the Risk Management and Audit Committee are is responsible for setting City West Water’s policy on executive independent. remuneration and individual remuneration packages for senior executives. The committee is also responsible for oversight of City West Water’s Diversity Action Plan, reviewing HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE the effectiveness of the corporation’s organisational structure The Health, Safety and Environment Committee assists and monitoring the effectiveness of the corporation’s people the Board in fulfilling its governance responsibilities in management activities. relation to workplace health and safety and environment ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS BOARD MEETINGS RISK MANAGEMENT HEALTH, SAFETY PEOPLE, DIVERSITY AND AUDIT AND ENVIRONMENT AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION MEETINGS MEETINGS COMMITTEE MEETINGS Eligible Attended Eligible Attended Eligible Attended Eligible Attended David Middleton 8 8 n/a n/a 4 3 4 4 David Ryan 8 8 n/a n/a 4 4 n/a n/a Elizabeth Parkin 8 8 5 5 n/a n/a 4 4 Mary Beth Bauer 8 7 5 4 n/a n/a 4 3 Bruce Cohen 8 7 5 5 n/a n/a n/a n/a Constantina Dertimanis 8 7 n/a n/a 4 3 4 2 Tania Fryer 1 5 5 3 3 3 3 n/a n/a Bill Jaboor 8 8 n/a n/a 4 4 4 4 Christopher Lovell 1 5 4 n/a n/a 3 3 3 2 Philip Clark2 3 3 n/a n/a 1 1 n/a n/a Kim McAliney 2 3 2 2 2 1 1 n/a n/a 1. Term commenced 1 October 2017 2. Term concluded 30 September 2017 Our business 43 Financial overview 2018 HIGHLIGHTS Water also paid income tax equivalent of $43.5m to the Victorian Government. Profit before tax for the year was $112.8m compared to budget as specified in our Corporate Plan of $92.1m. The Total borrowings increased by $77.7m during the year. The favourable result was achieved mainly due to higher than increase in borrowings was primarily for the purpose of budgeted developer revenues and miscellaneous fees and funding the required capital expenditure to support growth charges as well as cost efficiencies resulting from lower than in our service area as well as continued investment in our budgeted depreciation and finance charges. infrastructure network and Information and Communications Technology (ICT) assets. Capital expenditure for the year was Revenue increased by $13.8m in 2018. This was despite $109.8m. a $24m revenue adjustment during the year as the result of a change in estimate of our non-revenue water. NonReturn on equity was 9.4% (2017 9.3%) while cash interest revenue water is water lost to bursts and leaks and used for cover was 3.1 times (2017 2.6 times). firefighting. Gearing, as measured by total debt/total assets, increased to During 2018 City West Water made total dividend payments 49.8% (2017 48.3%). of $62.6m and a capital repatriation of $10.9m. City West $109.8 million CAPITAL EXPENDITURE $43.5 million INCOME TAX EQUIVALENT PAID TO THE STATE GOVERNMENT $62.6 million TOTAL DIVIDEND PAYMENTS $112.8 million PROFIT BEFORE TAX 44 Our business SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL RESULTS Below is a summary of our financial performance over the last five years. 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 ($’000) ($’000) ($’000) ($’000) ($’000) Sales revenue 587,898 589,349 581,755 533,128 561,707 Developer contributions 82,260 67,981 61,536 39,637 29,164 Other revenue 28,159 27,186 26,802 26,269 19,466 Total revenue 698,317 684,516 670,093 599,034 610,337 Bulk charges 341,601 337,035 355,062 323,595 353,408 Environmental contribution 18,563 18,563 18,563 18,563 18,563 Employee benefits 45,069 42,464 40,442 37,829 37,439 Depreciation and amortisation 50,875 47,856 47,336 41,982 39,852 Finance expenses 64,939 63,457 63,344 62,892 60,266 Other operating expenses 64,493 64,848 79,609 66,883 64,664 Total expenses 585,540 574,223 604,356 551,744 574,192 Profit before tax 112,777 110,293 65,737 47,290 36,145 SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL POSITION 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 ($’000) ($’000) ($’000) ($’000) ($’000) Current assets 114,887 119,881 113,479 108,082 93,638 Non-current assets 2,255,183 2,163,344 2,050,298 2,051,552 1,988,309 Total assets 2,370,070 2,283,225 2,163,777 2,159,634 2,081,947 Current liabilities 145,585 101,325 105,702 152,296 186,511 Non-current liabilities 1,388,152 1,342,102 1,315,358 1,267,436 1,164,073 Total liabilities 1,533,737 1,443,427 1,421,060 1,419,732 1,350,584 Net assets 836,333 839,798 742,717 739,902 731,363 Net cash flows from operating 92,029 73,877 64,416 63,505 19,224 activities Payments for infrastructure, 101,808 83,383 82,859 81,713 150,873 property, plant and equipment Our business 45 SUMMARY OF CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 ($’000) ($’000) ($’000) ($’000) ($’000) Total capital expenditure 109,776 90,593 88,271 77,209 120,590 City West Water manages a number of capital projects. For information on recent capital projects undertaken by City West Water and the broader Victorian public sector, refer to the most recent Budget Paper 4 State Capital Program (BP 4) available via the Department of Treasury and Finance’s website. This publication also contains information on the asset investment program of the Department of Treasury and Finance and its related portfolio agencies. No projects with a total estimated investment of $10m or greater were completed during the year. SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Measure 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Cash interest cover times 3.1 2.6 2.3 2.2 1.7 Gearing ratio (total debt (including % 49.8 48.3 50.4 48.9 49.2 finance leases) / total assets) Internal financing ratio % 18.2 73.0 57.9 58.6 9.6 Current ratio times 0.8 1.3 1.2 0.8 0.5 Return on assets % 7.6 7.8 6.0 5.2 4.8 Return on equity (net profit after tax / % 9.4 9.3 5.9 5.0 3.6 average total equity) EBITDA margin (EBITDA/total revenue) % 32.7 32.4 26.4 25.6 22.3 Further information on current year financial performance can be found in the Performance Report section of this report. INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY EXPENDITURE During the 2018 reporting period, City West Water had a total Information and Communication Technology (ICT) expenditure of $24.0m, as per details shown below. ALL OPERATIONAL ICT ICT EXPENDITURE RELATED TO PROJECTS TO CREATE OR ENHANCE ICT EXPENDITURE CAPABILITIES. BUSINESS AS USUAL (BAU) NON BAU ICT OPERATING CAPITAL EXPENDITURE ICT EXPENDITURE EXPENDITURE EXPENDITURE (OPEX) (CAPEX) ($’000) ($’000) ($’000) ($’000) 14,172 9,836 28 9,808 ICT expenditure refers to the corporation’s costs in providing business enabling ICT services. It comprises Business as Usual (BAU) ICT expenditure and Non Business as Usual (Non BAU) ICT expenditure. Non BAU ICT expenditure relates to extending or enhancing City West Water’s current ICT capabilities. BAU ICT expenditure is all remaining ICT expenditure which relates primarily to ongoing activities to operate and maintain current ICT capability. 46 Our business MATTERS SUBSEQUENT TO THE END OF THE An applicant has a right to apply for access to documents held by City West Water. This comprises documents both FINANCIAL YEAR created by City West Water or supplied to City West Water by No further matter or circumstance has arisen since 30 June an external organisation or individual, and may also include 2018 which has significantly affected, or may significantly maps, films, microfiche, photographs, computer printouts, affect: computer discs, tape recordings and videotapes. Information • the corporation’s operations about the type of material produced by City West Water is available at citywestwater.com.au • the results of those operations The Act allows City West Water to refuse access, either fully • the corporation’s state of affairs in the financial year or partially, to certain documents or information. Examples subsequent to 30 June 2018. of documents that may not be accessed include: some internal working documents, law enforcement documents, CONSULTANCIES documents covered by legal professional privilege, such as During 2018 City West Water engaged five consultants legal advice, personal information about other people, and on various engagements where the total fees payable to information provided to City West Water in confidence. each consultant was less than $10,000 (GST exclusive). Total From 1 September 2017, the Act has been amended to expenditure incurred during the 2018 reporting period in reduce the Freedom of Information (FOI) processing time for relation to these consultancies was $20,857 (GST exclusive). requests received from 45 to 30 days. In some cases, this time During 2018 City West Water engaged 11 consultants on may be extended. various consultancies where the total fees payable to each If an applicant is not satisfied by a decision made by City consultant was $10,000 or greater (GST exclusive). Total West Water, under section 49A of the Act, they have the right expenditure during 2018 in relation to these consultancies to seek a review by the Office of the Victorian Information was $578,777 (GST exclusive). Details of individual Commissioner (OVIC) within 28 days of receiving a decision consultancies can be viewed at citywestwater.com.au letter. These consultancies include arrangements where an During 2018 City West Water received 26 requests for access individual or organisation is engaged to provide expert to documents under the Act. analysis to facilitate decision making or perform a specific one-off task that involves skills or perspective which would REQUEST NO. not normally be expected to reside within City West Water. Access in full 7 City West Water engages a number of individuals and Access in part 10 organisations to provide works or services on behalf of the Access denied 0 corporation. These contract services are not considered to be Other withdrawn 0 consultants and are not included in the above numbers. Not finalised 9 OTHER INFORMATION Total 26 Of these 26 requests: FREEDOM OF INFORMATION • 12 were from law firms The Freedom of Information Act 1982 (the Act) allows the public a right of access to documents held by City West • six were from insurance companies Water. The purpose of the Act is to extend as far as possible • the remainder were from the general public. the right of the community to access information held by government departments, local councils, ministers and other City West Water made 21 FOI decisions during the 12 months bodies subject to the Act. ended 30 June 2018. City West Water is subject to the Freedom of Information Act • nine decisions were made within the statutory 30 day time 1982. period Our business 47 • five decisions were made within an extended statutory To achieve this in 2018: 30-45 day time period • our buildings have been inspected by a competent • seven decisions were made within 46 to 90 days. inspector The average time taken to finalise requests in 2018 was 25 • occupancy permits have been issued days. • assets are maintained under the required standards and During 2018, no requests were subject to a complaint or codes internal review by OVIC. • the Oracle Asset Management System is used to maintain Making a request the assets. FOI requests can be lodged online at foi.vic.gov.au. An City West Water requires that appropriately qualified application fee of $28.40 (2019 $28.90) applies. Access consultants and contractors are engaged for all proposed charges may also be payable if the document pool is large, works on land controlled by City West Water and that their and the search for material is time consuming. work and services comply with current building standards. All such consultants and contractors are expected to have Access to documents can also be sought through a written appropriate mechanisms in place to ensure compliance with request to City West Water’s Freedom of Information team, as the building and maintenance provisions of the Building Act detailed in s17 of the Act. 1993, Building Regulations 2018 and the National Construction When making an FOI request, applicants should ensure Code. requests are in writing, and clearly identify what types of In relation to our existing buildings in Altona Meadows and materials and/or documents are being sought. West Werribee, City West Water’s Asset Maintenance Unit is Requests for documents in the possession of City West Water responsible for mandatory testing of emergency and exit should be addressed to: lighting and lift equipment in accordance with relevant standards, monthly, quarterly and bi-annual inspection Freedom of Information Officer and preventive maintenance, routine mechanical services City West Water and monthly and annual fire service audits. Programmed Locked Bag 350 Facility Management is responsible for the same works at the Sunshine Vic 3020 buildings at West Melbourne and Brooklyn. These inspections Further information then inform the works program which is delivered annually Further information regarding the operation and scope of FOI through existing maintenance contracts. can be obtained from the Act, regulations made under the In 2018: Act, and foi.vic.gov.au. Number of major works projects 0 major projects undertaken by City West Water BUILDING ACT 1993 (greater than $50,000) City West Water owns or controls: Number of building permits, 0 building permits • 4 buildings at 293 Queen St, Altona Meadows occupancy permits or certificate of 8 occupancy permits final inspection issued in relation 8 certificates of • 2 buildings at William Thwaites Drive, West Werribee to buildings owned by City West occupancy • 1 building at 218 Kensington Road, West Melbourne Water • 1 building at 73 Old Geelong Road, Brooklyn. Number of emergency orders and 0 emergency orders building orders issued in relation to 0 building orders Consequently City West Water is required to include buildings a statement on its compliance with the building and Number of buildings that have 0 buildings brought maintenance provisions of the Building Act 1993 in relation to been brought into conformity into conformity these buildings. with building standards during the reporting period 48 Our business PROTECTED DISCLOSURE ACT 2012 • the objectives of the legislation can only be achieved by restricting competition. The Protected Disclosure Act 2012 (the Act) encourages and assists people in making disclosures of improper conduct by Competitive neutrality requires government businesses to public officers and public bodies. The Act provides protection ensure where services compete, or potentially compete to people who make disclosures in accordance with the with the private sector, any advantage arising solely from Act and establishes a system for the matters disclosed to be their Government ownership be removed if it is not in the investigated and rectifying action to be taken. public interest. Government businesses are required to cost and price these services as if they were privately owned. City West Water does not tolerate improper conduct by Competitive neutrality policy supports fair competition employees or the taking of reprisals against those who between public and private businesses and provides come forward to disclose such conduct. City West Water government businesses with a tool to enhance decisions on is committed to ensuring transparency and accountability resource allocation. This policy does not override other policy in its administrative and management practices, and objectives of government and focuses on efficiency in the the corporation supports the making of disclosures that provision of service. reveal corrupt conduct, conduct involving a substantial mismanagement of public resources or conduct involving City West Water has an independent Board of Directors with a substantial risk to public health and safety or the independent and objective performance monitoring. The environment. corporation pays income tax equivalent and dividends to the Victorian Government, and pays a Financial Accommodation City West Water will take all reasonable steps to protect Levy to the Victorian Government for its borrowings through people who make such disclosures from any detrimental Treasury Corporation of Victoria. City West Water operates action in reprisal for making the disclosure. City West Water in an environment where the ESC determines cost-based will also afford natural justice to the person who is the subject pricing. City West Water lodged a Price Submission to the ESC of the disclosure to the extent that it is legally possible. to enable it to make a Pricing Determination for 2019 to 2023. Reporting procedures The ESC made a final determination on prices in June 2018. These prices took effect from 1 July 2018. City West Water is not able to receive protected disclosures. City West Water’s processes continue to be consistent with Disclosure of improper conduct or detrimental action by the objectives of National Competition Policy agreements City West Water or any of its employees and/or officers may and the requirements of the Competitive Neutrality Policy be made directly to the Independent Broad-based AntiVictoria statement. corruption Commission. Independent Broad-based Anti-corruption LOCAL JOBS FIRST – VICTORIAN INDUSTRY Commission (IBAC) Victoria PARTICIPATION POLICY Level 1, North Tower, 459 Collins Street Melbourne VIC 3000 The Victorian Industry Participation Policy Act 2003 requires Phone: 1300 735 135 departments and public sector bodies to report on the Internet: ibac.vic.gov.au implementation of the Local Jobs First Victorian Industry Email: see the website above for the secure email disclosure Participation Policy (Local Jobs First VIPP). Departments and process, which also provides for anonymous disclosures. public sector bodies are required to apply the Local Jobs FirstVIPP in all procurement activities valued at $3m or more in metropolitan Melbourne and state wide projects, and $1m or COMPETITIVE NEUTRALITY POLICY VICTORIA more for procurement activities in regional Victoria. Under National Competition Policy, the guiding legislative During 2018, one contract totalling $6.1m commenced for principle is that legislation, including future legislative which a Local Jobs First VIPP plan was required. This job proposals, should not restrict competition unless it can be occurred in metropolitan Melbourne and had an estimated demonstrated that: 88.4% of local content. • the benefits of the restriction to the community as a whole outweigh the costs, and Our business 49 The total Local Jobs First VIPP plan or Local Industry • details of changes in prices, fees, charges, rates and levies Development Plan (LIDP) commitments achieved as a result charged by City West Water of contracts commenced include: • details of any major external reviews carried out on City • local content of 88.4% of the total value of the contracts West Water • nine new jobs and 10 retained jobs (Annualised Employee • details of major research and development activities Equivalent) undertaken by City West Water • two new apprenticeships/traineeships and two retained • details of overseas visits undertaken including a summary apprenticeships/traineeships. of the objectives and outcomes of each visit The total Local Jobs First VIPP plan or LIDP commitments • details of major promotional, public relations and achieved as a result of contracts completed include: marketing activities undertaken by City West Water to develop community awareness of the corporation and its • local content of 40% of the total value of the contracts services • seven new jobs and six retained jobs (Annualised • details of assessments and measures undertaken to Employee Equivalent) improve the occupational health and safety of employees • three new apprenticeships/traineeships and one retained • a general statement on industrial relations within the apprenticeship/traineeship. corporation and details of time lost through industrial accidents and disputes GOVERNMENT ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE • a list of major committees sponsored by City West Water, City West Water did not incur any expenditure on the purpose of each committee, and the extent to which government advertising campaigns during either the current that purpose has been achieved, and or previous reporting periods. • details of all consultancies and contractors including: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ACT 1994 –– consultants and contractors engaged Other information as required under the Financial –– services provided, and Management Act 1994, but not specifically referred to, has –– expenditure committed to for each engagement. been retained by the Accountable Officer and is available on request by the Minister for Finance, Members of Parliament, Requests for documents in the possession of City West Water and the general public. should be addressed to: Freedom of Information Officer OTHER INFORMATION AVAILABLE ON REQUEST City West Water Locked Bag 350 In compliance with the requirements of the Standing Sunshine VIC 3020 Directions of the Minister for Finance, details in respect of the items listed below have been retained by City West Water and are available on request, subject to the provisions of the DISCLOSURE OF MAJOR CONTRACTS Freedom of Information Act 1982: City West Water did not enter into any major contracts during • a statement that declarations of pecuniary interests have 2018. A ‘major contract’ is a contract entered into during the been duly completed by all relevant officers reporting period valued at $10 million or more. • details of shares held by a senior officer as nominee or held beneficially in a statutory authority or subsidiary • details of publications produced by the corporation about itself and how these can be obtained 50 Our business Annual reporting of major non-residential water users NAMES OF MAJOR CUSTOMERS AND THEIR PARTICIPATION IN WATER CONSERVATION PLANS1 These customers participate in water efficiency programs. Name of customer AMP Capital Investors Melbourne Water – Hoppers Crossing Pumping Station2 Asahi Premium Beverages Pty Ltd Melbourne Water – Brooklyn Pumping Station Campari Australia Pty Ltd Merpalm Pty Ltd Carlton & United Breweries Ltd Mobil Refining Australia Pty Ltd Choldame Nominees Mr P C Song CSF Proteins Proprietary Limited Nufarm Australia Limited CSR Building Product Limited Orica Australia Department Of Health And Human Services VCCC Pacific Werribee Department Of Justice – Port Phillip Prison Peerless Holdings Pty Ltd Diamond Valley Pork Pty Ltd Qenos2 Essendon Fields Schweppes Australia Pty Ltd Flicker's Australia Seqirus G H Operations Pty Ltd St Vincents Hospital Melbourne GPT Funds Management Limited Swancomb Pty Ltd Integro Foods Australia Pty Ltd The Australian Steel Company (Operations) Pty Ltd IXOM Operations The Royal Children’s Hospital JBS Australia Toyota Motor Corporation Australia Jeskan Nominees University Of Melbourne Melbourne Airport Victrack Melbourne and Olympic Parks Trust Western Health Melbourne Central Wilmar Sugar Pty Ltd Melbourne Health Zoos Victoria – Melbourne Zoo 1. Two customers have elected not to be named in this table 2. Includes recycled water use CUSTOMERS BY VOLUME RANGE VOLUMETRIC RANGE – ML1 PER YEAR NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS Equal to or greater than 100ML and less than 200ML 27 Equal to or greater than 200ML and less than 300ML 8 Equal to or greater than 300ML and less than 400ML 3 Equal to or greater than 400ML and less than 500ML 1 Equal to or greater than 500ML and less than 750ML 1 Equal to or greater than 750ML and less than 1,000ML 3 Greater than 1,000ML 3 Total number of customers 46 1. ML= million litres Our business 51 Total residential bill Over the past five years we have worked hard to reduce prices for our customers, and in 2018 City West Water customers had the lowest average residential water bills of any capital city in Australia. We understand that affordability is a key priority for our customers, and will continue to look for ways to provide great services at the lowest possible prices. 2018 Total residential water bill for a City West Water customer based on average consumption during the year. 150kL 200kL average usage average usage Water service charge $231.20 $231.20 Water usage charges $368.01 $505.84 Sewerage service charge $256.56 $256.56 Sewage disposal charge $207.36 $276.49 Rebate -$100.00 -$100.00 TOTAL $963.13 $1,170.09 Notes: 1. City West Water price changes for future years will be limited to changes in financing costs, inflation and the cost of any desalination water orders 2. The actual reduction of a customer’s bill will depend on their water usage and whether or not the Government Water Rebate has been received in the past. Financial Management 52 Compliance Attestation Financial Management Compliance Attestation I, David Middleton, on behalf of City West Water Corporation, certify that City West Water Corporation has complied with the applicable Standing Directions of the Minister for Finance under the Financial Management Act 1994 and Instructions. David Middleton Chair Melbourne 28 August 2018 Performance Report 53 Performance Report As part of their annual reporting obligations, metropolitan water corporations are required to include a consolidated performance report comprising both financial and non-financial performance indicators. The objective of the report is to provide a consistent view of the current and ongoing performance of the corporation. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPI 2017 2018 2018 % Variance % Variance Key performance indicator Notes Notes Number Result Result Target to prior year to target F1 Cash interest cover 2.6 3.1 2.5 19.2% 1 24.0% 1 Net operating cash flows before net interest and tax / net interest payments F2 Gearing ratio 48.3% 49.8% 52.4% 3.1% -5.0% Total debt (including finance leases) / total assets *100 F3 Internal financing ratio 73.0% 18.2% 3.0% -75.1% 2 506.7% 3 Net operating cash flow less dividends and capital repatriation / net capital expenditure * 100 F4 Current ratio 1.3 0.8 1.3 -38.5% 4 -38.5% 5 Current assets / current liabilities (excluding long term employee provisions and revenue in advance) F5 Return on assets 7.8% 7.6% 7.0% -2.6% 8.6% Earnings before net interest and tax / average assets * 100 F6 Return on equity 9.3% 9.4% 8.0% 1.1% 17.5% 6 Net profit after tax / average total equity *100 F7 EBITDA Margin 32.4% 32.7% 31.3% 0.9% 4.5% Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation / total revenue *100 1. Cash interest cover was higher than 2017 and also higher 4. The current ratio was lower than last year due to higher than target mainly as a result of increased developer cash current liabilities at balance date. This was due to an contributions received during the year. The timing of increase in payables as a result of increased trade creditors the receipt of developer contributions is dependent on and developer reimbursements owing as well as an developers. increase in short term (11am) borrowings from 2017 to 2. The internal financing ratio was lower than 2017 mainly 2018. The current ratio is forecast to grow steadily over the because of higher dividend payments in 2018 as well coming years. as the payment of a capital repatriation in 2018. Higher 5. The 2018 current ratio was lower than target due to dividend payments in 2018 were due to increased higher than expected current liabilities at balance date. profitability as well as the payment of an interim dividend This was due to higher than expected short term (11am) in 2018 while no interim dividend was paid in 2017. The borrowings, trade creditors, and current tax liabilities. The ratio is expected to smooth out in future years in line with current ratio is forecast to grow steadily over the coming current forecast. years. 3. The 2018 internal financing ratio was higher than target 6. Return on equity was higher than target in 2018 as a result due mainly to higher than expected net operating cash of higher than expected net profit after tax. Net profit after flows which resulted from higher than expected developer tax was higher mainly as a result of higher than expected cash contributions during the year. developer contributions (cash and developer contributed assets) and lower than expected interest expense. 54 Performance Report WATER AND SEWERAGE SERVICE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPI 2017 2018 2018 % Variance % Variance Key performance indicator Notes Notes Number Result Result Target to prior year to target WS1 Unplanned water supply 0.0% 0.0% 0.1% 0.0% -100.0% 1 interruptions Number of customers receiving more than five unplanned water supply interruptions in the year / total number of water (domestic and non-domestic) customers *100 WS2 Interruption time 124.3 119.6 129.5 -3.8% -7.6% 2 Average duration of unplanned water supply interruptions (minutes) WS3 Restoration of unplanned 95.2% 97.0% 95.5% 1.9% 1.6% water supply interruptions Unplanned water supply interruptions restored within five hours / total unplanned water supply interruptions *100 SS1 Containment of sewer spills 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% Sewer spills from reticulation and branch sewers contained within five hours / total sewer spills from reticulation and branch sewers *100 SS2 Sewer spills interruptions 96.6% 97.2% 97.2% 0.6% 0.0% Number of residential sewerage customers affected by sewerage interruptions restored within 5 hours 1. During 2018, 35 customers received more than five 2. 2018 was the second year of a new maintenance contract. unplanned water supply interruptions. When divided by An improvement in performance from year one to year City West Water’s customer base of 459,044 this rounds two of the contract was achieved due to the maturation down to zero. The target of 0.1% is based on the long term of processes and procedures in the second year of the average for this indicator. contract. Significant effort was undertaken by the City West Water team to achieve this result. Performance Report 55 CUSTOMER RESPONSIVENESS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPI 2017 2018 2018 % Variance % Variance Key performance indicator Notes Notes Number Result Result Target to prior year to target CR1 Water quality complaints 0.98 0.72 1.10 -26.5% 1 -34.5% 2 Number of complaints per 1,000 customers CR2 Sewerage service quality 0.07 0.07 0.04 0.0% 75.0% 3 complaints Number of complaints per 1,000 customers CR3 Sewage odour complaints 0.21 0.12 0.21 -42.9% 4 -42.9% 4 Number of complaints per 1,000 customers CR4 Billing complaints 1.00 1.27 0.93 27.0% 5 36.6% 5 Number of complaints per 1,000 customers 1. Water quality complaints are highly variable from year to cleaning and inspection, siphon cleaning and pipeline year. City West Water’s performance in 2018 was in line inspection and/or cleaning programs have resulted in a with the long term (10 year) average of 0.75. greater than expected reduction in the number of sewer odour complaints during 2018 as well as a significant year 2. The target for water quality complaints gave consideration on year reduction. to last year’s actual performance. The corporation outperformed this target in 2018. 5. Financial pressures on our customers continue to result in high billing and payment complaints. This has led to a 3. Because the absolute number of sewerage service year on year increase in complaints as well as an increase quality complaints is so low, a small rise in the number of against target. Our strategy going forward reflects a complaints has led to a significant increase against target. stronger focus on transitioning our customers to payment It is expected that performance will be in line with target installment plans as well as continuing to support in the coming year. customers in hardship. It is expected that this will lead to a 4. Planned sewer maintenance programs such as gas check reduction in billing complaints in the coming year. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPI 2017 2018 2018 % Variance % Variance Key performance indicator Notes Notes Number Result Result Target to prior year to target E1 Effluent reuse volume (end use) 38.6% 42.3% 45.0% 9.6% 1 -6.0% 2 Effluent reuse volume (%) E2 Total net CO2 emissions 11,490 13,013 13,400 13.3% 3 -2.9% Net tonnes CO2 equivalent 1. During 2018, we experienced higher demand from our the plant and losses during processing. industrial customer due to high customer satisfaction with 3. Net CO2 emissions increased in 2018 due mainly to the product we are able to supply to them. increased emissions from City West Water’s vehicle fleet as 2. The target of 45% for 2018 was an ambitious target which a result of a larger fleet and more kilometres travelled. As a proved to be unachievable. The target going forward has result of the larget fleet, emissions in 2019 are expected to been reduced to 40%. This reflects current experience of be in line with 2018. customer demand, the volume of wastewater received by 56 Performance Report Certification of Performance Report We certify that the accompanying Performance Report of City West Water Corporation in respect of the 2018 financial year is presented fairly and in accordance with the Financial Management Act 1994. The Performance Report outlines the relevant performance indicators for the financial year as determined by the Minister for Water and as set out in the corporation’s 2018 Corporate Plan. The actual and comparative results achieved for the financial year are measured against predetermined performance targets. Performance against these targets and subsequent explanation of any significant variance between the current year and prior year has been fairly presented. As at the date of signing, we are not aware of any circumstances which would render any particulars of the Performance Report to be misleading or inaccurate. David Middleton David Ryan Michael Wootten Chair Managing Director Chief Financial Officer Melbourne 28 August 2018 57 Independent Auditor’s Report To the Board of the City West Water Corporation Opinion I have audited the accompanying performance report of the City West Water Corporation (the corporation) for the year ended 30 June 2018, which comprises the: • financial performance indicators • water and sewage service performance indicators • customer responsiveness performance indicators • environmental performance indicators • certification of performance report. In my opinion, the performance report of the corporation for the year ended 30 June 2018 presents fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the performance reporting requirements of Part 7 of the Financial Management Act 1994. Basis for I have conducted my audit in accordance with the Audit Act 1994 which incorporates Opinion the Australian Standards on Assurance Engagements. I further describe my responsibilities under that Act and those standards in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the performance report section of my report. My independence is established by the Constitution Act 1975. My staff and I are independent of the corporation in accordance with the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the Code) that are relevant to my audit of the performance report in Victoria and have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. Board's The Board is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the performance responsibilities report in accordance with the performance reporting requirements of the Financial for the Management Act 1994, and for such internal control as the Board determines is performance necessary to enable the preparation and fair presentation of the statement of report performance that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s As required by the Audit Act 1994, my responsibility is to express an opinion on the responsibilities performance report based on the audit. My objectives for the audit are to obtain for the audit of reasonable assurance about whether the performance report as a whole is free from the material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report performance that includes my opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a report guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the Australian Standards on Assurance Engagements will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 58 Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of users taken on the basis of this performance report. As part of an audit in accordance with the Australian Standards on Assurance Engagements, I exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. I also: • identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of performance report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the corporation’s internal control. • evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the performance report, including the disclosures, and whether performance report represents the underlying events and results in a manner that achieves fair presentation. I communicate with the Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that I identify during my audit. MELBOURNE Paul Martin 3 September 2018 as delegate for the Auditor-General of Victoria 2 Financial report FINANCIAL REPORT COMPREHENSIVE OPERATING STATEMENT 60 BALANCE SHEET 61 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 62 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 63 NOTES TO AND FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 64 1. About this report 64 2. Funding delivery of services 65 3. Cost of delivering services 67 4. Statutory obligations 75 5. Assets available to support the provision of services 79 6. Other assets and liabilities 87 7. Financing our operations 92 8. Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements 95 9. Other disclosure 109 STATUTORY CERTIFICATION 120 APPENDIX 1: DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION ON LETTER OF EXPECTATIONS MINISTERIAL REPORTING DIRECTION 07 123 APPENDIX 2: THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 129 APPENDIX 3: BULK WATER ENTITLEMENT REPORTING 133 APPENDIX 4: DISCLOSURE INDEX 135 60 Financial report Comprehensive Operating Statement For the year ended 30 June 2018 Note 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Income Sale of goods and services revenue 2.2 587,898 589,349 Developer contributions 2.3 82,260 67,981 Other income 2.4 28,159 27,186 Total income 698,317 684,516 Expenses Bulk charges 3.2 (341,601) (337,035) Environmental Contribution 4.5.1 (18,563) (18,563) Employee benefits 3.3.1 (45,069) (42,464) Depreciation and amortisation 5.1, 5.5 (50,875) (47,856) Finance expenses 7.1.2 (64,939) (63,457) Other operating expenses 3.5 (64,493) (64,848) Total expenses (585,540) (574,223) Profit before income tax expense 112,777 110,293 Income tax expense 4.1 (33,735) (36,692) Profit after income tax expense 79,042 73,601 Other Comprehensive Income/(Expense) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Change in physical asset revaluation surplus due to revaluation of assets 5.1 (16,272) 38,372 Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit superannuation plan 3.3.3 3,087 3,532 Deferred income tax relating to components of Other Comprehensive Income 4.1 4,158 (5,424) Other Comprehensive Income after tax (9,027) 36,480 Total comprehensive income after tax 70,015 110,081 The Comprehensive Operating Statement should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Financial report 61 Balance Sheet As at 30 June 2018 Note 30 June 30 June 2018 2017 $'000 $'000 ASSETS Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 746 6,850 Receivables 6.1 107,872 110,304 Inventory 6.4 1,698 1,142 Other non-financial assets 6.5 4,571 1,585 Total current assets 114,887 119,881 Non-current assets Receivables 6.1 20 Infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 5.1 2,086,215 1,992,324 Intangible assets 5.5 164,442 168,750 Defined benefit superannuation asset 3.3.3 4,526 2,250 Total non-current assets 2,255,183 2,163,344 TOTAL ASSETS 2,370,070 2,283,225 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Bank overdraft 7.2 946 Payables 6.2 96,867 69,615 Borrowings 7.1 22,700 Current tax liability 4.3 10,430 15,511 Provision for employee benefits 3.3.2 12,571 13,028 Unearned income 6.3 1,348 589 Other provisions 6.6 1,669 1,636 Total current liabilities 145,585 101,325 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 7.1 1,157,500 1,102,500 Deferred tax liabilities 4.2.2 228,819 237,702 Provision for employee benefits 3.3.2 1,833 1,900 Total non-current liabilities 1,388,152 1,342,102 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,533,737 1,443,427 NET ASSETS 836,333 839,798 EQUITY Contributed equity 9.3.1 200,128 211,008 Physical asset revaluation surplus 9.3.2 180,718 191,906 Retained profits 9.3.3 455,487 436,884 TOTAL EQUITY 836,333 839,798 Commitments for expenditure 3.6 Contingent assets and contingent liabilities 8.2 The Balance Sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 62 Financial report Statement of Changes in Equity For the year ended 30 June 2018 Note Contributed Physical Retained Total equity asset profits equity revaluation surplus $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Opening balance at 1 July 2016 211,008 157,898 373,811 742,717 Comprehensive income for the year Profit after income tax expense 9.3.3 73,601 73,601 9.3.2, Other comprehensive income after tax 9.3.3 34,008 2,472 36,480 Total comprehensive income after tax 34,008 76,073 110,081 Transactions with the State in its capacity as owner Dividends paid 4.4 (13,000) (13,000) Total transactions with the State in its capacity as owner (13,000) (13,000) Closing balance at 30 June 2017 211,008 191,906 436,884 839,798 Opening balance at 1 July 2017 211,008 191,906 436,884 839,798 Comprehensive income for the year Profit after income tax expense 9.3.3 79,042 79,042 9.3.2, Other comprehensive income after tax 9.3.3 (11,188) 2,161 (9,027) Total comprehensive income after tax (11,188) 81,203 70,015 Transactions with the State in its capacity as owner Dividends paid 4.4 (62,600) (62,600) Capital repatriation 9.3.1 (10,880) (10,880) Total transactions with the State in its capacity as owner (10,880) (62,600) (73,480) Closing Balance at 30 June 2018 200,128 180,718 455,487 836,333 The Statement of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Financial report 63 Statement of Cash Flows For the year ended 30 June 2018 Note 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Cash flows from operating activities Receipts Receipts from customers, developers and others 697,064 672,590 Goods and Services Tax refunded by the Australian Taxation Office 1 11,931 12,525 Interest received 83 43 Payments Payments to suppliers and employees (450,094) (460,089) Interest and other finance costs paid (64,167) (63,865) Income tax paid (43,540) (29,599) Environmental Contribution paid (18,563) (18,563) Government Water Rebate paid 2 (40,685) (39,165) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 7.2.1 92,029 73,877 Cash flows from investing activities Payments for infrastructure, property, plant, equipment and intangibles (101,808) (83,383) Proceeds from sale of infrastructure, property, plant, equipment and intangibles 401 16,556 Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities (101,407) (66,827) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings (new and refinanced) 202,700 131,800 Repayment of borrowings (paid down and refinanced) (125,000) (120,000) Dividends paid (62,600) (13,000) Capital repatriation paid (10,880) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities 4,220 (1,200) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (5,158) 5,850 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the financial year 5,904 54 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial year 7.2 746 5,904 1. Goods and services tax refunded from the Australian 2. City West Water returned a total of $40.7m (2017 $39.2m) Taxation Office is presented on a net basis. to its residential customers with a water usage charge through a $100 rebate during the financial year. The Statement of Cash Flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 64 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 1. About this report City West Water is a statutory water authority incorporated • actuarial assumptions used to determine the assets under the Water Act 1989. and liabilities of City West Water’s defined benefit superannuation fund The principal address of the corporation is: • estimated useful lives of assets City West Water Corporation 1 McNab Avenue • impairment of assets Footscray 3011 • provisions 1.1 Basis of preparation • income tax These financial statements are presented in Australian • unearned income dollars. The historical cost convention is used unless a • accrued revenue (unbilled charges) different measurement basis is specifically disclosed for • deferred tax recognition. the relevant item. All amounts in the financial statements have been rounded to the nearest thousand dollars unless Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the otherwise stated. period in which the estimate is revised and also in future periods that are affected by the revision. The accrual basis of accounting has been applied in preparing these financial statements. Assets, liabilities, equity, These financial statements cover City West Water as an income and expenses are recognised in the reporting period individual reporting entity. to which they relate, regardless of when cash is received or paid. 1.2 Compliance information Judgements, estimates and assumptions are required to These general purpose financial statements have been be made about financial information being presented. prepared in accordance with the Financial Management Act The significant judgements made in the preparation of 1994 and applicable Australian Accounting Standards, which these financial statements are disclosed in Section 8 of this include Interpretations issued by the Australian Accounting report. Estimates and associated assumptions are based on Standards Board. professional judgements derived from historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable Accounting policies selected and applied in these financial in the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these statements ensure that the resulting financial information estimates. Areas involving a high degree of estimates satisfies the concepts of relevance and reliability, thereby and assumptions that can materially impact the financial ensuring that the substance of the underlying transactions statements include: or other events is reported. • fair valuation of infrastructure, property, plant and These annual financial statements were authorised for equipment issue by the Board of Directors of City West Water on 28 August 2018. Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 65 2. Funding delivery of services City West Water’s core business is the supply of water, when the amount can be reliably measured, it is probable sewerage, trade waste and, where available, recycled water that the future economic benefits will flow to the corporation services to customers in accordance with the corporation’s and specific criteria have been met for each of the Customer Charter. City West Water collects revenue from corporation’s activities. residential and non-residential customers, developers and Structure others in order to fulfil its vision to be an exceptional service provider that puts customers first and benefits 2.1 Summary of income that funds the delivery of services the community. 2.2 Sale of goods and services revenue Revenue is measured as the fair value of consideration 2.3 Developer contributions received or receivable. City West Water recognises revenue 2.4 Other income 2.1 Summary of income that funds the delivery of services 2018 2017 Note $’000 $’000 Sale of goods and services revenue 2.2 587,898 589,349 Developer contributions 2.3 82,260 67,981 Other income 2.4 28,159 27,186 Total income 698,317 684,516 2.2 Sale of goods and services revenue 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Service charges water 104,490 98,926 Usage charges water 253,844 266,572 Service charges sewerage 118,045 111,848 Disposal charges sewage 113,605 114,499 Trade waste charges 29,614 29,744 Recycled water charges 7,168 6,416 Water trading revenue 1,817 509 Government Water Rebate provided to customers (40,685) (39,165) Total sale of goods and services revenue 587,898 589,349 Water and sewerage service charges are billed quarterly in been provided. Any charges that remain unbilled at balance advance and recognised evenly throughout the financial date are accrued (refer Note 6.1). year to reflect the pattern of revenue earned. Service As a result of an efficiency review of Victoria’s urban water charges represent charges for access to water and sewerage corporations, City West Water returned a total of $40.7m services. Any portion of charges that are billed in advance are (2017 $39.2m) to its residential customers with a water usage recognised as unearned income (refer Note 6.3). charge through a $100 rebate during the financial year. The Water usage charges, sewage disposal charges, trade Government Water Rebate is recognised as a rebate against waste charges, recycled water charges and water trading revenue when the associated revenue is billed. revenue are all recognised as income when the service has 66 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 2 Funding delivery of services (continued) 2.3 Developer contributions 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Developer contributed assets 48,137 35,574 Developer cash contributions 34,123 32,407 Total developer contributions 82,260 67,981 Developer contributed assets arise when developers pay by the corporation. for the cost of construction of new assets and subsequently Developer cash contributions represent charges levied ‘gift’ these assets to City West Water, which maintains them on developers to recover the costs of augmenting or in perpetuity. In accordance with the requirements of AASB constructing infrastructure assets to meet the future Interpretation 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers and AASB demands of urban growth. Developers are required to 118 Revenue, recognition of income occurs when make a fair and reasonable contribution towards the cost the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred of developing City West Water’s water supply distribution to City West Water. This non-cash revenue is recorded as systems and sewage disposal systems. In accordance with the developer contributed assets. Where actual cost is not requirements of AASB 118 Revenue, recognition of income available, City West Water recognises income by assessing occurs upon receipt. the value of the works using a schedule of rates determined 2.4 Other income 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Fees and charges 20,391 16,300 Works and services provided to third parties 6,372 7,123 Lease income 191 171 Net gain on sale of non-current physical assets 121 260 Other 1,084 3,332 Total other income 28,159 27,186 Fees and charges are recognised as income when the service Lease income is billed in advance and recognised when the has been provided. They represent a variety of services income has been earned. provided by City West Water such as processing of application A gain on sale of non-current physical assets is recognised on fees and making new connections or alterations to the disposal of an asset. It is measured as income from the sale of corporation’s network. City West Water uses pricing principles an asset less the asset’s book value and costs of disposal. to calculate the price of individual services rather than direct regulation by the Essential Services Commission. Other income items are recognised on an accrual basis. Other income consists mainly of administration fees and one-off Income from works and services provided to third parties charges for services provided. is recognised when the service has been provided. Income represents charges for services to third parties such as the collection of drainage and parks rates on behalf of Melbourne Water and the Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning respectively. Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 67 3. Cost of delivering services This section provides an account of the expenses incurred by City West Water in delivering services and the accounting policies that are relevant for an understanding of the items recognised in the financial statements. Structure 3.1 Summary of cost of delivering services 3.2 Bulk charges 3.3 Employee benefits 3.4 Remuneration of auditor 3.5 Other operating expenses 3.6 Commitments for operating lease expenditure 3.1 Summary of cost of delivering services 2018 2017 Note $’000 $’000 Bulk charges 3.2 341,601 337,035 Employee benefits in the Comprehensive Operating Statement 3.3.1 45,069 42,464 Other operating expenses 3.5 64,493 64,848 Total cost of delivering services 451,163 444,347 3.2 Bulk charges 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Bulk water and sewage charges 341,601 337,035 Total bulk charges 341,601 337,035 Bulk water and sewage charges are levied by Melbourne Water Corporation for the cost of water City West Water purchases and for sewage treated at Melbourne Water’s Western Treatment Plant. Variable charges are levied in arrears and are payable on a weekly basis. Fixed charges are levied once a month, and are payable on the 15th of the month to which they refer. Any variable charges that remain outstanding at period end are accrued. 68 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 3 Cost of delivering services (continued) 3.3 Employee benefits 3.3.1 Employee benefits in the Comprehensive Operating Statement 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Salaries and wages, annual leave and long service leave 40,157 37,218 Defined contribution superannuation expense 3,528 3,443 Defined benefit superannuation expense 811 924 Termination benefits 573 879 Total employee benefits in the comprehensive operating statement 45,069 42,464 Employee benefits refers to all payments made to employees contribution superannuation funds are made in accordance during the year. It includes payments to all City West Water with the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992. staff as well as contract and agency staff. Payments are made Termination benefits are payable when employment is for ordinary time, overtime, allowances, on-costs, Fringe terminated before normal retirement date, or when an Benefits Tax, redundancy costs and Workcover. Any employee employee accepts an offer of benefits in exchange for benefits outstanding at year end are accrued. A portion of the termination of employment. Termination benefits are employee benefits directly attributable to capital projects is recognised when City West Water is demonstrably committed capitalised and depreciated so as to apportion the cost of a to terminating the employment of current employees capital project over the life of the project. according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of The amount recognised in the Comprehensive Operating withdrawal or providing termination benefits as a result of an Statement in relation to superannuation is employer offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. contributions for members of both defined benefit and defined contribution superannuation plans that are paid or payable during the reporting period. Contributions to defined Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 69 3 Cost of delivering services (continued) 3.3.2 Employee benefits in the Balance Sheet 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Provision for employee benefits Current Annual leave unconditional and expected to be paid within 12 months 2,176 2,111 Annual leave unconditional and expected to be paid after 12 months 410 370 Long service leave unconditional and expected to be paid within 12 months 717 583 Long service leave unconditional and expected to be paid after 12 months 5,651 5,939 On costs unconditional and expected to be paid within 12 months 434 399 On costs unconditional and expected to be paid after 12 months 930 958 Other employee benefits 2,253 2,668 Provision for employee benefits current 12,571 13,028 Non-current Long service leave conditional 1,589 1,649 On costs conditional 244 251 Provision for employee benefits non-current 1,833 1,900 Total provision for employee benefits 14,404 14,928 Reconciliation of movement in provision for employee benefits 2018 $’000 Opening balance 14,928 Additional provisions recognised 6,532 Additions due to transfers in 99 Reductions arising from payments/other sacrifices of economic benefits (7,155) Closing balance 14,404 Provision is made for benefits accruing to employees in Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-monetary respect of annual leave, long service leave (LSL), on-costs, benefits, and annual leave are all recognised in the provision termination benefits and bonuses for services rendered to for employee benefits as current liabilities as the corporation reporting date. does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement of these liabilities. 70 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 3 Cost of delivering services (continued) Depending on the expectation of the timing of settlement, Defined benefit fund liabilities for wages, salaries, and annual leave are measured at: Defined benefit fund members receive a lump sum benefit • nominal value component that the corporation expects on retirement, death, disablement or withdrawal from the to settle wholly within 12 months, and fund. Benefits are calculated on a multiple of an employee’s final salary. The multiple is dependent on an employee’s • present value component that the corporation does not length of service and their contribution rate. expect to settle wholly within 12 months. A liability or asset in respect of defined benefits Unconditional LSL is disclosed as a current liability even superannuation is recognised and measured as the where the corporation does not expect to wholly settle difference between the present value of employees’ accrued the liability within 12 months because it will not have the benefits at reporting date and the net market value of the unconditional right to defer the settlement of the entitlement superannuation plan’s assets at that date. The plan’s trustee is should an employee take leave within 12 months. responsible for the governance of the plan. The components of LSL liability are measured at: The trustee has a legal obligation to act solely in the best • nominal value component that the corporation expects interests of plan beneficiaries. The trustee has the following to settle wholly within 12 months, and roles: • present value component that the corporation does not • administration of the plan and payment to the expect to settle wholly within 12 months. beneficiaries from plan assets when required in accordance with the plan rules Conditional LSL is disclosed as a non-current liability. In this case there is an unconditional right to defer the settlement • management and investment of the plan assets of the entitlement until the employee has completed the • compliance with superannuation law and other applicable requisite years of service. This non-current LSL liability is regulations. recognised at present value. Any gain or loss following revaluation of the present value of the non-current LSL There are a number of risks to which the plan exposes the liability is recognised as an income or expense. corporation. The more significant risks relating to the defined benefits are investment risk, salary growth risk, legislative risk Performance bonuses are an element of other employee and pension risk. benefits. Performance bonuses for the corporation’s executive officers are based on a percentage of the annual salary City West Water’s plan assets are invested by the trustee in a package provided under their contract of employment. A pool of assets with assets from other employers’ plans. The liability is recognised and is measured as the aggregate of the assets have a benchmark weighting to equities of 50% and amounts accrued under the terms of the contracts to balance therefore the plan has a significant concentration of equity date. market risk. However, within the equity investments the allocation both globally and across sectors is diversified. 3.3.3 Superannuation The Equipsuper Contribution and Funding Policy provides for All City West Water employees are members of either a review of the financial position of the plan every six months the Equipsuper defined benefit fund or an approved as at 30 June and 31 December, with the contribution rate accumulation fund of their choice. comprising a long term contribution rate and an adjustment to meet the financing objective of a target funding ratio of The majority of employees of City West Water are members 105%. of either the Equipsuper fund or the Vision Super fund. All new City West Water employees who are not already There were no plan amendments affecting the defined members of the Equipsuper defined benefit fund must join benefits payable, curtailments or settlements during the year. an accumulation fund. Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 71 3 Cost of delivering services (continued) Defined Net defined Fair value of benefit benefit plan assets Obligation liability/ (asset) $’000 $’000 $’000 Opening balance at 1 July 2016 29,878 30,236 358 Current service cost 919 919 Interest income 627 (627) Interest expense 632 632 Actuarial return on plan assets less interest income 2,829 (2,829) Contributions by plan participants 268 268 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions (5) (5) Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (547) (547) Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from liability experience (151) (151) Benefits paid (2,402) (2,402) Taxes, premiums and expenses paid (179) (179) Closing balance at 30 June 2017 31,021 28,771 (2,250) Opening balance at 1 July 2017 31,021 28,771 (2,250) Current service cost 859 859 Interest income 705 (705) Interest expense 657 657 Actuarial return on plan assets less interest income 1,813 (1,813) Contributions by plan participants 237 237 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (717) (717) Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from liability experience (557) (557) Benefits paid (2,577) (2,577) Taxes, premiums and expenses paid (136) (136) Closing balance at 30 June 2018 31,063 26,537 (4,526) Fair value of plan assets As at 30 June 2018 Total Level 2 1 $’000 $’000 Investment funds 31,063 31,063 Total 31,063 31,063 1. Inputs based on observable market data (either directly using prices or indirectly derived from prices). 72 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 3 Cost of delivering services (continued) Significant actuarial assumptions at reporting date 2018 2017 Assumptions to determine defined benefit cost Discount rate 2.4% p.a. 2.2% p.a. Expected salary increase rate 4.0% p.a. 4.0% p.a. Assumptions to determine defined benefit obligation Discount rate 2.7% p.a. 2.4% p.a. Expected salary increase rate 4.0% p.a. 4.0% p.a. Sensitivity analysis The defined benefit obligation as at 30 June 2018 under several scenarios is presented below. Scenario A and B relate to discount rate sensitivity. Scenario C and D relate to salary increase rate sensitivity. BASE CASE SCENARIO A SCENARIO B SCENARIO C SCENARIO D -0.5% p.a. +0.5% p.a. -0.5% p.a. +0.5% p.a. salary increase salary increase discount rate discount rate rate rate Discount rate 2.7% p.a. 2.2% p.a. 3.2% p.a. 2.7% p.a. 2.7% p.a. Salary increase rate 4.0% p.a. 4.0% p.a. 4.0% p.a. 3.5% p.a. 4.5% p.a. Defined benefit obligation 1 26,537 27,748 25,399 25,505 27,622 ($’000) 1. includes contributions tax provision. The defined benefit obligation has been recalculated by changing the assumptions as outlined above while retaining all other assumptions. Expected contributions City West Water does not expect to make any employer contributions for the year ending 30 June 2019. Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at 30 June 2018 is eight years (30 June 2017, eight years). Expected benefit payments for the financial year ending on: ($’000) 30 June 2019 1,967 30 June 2020 2,068 30 June 2021 2,116 30 June 2022 2,343 30 June 2023 2,173 Following five years 12,439 Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 73 3 Cost of delivering services (continued) 3.4 Remuneration of auditor 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Amounts received, or due and receivable by the auditor of City West Water for the audit of the financial report: Victorian Auditor-General’s Office 141 138 Total auditor’s remuneration 141 138 3.5 Other operating expenses Other operating expenses are recognised as incurred if they can be reliably measured. Costs are measured at nominal value. 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Operating contracts 29,583 29,997 Billing and collection 7,160 7,189 Information technology 7,199 6,369 Operating leases 3,574 3,283 Facilities maintenance 1,824 1,803 Energy 1,608 1,486 Insurance 1,182 1,317 Impaired receivables 1,370 1,240 Grants and water conservation initiatives 353 851 Licence fees 723 703 Other 9,917 10,610 Total other operating expenses 64,493 64,848 Other operating expenses generally represent the day to day running costs incurred in normal operations. It also includes impaired receivables expense. Other operating expenses are recognised on an accrual basis in the reporting period in which they are incurred. Operating contracts are expenses related to City West Water’s maintenance contractor and the field work performed by it. Billing and collection costs are all costs relating to the issuing of bills and the collection of debt. Information technology expenditure relates to all operating expenses, maintenance contracts, licence fees and other costs associated with operating the information technology environment of the corporation. Operating lease payments are recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term. Routine maintenance, repair costs and minor asset renewal costs are expensed as incurred. Where the expenditure relates to the replacement of a component or the enhancement of an asset and the cost satisfies the requirements of an asset, the cost is capitalised and depreciated. 74 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 3 Cost of delivering services (continued) 3.6 Commitments for operating lease expenditure City West Water has operating lease commitments for its head office in Footscray as well as two maintenance depots in Brooklyn and South Kensington. These commitments are not recognised in the Balance Sheet. They are disclosed below at their nominal value inclusive of GST payable. 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Not later than one year 4,636 4,550 Later than one year but not later than five years 20,184 24,954 Later than five years 61,203 61,965 Total lease commitments 86,023 91,469 Refer to Note 4.5.2 for Environmental Contribution commitments, Note 5.4 for Infrastructure, property, plant and equipment commitments and Note 5.8 for Intangible asset commitments. Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 75 4. Statutory obligations This section provides an account of the statutory obligations Structure of City West Water. 4.1 Income tax expense 4.2 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities 4.3 Current tax liability 4.4 Dividends 4.5 Environmental Contribution 4.1 Income tax expense 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Income tax expense Current tax 38,460 34,867 Deferred tax relating to temporary differences (4,725) 1,825 Total income tax expense 33,735 36,692 Income tax expense is attributable to: Profit from continuing operations 33,735 36,692 Total income tax expense 33,735 36,692 Deferred income tax expense/(benefit) included in income tax expense comprises: Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax assets 313 457 Increase/(decrease) in deferred tax liabilities (5,038) 1,368 Total deferred income tax expense/(benefit) (4,725) 1,825 Reconciliation of income tax expense to prima facie tax payable Profit before income tax expense 112,777 110,293 Tax at the Australian tax rate of 30% (2017 30%) 33,833 33,088 Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible/(taxable) in calculating taxable income: Non-deductible expenses 215 257 Non-deductible depreciation 886 886 Additional deductible expenses/non-assessable income (1,199) 2,461 Total income tax expense 33,735 36,692 Deferred income tax recognised in Other Comprehensive Income Gain/(loss) on revaluation of infrastructure (5,566) 4,211 Gain/(loss) on revaluation of land and buildings 482 153 Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit superannuation plan 926 1,060 Total deferred income tax recognised in Other Comprehensive Income (4,158) 5,424 76 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 4 Statutory obligations (continued) City West Water is subject to the National Tax Equivalent Income tax expense or revenue for the period is the tax Regime (NTER) pursuant to section 88(1) of the State Owned payable or receivable on the current period’s taxable income Enterprises Act 1992. Under this regime City West Water is based on the applicable tax rate adjusted by changes in required to pay the Victorian government an amount equal deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities attributable to to the tax liability applicable if City West Water was a private temporary differences. company. The tax equivalent rules are based on the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (as amended). 4.2 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for these temporary differences if they arose as the result of a temporary differences at the tax rates expected to apply transaction that at the time of the transaction did not affect when the assets are recovered or liabilities are settled, based either accounting profit or loss or taxable profit or loss. on those tax rates which are enacted or substantively enacted Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary at balance date. The relevant tax rates are applied to the differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that cumulative amounts of deductible and taxable temporary future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those differences to measure the deferred tax asset or liability. temporary differences and losses. No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised in relation to 4.2.1 Deferred tax assets 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 The balance of deferred tax assets comprises temporary differences attributable to: Amounts recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement Accrued expenses 24 17 Provisions 5,643 5,946 Amortisation of intellectual property 12 15 Business related costs 49 60 Prepayments 1 4 Total deferred tax assets 5,729 6,042 Movements: Opening balance at the start of financial year 6,042 7,051 Credited/(charged) to the Comprehensive Operating Statement (313) (457) Credited/(charged) to equity (552) Closing balance at the end of financial year 5,729 6,042 Deferred tax assets expected to be recovered within 12 months 5,643 4,443 Deferred tax assets expected to be recovered after more than 12 months 86 1,599 Total deferred tax assets 5,729 6,042 Set off of deferred tax assets pursuant to set off provisions (5,729) (6,042) Net deferred tax assets Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 77 4 Statutory obligations (continued) 4.2.2 Deferred tax liabilities 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 The balance of deferred tax liabilities comprises temporary differences attributable to: Amounts recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement Fixed assets depreciation 88,504 92,413 Developer contributed assets 59,714 60,599 Defined benefit superannuation fund asset (76) 167 Amounts recognised in equity Defined benefits actuarial gain 1,434 508 Land and buildings revaluation 2,721 2,240 Infrastructure assets revaluation 82,251 87,817 Total deferred tax liabilities 234,548 243,744 Movements: Opening balance at the start of the financial year 243,744 237,505 (Credited)/charged to the Comprehensive Operating Statement (5,038) 1,368 (Credited)/charged to equity (4,158) 4,871 Closing balance at the end of financial year 234,548 243,744 Deferred tax liabilities expected to be settled after more than 12 months 234,548 243,744 Total deferred tax liabilities 234,548 243,744 Set off of deferred tax assets pursuant to set off provisions (5,729) (6,042) Net deferred tax liabilities 228,819 237,702 4.3 Current tax liability 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Current tax liability 10,430 15,511 Total current tax liability 10,430 15,511 78 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 4 Statutory obligations (continued) City West Water’s current tax liability is tax payable based on the current financial year’s taxable income less any instalments paid during the year. 4.4 Dividends 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Final dividend paid during 2018 in respect of 2017 48,200 Final dividend paid during 2017 in respect of 2016 13,000 Interim dividend paid during 2018 in respect of 2018 14,400 Total dividends paid 62,600 13,000 As City West Water is a Public Non-financial Corporation, it is required to pay a dividend in accordance with a determination by the Treasurer of Victoria under the Water Act 1989. An obligation to pay a dividend only arises after a formal determination is made by the Treasurer following consultation between the Board, the relevant portfolio Minister and the Treasurer. As the 2018 final dividend has not been determined by the Treasurer, it has not been provided for at reporting date. The Board’s preliminary estimate of the 2018 final dividend is $20.4m. 4.5 Environmental Contribution Section 193 of the Water Industry (Environmental Contributions) Act 2004 (the Act) establishes an obligation for water corporations to pay into the consolidated fund environmental contributions in accordance with an Order issued by the Minister for Water. The Environmental Contributions Order 2016 to 2020 establishes a schedule of amounts payable by each corporation for the reporting periods 2017 to 2020. The purpose of the Environmental Contribution is set out in the Act. Funds may be used for the purpose of funding various water related initiatives that seek to promote the sustainable management of water or are likely to address adverse water related environmental impacts. Consistent with the Environmental Contributions Order 2016 to 2020 made under section 193 of the Water Industry Act 1994, City West Water pays an Environmental Contribution to the Victorian Government. These contributions are recognised as expenses when they occur. 4.5.1 Environmental Contribution expense 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Environmental Contribution expense 18,563 18,563 Total Environmental Contribution expense 18,563 18,563 4.5.2 Environmental Contribution commitment Consistent with the requirements of the Water Industry Act 1994, City West Water has a commitment to pay an Environmental Contribution of $26.5m for the next two years to the Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning. 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Not later than one year 26,457 18,563 Later than one year but not later than five years 26,457 52,914 Total Environmental Contribution commitment 52,914 71,477 Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 79 5. Assets available to support the provision of services City West Water controls infrastructure and other assets that are utilised in fulfilling its objectives and conducting its activities. These assets represent the resources that are owned by City West Water for use in the delivery of services. Where the assets included in this section are carried at fair value, additional information is disclosed in Section 8 of this report regarding how fair value is determined. Structure 5.1 Infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 5.2 Depreciation of infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 5.3 Impairment of infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 5.4 Commitments for capital expenditure on infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 5.5 Intangible assets 5.6 Amortisation of intangible assets 5.7 Impairment of intangible assets 5.8 Commitments for capital expenditure on intangible assets 80 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 5 Assets available to support the provision of services (continued) 5.1 Infrastructure, property, plant and equipment NonNonSpecialised specialised specialised Infrastructure Plant & Motor Leasehold Works in land land buildings assets equipment vehicles improvements progress Total $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $,000 $,000 $’000 $’000 2017 Fair value at 1 July 2016 29,335 497 4,908 1,656,984 32,430 4,206 5,960 171,059 1,905,379 Accumulated depreciation at 1 July 2016 (720) (23,775) (1,967) (397) (26,859) Carrying amount at 1 July 2016 29,335 497 4,188 1,656,984 8,655 2,239 5,563 171,059 1,878,520 Additions 114,613 114,613 Developer contributed assets 35,651 (35,651) Transfers (net) 1 482 474 54,563 3,561 1,675 491 (61,097) 149 Revaluation (decrement)/ increment recognised in other comprehensive income 1,917 24 36,431 38,372 Revaluation (decrement)/ increment recognised in profit or loss 65 65 Adjustments (8) (1,278) 1,278 (8) Disposals (net) (578) (578) Impairment (net) (219) (36) (18) (273) Depreciation expense (282) (33,100) (4,140) (805) (209) (38,536) Fair value at 30 June 2017 31,317 1,003 5,010 1,749,032 35,871 4,190 6,967 190,184 2,023,574 Accumulated depreciation at 30 June 2017 (638) (27,831) (1,659) (1,122) (31,250) Carrying amount at 30 June 2017 31,317 1,003 4,372 1,749,032 8,040 2,531 5,845 190,184 1,992,324 1. Balance represents a transfer to/from intangible assets. This occurs upon capitalisation of a project that generates both tangible and intangible assets. Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 81 5 Assets available to support the provision of services (continued) NonNonSpecialised specialised specialised Infrastructure Plant & Motor Leasehold Works in land land buildings assets equipment vehicles improvements progress Total $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $,000 $,000 $’000 $’000 2018 Fair value at 1 July 2017 31,317 1,003 5,010 1,749,032 35,871 4,190 6,967 190,184 2,023,574 Accumulated depreciation at 1 July 2017 (638) (27,831) (1,659) (1,122) (31,250) Carrying amount at 1 July 2017 31,317 1,003 4,372 1,749,032 8,040 2,531 5,845 190,184 1,992,324 Additions 151,027 151,027 Developer contributed assets 48,142 (48,142) Transfers (net) 1 (187) 1,865 2,668 46,795 383 935 20 (52,490) (11) Revaluation (decrement)/ increment recognised in other comprehensive income 3,055 186 (19,513) (16,272) Revaluation (decrement)/ increment recognised in profit or loss 94 94 Disposals (net) (276) (276) Impairment (net) (748) (30) (778) Depreciation expense (194) (35,447) (3,024) (805) (423) (39,893) Fair value at 30 June 2018 34,279 3,054 7,678 1,788,261 36,254 4,412 6,987 240,549 2,121,474 Accumulated depreciation at 30 June 2018 (832) (30,855) (2,027) (1,545) (35,259) Carrying amount at 30 June 2018 34,279 3,054 6,846 1,788,261 5,399 2,385 5,442 240,549 2,086,215 1. Balance represents a transfer to/from intangible assets. This occurs upon capitalisation of a project that generates both tangible and intangible assets. 2. Initial recognition directly attributable to capital projects. In the case of developer contributed assets, where actual cost is not available, cost All assets are measured at cost on initial recognition. is calculated using a schedule of rates determined by the Cost is determined as cash paid or the fair value of other corporation based on historical cost information. consideration given up at the date of acquisition plus any costs directly attributable to acquisition. Fair value at acquisition is An asset is capitalised when it is probable that future equal to cost. economic benefits associated with the item will flow to City West Water and the item can be measured reliably. The cost of non-current assets constructed by City West Water includes all costs directly attributable to their construction. City City West Water has a capitalisation threshold of greater than West Water has a policy of capitalising labour costs which are or equal to $100 inclusive of GST (2017 $100). 82 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 5 Assets available to support the provision of services (continued) Subsequent measurement value assessments indicate material changes in values. Independent valuers are used to conduct these scheduled Infrastructure, property, plant and equipment are revaluations. A full revaluation was performed during the subsequently measured at fair value less accumulated 2016 reporting period for the entire portfolio. depreciation and impairment losses (if applicable). Fair value is determined with regard to an asset’s highest and Infrastructure best use considering legal or physical restrictions imposed The valuation of infrastructure assets has been determined on the asset, public announcements, or commitments in accordance with an independent valuation. KPMG was made in relation to the intended use of the asset. Fair value engaged by City West Water as experts for this purpose. determination of non-current physical assets is discussed The valuation is at fair value based on the income approach further in Section 8 Risks contingencies and valuation (discounted cash flow method). For the purpose of the judgements. fair value estimate provided, fair market value is defined as The carrying amount of a replaced or abandoned asset is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to written off in the Comprehensive Operating Statement as transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market an expense. An asset’s carrying amount is written down participants at the measurement date. immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying The historical carrying amount of infrastructure was amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. $1,596.9m (2017 $1,534.1m). Revaluation increases or decreases arise from differences Plant and equipment, motor vehicles and leasehold between an asset’s carrying value and fair value. improvements Net revaluation increases are credited directly to equity in the Plant and equipment, motor vehicles and leasehold physical asset revaluation surplus unless the increase reverses improvements are measured at carrying value (current a previous decrease that was recognised in profit or loss. In replacement cost) which is fair value. Unless there is market this case, the increase is recognised in profit or loss. evidence that carrying value is significantly different to Net revaluation decreases are recognised immediately as market value no adjustment will be made to the existing expenses in profit or loss, unless there is an asset revaluation carrying value. surplus. In this case the decrease is recognised against the physical asset revaluation surplus. 5.2 D  epreciation of infrastructure, property, There were no changes in valuation techniques throughout plant and equipment the year to 30 June 2018. All infrastructure assets, buildings, plant and equipment and Land and buildings other non-current physical assets (excluding items under operating leases and assets held for sale) that have a limited An independent valuation of land and buildings is required useful life are depreciated. every five years. The last valuation was undertaken by a Certified Practicing Valuer, Peter Molloy AAPI of Property Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis at rates that Dynamics Pty Ltd, on behalf of the Valuer-General Victoria allocate an asset’s value less any estimated residual value over (VGV) as at 30 June 2016. An interim management valuation its estimated useful life. The useful life and residual value of of land was performed at 30 June 2017 using VGV indices. each group of assets is reviewed annually. The interim valuation led to an increment of $2.0m which Depreciation of a new infrastructure asset begins in was recognised in the accounts at 30 June 2017. Another the month following the practical completion of works. interim management valuation was performed on 30 June Depreciation of other new assets begins in the month 2018, which led to an increment of $3.3m recognised in the following acquisition. accounts at 30 June 2018. Useful lives The historical carrying amount of land and buildings was $4.4m (2017 $2.7m) and $6.0m (2017 $3.6m) respectively. The estimated useful lives of infrastructure, property plant and equipment are listed on the next page. A full revaluation of land and buildings normally occurs every five years, but may occur more frequently if fair Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 83 5 Assets available to support the provision of services (continued) ASSET TYPE RANGE Buildings 5 90 years Infrastructure assets 4 100 years Plant and equipment 3 50 years Motor vehicles 5 years Leasehold improvements 7 20 years 5.3 Impairment of infrastructure, property, plant and equipment Infrastructure, property, plant and equipment are assessed annually for indicators of impairment. If there is an indication of impairment, the assets concerned are tested as to whether their carrying value exceeds their recoverable amount. Where an asset’s carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount the difference is written off by a charge to the Comprehensive Operating Statement, unless the write-down can be offset against an asset revaluation surplus amount applicable to that class of asset. Recoverable amounts for assets held primarily to generate net cash inflows are measured at the higher of the net present value of future cash flows expected to be obtained from the asset and fair value less costs to sell. It is deemed that, in the event of the loss of an asset, the future economic benefits arising from the use of the asset will be replaced unless a specific decision to the contrary has been made. A reversal of an impairment loss on a revalued asset is credited directly to equity unless an impairment loss on the same class of asset was previously recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement. In this case the reversal of that impairment loss is recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement. 5.4 Commitments for capital expenditure on infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Not later than one year 10,015 3,786 Later than one year but not later than five years 17,147 Total capital commitments 10,015 20,933 Commitments for future expenditure include capital commitments arising from contracts. These commitments are not recognised in the Balance Sheet. They are disclosed at nominal value inclusive of GST payable. These future expenditures cease to be disclosed as commitments once the related liabilities are recognised in the Balance Sheet. 84 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 5 Assets available to support the provision of services (continued) 5.5 Intangible assets Other Water intangible Works in Software entitlements assets progress Total $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2017 Cost at 1 July 2016 89,132 96,916 765 32,735 219,548 Accumulated amortisation at 1 July 2016 (47,718) (75) (47,793) Carrying amount at 1 July 2016 41,414 96,916 690 32,735 171,755 Additions 10,338 10,338 Transfers (net) 1 6,872 (621) (6,400) (149) Disposals (net) (2,074) (2,074) Impairment (net) 2 (1,800) (1,800) Amortisation expense (9,251) (69) (9,320) Cost at 30 June 2017 96,004 96,916 32,799 225,719 Accumulated amortisation at 30 June 2017 (56,969) (56,969) Carrying amount at 30 June 2017 39,035 96,916 32,799 168,750 2018 Cost at 1 July 2017 96,004 96,916 32,799 225,719 Accumulated amortisation at 1 July 2017 (56,969) (56,969) Carrying amount at 1 July 2017 39,035 96,916 32,799 168,750 Additions 6,795 6,795 Transfers (net) 1 34,065 26 (34,080) 11 Impairment (net) (132) (132) Amortisation expense (10,982) (10,982) Cost at 30 June 2018 130,069 96,916 26 5,382 232,393 Accumulated amortisation at 30 June 2018 (67,951) (67,951) Carrying amount at 30 June 2018 62,118 96,916 26 5,382 164,442 1. Balance represents a transfer to/from infrastructure, property, plant and equipment. This occurs upon capitalisation of a project that generates both tangible and intangible assets. 2. This impairment relates to two work in progress IT projects (MABAL $878k and Myaccount $922k) as part of our annual assessment of indicators of impairment. Intangible assets are initially recognised at cost and subsequently at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses (if applicable). Intangible assets consist of software, water entitlement rights and other intangible assets. Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 85 5 Assets available to support the provision of services (continued) Software carrying amount at balance date represents City West Water’s share of contributions, net of the share of contributions Software assets are initially recognised at cost and from four regional urban water corporations with access to subsequently recognised at cost less accumulated Melbourne’s pooled entitlement. amortisation and impairment losses (if applicable). Other intangible assets Water entitlements Other intangible assets have an indefinite useful life as they Water entitlements have an indefinite useful life as they are are held in perpetuity. As such they are not amortised. Instead held in perpetuity. As such they are not amortised. Instead they are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if they are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that they might events or changes in circumstances indicate that they might be impaired. be impaired. Water entitlements represent City West Water’s bulk 5.6 Amortisation of intangible assets water entitlements held in Northern Victoria as a result of its investment in Stage 1 of the Goulburn-Murray Water All intangible assets with a useful life are amortised. Connections Project. The project was originally established Amortisation is generally calculated on a straight line basis at in 2007 as the Northern Victoria Irrigation Renewal rates that allocate an asset’s value less any estimated residual Project (NVIRP). On 1 July 2012 NVIRP was merged with value over its estimated useful life. The useful life and residual Goulburn-Murray Water to form the Goulburn-Murray value of each group of assets is reviewed annually. Water Connections Project. The metropolitan water retailers contributed $300m to the $1 billion Stage 1 investment. Amortisation of new software and other intangible assets Stage 1 will generate long term average annual water savings begins in the month following commissioning. of 225GL which will be shared equally between irrigators, Useful lives the metropolitan water retailers and the environment. The The estimated useful lives of intangible assets are listed below. ASSET TYPE RANGE Software 3 10 years Water entitlements Indefinite Other intangible assets Indefinite 86 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 5 Assets available to support the provision of services (continued) 5.7 Impairment of intangible assets primarily to generate net cash inflows are measured at the higher of the present value of future cash flows expected to Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested be obtained from the asset and fair value less costs to sell. annually for indicators of impairment. It is deemed that in the event of the loss of an asset, the If there is an indication of impairment, the assets concerned future economic benefits arising from the use of the asset are tested as to whether their carrying value exceeds their will be replaced unless a specific decision to the contrary has recoverable amount. Where an asset’s carrying value exceeds been made. its recoverable amount the difference is written off by a A reversal of an impairment loss on a revalued intangible charge to the Comprehensive Operating Statement, unless asset is credited directly to equity, unless an impairment the write-down can be offset against an asset revaluation loss on the same class of asset was previously recognised surplus amount applicable to that class of asset. in the Comprehensive Operating Statement. In this case The recoverable amount for most intangible assets is a reversal of that impairment loss is also recognised in the measured as the higher of current replacement cost and fair Comprehensive Operating Statement. value less costs to sell. Recoverable amounts for assets held 5.8 Commitments for capital expenditure on intangible assets 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Not later than one year 1,124 22 Later than one year but not later than five years 76 68 Total capital commitments 1,200 90 Commitments for future capital expenditure on intangible assets include capital commitments arising from contracts. These commitments are not recognised in the Balance Sheet. They are disclosed at nominal value inclusive of GST payable. These future expenditures cease to be disclosed as commitments once the related liabilities are recognised in the Balance Sheet. Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 87 6. Other assets and liabilities This section sets out the assets and liabilities that arose from City West Water’s operations. Structure 6.1 Receivables 6.2 Payables 6.3 Unearned income 6.4 Inventory 6.5 Other non-financial assets 6.6 Other provisions 6.1 Receivables 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Contractual Unbilled receivables 53,420 69,548 Trade receivables 51,650 42,317 Less: Provision for impaired receivables (2,736) (3,260) Other receivables 20 Total contractual receivables 102,334 108,625 Statutory Trade receivables 5,538 1,699 Total statutory receivables 5,538 1,699 Total receivables 107,872 110,324 Represented by Current receivables 107,872 110,304 Non-current receivables 20 Contractual receivables are classified as financial instruments. They are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost less provision for impairment. Statutory receivables are not classified as financial instruments as they do not arise from contracts. Statutory receivables are recognised and measured similarly to contractual receivables, except for impairment. Statutory trade receivables are GST receivables. Unbilled receivables are recognised for water and sewage usage as well as other works and services that have been rendered to balance date but not yet invoiced. An accrual is done to account for water and sewer services not billed at the end of the period. The accrual of water usage charges and sewage disposal charges is made by using the volume of water City West Water purchases from Melbourne Water, less an estimate of non-revenue water. Non-revenue water is water lost to bursts and leaks and used for firefighting. During 2018, City West Water reviewed its estimate of non-revenue water and adjusted its assumption so that it more closely aligns with actual experience of non-revenue water. The change resulted in a decrease in revenue and unbilled receivables of $24m and will have no impact on future years. Trade receivables are due for settlement no later than 14 days from the date of recognition. 88 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 6 Other assets and liabilities (continued) 6.1.1 Movements in the provision for impaired receivables 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Opening balance at the start of the year (3,260) (3,846) Provision for impaired receivables recognised during the year (2,519) (2,147) Contractual receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 3,043 2,733 Closing balance at the end of the year (2,736) (3,260) Receivables are assessed for bad and doubtful debts on a regular basis. A provision for impaired receivables is recognised when there is objective evidence that the debts may not be collected. Bad debts are written off when identified. In assessing impairment of statutory (non-contractual) financial assets, which are not financial instruments, professional judgement is applied in assessing materiality using estimates, averages and other methods in accordance with AASB 136 Impairment of Assets. A provision is made for estimated unrecoverable amounts from the sale of goods and services when there is objective evidence that an individual receivable is impaired. The increase in the provision for the year is recognised in the net result. 6.1.2 Ageing analysis of contractual receivables Past due and not impaired Not past Greater Carrying due and not 30-59 days 60-89 days than 90 amount impaired days 2017 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Receivables 108,625 101,398 3,642 921 2,664 Total 108,625 101,398 3,642 921 2,664 2018 Receivables 102,334 91,809 5,348 1,164 4,013 Total 102,334 91,809 5,348 1,164 4,013 Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 89 6 Other assets and liabilities (continued) 6.2 Payables 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Contractual Trade payables 46,600 33,339 Other payables 17,755 17,649 Advances and deposits 6,135 5,969 Deferred developer reimbursements 19,425 8,756 Sundry liabilities 361 51 Total contractual payables 90,276 65,764 Statutory Trade payables 2,471 398 Other payables 4,120 3,453 Total statutory payables 6,591 3,851 Total payables 96,867 69,615 Represented by Current payables 96,867 69,615 Contractual payables are classified as financial instruments. They are measured at amortised cost and recognised on an accrual basis in the period in which they are incurred. Trade payables represent liabilities for goods and services provided to City West Water prior to the end of the financial year that are unpaid at the end of the financial year. Other payables represents accrued loan interest. Advances and deposits represent deposits received as security for capital works. Deferred developer reimbursements represent a liability to reimburse developers for their costs incurred in constructing water, sewerage and/or recycled water assets on behalf of City West Water. Statutory payables are recognised and measured similarly to contractual payables, but are not classified as financial instruments and are not included in the category of financial liabilities as they do not arise from contracts. City West Water complies with its policy to settle all payables within 30 days of receipt of invoice or, in the event of a dispute, within 30 days of the resolution of the dispute. 6.2.1 Maturity analysis of contractual payables Carrying Nominal 1 Year Over 1 Total amount Amount or less Year 2017 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Payables 65,764 65,764 65,764 65,764 Total contractual payables 65,764 65,764 65,764 65,764 2018 Payables 90,276 90,276 90,276 90,276 Total contractual payables 90,276 90,276 90,276 90,276 90 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 6 Other assets and liabilities (continued) 6.3 Unearned income 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Unearned income 1,348 589 Total unearned income 1,348 589 Unearned income represents income received in advance of the corporation performing obligations required to recognise the income in the Comprehensive Operating Statement. 6.4 Inventory 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Inventory (at cost) 1,698 1,142 Total inventory 1,698 1,142 Inventory represents stock on hand at the end of the reporting period. Inventory is primarily used for the repair and maintenance of existing assets. Inventory is measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 6.5 Other non-financial assets 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Prepayments 4,571 1,585 Total other non-financial assets 4,571 1,585 Prepayments represent payments made in advance of the receipt of goods or services or that part of expenditure made in one accounting period covering a term extending beyond that period. Amounts are recognised as an asset upon payment and subsequently expensed over the period the payment covers. Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 91 6 Other assets and liabilities (continued) 6.6 Other provisions 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Current Insurance provision 558 699 Biosolids management and desludging of Altona Treatment Plant lagoon 126 126 Other sundry provisions 985 811 Total other provisions current 1,669 1,636 Reconciliation of movements in other provisions Biosolids/ Insurance desludge Other Total $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Carrying amount as at 1 July 2017 699 126 811 1,636 Additional provisions recognised 625 1,697 2,322 Payments/other sacrifices of economic benefit (766) (1,523) (2,289) Carrying amount as at 30 June 2018 558 126 985 1,669 Other provisions are recognised when the corporation has a present obligation, the future sacrifice of economic benefits is probable and the amount of the provision can be measured reliably. The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at reporting date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. When a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows, using a discount rate that reflects the time value of money and the risks specific to the provision. When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be received from a third party, a receivable is recognised if it is virtually certain that the economic benefits will be received and their amount can be measured reliably. 92 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 7. Financing our operations This section provides information on the sources of finance used by City West Water during its operations as well as interest expense (the cost of borrowings) and other information relating to the financing activities of the corporation. Structure 7.1 Borrowings 7.2 Cash flow information and balances 7.1 Borrowings 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Treasury Corporation of Victoria current 22,700 Treasury Corporation of Victoria non-current 1,157,500 1,102,500 Total borrowings 1,180,200 1,102,500 Borrowings refers to interest bearing liabilities raised from public borrowings through the Treasury Corporation of Victoria. Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Borrowings include overnight (11am) borrowings, floating rate notes, fixed rate loans and flexi loans. Borrowings are used to meet working capital requirements and fund capital expenditure. Any difference between the initial amount recognised (net of transaction costs) and the redemption amount is recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement over the period of the interest bearing liabilities using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the corporation has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after balance date. City West Water has classified borrowings which mature within 12 months as non-current liabilities on the basis that the corporation has discretion to, and will refinance or roll over these loans with the Treasury Corporation of Victoria pursuant to Section 8 of the Borrowings and Investment Powers Act 1987. 11am borrowings are classified as current borrowings. No security has been provided in respect of any existing liability. During the current and prior years there were no defaults or breaches of any loan. City West Water’s credit rating is BBB (2017 BBB+). Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 93 7 Financing our operations (continued) 7.1.1 Maturity analysis of borrowings Weighted Carrying Nominal 1 year Over Total average amount amount or less 1 year 2017 interest rate $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Borrowings fixed 4.49% 1,052,500 1,052,500 1,052,500 1,052,500 Borrowings floating 2.09% 50,000 50,000 50,000 50,000 Total borrowings 1,102,500 1,102,500 1,102,500 1,102,500 2018 Borrowings fixed 4.13% 1,117,500 1,117,500 1,117,500 1,117,500 Borrowings floating 1.95% 62,700 62,700 22,700 40,000 62,700 Total borrowings 1,180,200 1,180,200 22,700 1,157,500 1,180,200 7.1.2 Finance expenses 2018 2017 Finance expenses $’000 $’000 Interest on borrowings 49,007 49,377 Financial Accommodation Levy 15,925 14,074 Bank charges 7 6 Total finance expenses 64,939 63,457 Finance expenses include costs incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds. Finance expenses include interest on bank overdrafts, and short and long term borrowings. Finance expenses are recognised in the period in which they are incurred. 7.2 Cash flow information and balances 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank/(bank overdraft) 723 (946) Deposits at call 23 6,850 Total cash and cash equivalents 746 5,904 Cash and deposits, including cash equivalents, comprise cash on hand and cash at bank, deposits at call and highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less. They are held for the purpose of meeting short term cash commitments, are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. For cash flow statement presentation purposes, cash and cash equivalents includes bank overdrafts, which are classified as current borrowings on the Balance Sheet. 94 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 7 Financing our operations (continued) 7.2.1 Reconciliation of profit after income tax to net cash inflow from operating activities 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Profit after income tax expense 79,042 73,601 Non-cash movements: Depreciation and amortisation of assets 50,875 47,856 Impaired receivables 2,519 2,147 Defined benefit superannuation fund expense 811 924 Net (gain)/loss on disposal of non-current physical assets (121) (260) Asset impairments 910 2,073 Asset revaluation increment (94) (65) Developer contributed assets (48,137) (35,574) Movements in assets and liabilities: Decrease/(increase) in receivables (68) (16,082) Decrease/(increase) in prepayments (2,987) (228) Decrease/(increase) in inventories (555) (1,142) Increase/(decrease) in payables 19,371 (4,045) Increase/(decrease) in unearned income 759 (1,732) Increase/(decrease) in current tax liability (5,080) 6,932 Increase/(decrease) in provision for employee benefits (524) (167) Increase/(decrease) in other provisions 33 (2,185) Increase/(decrease) in deferred tax liabilities (4,725) 1,824 Net cash inflow from operating activities 92,029 73,877 Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 95 8. Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements City West Water is exposed to risk from its activities and recognition, financial liabilities are measured at amortised outside factors. In addition, it is often necessary to make cost, with any difference between the initial recognised judgements and estimates associated with recognition and amount and the redemption value being recognised in profit measurement of items in the financial statements. and loss over the period of the interest bearing liability using the effective interest rate method. City West Water recognises Structure the following liabilities in this category: 8.1 Financial instruments specific disclosures • payables (excluding statutory payables) 8.2 Contingent assets and contingent liabilities • borrowings. 8.3 Fair value determination Financial instrument assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the balance sheet when the 8.1 Financial instruments specific disclosures corporation has a right to offset the amounts and intends Introduction either to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Financial instruments arise out of contractual agreements that give rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive liability or equity instrument of another entity. Due to the cash flows from the asset have expired. nature of City West Water’s activities, certain financial assets A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under and financial liabilities arise under statute rather than a the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires. contract (for example, taxes, dividends and the Environmental Contribution). Such assets and liabilities do not meet the At the end of each reporting period, the corporation assesses definition of financial instruments in AASB 132 Financial whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or Instruments: Presentation. group of assets is impaired. All financial instrument assets are subject to annual review for impairment. Categories of financial instruments In assessing impairment of statutory (non-contractual) Receivables and cash are financial instrument assets with financial assets, which are not financial instruments, fixed and determinable payments that are not quoted on an professional judgement is applied in assessing materiality active market. These assets are initially recognised at fair value using estimates, averages and other methods in accordance plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to with AASB 136 Impairment of Assets. initial measurement, receivables are measured at amortised cost less provision for impairment. Financial liabilities are initially recognised on the date of origin. They are initially measured at fair value plus any attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial 96 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) 8.1.1 Categorisation of financial instruments Contractual financial assets loans and Contractual financial Note receivables liabilities at amortised cost 2017 $’000 $’000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 5,904 Receivables 1 6.1 108,625 Total financial assets 114,529 Financial liabilities Payables 1 6.2 65,764 Borrowings fixed 7.1.1 1,052,500 Borrowings floating 7.1.1 50,000 Total financial liabilities 1,168,264 2018 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 746 Receivables 1 6.1 102,334 Total financial assets 103,080 Financial liabilities Payables 1 6.2 90,276 Borrowings fixed 7.1.1 1,117,500 Borrowings floating 7.1.1 62,700 Total financial liabilities 1,270,476 1. Does not include statutory receivables or payables. Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 97 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) 8.1.2 F  inancial risk management objectives and City West Water’s objective is to maintain its gearing ratio policies within the Essential Services Commission’s benchmark ratio of 60%. City West Water’s gearing ratio (debt/total assets) for City West Water’s activities expose it to a variety of financial the year was 49.8% compared to 48.3% in 2017. risks, principally market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the The only externally imposed capital requirements applying to establishment and oversight of City West Water’s risk City West Water are: management framework. City West Water’s principal financial • that the financial accommodation does not exceed the instruments comprise: approval limits set by the Treasurer of Victoria pursuant to • cash assets the Borrowing and Investment Powers Act 1987 • receivables (excluding statutory receivables) • that City West Water, with the exception of a trading account with overdraft facilities, is required to borrow • payables (excluding statutory payables) exclusively with TCV pursuant to the Borrowing and • borrowings. Investment Powers Act 1987. City West Water’s principal financial instruments are loans sourced from the Treasury Corporation of Victoria (TCV). 8.1.2.1 Financial instruments credit risk These loans include overnight (11am) borrowings, floating Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to City West Water as the rate notes and fixed rate loans. They are used to meet result of a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument working capital requirements and fund capital expenditure. failing to meet a contractual obligation. Credit risk arises The corporation has other financial assets and liabilities principally in connection with City West Water’s receivables. such as receivables and payables which arise directly from its operating activities. City West Water’s overall financial risk City West Water’s exposure to credit risk is influenced by the management strategy is to manage its financial risks within individual characteristics of each customer. The corporation’s a range that is in accordance with the risk criteria established receivables balance consists of amounts due from a large by the Board of Directors. The Chief Financial Officer evaluates number of residential customers as well as non-residential and implements risk mitigation strategies in consultation customers spread across a diverse range of industries. with the corporation’s relevant departments. The main Receivables balances are monitored on an ongoing basis. purpose in holding financial instruments is to prudently Where applicable, collection action is taken to ensure that manage the corporation’s financial risks within Government exposure to bad debt is minimised. City West Water has policy parameters. in place a policy and a procedure for the collection of overdue receivables. City West Water uses different methods to measure different types of risk to which it is exposed. These methods include City West Water’s maximum exposure to credit risk is the sensitivity analysis in the case of interest rate risk and ageing carrying amount of receivables. analysis for credit risk. All interest income earned by City West There was no material change to City West Water’s credit risk Water is generated by cash at bank or 11am (short term) profile during 2018. deposit with TCV. City West Water manages its capital by maintaining a prudent level of gearing in order to provide the State with adequate returns and to ensure City West Water can fund its operations as a going concern. 98 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) Credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired Note Government Financial Other agencies institutions unrated AAA AA2017 $’000 $’000 $’000 Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 6,850 (946) Receivables 1 6.1 108,625 Total 6,850 (946) 108,625 2018 Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 23 723 Receivables 1 6.1 102,334 Total 23 723 102,334 1. Does not include statutory receivables. 8.1.2.2 Financial instruments liquidity risk 8.1.2.3 Financial instruments market risk Liquidity risk is the risk that City West Water will no longer Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices will affect meet its financial obligations as they fall due. City West the fair value of future cash flows of City West Water’s financial Water’s policy is to pay its trade accounts payable liablilities instruments. Market risk is comprised of interest rate risk, within 30 days, or in the event of a dispute, within 30 days foreign exchange risk and other price risk. City West Water’s from the date of resolution. exposure to market risk is purely through interest rates. City West Water manages liquidity risk by maintaining City West Water’s exposure to market interest rates relates adequate bank overdraft and TCV borrowing facilities, to its floating rate debt, roll over of fixed rate debt and continuous monitoring of forecast inflows and outflows and new borrowings. City West Water’s borrowings are sourced matching the maturity profile of financial assets and financial from TCV and are managed within the range of Board and liabilities where appropriate. Treasurer approved limits. Interest rates and borrowing requirements are monitored regularly. City West Water City West Water’s borrowings are sourced from TCV while manages its exposure to interest rate changes by holding surplus funds are also invested with TCV through 11am (short a mixture of fixed and floating rate debt. City West Water’s term) deposits. Treasury Risk Management Policy requires the corporation The carrying amounts of contractual financial liabilities to limit the proportion of floating rate debt to a maximum represent the corporation’s maximum exposure to liquidity risk. of 30% of total debt. City West Water has minimal exposure to interest rate risk through cash holdings and manages its The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities must interest rate exposure on cash by investing its surplus funds be estimated for recognition and measurement and for with TCV. disclosure purposes. The carrying values less any impairment provisions of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair value due to their short term nature. The fair values of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes are estimated by discounting future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to City West Water for similar financial instruments. Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 99 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) Interest rate exposure and maturity analysis of financial instruments The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities that are exposed to interest rates and the corporation’s sensitivity to interest rate risk is set out in the table below. Weighted average Noninterest 1 Year Over 1 interest Note rate or less year bearing Total 2017 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 1.66% 5,904 5,904 Receivables 1 6.1 108,625 108,625 Total financial assets 5,904 108,625 114,529 Financial liabilities Payables 1 6.2 65,764 65,764 Borrowings fixed 7.1.1 4.49% 1,052,500 1,052,500 Borrowings floating 7.1.1 2.09% 50,000 50,000 Total financial liabilities 1,102,500 65,764 1,168,264 2018 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 1.04% 746 746 Receivables 1 6.1 102,334 102,334 Total financial assets 746 102,334 103,080 Financial liabilities Payables 1 6.2 90,276 90,276 Borrowings fixed 7.1.1 4.13% 1,117,500 1,117,500 Borrowings floating 7.1.1 1.95% 22,700 40,000 62,700 Total financial liabilities 22,700 1,157,500 90,276 1,270,476 1. Does not include statutory receivables or payables. Interest rate risk sensitivity 100 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) The table below represents the sensitivity of City West Water’s financial assets and financial liabilities to interest rate risk. Interest rate risk -0.5% +0.5% Note Total Profit Equity Profit Equity 2017 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents ¹ 7.2 5,904 (15) (15) 15 15 Receivables ² 6.1 108,625 Total financial assets 114,529 (15) (15) 15 15 Financial liabilities Payables ² 6.2 65,764 Borrowings ³ 7.1 1,102,500 680 680 (680) (680) Total financial liabilities 1,168,264 680 680 (680) (680) Total increase/(decrease) 665 665 (665) (665) 2018 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 1 7.2 746 (17) (17) 17 17 Receivables ² 6.1 102,334 Total financial assets 103,080 (17) (17) 17 17 Financial liabilities Payables 2 6.2 90,276 Borrowings 3 7.1 1,180,200 920 920 (920) (920) Total financial liabilities 1,270,476 920 920 (920) (920) Total increase/(decrease) 903 903 (903) (903) 1. Calculation is based on average cash holdings of $3.3m (2017 $3.0m). 2. Does not include statutory receivables and payables. 3. Calculation is based on new borrowings, loans refinanced, forward rate agreements struck during the year and average 11am balance during the year. Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 101 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) 8.2 Contingent assets and contingent liabilities Quantifiable contingent assets Contingent assets and liabilities are not recognised in the In the ordinary course of business a developer will often Balance Sheet but are disclosed and, if quantifiable, are provide a commitment to City West Water to construct water measured at nominal value. Contingent assets and liabilities supply and sewerage assets as part of a development project. are presented inclusive of GST receivable or payable These assets are constructed within an agreed timeframe respectively where applicable. and upon completion, ownership is transferred to City West Water. Assets that service a particular development are paid Contingent assets are assets that arise from past events, for by the developer. Assets that are required to be upsized whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence to service adjoining developments are paid for by City or non-occurrence of uncertain future event(s) that are not West Water. Upon completion of these assets they will be within the control of the corporation. These are classified as transferred to City West Water, which will maintain them either quantifiable where the potential economic benefit is in perpetuity. These assets will be recognised as developer known or non-quantifiable. contributions upon completion (refer Note 2.3). Contingent liabilities are: • possible obligations that arise from past events, whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future event(s) that are not within the control of the corporation, or • present obligations that arise from past events but are not recognised because: –– it is not probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligations, or –– the amount of the obligations cannot be measured with sufficient reliability. 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Quantifiable contingent assets Water supply assets under construction 25,108 19,057 Sewerage assets under construction 29,102 19,402 Water supply assets committed to 34,094 25,829 Sewerage assets committed to 46,689 41,899 Total quantifiable contingent assets 134,993 106,187 102 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) Quantifiable contingent liabilities Contingent upon the completion of the above assets These reimbursements will be recovered through a City West Water has a liability to reimburse developers for combination of new customer contributions plus service additional works constructed at City West Water’s request. and usage charges from all customers. This is consistent These reimbursements will occur either immediately on with the Essential Services Commission’s final determination completion of the assets or be deferred for an agreed period for water and sewerage prices in June 2013 (for the 2018 in accordance with the conditions of the agreement between reporting period). City West Water and the developer. 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Quantifiable contingent liabilities Reimbursement for water supply assets 21,089 12,614 Reimbursement for sewerage assets 47,998 42,414 Total quantifiable contingent liabilities 69,087 55,028 Non-quantifiable contingent assets and liabilities • Level 2 valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is City West Water has legal claims pending arising out of a directly or indirectly observable small number of contractual disputes associated with its capital program. Due to the uncertainty inherent in litigation • Level 3 valuation techniques for which the lowest level an accurate assessment of any outcome is not possible. City input that is significant to the fair value measurement is West Water is of the view that further disclosure of these unobservable. disputes may prejudice the position of the corporation. City West Water determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing 8.3 Fair value determination categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between end of each reporting period. market participants at the measurement date. 8.3.1  air value determination of financial assets F The following assets and liabilities are carried at fair value: and liabilities • land, buildings, infrastructure, property plant and The fair values of financial liabilities are determined as follows: equipment • Level 1 fair value of a financial instrument with standard • defined benefit superannuation liability/(asset). terms and conditions and traded in active liquid markets In addition, the fair values of other assets and liabilities which are determined with reference to quoted market prices are carred at amortised cost need to be determined for • Level 2 fair value is determined using inputs other than disclosure purposes. quoted prices that are observable for the financial asset or Fair value hierarchy liability, either directly or indirectly In determining fair value a number of inputs are used. To • Level 3 fair value is determined in accordance with increase consistency and comparability in the financial generally accepted pricing models based on discounted statements, these inputs are categorised into three levels, also cash flow analysis using unobservable market inputs. known as the fair value hierarchy. These levels are as follows: • Level 1 quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 103 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) Fair value of financial instruments measured at amortised cost and fair value hierarchy measurements Carrying Fair Fair value measurement using Note amount value Level 1 3 Level 2 4 Level 3 5 2017 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 5,904 5,904 5,904 Receivables ¹ 6.1 108,625 108,625 108,625 Total financial assets 114,529 114,529 5,904 108,625 Financial liabilities Payables ¹ 6.2 65,764 65,764 65,764 Borrowings ² 7.1 1,102,500 1,193,066 1,193,066 Total financial liabilities 1,168,264 1,258,830 1,258,830 2018 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 746 746 746 Receivables ¹ 6.1 102,334 102,334 102,334 Total financial assets 103,080 103,080 746 102,334 Financial liabilities Payables 1 6.2 90,276 90,276 90,276 Borrowings ² 7.1 1,180,200 1,256,849 1,256,849 Total financial liabilities 1,270,476 1,347,125 1,347,125 1. Does not include statutory receivables or payables. 2. Fair value of borrowings is calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at the yield offered by the Treasury Corporation of Victoria as at 30 June each year. 3. Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets. 4. Inputs based on observable market data (either directly using prices or indirectly derived from prices). 5. Inputs not based on observable market data. Net fair value of financial instruments is determined on the following bases: • cash, receivables, accounts payable and deposits are valued at their carrying amounts as this is considered to be fair value • borrowings are valued by discounting the expected future cash flows at the yield offered by the Treasury Corporation of Victoria as at 30 June each year. There were no transfers between levels during the reporting period. 104 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) 8.3.2 F  air value determination of non-financial calculates fair value by discounting estimated future cash physical assets flows of the business to their present value and arriving at an enterprise value range. Net debt is deducted from Subsequent valuation of infrastructure, property, plant and the enterprise value range to obtain an equity value. The equipment is at fair value. An asset’s fair value is determined valuation of infrastructure assets is derived from the equity with regard to the property’s highest and best use after value after deducting all other assets and liabilities and due consideration is made for any legal or constructive grossing up for deferred tax of 30%. In order to assess the restrictions imposed on the asset, public announcements, or reasonableness of the enterprise valuation, cross checks are commitments made in relation to the intended use of the performed by comparing the earnings before interest, tax asset. When an event or change in circumstances causes a and depreciation and the regulated asset value multiples transfer between input levels, City West Water deems the under the income approach against multiples implied by transfer to occur at the end of the reporting period in which share prices for comparable trading organisations and recent the event takes place. transactions in comparable assets. Such an approach is often Non-specialised land is valued using the market based direct referred to as a market approach or a relative value approach. comparison method. Under this valuation method, assets are Judgement is applied in selecting the appropriate valuation compared to comparable sales of comparable assets. As nonwithin the enterprise value range. specialised land does not contain significant unobservable The assumptions adopted in calculating fair value in this inputs these assets are classified as Level 2 fair value assets. manner are considered to be significant unobservable inputs. Specialised land is also valued using the direct comparison As such, infrastructure is classified as a Level 3 fair value asset. method, although it is adjusted for community service Refer to Section 5 for further information on non-financial obligations (CSOs) to reflect the specialised nature of the physical assets. land being valued. The CSO adjustment is a reflection of the valuer’s assessment of the impact of restrictions associated A full valuation of City West Water’s infrastructure assets was with an asset to the extent that is also equally applicable to performed by KPMG as at 30 June 2018. The valuation process market participants. This approach uses the highest and best derived a range of values. The valuation adopted by City West use consideration and takes into account the use of the asset Water represents the mid-point of this range. that is physically possible, legally permissible and financially The rate used to discount free cash flows to their present viable. As adjustments for CSOs are considered to be value is based on assumptions that market participants significant unobservable inputs, specialised land is classified would reasonably be expected to use in determining the fair as a Level 3 fair value asset. value of the corporation after taking into account the market All buildings held by City West Water are non-specialised in cost of debt and equity. nature and classified as Level 2 fair value assets under the The 2018 valuation resulted in a decrement of $19.5m market based direct comparison approach. compared to an increment of $36.4m in 2017. Infrastructure assets are measured using the income approach (discounted cash flow method). This method Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 105 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) Fair value of non-financial physical assets 2017 Carrying Fair value measurement using: amount Level 1 1 Level 2 2 Level 3 3 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Freehold land at fair value 32,320 • Non-specialised land 1,003 • Specialised land 31,317 Non-specialised buildings at fair value 4,372 4,372 Infrastructure assets at fair value 1,749,032 1,749,032 Plant and equipment at fair value 8,040 8,040 Motor vehicles at fair value 2,531 2,531 Leasehold improvements at fair value 5,845 5,845 Total infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 1,802,140 5,375 1,796,765 2018 Freehold land at fair value 37,333 • Non-specialised land 3,054 • Specialised land 34,279 Non-specialised buildings at fair value 6,846 6,846 Infrastructure assets at fair value 1,788,261 1,788,261 Plant and equipment at fair value 5,399 5,399 Motor vehicles at fair value 2,385 2,385 Leasehold improvements at fair value 5,442 5,442 Total infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 1,845,666 9,900 1,835,766 1. Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets. 2. Inputs based on observable market data (either directly using prices or indirectly derived from prices). 3. Inputs not based on observable market data. 106 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value movements Specialised Infrastructure Plant and Motor Leasehold 2017 land assets equipment vehicles improvements $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Opening balance at 1 July 2016 29,335 1,656,984 8,655 2,239 5,563 Purchases (sales) (578) Transfers in (out) of Level 3 Developer contributed assets 35,651 Transfers 54,563 3,561 1,675 491 Adjustments (1,278) Gains or losses recognised in profit after income tax Depreciation (33,100) (4,140) (805) (209) Impairment (219) (36) Revaluation increment/(decrement) 65 Subtotal 65 (33,319) (4,176) (805) (209) Gains or losses recognised in Other Comprehensive Income Revaluation increment/(decrement) 1,917 36,431 Subtotal 1,917 36,431 Closing balance at 30 June 2017 31,317 1,749,032 8,040 2,531 5,845 2018 Opening balance at 1 July 2017 31,317 1,749,032 8,040 2,531 5,845 Purchases (sales) (276) Transfers in (out) of Level 3 Developer contributed assets 48,142 Transfers (187) 46,795 383 935 20 Gains or losses recognised in profit after income tax Depreciation (35,447) (3,024) (805) (423) Impairment (748) Revaluation increment/(decrement) 94 Subtotal 94 (36,195) (3,024) (805) (423) Gains or losses recognised in Other Comprehensive Income Revaluation increment/(decrement) 3,055 (19,513) Subtotal 3,055 (19,513) Closing balance at 30 June 2018 34,279 1,788,261 5,399 2,385 5,442 Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 107 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) Description of significant unobservable inputs to Level 3 valuations 2017 Valuation Significant Range Asset technique unobservable input (Weighted Average) Sensitivity of the input to fair value Specialised Market Community Service 9% 40% An increase or decrease in a CSO land approach Obligation (CSO) (27%) adjustment would result in a lower or adjustment higher fair value. Infrastructure Income Discount rate (WACC) 5.4% 6.0% An increase or decrease of 0.25% in the assets approach (5.7%) estimated discount rate would result in an (discounted increase of $377m or a decrease of $202m cash flow to the valuation. method) Terminal growth rate 3.25% An increase or decrease of 0.25% in the terminal growth rate would result in an (3.25%) increase of $246m or a decrease of $200m to the valuation. Inflation rate 2.5% An increase or decrease in the inflation rate (2.5%) would result in a higher or lower fair value. Terminal value capital $94,383m An increase or decrease in the terminal expenditure $115,357m value of capital expenditure would result in ($104,870m) a higher or lower fair value. Useful life 3 100 years An increase or decrease in the estimated (76.7 years) useful life of an asset would result in a higher or lower fair value. Plant and Current Cost per unit $1,000 $469,000 An increase or decrease in cost per unit equipment replacement ($16,000) would result in a higher or lower fair value cost Useful life 3 50 years An increase or decrease in the estimated (12.8 years) useful life of an asset would result in a higher or lower fair value. Motor vehicles Current Cost per unit $6,000 $48,000 An increase or decrease in cost per unit replacement ($33,000) would result in a higher or lower fair value. cost Useful life 5-15 years An increase or decrease in the estimated (5.0 years) useful life of an asset would result in a higher or lower fair value. Leasehold Current Cost per unit $1,674 $724,000 An increase or decrease in cost per unit improvements replacement ($183,000) would result in a higher or lower fair value. cost Useful life 7 – 20 years An increase or decrease in the estimated (15.3 years) useful life of an asset would result in a higher or lower fair value. 108 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 8 Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) 2018 Valuation Significant Range Asset technique unobservable input (Weighted Average) Sensitivity of the input to fair value Specialised Market Community Service 9% 40% An increase or decrease in a CSO land approach Obligation (CSO) (27%) adjustment would result in a lower or adjustment higher fair value. Infrastructure Income Discount rate (WACC) 5.2% 5.8% An increase or decrease of 0.25% in the assets approach (5.5%) estimated discount rate would result in an (discounted increase of $270m or a decrease of $322m cash flow to the valuation. method) Terminal growth rate 3.25% An increase or decrease of 0.25% in the terminal growth rate would result in an (3.25%) increase of $275m or a decrease of $220m to the valuation. Inflation rate 1.9% An increase or decrease in the inflation rate (1.9%) would result in a higher or lower fair value. Terminal value capital $83,768 102,384m An increase or decrease in the terminal expenditure value of capital expenditure would result in ($93,076m) a higher or lower fair value. Useful life 3 100 years An increase or decrease in the estimated (74.2 years) useful life of an asset would result in a higher or lower fair value. Plant and Current Cost per unit $1,000 $469,000 An increase or decrease in cost per unit equipment replacement ($16,000) would result in a higher or lower fair value cost Useful life 3 – 50 years An increase or decrease in the estimated (13.8 years) useful life of an asset would result in a higher or lower fair value. Motor vehicles Current Cost per unit $21,000 $49,000 An increase or decrease in cost per unit replacement would result in a higher or lower fair value. cost ($37,000) Useful life 5 years An increase or decrease in the estimated useful life of an asset would result in a (5 years) higher or lower fair value. Leasehold Current Cost per unit $1,674 $724,000 An increase or decrease in cost per unit improvements replacement ($159,000) would result in a higher or lower fair value. cost Useful life 7-20 years An increase or decrease in the estimated (15.3 years) useful life of an asset would result in a higher or lower fair value. The sensitivity of the fair value of infrastructure assets to a change in key assumptions is detailed in the table below. ASSUMPTION 2018 2017 Terminal year growth rate +/0.50% -22.3% 35.1% -21.0% 31.7% Terminal year growth rate +/0.25% -12.3% 15.4% -11.5% 14.1% Discount rate +/0.50% -27.8% 44.4% -25.8% 39.7% Discount rate +/0.25% -18.0% 15.1% -11.5% 21.5% Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 109 9. Other disclosure This section includes additional material disclosures required Structure by accounting standards or otherwise for the understanding 9.1 Responsible persons and executives of this financial report. 9.2 Related parties 9.3 Equity 9.4 Ex gratia expenses 9.5 Accounting Standards issued that are not yet effective 9.6 Subsequent events 9.1 Responsible persons and executives The relevant Minister and directors of City West Water are deemed to be responsible persons by Ministerial Direction pursuant to the provisions of the Financial Management Act 1994. 9.1.1 Responsible persons Persons who held the position of responsible person at any time during the 2018 financial year were as follows: The Hon. Lisa Neville MP Minister for Water 1 July 2017 30 June 2018 Mr David Middleton Chair 1 July 2017 30 June 2018 Mr David Ryan Managing Director 1 July 2017 30 June 2018 Ms Elizabeth Parkin Director 1 July 2017 30 June 2018 Ms Mary Beth Bauer Director 1 July 2017 30 June 2018 Dr Bruce Cohen Director 1 July 2017 30 June 2018 Ms Constantina Dertimanis Director 1 July 2017 30 June 2018 Ms Tania Fryer Director 1 October 2017 30 June 2018 Mr Bill Jaboor Director 1 July 2017 30 June 2018 Mr Christopher Lovell Director 1 October 2017 30 June 2018 Mr Philip Clark Director 1 July 2017 30 September 2017 Ms Kim McAliney Director 1 July 2017 30 September 2017 Persons who held the position of responsible person at any time during the 2017 financial year were as follows: The Hon. Lisa Neville MP Minister for Water 1 July 2016 30 June 2017 Mr David Middleton Chair 1 July 2016 30 June 2017 Mr David Ryan Managing Director 1 July 2016 30 June 2017 Ms Elizabeth Parkin Director 1 July 2016 30 June 2017 Ms Mary Beth Bauer Director 1 July 2016 30 June 2017 Mr Philip Clark Director 1 July 2016 30 June 2017 Dr Bruce Cohen Director 1 July 2016 30 June 2017 Ms Constantina Dertimanis Director 1 July 2016 30 June 2017 Mr Bill Jaboor Director 1 July 2016 30 June 2017 Ms Kim McAliney Director 1 July 2016 30 June 2017 110 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 9 Other disclosure (continued) The Minister’s remuneration and allowances are set by the Parliamentary Salaries and Superannuation Act 1968 and are reported in the Department of Parliamentary Services’ Financial Report. Remuneration received or receivable by responsible persons in connection with the management of City West Water Corporation during the current and previous reporting periods is reported in the table below. 2018 2017 No. No. $ $ 10,000 19,999 2 30,000 39,999 2 40,000 49,999 2 7 50,000 59,999 3 90,000 99,999 1 1 330,000 339,999 1 400,000 409,999 1 Total 11 9 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Total amount 854 793 9.1.2 Executives 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Short term employment benefits 1,674 1,525 Post employment benefits 122 105 Other long term benefits 34 34 Termination benefits 130 80 Total 1,960 1,744 Total employees (no.) 8 10 Annualised employee equivalent 1 5.8 6.0 1. Annualised employee equivalent is based on working 38 paid or payable on a regular basis, as well as non-monetary ordinary hours per week over the reporting period. benefits such as allowances and free or subsidised goods The number of executive officers other than the Minister or or services. responsible persons and their total remuneration during the Post-employment benefits includes pensions and other reporting period is shown in the table above. retirement benefits paid or payable on a discrete basis when Remuneration comprises employee benefits in all forms of employment has ceased. consideration paid, payable or provided for by the corporation, Other long term benefits includes long service leave, other or on behalf of the corporation, in exchange for services long service benefits and deferred compensation. rendered, and is disclosed in the following categories: Termination benefits includes termination of employment Short term employee benefits includes amounts such as payments, such as severance packages. wages, salaries, annual leave or sick leave that are usually Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 111 9 Other disclosure (continued) 9.2 Related parties Committee of the Victorian Water Industry Association (VWIA) and is also a Director of VWIA. In addition, Ms Kim Relevant Minister McAliney was an alternate Director of VWIA at the time of her The relevant Minister for City West Water for the period 1 July cessation as a Director of City West Water on 30 September 2017 to 30 June 2018 was the Hon. Lisa Neville MP, Minister 2017. During the year City West Water paid $127,709 for Water. (2017 $179,805) to VWIA with a further $4,250 (2017 $0) outstanding and payable. Transactions with the relevant Minister and relevant minister related entities Ms Kim McAliney is a councillor and Deputy Mayor of the Wyndham City Council. Up until Ms McAliney’s cessation Outside of normal citizen type transactions, there were as a Director on 30 September 2017 City West Water paid no material transactions with the relevant Minister, their close $1,393,510 for the Armstrong Road dual water main project family members or business interests during the reporting (2017 $630,256) to Wyndham City Council. In addition, City period. West Water received $1,205 (2017 $218,303) with a further Key Management Personnel $0 (2017 $13,959) outstanding and payable for a range of services. Key management personnel (as defined in AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures) include the Managing Director and the Mr Chris Lovell is the Chair of the CBD Community Reference Board of Directors, who have the authority and responsibility Group Melbourne Metro Rail Authority (MMRA), the Parkville for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Stakeholder Reference Group MMRA, and the Parkville corporation either directly or indirectly during the year. Community Reference Group MMRA. During the year, the corporation received $197,485 (2017 $241,371) from Rail The names of persons who were key management personnel Projects Victoria (formerly MMRA) with a further $85,776 (2017 of City West Water at any time during the current or previous $19,948) outstanding and receivable for services rendered to financial years are as follows: D. Middleton, D. Ryan, E. Parkin, the Metro Tunnel Project. M. B. Bauer, B. Cohen, C. Dertimanis, T. Fryer, B. Jaboor, C. Lovell, P. Clark and K. McAliney. Outside of normal citizen type transactions, there were no further material transactions either with key management Transactions with key management personnel and key personnel, their close family members or business interests management personnel related entities during the reporting period other than remuneration for Mr David Middleton is a Director of CH2MHill Australia employment. Pty Ltd. During the year City West Water paid CH2MHill Key management personnel with related party interests are $124,942 (2017 $133,104) for services relating to works at the not involved in any relevant decision making processes. corporation’s treatment plants. Mr David Ryan is the Chair of the Managing Directors Payments to Key Management Personnel 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Short term employment benefits 788 715 Post employment benefits 58 57 Other long term benefits 1 8 21 Termination benefits Total 854 793 Total employees (no.) 11 9 1. Other long term benefits represent long service leave. 112 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 9 Other disclosure (continued) Other related parties Victorian Government All Victorian cabinet ministers and their close family members, City West Water is subject to the provisions of the Water Act as well as all departments and public sector entities that are 1989 and the Water Industry Act 1994. City West Water operates controlled and consolidated into the whole of government under specific legislation and is subject to independent consolidated financial statements are considered to be economic regulation. City West Water operates under a related parties of City West Water. Board of Directors appointed by the Minister for Water and makes income tax equivalent and dividend payments to the Transactions with cabinet members and related entities Victorian Government. Outside of normal citizen type transactions, there were no The below table details City West Water’s dealings with material related party transactions with cabinet members, government controlled entities, which are considered to be their close family members or their personal business related parties of City West Water. interests during the current or prior financial years. 2017 Paid Payable Received Receivable $ $ $ $ South East Water 177,284 30,442 17,805 Yarra Valley Water 541,050 37,421 6,694 Goulburn Murray Water 384,780 Development Victoria 565,653 16,231,714 231 Western Water 15,927 500 Victorian Auditor-General’s Office 171,050 57,900 Rail Projects Victoria 241,371 19,948 Environment Protection Authority 120,995 Energy and Water Ombudsman Victoria 140,556 2018 South East Water 52,641 66,095 24,866 Yarra Valley Water 338,110 81,961 11,329 Goulburn Murray Water 494,588 Development Victoria 4,948 63,098 Western Water 54 108,394 5,105 Victorian Auditor-General’s Office 129,690 81,000 Rail Projects Victoria 197,485 85,776 Environment Protection Authority 122,154 Energy and Water Ombudsman Victoria 89,472 52,611 Related parties with significant transactions relationship between City West Water and DELWP, City West Water does not recognise these amounts in its accounts. City Payments and receipts in the tables below are presented on West Water recognises an administration fee collected from a cash basis inclusive of GST where applicable. Payables and DELWP relating to the billing and collection of parks charges receivables are presented on an accrual basis. as revenue. Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning City West Water makes various other payments to and City West Water bills and collects parks charges on behalf receives other payments from DELWP which are recognised of the Department of Environment, Land, Water and as revenue and expenses. Planning (DELWP). Due to the nature of the agent/principal Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 113 9 Other disclosure (continued) 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Payments Environmental Contribution 18,563 18,563 Parks Charge collected on behalf of DELWP 49,092 45,832 Other 138 106 Receipts Billings and collection fee 2,210 2,456 Other 1,269 Payables Parks Charge collected on behalf of DELWP 43 62 Receivables Billings and collection fee 200 130 Department of Treasury and Finance The Department of Treasury and Finance monitors the implementation of City West Water’s Corporate Plan in consultation with the Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning. 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Payments Dividend 62,600 13,000 Capital repatriation 10,880 Income tax equivalent 43,540 29,599 Financial Accommodation Levy 15,259 13,884 Licence fee 379 664 Payables Income tax equivalent 10,430 15,511 Financial Accommodation Levy 4,120 3,453 Treasury Corporation of Victoria As required by the State Government pursuant to the Borrowing and Investment Powers Act 1987, City West Water’s borrowings are sourced solely from the Treasury Corporation of Victoria. 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Payments Finance costs 47,334 48,703 Administration fees 1,297 1,272 114 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 9 Other disclosure (continued) 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Receipts Net borrowings during the year 77,700 11,800 Interest received 72 7 Payables Finance costs 17,272 17,193 Administration fees 483 457 Total borrowings 1,180,200 1,102,500 Receivables Interest receivable 7 2 Melbourne Water Corporation City West Water sources all its drinking water from Melbourne Water Corporation and the majority of its sewage is treated by Melbourne Water Corporation at the Western Treatment Plant. City West Water bills and collects drainage charges as an agent for Melbourne Water. Due to the nature of the agent/principal relationship between City West Water and Melbourne Water, City West Water does not recognise these amounts in its accounts. City West Water recognises an administration fee collected from Melbourne Water relating to the billing and collection of drainage charges as revenue. City West Water makes various other payments to and receives other payments from Melbourne Water which are recognised as revenue and expenses. Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 115 9 Other disclosure (continued) 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Payments Bulk water and sewage charges 340,692 339,714 Drainage Charge collected on behalf of Melbourne Water 64,188 64,351 Property information statements 218 214 Other 364 160 Receipts Billings and collection fee 3,751 3,896 Other 50 144 Payables Bulk water and sewage charges 2,874 2,540 Drainage Charge collected on behalf of Melbourne Water 1,274 1,678 Property information statements 103 106 Other 16 Receivables Billings and collection fee 200 130 State Revenue Office The State Revenue Office (SRO) is the Victorian Government’s tax collection agency. The SRO administers Victoria’s tax legislation and collects a range of taxes, duties and levies. 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Payments Land tax 85 Payroll tax 2,382 2,249 Unclaimed monies 1,475 364 Receipts Pension rebate 403 527 Land tax refund 219 Payables Land tax 36 Payroll tax 195 195 Receivables Pension rebate 284 138 116 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 9 Other disclosure (continued) Department of Health and Human Services City West Water provides a number of services to the community including the administration of the Pension Rebate and Health Care Card schemes on behalf of the Department of Health and Human Services. 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Payments Safe Drinking Water Levy 138 135 Other 2 Receipts Pension rebate 21,252 21,924 Administration fee on pension rebate 179 205 Dialysis users rebate 13 21 Utility relief grant 334 335 Other 19 Receivables Pension rebate 3,256 4,262 Administration fee on pension rebate 21 27 Dialysis users rebate 5 Other Victorian Government controlled entities Water and sewerage services were provided to other government controlled entities for properties within City West Water’s service area under normal commercial terms and conditions. 9.3 Equity 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Contributed equity 200,128 211,008 Physical asset revaluation surplus 180,718 191,906 Retained profits 455,487 436,884 Total equity 836,333 839,798 9.3.1 Contributed equity 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Contributed equity at the beginning of the financial year 211,008 211,008 Capital repatriation (10,880) Contributed equity at the end of the financial year 200,128 211,008 Consistent with the requirements of AASB 1004 Contributions, contributions by owners are treated as equity transactions and therefore do not form part of the income and expenses of City West Water. Additions to net assets that have been designated as contributions by owners are recognised as contributed capital. Other transfers that are in the nature of contributions to, or distributions by owners, have also been designated as contributions by owners. Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 117 9 Other disclosure (continued) 9.3.2 Physical asset revaluation surplus 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Physical asset revaluation surplus at the beginning of the financial year 191,906 157,898 Infrastructure assets revaluation, net of tax (13,948) 32,221 Land revaluation, net of tax 2,759 1,788 Physical asset revaluation surplus at the end of the financial year 180,718 191,906 Physical asset revaluation surplus is used to record revaluation increments and decrements in the value of non-current physical assets. 9.3.3 Retained profits 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Retained profits at the beginning of the financial year 436,884 373,811 Profit after income tax expense 79,042 73,601 Final dividend paid during 2018 in respect of 2017 (48,200) Final dividend paid during 2017 in respect of 2016 (13,000) Interim dividend paid in respect of current year (14,400) Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit superannuation plan (net of tax) 2,161 2,472 Retained profits at the end of the financial year 455,487 436,884 Retained profits represent accumulated retained profits over the lifetime of the corporation. 9.4 Ex-gratia expenses 2018 2017 $’000 $’000 Forgiveness or waiver of debt 567 754 Other 12 1 Total ex gratia expenses 579 755 Ex gratia expense items greater than or equal to $5,000 individually or in total are disclosed. In exceptional circumstances City West Water may waive part of a customer’s debt. This will occur at the discretion of the corporation when there has been a significant undetected leak on a customer’s property, unexplained high usage on a customer’s account, or in cases of financial hardship. Ex gratia expenses are recognised as part of other expenses (refer Section 3). 118 Financial report Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 9 Other disclosure (continued) 9.5 Accounting standards issued that are not yet effective Certain new Australian Accounting Standards have been published that are applicable to City West Water, but are not mandatory for the 30 June 2018 reporting period. These standards are listed below. STANDARD EFFECTIVE DATE KEY CHANGES IMPACT AASB 9 Financial 1 January 2018 Key changes include simplified The expected credit loss impairment Instruments requirements for the classification model introduced in AASB 9 will and measurement of financial assets, result in an earlier recognition of a new hedge accounting model and credit losses than has previously a revised impairment loss model to been the case. recognise impairment losses earlier as opposed to the current approach The impact of the change in that recognises impairment only methodology is not expected to be when incurred. material. AASB 15 Revenue 1 January 2018 The core principle of AASB 15 The changes in revenue recognition from Contracts with requires an entity to recognise requirements in AASB 15 may customers revenue when the entity satisfies result in changes to the timing a performance obligation by and amount of revenue recorded transferring a promised good or in the financial statements. The service to a customer. standard will also require additional disclosures on service revenue and contract modifications. A preliminary assessment of the changes has not identified any material impact for City West Water. AASB 16 Leases 1 January 2019 Key changes introduced by AASB Assessment has indicated that City 16 include the recognition of most West Water will need to include operating leases (which are not most operating leases on the currently recognised) on the Balance Balance Sheet. Sheet. Recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities will cause net debt to increase. Depreciation of lease assets and interest on lease liabilities will be recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement. Cash paid for the principal portion of a lease liability will be presented within financing activities and interest payments will be presented within operating activities in the Statement of Cash Flows. Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2018 Financial report 119 9 Other disclosure (continued) 9.6 Subsequent events No matter or circumstance has arisen since 30 June 2018 which has significantly affected, or may significantly affect: • the corporation’s operations • the results of those operations • the corporation’s state of affairs in the financial year subsequent to 30 June 2018. 120 Financial report Statutory Certification The attached financial statements of City West Water Corporation (the corporation) have been prepared in accordance with Direction 5.2 of the Standing Directions of the Minister for Finance under the Financial Management Act 1994, applicable Financial Reporting Directions, Australian Accounting Standards including Interpretations and other mandatory professional reporting requirements. We state that, in our opinion, the information set out in the Comprehensive Operating Statement, Balance Sheet, Statement of Changes in Equity, Statement of Cash Flows and accompanying notes presents fairly the financial transactions during the year ended 30 June 2018 and the financial position of the corporation at 30 June 2018. At the time of signing, we are not aware of any circumstance which would render any particulars included in the financial statements to be misleading or inaccurate. This financial report was authorised for release by the Board of Directors on 28 August 2018. David Middleton David Ryan Michael Wootten Chair Managing Director Chief Financial Officer Melbourne 28 August 2018 121 Independent Auditor’s Report To the Board of the City West Water Corporation Opinion I have audited the financial report of the City West Water Corporation (the corporation) which comprises the: • balance sheet as at 30 June 2018 • comprehensive operating statement for the year then ended • statement of changes in equity for the year then ended • statement of cash flows for the year then ended • notes to the financial statements, including significant accounting policies • statutory certification. In my opinion, the financial report presents fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the corporation as at 30 June 2018 and their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the financial reporting requirements of Part 7 of the Financial Management Act 1994 and applicable Australian Accounting Standards. Basis for I have conducted my audit in accordance with the Audit Act 1994 which incorporates the Australian Opinion Auditing Standards. I further describe my responsibilities under that Act and those standards in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Report section of my report. My independence is established by the Constitution Act 1975. My staff and I are independent of the corporation in accordance with the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the Code) that are relevant to my audit of the financial report in Victoria. My staff and I have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. Information The Board is responsible for the other information included in the corporation's annual report for other than the the year ended 30 June 2018. The other information comprises the information in the annual report Financial but excludes the financial report, the performance report and my auditor’s reports thereon. My Report, opinion on the financial report does not cover the other information included in the annual report Performance and accordingly I do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. Report and In connection with my audit of the financial report, my responsibility is to read the other Auditor's information when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is Reports materially inconsistent with the financial report or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work I have performed, I conclude that there is a materially misstatement of this other information, I am required to report that fact. I have nothing to report in this regard. Board’s The Board of the corporation is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial responsibilities report in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and the Financial Management Act for the 1994, and for such internal control as the Board determines is necessary to enable the preparation financial report and fair presentation of a financial report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial report, the Board is responsible for assessing the corporation’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless it is inappropriate to do so. 122 Auditor’s As required by the Audit Act 1994, my responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial report responsibilities based on the audit. My objectives for the audit are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether for the audit of the financial report as a whole is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, the financial and to issue an auditor’s report that includes my opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of report assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the Australian Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of this financial report. As part of an audit in accordance with the Australian Auditing Standards, I exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. I also: • identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the corporation’s internal control. • evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Board. • conclude on the appropriateness of the Board’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the corporation’s ability to continue as a going concern. If I conclude that a material uncertainty exists, I am required to draw attention in my auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify my opinion. My conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of my auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the corporation to cease to continue as a going concern. • evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial report, including the disclosures, and whether the financial report represents the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. I communicate with the Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that I identify during my audit. MELBOURNE Paul Martin 3 September 2018 as delegate for the Auditor-General of Victoria 2 Appendix 1 123 Disclosure of information on APPENDIX 1: letter of expectations Ministerial Reporting Direction 07 In February 2017, the Minister for Water wrote to all 19 Victorian water corporations to outline performance expectations for the 2018 year. The letter of expectations (LOE) outlined seven priority policy areas that water corporations were expected to focus on during the 2018 year. Performance indicators, definitions, measures and reporting requirements for the seven priority areas outlined in the LOE are identified in the table below. Priority Area Key Performance Definition Measure Reporting Indicator requirement (Page number) Climate Change E2 Net tonnes of C02 Total net C02 emissions 30, 33 equivalent emissions equivalent tonnes. Providing services Emission reduction (scope 1 and scope 2 that minimise pledges. Baseline established in emissions only) for the environmental the 2017 financial year. Pledges to commit whole business and its impacts, mitigate to specific actions activities. climate change to achieve net zero and put in place emissions e.g. Take 2 adaptation Pledge. strategies. Climate adaptation Planning for adaptation Baseline established 24–25, 27 to the warmer, drier in 2017 financial year. Apply the Guidelines for climate conditions Report on progress Assessing the Impact of predicted for the future. towards commitments. Climate Change on Water Supplies in Victoria and demonstrate adaptation by: • their application in drought preparedness and urban water strategies (urban). • rural water corporations develop low flow contingency plans that include an appropriate range of climate scenarios (rural) Customer and C1 First response to Percentage of responses No report required. community customer query meets that meet or exceed Department of Customer satisfaction outcomes or exceeds customer customer expectations. Environment, Land, with response (including expectations. Water and Planning All aspects of digitally). Baseline established in (DELWP) to obtain service delivery the ‘2016/17 ESC WATER data from Essential will be customer PERFORMANCE REPORT Services Commission and community Performance of Victorian (ESC). centred. urban water and sewerage businesses’. 124 Appendix 1 Priority Area Key Performance Definition Measure Reporting Indicator requirement (Page number) C2 Customer confidence in Aggregate customer No report required. performance of water satisfaction score for DELWP to obtain ESC customer satisfaction corporation. water corporation. data from ESC. survey. Baseline established in the ‘2016/17 ESC WATER PERFORMANCE REPORT Performance of Victorian urban water and sewerage businesses’. C3 Use of Department of A strategy that 16–17 Environment, Land, demonstrates Appropriate Pricing Submission Water and Planning approaches to engagement methods Community community charter or community engagement used when working with Engagement Process: equivalent best-practice that are open, honest communities. engagement methods. and occur frequently. https://www. citywestwater. com.au/about_us/ reports_ publications/2018_ pricing_submission. aspx CR1 Reduced number of No. of water quality 55 complaints per 1,000 complaints regarding Water quality complaints customers year on year. discolouration, taste, about colour, turbidity, odour, stained washing, taste and odour reduced illness or cloudy water year on year. (ESC CRS 4). Baseline established in the ‘2017 ESC WATER PERFORMANCE REPORT Performance of Victorian urban water and sewerage businesses’. CR4 Billing/payment issues Reduced number of 15, 55 complaints per 1,000 complaints year on year. Billing/payment issue customers year on year. complaints. Appendix 1 125 Priority Area Key Performance Definition Measure Reporting Indicator requirement (Page number) Water for AC1 Explore and develop A strategy that 22 Aboriginal opportunities for demonstrates how Effective engagement of Reconciliation Action cultural, business arrangements the water corporation Aboriginal communities Plan spiritual and with Traditional will build capability for involvement in economic values Owners and Aboriginal and understanding of https://www. business opportunities enterprises to deliver procurement processes citywestwater. Recognising and access to water for value for money to address barriers for com.au/about_us/ and supporting economic development. catchment and water Aboriginal enterprises to reports_ Aboriginal services. supply goods/services to publications/ cultural values water corporations. reconciliation_ and economic action_plan.aspx inclusion in the water sector. Inform Traditional Number of sponsorships 12, 22 Owners when of Aboriginal people opportunities arise in relevant study to access water and training courses, entitlements within including scholarships, existing framework. vocational education and Provide opportunities for traineeships. cross cultural learning Staff have undertaken in the water sector, as a cross-cultural training well as skills training course (by relevant and employment for Traditional Owner) in the Aboriginal Victorians. last five years. AC2 Incorporate traditional Number of engagements 12, 22 ecological knowledge with Traditional Owners Effective engagement of into water planning in water planning and Traditional Owners for and management using management and inclusion of Aboriginal Aboriginal Waterway reporting of outcomes. values in water planning. Assessments and other Number of pilot tools developed by programs to test different Traditional Owners. ways to achieve shared Notify and engage with benefits. Traditional Owners to achieve shared benefits. 126 Appendix 1 Priority Area Key Performance Definition Measure Reporting Indicator requirement (Page number) Resilient and L1 Facilitating local Engagement with 24 liveable cities government and local councils and Enabling local and towns community projects with sponsorships of government and liveability benefits. integrated water Contributing communities to realise management programs. to healthy liveability outcomes. communities by supporting safe, affordable, high quality services and resilient environments. L2 Implement water Number of engagements 22 efficiency programs with local government, Water efficiency. aligned with Target 155 schools and community (Metros) and Target Your groups. Water Use (Regional Urbans). Does not apply to Rurals. L3 Comparison with Total residential bill 16–17 national average. based on: Victorian water bills are amongst the lowest in a) average Australia. consumption b) 200kl consumption. L4 Customers accessing a) Percentage of No report required. hardship arrangements/ customers on installment DELWP to obtain Hardship programs. payment plans over plans data from ESC (UPP1 time. Develop capability and UPP6) b) Number of and capacity to improve customers applied and support for victims awarded hardship grants. of family violence experiencing financial hardship. Appendix 1 127 Priority Area Key Performance Definition Measure Reporting Indicator requirement (Page number) Recognising Explicit inclusion of Recognise and support Report on efforts taken 28–29 recreational recreational values in recreational values to work with community values planning and reporting in water/waterway members and other activities. planning, information government agencies Supporting the provision and to explore cost effective wellbeing of rural infrastructure. opportunities to and regional provide complementary communities social, recreational and by considering economic benefits. the recreational values in water management. Leadership and G1 Development of a • Diversity Inclusion 12 Culture Diversity Inclusion Plan/s Plan/s provided to Gender and cultural Diversity and that cover gender equity DELWP to establish Water diversity in workforce Inclusion Strategy: and cultural, indigenous baseline for each corporations including gender equity https://www. inclusion. water corporation. reflect the needs in executive leadership. citywestwater.com. of our diverse • Follow up on annual au/documents/ communities. basis for predicted diversity_inclusion_ increase in the accessible.pdf number of females occupying senior executive positions over projected fiveyear period. • Adopt a 1% target for Aboriginal people in the business consistent with Vic government policy1 and commit to a stretch target of 3% by 2020 (DELWP policy2 ) . • Increase capacity of Traditional Owners to participate in boards and committees. 128 Appendix 1 Priority Area Key Performance Definition Measure Reporting Indicator requirement (Page number) Staff participation in the • Number of No report required. Victorian Public Sector respondents to the DELWP to obtain Commission (VPSC) VPSC People Matter data from VPSC. People Matter Survey. Survey from each Water corporation water corporation to encourage staff increase over time. participation to • Results indicate complete annual survey favourable response or equivalent survey. to implementation of diversity inclusion plan. G2 Annual board Board performance No report required. performance report report submitted in a DELWP to review Annual board identifying areas for timely manner with reports internally. performance report further development. recommendations prepared. for continuous improvement. G3 Sustained annual Performance indicators 12–13 improvement against adopted to monitor Health and safety H&S performance health and safety in line benchmarks with FRD 22H, section 6.10 (AS/NZS standard 4801). Financial F1 interest cover Financial indicators as Maintenance or 53 Sustainability prescribed by DELWP’s improvement of credit F2 gearing ratio Performance Reporting rating. Delivering F3 internal financing ratio Framework (PRF) safe and costeffective water F4 current ratio and wastewater F5 return on assets services in a financially F6 return on equity sustainable way. F7 EBITDA margin F8 credit rating Appendix 2 129 The United Nations APPENDIX 2: Global Compact As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we outline below where our policies, actions and programs highlighted in this annual report align with the 10 principles of the UN SDGs. Page Global Compact Principles Description Reference Human Rights 1. Businesses should support City West Water is committed to providing a healthy and safe and respect the protection workplace for all staff, customers and the community, where of internationally proclaimed the wellbeing of individuals is supported and diversity is actively human rights; and encouraged and championed. The following policies and programs outlined in this report reflect this commitment: 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights • Diversity and Inclusion Strategy committing to fair and 12 abuses. equitable treatment for employees without regard to race, colour, sexual preference, age, physical or mental disability, pregnancy, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. • Disability Policy and Action Plan to eliminate barriers 12 for people with disability accessing goods, services, facilities and employment • Health and Safety Policy, performance and associated 12–13 actions • Community service actions and financial inclusion 18–19 programs to support customers and community across our service area • Our commitment and involvement in the WaterAid 22 program 130 Appendix 2 Page Global Compact Principles Description Reference Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the City West Water is committed to a diverse and inclusive workplace freedom of association and culture free of discrimination where the human rights of employees, the effective recognition of the customers and the community are supported. Our efforts are reflected right to collective bargaining; through the following items in this report: 4. The elimination of all forms of • Our employee targets for Aboriginal and Torres Strait 11 forced and compulsory labour; Islander peoples • Transparency in employee benefit reporting 68–72 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and • Diversity and Inclusion Strategy and actions regarding 11–13 equal opportunity and fairness 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Appendix 2 131 Page Global Compact Principles Description Reference Environment 7. Businesses should support a The protection and enhancement of our environment is embedded precautionary approach to in City West Water’s vision for the future. City West Water is dedicated environmental challenges; to benefiting customers and the community, and understands the intrinsic link between water, the environment and human health and 8. Undertake initiatives to wellbeing. The following actions and strategies highlighted in this promote greater environmental annual report, reflect this commitment: responsibility; and • Reporting on progress regarding our commitment and 30–33 9. Encourage the development obligations outlined within our Environmental Policy and diffusion of • Climate Resilience Strategy 30 environmentally friendly technologies. • Urban Water Strategy actions and report on progress 24 • Our delivery of Greening the West initiative and 28–29 progress • Stormwater harvesting and IWM programs 24–25 • Energy recovery and renewable energy 34 implementation 132 Appendix 2 Page Global Compact Principles Description Reference Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work City West Water is committed to ensuring transparency and against corruption in all its accountability in its administrative and management practices, and forms, including extortion and the corporation supports the making of disclosures that reveal corrupt bribery. conduct, conduct involving a substantial mismanagement of public resources or conduct involving substantial risk to public health and safety or the environment. • Commitment to compliance with the Protected 48 Disclosure Act 2010 • Oversight of the corporation’s financial reports and 44 information by the Risk Management and Audit Committee • Reporting on related party transactions as part of our 111–116 Financial Statements. Appendix 3 133 Bulk water entitlement APPENDIX 3: reporting City West Water Corporation holds individual delivery entitlements to the water resources of the Greater Yarra System – Thomson River Pool (managed by Melbourne Water Corporation), the Victorian Desalination Project (owned and maintained by AquaSure under contract with the Victorian Government) and the Murray and Goulburn river systems (managed by GoulburnMurray Water Corporation). REPORTING GREATER YARRA SYSTEM VICTORIAN GOULBURN SYSTEM 3 MURRAY RIVER 4 REQUIREMENTS – THOMSON RIVER POOL 1 DESALINATION PROJECT 2 Amount of water taken clause 16.1(a) clause 13.1(a) clause 14.1(b) n/a 114,943 ML Opening carryover at clause 16.1(b) 5, 6 clause 13.1(a) clause 14.1(c) clause 11.1(a) 1 July 2018 139,082 ML 9,882 ML 6,416 ML Annual water allocation clause 16.1(b) clause 13.1(a) clause 14.1(c) clause 11.1(a) made available during 2018 90,755 ML 3,960 ML 5,480 ML 4,707 ML Closing carryover as at clause 16.1(b) 7,8 clause 13.1(a) 9 clause 14.1(c) 10 clause 11.1(a)11 30 June 2018 111,081 ML 3,957 ML 5,206 ML 4,480 ML Compliance with clause 16.1(c) 12 clause 13.1(e) n/a n/a entitlement volume 114,943 ML n/a Assignment of bulk clause 16.1(d) clause 13.1(b) clause 14.1(d) clause 11.1(b) entitlement 9,882 ML 6,407 ML Permanent transfer of all or clause 16.1(d) clause 13.1(b) clause 14.1(e) clause 11.1(c) part of bulk entitlement None None None None Approval, amendment and clause 16.1(e) n/a n/a n/a implementation of the continuing 13 metering program Amendment of bulk clause 16.1(f ) Clause 13.1(c) Clause 14.1(f ) Clause 11.1(d) entitlement None None None None Any new bulk entitlement clause 16.1(g) clause 13.1(d) None None of water granted None None Any failure to comply with clause 16.1(h) clause 13.1(f ) clause 14.1(g) clause 11.1(e) any provision of this bulk None None None None entitlement Any difficulties experienced clause 16.1(i) clause 13.1(g) clause 14.1(h) clause 11.1(f ) or anticipated in complying None None None None with this bulk entitlement and any remedial action taken or proposed 134 Appendix 3 Notes for compliance with bulk entitlements: 1. Consolidated Bulk Entitlement (Greater Yarra System 8. Net of 47 ML of spills in respect of City West Water’s Thomson River Pool City West Water) Order 2014 as at Gippsland and Southern Rural Water sub-account (refer June 2017. Compliance requirements in clauses 16.1(a)-(i). note 6). 2. Bulk Entitlement (Desalinated Water – City West Water) 9. Desalinated water carried over is held in the Melbourne Order 2014. Compliance requirements in clauses 13.1(a)Headworks System as defined in clause 5 of Bulk (g). Entitlement (Desalinated Water – City West Water) Order 3. Bulk Entitlement (Goulburn System City West Water) 2014. Order 2012 as at June 2014. Compliance requirements in 10. Inclusive of evaporation of 275 ML. clauses 14.1(a)-(h). 11. Inclusive of evaporation of 236 ML. 4. Bulk Entitlement (Murray River – City West Water) 12. Annual entitlement volume is 152,797 ML. Conversion Order 2012 as at July 2014. Compliance 13. Metering programs for this bulk entitlement are requirements in clauses 11.1(a)-(f ). continually maintained and reviewed via the Bulk Water 5. Inclusive of 1,661 ML carried over in City West Water’s Supply Agreement between City West Water Corporation Gippsland and Southern Rural Water sub-account. and Melbourne Water Corporation and System 6. Inclusive of all water carried over against Bulk Entitlement Management Rules established by Melbourne Water (Desalinated Water – City West Water) Order 2014. Corporation. 7. Net of 3,768 ML of spills in respect of City West Water’s Greater Yarra System Thomson River Pool account. Appendix 3 135 APPENDIX 4: Disclosure index City West Water’s 2018 Annual Report is prepared in accordance with all relevant Victorian legislation and pronouncements including Financial Reporting Directions (FRDs), Ministerial Reporting Directions (MRDs) and Standing Directions of the Minister for Finance (SDs). This index has been prepared to facilitate identification of City West Water’s compliance with statutory disclosure requirements. LEGISLATION DISCLOSURE REQUIRED PAGE Charter and purpose FRD 22H Manner of establishment and the relevant Minister 109 FRD 22H Purpose, functions, powers and duties 4 FRD 22H Key initiatives and projects 8–9 FRD 22H Nature and range of services provided 4 Management and structure FRD 22H Organisational structure 38 FRD 22H Directors of the Board 109 Financial and other information FRD 10A Disclosure Index 135–136 FRD 22H Five year summary of financial results 44 FRD 22H Disclosure of ICT expenditure 45 FRD 22H Workforce data disclosure 12 FRD 22H Current year financial review 43 FRD 22H Significant changes in financial position during the year 44 FRD 22H Operational and budgetary objectives and performance against objectives 8–9 FRD 22H Major changes or factors affecting performance 43 FRD 22H Employment and conduct principles 12 FRD 22H Health and safety 12–13 FRD 22H Subsequent events 46 FRD 22H Application and operation of the Freedom of Information Act 1982 46–47 FRD 22H Application and operation of the Protected Disclosure Act 2012 48 FRD 22H Statement on National Competition Policy 48 FRD 22H Statement on availability of other information 49 FRD 22H Environmental performance 30–37 FRD 22H Compliance with building and maintenance provisions of the Building Act 1993 47 FRD 22H Details of consultancies over $10,000 46 FRD 22H Details of consultancies under $10,000 46 FRD 22H Disclosure of government advertising expenditure 49 FRD 22H Workforce inclusion policy 12 FRD 22H Key initiatives and projects 8-9 FRD 25C Local Jobs First Victorian Industry Participation Policy disclosures 48–49 FRD 27C Presentation and reporting of performance information 53–55 136 Appendix 3 LEGISLATION DISCLOSURE REQUIRED PAGE FRD 30D Standard requirements for the design and print of annual reports Whole report SD 5.2 Specific requirements under Standing Direction 5.2 3 Ministerial Reporting Directions MRD 01 Presentation and reporting of performance information 53–55 MRD 02 Reporting on water consumption and drought response 26–27 MRD 03 Environmental and social sustainability reporting 14–23 MRD 04 Disclosure of information on bulk entitlements 133–134 MRD 05 Annual reporting of major non-residential water users 50 MRD 06 Greenhouse gas and energy reporting 33 MRD 07 Disclosure of information on letter of expectations 123–128 Compliance attestation and declaration SD 3.7.1 Attestation of compliance with Ministerial Directions 3 SD 5.2.3 Declaration in Report of Operations 3 SD 5.2.2 Declaration in financial statements 120 Other requirements under Standing Direction 5.2 Compliance with applicable Australian accounting standards and other authoritative SD 5.2.1(a) 64 pronouncements SD 5.2.1(a) Compliance with Ministerial Directions 64 Other disclosures required by FRDs in notes to and forming part of the financial statements FRD 3A Accounting for dividends 78 FRD 11A Disclosure of ex gratia payments 117 FRD 17B Wage inflation and discount rates for employee benefits 72 FRD 21C Disclosures of responsible persons, executive officers and other personnel (Contractors 109–111 with Significant Management Responsibilities) in the Financial Report 80–83, FRD 103F Non-financial physical assets 104–108 FRD 105A Borrowing costs 93 FRD 106 Impairment of assets 83, 86 FRD 109 Intangible assets 84–86 FRD 110A Cash flow statements 63 FRD 112D Defined benefit superannuation obligations 70–72 FRD 114A Financial instruments General Government Entities and Public Non-Financial Corporations 92, 95–100 FRD 119A Transfers through contributed capital 116 FRD 120K Accounting and reporting pronouncements applicable to the 2018 reporting period 118 Legislation Water Act 1989 Water Industry Act 1994 Freedom of Information Act 1982 Building Act 1993 Protected Disclosure Act 2012 Victorian Industry Participation Policy Act 2003 Financial Management Act 1994 City West Water 1 McNab Avenue Footscray Vic 3011 ABN 70 066 902 467 This publication is copyright. No part may be reproduced by a process except in accordance with the provisions of the Copyright Act 1968. ISSN: 2203-9910 (Print) ISSN: 2203-9929 (Online) citywestwater.com.au
