CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 TABLE OF CONTENTS P 03 Interview with the Chairman P 04 Governance and CSR: strategic application P 05 Targeting Sustainable Desserts: building the future together P 06 20 commitments for building the future P 08 Strengthening our governance P 10 Business profile P 12 Our products, ambassadors for our expertise P 13 A balanced local base in France... developing internationally P 14 Ensuring our economic continuity P 20 To be a responsible employer P 26 Preserving the environment P 30 Ensuring our impact on society and our local base OUR FACTORY SITES P 32 Valade P 36 Broons P 40 Renaison P 44 Saint Renan P 48 Corby P 52 Maidenhead P 60 Weert P 59 Taunton P 60 Thenon 02 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 INTERVIEW WITH THE CHAIRMAN How would you describe the evolution of Mademoiselle Desserts in France? In 2017, Mademoiselle Desserts continued its expansion in France and in other countries. In October we opened a new 1,600 m² facility in Thenon, in the Dordogne valley. This facility allows us to combine our production of flans (unbaked and pre-baked) and pre-baked pastry bases with our packaging processes for fresh products in the new Oh Oui! line. The factory site offers a two-fold advantage: its ideal geographic location and the expertise of our logistics partner STEF, making it possible to deliver Oh Oui! products anywhere in France within 24 hours. This project aims to support the group's development in France and internationally in the years ahead. The Mademoiselle Desserts Thenon site currently employs 18 workers. ... and outside France? The group now employs 1,400 workers, 47% of whom are based outside France. Our latest acquisition is in Taunton, Somerset County, in South West England. A new organisational structure has been implemented in the UK. We now have three industrial sites, each one highly specialised in the creation of high-quality British desserts and snacks! There is a real synergy between the different sites. Our cheesecakes and caramel shortcakes are now distributed throughout Europe, and a dedicated facility in Maidenhead produces the signature gluten-free pastries of our new Oh Oui! line available for sale in France. Our palmier pastries are enjoyed by consumers in Switzerland and Germany, while our chouquette pastries and carrot cake, made with freshly grated carrots, are both available in the US! What are the main CSR issues for your business? Naturalness , simplicity , source , local products , health ...these are the terms consumers use when speaking about the criteria that determine their food choices. This is why we launched our CLEAN M initiative in 2017. Our goal is to have ingredient lists that are as clean as possible. So we started to list all of the ingredients in our products from France, England and the Netherlands. We focus particularly on dyes, preservatives and emulsifiers...the idea being to reduce, or even eliminate, certain undesirable ingredients such as hydrogenated vegetable fat or E171 white colouring, found in certain pastry decorations. In parallel to our focus on ingredients, we are working on sustainability criteria for raw materials: responsible sourcing (RSPO, fair trade, etc.), use of local ingredients to ensure the shortest possible delivery routes, and supplier evaluation systems which are based not only on quality standards but also environmental and social criteria. We have also decided to incorporate a nutritional angle with our Nutri M initiative. We are developing recipes with less salt and sugar...without compromising on taste! It's a vast project for our R&D teams, among others, but their work is indispensable for the development of the group. Didier BOUDY 03 GOVERNANCE AND CSR: STRATEGIC APPLICATION Since 2007, Mademoiselle Desserts has been committed to a policy of sustainable development and communicates its results regularly and transparently in its annual CSR report. Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) issues and indicators are discussed with group shareholders, including Equistone Partners Europe, the majority shareholder for Mademoiselle Desserts, as well as minority interests Azulis Capital and Cerea. Linking the company's financial performance to its environmental and social impact is key to responsible and sustainable decision-making. A responsible and visionary corporate strategy integrates CSR and stakeholder expectations. Success is guaranteed by recognising that the process is as important as the result. We are working to improve career planning and anti-discrimination initiatives, workplace accident monitoring, responsible purchasing guidelines and environmental impact assessments... Together, these actions contribute to constantly improving results for the company. For several years now, we have shared our best practices for CSR initiatives and indicators. We also actively monitor regulations and alerts. The CSR committee meets four times per year to ensure that we anticipate risks, integrate our responsibilities and remain proactive in terms of sustainable economic growth. The committee is made up members of the group's Executive Committee. 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 TARGETING SUSTAINABLE DESSERTS BUILDING THE FUTURE TOGETHER To date, we have already introduced our DDD 2018 project: the creation of a strategic committee, increased external growth in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, a target of 5% of sales revenue from Asian markets, the launch of our Oh Oui! brand, the implementation of responsible purchasing channels.... The challenge has been raised, and in 2018 we are pursuing our ambitions with DDD 2022. To continue our external growth strategy To roll out the responsible purchasing policy at a group level To continue to establish our organisational presence in France, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands To optimise our information systems To roll out product-country-client synergies within the framework of our SYN M project. To prioritise high-quality ingredients and simple recipes for pastries that can be responsibly enjoyed, within the framework of our CLEAN M project To optimise the nutritional value of our products--less sugar, less salt--through our NUTRI M project To develop our employer brand To increase digital communication 05 TARGETING SUSTAINABLE DESSERTS 20 COMMITMENTS FOR BUILDING THE FUTURE STRENGTHENING OUR GOVERNANCE COMMITMENTS OUR INDICATORS 2016 2017 To apply good governance To establish and promote a strategic committee Done Done 1 practices To pursue our commitment to the Global Compact Done Done Governance To integrate acquisitions Quality Pastries Taunton To develop the culture of 2 To ensure the evolution of a highly B2B culture towards a Launch of the the business Oh Oui ! more B2C one new brand TO ENSURE OUR ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENTS OUR INDICATORS 2016 2017 To adapt the French and international sales organisation Done Done To ensure continuing 3 Number of complaints per 100 tonnes of products delivered 2,52% 2 1,95%2 customer satisfaction Number of crisis management exercises carried out 21 21 Part of turnover achieved with products launched less than To develop the extent of our 15% 2 12% 2 12 months ago 4 range and the innovations produced Proportion of turnover devoted to R&D 1,1% 2 1,2% 2 From our industrial base, to Share of turnover outside France, following the acquisition 5 develop the group’s exports 45% 47% and integration policy and internationalisation Economic Number of products references following a consumersustainability 309 1 320 1 customer panel Number of materials containing GMOs/azo-colorants 03 03 To guarantee good, safe, 6 Proportion of products using hydrogenated vegetable fat 12% 1 10% 1 healthy products Number of IFS and/or BRC certified production sites 7 out of 7 3 9 out of 9 3 Percentage of suppliers with safety/quality certification (%) 81% 2 82% 3 Training and implementing group operational excellence Carried out for Carried out for o keep our systems modern, standards two sites two sites 7 effective and integrated Level of investment €M 73 93 1: Within France 2: Within France and the UK 3: Within France, UK and the Netherlands The businesses we purchase are not necessarily at the same standard as the group for all criteria. Our indicators can therefore suffer when we integrate them 06 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 TO BE A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER COMMITMENTS OUR INDICATORS 2016 2017 Health and To improve health and safety at Accident frequency and severity rates Frequency: 351 Frequency: 351 8 safety work protection Number of sites meeting the OSHAS18001 benchmark 13 13 Drawing up, publicising and Proportion of new workers made aware of the ethical Ethics 9 ensuring the application of our 96% 2 100% 3 charter ethical charter Proportion of employees trained 51% 2 50%3 Training 10 To support career development Total number of hours’ training given 13 964 2 10 705 3 Number of speculative CVs received In progress In progress Employment 11 To develop our attractiveness Profit-sharing and shareholding plans Yes Yes Industrial To develop industrial relations relations 12 Number of agreements signed 81 81 dialogue dialogue To establish and follow an industrial relations Done Done Industrial management chart To promote a good industrial relations 13 relations climate Number of open dialogue and transparent meetings a climate 92 10 3 year between the chairman and all employees TO PRESERVE COMMITMENTS OUR INDICATORS 2016 2017 THE ENVIRONMENT Gas consumption per tonne of product manufactured 344 KWh/T 3 358 KWh/T 3 Gas consumption 15 417 275 KWh 3 15 657 922 KWh 3 To optimise our energy efficiency Electricity consumption per tonne of product Energy 14 832 KWh/T 3 913 KWh/T 3 (electricity and gas) manufactured Electricity consumption 37 268 573 KWh 3 41 494 642 KWh 3 Number of tonnes of CO2 equivalent for sites (GHG 7 569 2 11 596 2 footprint scope 1 and 2) France Water consumption per tonne of product manufactured 3.27 m3/T 2 3,63 m3/T 3 Water 15 To reduce water consumption Water consumption 146 502 m3 2 164 924 m3 3 To reduce raw material waste Total weight of waste by type and treatment 4 132 T 2 4 737 T 2 Waste 16 selecting and recovering waste Recycling rate 69% 2 74% 1 To reduce the impact of GHG emissions resulting from raw Number of actions implemented by raw material GHG 17 In progress In progress materials and packaging To suppliers with a big CO2 footprint reduce our carbon footprint TO ENSURE OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY AND OUR LOCAL COMMITMENTS OUR INDICATORS 2016 2017 INTEGRATION Responsible, sustainable Proportion of supplier turnover subject to CSR 8,7% 1 20% 3 purchasing. assessment 18 To strengthen our partnerships Proportion of our turnover on long contracts Impact on with our key suppliers 25,8% 1 24% 1 (>12 months) society and To prioritise local purchasing Proportion of local suppliers of raw materials and local 19 21,2% 1 22% 1 whenever possible packaging (< 250km) integration Number of associations helped 422 1 300 2 To sustain and promote our local 20 integration Number of portions of desserts offered to associations 82 716 2 373 586 2 1: Within France 2: Within France and the UK 3: Within France, UK and the Netherlands 07 STRENGTHENING OUR GOVERNANCE COMMITMENT N°1 TO APPLY GOOD GOVERNANCE PRACTICES TO IMPROVE GOVERNANCE ORGANISATION Our external growth strategy encourages us to improve the governance model for our business and processes. We have therefore adapted our organisational structure to maintain Mademoiselle Desserts France while creating Mademoiselle Desserts UK and Mademoiselle Desserts Weert in the Netherlands. Each executive committee attends monthly meetings led by Didier Boudy. The aim is to enable further consultation between the Chairman, the secretary-general and executive teams on major issues affecting the company, and to give the Chairman the ability to represent the group in its business relations and with its shareholders. One example of positive feedback In 2017 the group was awarded the top prize for growth companies (Grand Prix des Entreprises de Croissance 2017) in the Agri-food & Organic category. The jury was made up of business leaders and representatives from the Ministry of Economy and Finance and Croissance Plus . We were selected for this award because of our achievements in the areas of innovation, sustainability, performance, job creation, and social, corporate and environmental responsibility. PURSUING OUR COMMITMENT TO GLOBAL COMPACT Our external growth strategy encourages us to improve the governance model for our business and processes. We have therefore adapted our organisational structure to maintain Mademoiselle Desserts France while creating Mademoiselle Desserts UK and Mademoiselle Desserts Weert in the Netherlands. Each executive committee attends meetings on a monthly basis, led by Didier Boudy. The aim is to enable further consultation between the Chairman, the secretary-general and executive teams on major issues affecting the company, and to give the Chairman the ability to represent the group in its business relations and with its shareholders. In 2017 the group was awarded the top prize for growth companies (Grand Prix des Entreprises de Croissance 2017) in the Agri-food & Organic category. The jury was made up of business leaders and representatives from the Ministry of Economy and Finance and Croissance Plus . We were selected for this award because of our achievements in the areas of innovation, sustainability, performance, job creation, and social, corporate and environmental responsibility. After joining the Global Compact network in France, Mademoiselle Desserts became part of the UK network. This confirms our commitment to integrate CSR into our daily processes and work toward our Sustainable Development Goals. Global Compact supports company participation in the 2030 agenda and assists them in the integration of the stated goals. For example, our ethical charter allows us to fulfil our commitment to the SDGS N°16 guideline: …to establish institutions that are effective, accountable and accessible to all . 08 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 COMMITMENT N°2 TO DEVELOP CORPORATE CULTURE OH OUI! THE NEW NAME IN PASTRY THAT IS GOING TO SHAKE THINGS UP IN THE SNACK AISLE! I'd really like to finish off my break with a gourmet snack, but that option isn't currently available to me . Many consumers have encountered the same problem. At Mademoiselle Desserts we love fine pastry, which is why we decided to create the Oh Oui! brand. Oh Oui! is the affectionate and playful name, easily understood abroad, for our line of fresh fine pastry in the snack aisle. As a start, we've selected a range of eight pastries from our various factory sites in France, England and the Netherlands. We built a new dedicated facility for the packaging of Oh Yes! products located at the STEF site in Thenon, Dordogne, as part of a project to encourage industrial cooperation between the two groups. Many celebrities from the region attended the inauguration of the site. Its geographic location is a real advantage: with the help of our partner STEF, we can deliver Oh Yes! products anywhere in France within 24 hours. The entire Mademoiselle Desserts Thenon team is introduced in the following video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d74y8HYzRVw TO SUMMARIZE, THE UNIQUE OH YES! RECIPE IS: Gourmet products that you would normally find in the bakery aisle. Simple recipes, using only a few high-quality ingredients. A line that caters to consumer tastes using a four-colour coding system: Orange for tart and fruity products, like the Sicilian lemon mini-tart or the Strawberry cheesecake. Red for traditional products like our incomparable flan or exquisite apple Financier. Purple for chocolaty products like our addictive chocolate fudge. Blue for our free products like the ones in our gluten-free line: gluten-free raspberry almond bars, glutenfree brownies, gluten-free caramel and chocolate shortcake. A transparent brand strategy that explains to consumers, using educational videos, how products are made in our facilities. A friendly brand that shares its recipes by posting tutorials on social media so that consumers can make our chocolate fudge or strawberry cheesecake at home. All these ingredients come together to Make each dessert a moment of true pleasure and good feelings! 09 BUSINESS PROFILE A GROWING MEDIUM-SIZED BUSINESS 1,400 COLLABORATORS 9 sites FACTORY 5 IN FRANCE / 3 IN ENGLAND / 1 IN NETHERLANDS 57,550 m² OF PRODUCTION AREA 2,774 references FOR FINISHED PRODUCTS 220 million EUR 46% TURNOVER OF WOMEN 42 AVERAGE AGE: of capital HELD BY EMPLOYEES 10,700 hours OF TRAINING PROVIDED ONE MAJORITY INVESTMENT FUND: EQUISTONE 50 % of products Two investment funds DELIVERED TO SUPERMARKETS STILL WITH US AFTER SEVEN YEARS: AZULIS CAPITAL AND CEREA 50 % of products DELIVERED TO CATERING BUSINESSES 53% of turnover IN FRANCE 47% of turnover INTERNATIONALLY 10 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 11 OUR PRODUCTS, AMBASSADORS FOR OUR EXPERTISE BASES TARTS Sweet, puff pastry, short With puff, sweet or short crust pastry or pizza crust pastry CHOUX PASTRY Eclairs, chouquettes, hollow DESSERTS or filled choux pastries Individual and for sharing SHEETS Charlotte sheets, génoise sheets and joconde biscuits MILLE-FEUILLES A real revolution SNACKS AND KITS MINI-DESSERTS For charlottes and readyGourmet snacks made desserts ENGLISH AND US DESSERTS FLAN Carrot cake, caramel Plain, warm flavours shortcake, brownies,... 12 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 BALANCED LOCAL INTEGRATION IN FRANCE... DEVELOPING INTERNATIONALLY WEERT SITE CORBY SITE MAIDENHEAD SITE TAUNTON SITE ST-RENAN SITE MONTIGNY HEAD OFFICE SITE BROONS SITE VALADE SITE RENAISON SITE THENON SITE 13 TO ENSURE OUR ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENT N°3 TO MAINTAIN CLIENT SATISFACTION TO ADAPT BUSINESS ORGANISATION IN FRANCE AND INTERNATIONALLY In 2017, the restructuring of the Sales Administration department continued its forward momentum. Commercial – Sales Administration teams were put in place to increase the efficiency of information sharing and teamwork processes, and to improve management of client records. Each key account will work in full collaboration with a dedicated sales assistant. In 2018, this structure will be operational for the entire team after a few training sessions. This will also allow further personal growth opportunities for each member of the team by diversifying tasks and strengthening client relationships. In 2017 we also recruited two new team members. Marie laure Valade Sales Administration Manager We created a database listing all products, clients and contract history. In 2018 we expect to populate this database with information for the entire department. This will ensure an even faster response time for requests. COOPERATION BETWEEN SITES The creation of a new plant in Thenon has led to organisational changes at a group level as well as internal mobility for teams. I had the opportunity to change jobs and move from the Valade site to Thenon. I had previously worked as an administrative sales assistant. Today, I am in charge of supplies, receiving raw materials and packaging for both production lines. I'm also responsible for inventory management and the processing and shipping of customer orders, in addition to managing production planning for Oh Yes! I also calculate sales prices, draft tenders, prepare logistics documents, process sample requests, create client accounts, input prices, ensure supervision, manage production flow...This new role is truly rewarding and I'm learning new things every day! A real challenge! Virginie Dousseau Virginie brings expertise and versatility to our new production facility, to say the least! 14 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 COMMITMENT N°4 TO EXPAND OUR LINE AND ENCOURAGE PRODUCT INNOVATION DESSERTS AND TARTS IN THE SPOTLIGHT AT MADEMOISELLE DESSERTS In 2017, our team of chefs carried on a great pastry tradition, inspired by a passion for all things good, beautiful and, most importantly, delicious! It was no surprise when Mademoiselle Desserts launched a line of desserts featuring rich flavours and colours, like Sicilian lemon, blackcurrant and mango, or, on a warmer note, Liège-inspired and Montélimar nougat creations. The line also includes mini-charlottes, swiss rolls and bavarois. Tarts are available in various formats, unbaked or ready to serve. Signature ingredients in this gourmet line include Isigny PDO cream and essentials like chocolate, caramel and hazelnut. Caramelized puff pastry is also a staple in our tart and tartlet recipes. Baking brings out the full flavour of fruit fillings as well as an irresistible golden colour and crunch! UNIQUE EXPERTISE! I've been working for the company for almost 22 years now. I am a supervisor for the puff pastry sheet production line and I manage a team of between 15 and 25 employees. Our sweet puff pastry sheets are made by hand in a unique process that involves rolling out and folding the dough in alternating layers of pastry and butter. Our sweet puff pastry recipe begins with a basic dough made from salt, flour and water. We then add butter to the mix. Once a smooth dough is obtained, we divide it into 7.3 kg sticks. Then comes the Trio Quarto step, where our team folds the dough by hand and lets it rest for 30 minutes. This process is repeated one more time. Next, we pass the dough through a pastry sheeter to obtain the desired thickness for a particular product. It takes two hours to produce a batch of around 584 sticks, which is the time necessary for the dough to rest. Our recipe uses all-natural ingredients for an outstanding taste and texture. This puff pastry is then used to make various products like palmiers, pastry straws, tart bases... Lionel Lagarde, Supervisor. 15 HOLIDAY PRODUCTS In 2017, Mademoiselle Desserts developed a catalogue of 111 holiday products ranging from do-it-yourself Yule log kits to frozen, ready-to-serve desserts. The success of this line can be attributed to our ability to adapt to client tastes as well as our innovative and refined recipes like the salted butter caramel and pear charlotte Yule log, the raspberry nougat Yule log or our Grand Marnier butter cream Yule log. Our Renaison site has sold more than 2,551,610 units of Yule logs. Our vanilla butter cream, chocolate and praline Yule logs were a big hit with pastry lovers, along with our custard logs! Mademoiselle Desserts also celebrated Three Kings' Day with gourmet galette des rois cakes! These pure butter cakes were very popular, both in classic frangipane and premium almond versions. MADEMOISELLE DESSERTS AT ANY TIME OF THE DAY! With over 57% of French households purchasing snack products, it is clear that demand in this category is booming. Thanks to the expertise of our sites in France, England and the Netherlands, many of our products already fall under this category without being clearly labelled as such. Mademoiselle Desserts has updated its product line and mobilised R&D teams so that we can offer products adapted to different consumer categories: breakfast, snack, lunch or even dinner! A brochure has been created for our clients. Our lemon drizzle, fruit loaf or scones made in England will brighten up your morning. Our pure butter puff pastry specialities are perfect when you're feeling peckish. Our individually wrapped bars can be enjoyed anywhere! 16 16 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 COMMITMENT N°5 TO EXPAND EXPORTS FROM OUR FACTORY BASE AND DEVELOP INTERNATIONALLY. OUR PRESENCE AT SIRHA In January 2017, Mademoiselle Desserts participated in the SIRHA trade show, an event where restaurant and hospitality companies present their latest innovations. This was a great opportunity to highlight Mademoiselle Desserts’ new brand identity as well as our Oh Yes! line. On this occasion, we wanted to surprise our audience and switch things up: in addition to a quirky presentation of our product line, our booth made a unique impression with men and women representatives wearing identical outfits! Our pink watches and white sneakers with pink laces made a big splash, and helped make our brand more accessible! It just goes to show that even a growing business can keep things simple and create a fun atmosphere! More than a hundred clients and prospective buyers came to see us at our booth, with most visitors coming from Europe and Asia. 5% TURNOVER IN ASIAN EXPORTS! We've done an admirable job at meeting our goals. In 2017, Mademoiselle Desserts had a 5% turnover for Asian exports! These results were made possible thanks to our expansion in Japan and our partnership with the ubiquitous Bon Chic Café brand. This coffee shop is an exclusive vendor of Mademoiselle Desserts products such as feuillantines, trois chocolats , operas, mango passion squares and café liégeois desserts. The shops also sell tarts made from frangipane bases produced at the Valade site. Around 100 individual cakes individual are sold daily. The brand already has plans to open new cafés as part of the franchise in various regions in Japan, including Tokyo and Osaka. This bodes well for Mademoiselle Desserts in the years to come! TOWARD AN EXPANSION WITHIN THE BRITISH FOOD RETAIL MARKET In 2016, our factory sites performed brilliantly in quality audits for the British food retail market. In 2017, we are continuing our expansion with major British retailers featuring our holiday products. For example, we are now working with the N°4 major British retailer on a line of tarts. 17 COMMITMENT N°6 TO GUARANTEE HIGH-QUALITY, HEALTHY AND SAFE PRODUCTS CLEAN M Naturalness , simplicity , source , local products , health ...these are terms used by consumers when speaking about the criteria that govern their food choices. Eating well has become an important consideration for consumers. This is why we launched our CLEAN M initiative. Our goal is to have ingredient lists that are as clean as possible. So we started to list all of the ingredients in our company products from France, England and the Netherlands. In particular we focus on dyes, preservatives, emulsifiers and vegetable oils...the idea being to reduce, or even eliminate, certain undesirable ingredients such as hydrogenated vegetable fat in margarines or fillings, sulphur dioxide as a preservative or the E171 white colouring used in certain pastry decorations. In parallel to our focus on ingredients, we will be working on sustainability criteria for raw materials: responsible sourcing (RSPO, fair trade, etc.), use of local ingredients to ensure the shortest possible delivery routes and supplier evaluation systems which are based not only on quality standards but also environmental and social criteria. NUTRI M MEETS CLEAN M We have decided to incorporate a nutrition component into the CLEAN M project: less salt, less sugar, less fat... without compromising the taste of our products! It's a vast project for our R&D teams, among others, but their work is indispensable for the development of the group. MADEMOISELLE DESSERTS IS ON TREND WITH GLUTEN-FREE PRODUCTS IIt's impossible to ignore the recent trend of gluten-free products popping up in grocery aisles and on consumer tables. Since 2013, Mademoiselle Desserts – The Handmade Cake Company – in Maidenhead has been offering high-quality gluten-free products to meet the demands of a growing sector. A facility has been dedicated to the manufacture of these products. The team is pleased to have met and exceeded challenges with respect to flavour and texture in creating a very successful range of gluten-free cakes. These products have been selected for five Great Taste Awards, including our caramel shortcake and carrot cake, as well as our gluten-free brownies, which have even surpassed the classic version in sales! Anticipated sales for Gluten-Free desserts in 2017 have continued to experience strong growth, and now represent more than 15% of total sales for the factory site. . 18 18 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 COMMITMENT N°7 TO MAINTAIN OUR MODERN, INTEGRATED AND EFFICIENT APPROACH OUR INVESTMENTS In 2017, Mademoiselle Desserts invested nine million EUR in factory sites and machinery. These investments were in the areas of computer-based media, the improvement of workplace health and safety for employees, and the purchase of new equipment to increase production line capacity in France and at other sites. In England, the group invested in cutting tools for specific pastry shapes in a custom order for oil companies. In order to simplify and modernise telecommunications tools, computerised switchboards were installed at all sites in France. This system has improved connections between workstations and the central switchboard, etc. Teleconference tools are a very useful feature for a group that is developing internationally, which is why we have invested in upgrades that will also facilitate communication between French sites. Pascal Canaud, IT Manager Mademoiselle Desserts Renaison has invested €18,000 in tracker tools for scanning bar codes to facilitate order preparation and inventory management. These are essential tools for effective inventory management, which allow us to identify products quickly and accurately. THE D-WAY The group's D-WAY framework has been in place since 2016. It consists of a harmonised set of good management practices for factories to promote industrial excellence. Using this standard, the group wishes to set itself apart from other companies through the organisation of its teams and work processes. Mademoiselle Desserts strives to be the gold standard in operational excellence! In 2017, our aim was to implement a general version of this framework across all sites. We achieved this objective with the completion of D-WAY's integration by operational teams at Broons and Renaison! Other sites that were provided with the D-WAY system in 2016 have been able to re-evaluate and measure their progress in terms of industrial excellence in 2017. D-Way is an extremely interesting framework because it allows us to measure our progress in a concrete way and to set future goals for improvement. In addition, it makes it possible to standardise some of our practices and ultimately develop targeted projects and actions. At the Broons site we have implemented this new framework for industrial performance. Our evaluation results were stable at a scale of 35%. Our 2018 goal is to carry out this evaluation in all departments to determine which frameworks will be implemented. Laurent Boscher, Process Manager Broons 19 TO BE A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER The health and safety of Mademoiselle Desserts employees remains our number one priority as a group. We carefully follow and apply indicators for rates of frequency and severity of work accidents. Safety management systems have been established at all sites. Career and skills planning is the second strategic axis of our policy as a responsible employer. We encourage courses leading to qualification for employees. With the aim of promoting physical activity and sports as part of a healthy lifestyle, Mademoiselle Desserts implemented an athletic challenge for its teams in 2017. It will be repeated and developed further in 2018. HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITMENT N°8 TO IMPROVE HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK OUR RISK PREVENTION MEASURES The measures we took in 2017 can attest to our commitment: over €600,000 has been invested to automate the palletising of finished product cartons at the Valade site, where this operation was previously performed manually. At the Broons site, our Passport to Safety program was designed to improve initial training as well as risk training for temporary workers. At the Saint Renan site, all employees benefitted from a Safety Week to help them become aware of risks that may be present in the workplace. Thanks to the training provided by employees who previously completed courses in safety awareness, these accident prevention measures have been highly successful. At the Corby site, 17% of employees have been trained in first aid and are able to administer care to their colleagues in the event of a concussion, seizure, or uncontrolled bleeding. Group meetings take place on a regular basis to raise awareness about health and safety in the workplace. In addition, employees have been trained to identify potential risks and critical safety concerns. SPORTS AND HEALTH In 2017, Mademoiselle Desserts entered the Championship for Companies on the Move ! and the group's employees participated in the United Heroes challenge. Whenever they run, walk, swim, ski or cycle, participants simply turn on their watch or phone and collect points for each activity. Participants can track their results on an individual basis or as a team. In November 2017, we participated in the MOVEMBER challenge to support men's health, in line with our Health, Prevention and Solidarity goals. Participants collected 16,338 points and Mademoiselle Desserts contributed €817 to the foundation. 20 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 ETHICS COMMITMENT N°9 TO DEVELOP, SHARE AND ENSURE THE APPLICATION OF OUR ETHICAL CHARTER Our ethical charter has been shared with all group employees and is now posted at all sites. This charter is presented and explained along with the employee contract at the time of hiring. I had already heard about Mademoiselle Desserts, its CSR policy and its core values by reading press releases prior to my arrival at the end of 2017. This corporate mindset made me want to join the group. The ethical charter is an important document for Mademoiselle Desserts because it allows us to clearly affirm our 01 04 08 values. Its key points are in line with my own values, especially ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION RELATIONSHIPS WITH RESPECT FOR FUNDAMENTAL HUMAN RIGHTS All employees are committed to carrying out their STAKEHOLDERS those related to respect for men and women, honesty, All employees must contribute towards the group’s professional duties in a way which contributes to the company’s environmental aims. Employees must aim to uphold contractual agreements between the group and its clients. and environmental awareness. commitment to upholding basic human rights. Group Européenne des Desserts protects the environment Employees may not divulge outside the group confidential Florent Isoard, Saint Renan Site Manager. Specifically, employees must commit to never using by reducing waste, enforcing a strict waste information which they have obtained either in the course child labour, never using any form of forced separation policy, optimising energy consumption of their duties or inadvertently through their involvement labour, and permitting freedom of association and etc. with the group. Nor may employees share confidential representation. information with other group employees who have not been All employees must ensure that these rights are respected Our sites have also carried out a “greenhouse effect” authorised to receive it. across their areas of responsibility, and ensure that all audit. partners and suppliers do the same. All employees are obliged to maintain the group’s reputation and image by refraining from speaking badly of the Some factories of the group are members of SEDEX, a nongroup of companies and their colleagues. profit making entity whose vocation is to promote ethical practices in the worldwide supply chains. 05 02 LEGAL COMPLIANCE 09 The group rigorously complies with and ensures compliance with all laws and regulations, in particular regarding ANTI-DISCRIMINATION AND competition, intellectual property, employment rights, safety, USE OF COMPANY PROPERTY health and environmental protection. RESPECT FOR PRIVACY All employees are responsible for proper use of company All employees must be committed to avoiding All employees must follow both the law and their site’s internal goods and resources. Employees must take all possible discrimination based on age, sex, country of birth, family policy. measures to avoid damage, theft or unauthorised or situation, sexual orientation, observance of religious or cultural inappropriate usage. customs, genetic characteristics, ethnicity, nationality, race, physical appearance, disability, state of health, pregnancy, Employees must not modify the settings of any IT surname, political opinions, religious beliefs, and trade union equipment, either by adding or removing components or by activity. 06 installing external or unauthorised software. All employees must treat the members of their team, other group employees, and all others with whom they have professional relations with respect and politeness. Employees should not divulge any information about another LISTENING AND DIALOGUE employee’s private life, whether this information was obtained All employees must ensure that they maintain courteous by chance or through professional activity. relationships with in the business. Managers must respect the balance between the The group maintains accountable and high-quality 10 professional and private lives of their colleagues. communication channels between employees, bodies representing staff, and other stakeholders. The group will not tolerate any form of bullying or sexual harassment and strictly forbids any behaviour designed Managers undertake to maintain a two way flow of communication PROFESSIONAL COMMITMENT to create an intimidating, hostile or offensive working with their teams, and to take their feedback into account. environment. All employees must contribute towards establishing an atmosphere of trust and close collaboration between colleagues. No discriminatory, offensive or belittling As a production manager, behaviour should be tolerated. I rely on this charter to 03 All employees must be committed to carrying out work of the 07 highest standard by respecting relevant hygiene and food safety regulations within the group. remind staff about company WORKING CONDITIONS AND HEALTH expectations with respect CONFLICT OF INTEREST AND SAFETY All employees must ensure that their relationships with group to behaviour. The text stakeholders are carried out with integrity, honesty complements our internal All employees must know, obey, and encourage others to obey relevant safety regulations, in line with the group’s Health and and fairness. Safety policy. When dealing with a client, supplier or other third party, Employees must pay particular attention to the working conditions and wellbeing of all those on the group’s sites. employees must make decisions based on objective criteria serving only the interests of the group. All forms of active and policy. Terms listed in bold such as leading by example, respect, courtesy, anti-discrimination, social passive corruption are forbidden. Prevention should be guided by the following principles No employee may directly or indirectly give privileges to a third Setting an example, party, whatever their nature and by whatever means, in order to obtain a commercial transaction or favourable treatment. dialogue are strong values that must be put into practice every day in the workplace. The fact that they by obeying and enforcing safety regulations without Any employee to whom an approach of this kind is made must complacency. report the incident to his/her line manager, who will do their best to bring the situation to an end. Vigilance, being constantly alert and prepared to identify and eliminate Gifts may only be given or accepted when they are of symbolic are clearly stated in writing provides us with a useful standard reference when an infraction occurs. risks. or negligible value, and when the circumstances of the gift do not call the honesty of the giver or the impartiality of the Reacting immediately, receiver into question. to ensure all risk situations are neutralised immediately. Yvan Gueho, Broons Site Production Manager 21 TRAINING COMMITMENT N°10 TO SUPPORT THE DEVELOPMENT OF CAREER PATHS 10,700! That's the number of hours of training carried out within the group in 2017. Our training programs fall within the framework of job and skills management, allowing us to fill positions more effectively and promote career success. In this way, we can match available resources with current needs. We also validate Professional Qualification Certificates in fields such as industrial cleaning, production team management or plant supervision. These PQCs recognize the expertise necessary for industrial job profiles and their development. They allow us to validate an employee's professional experience where it is recognized by a degree. My Professional Qualification Certificate allowed me to learn different cleaning techniques (as well as appropriate technical terms), to follow cleaning protocols and to understand how to properly use chemicals. The trainer knew how to relate to each of us at our own level, explaining the different steps in a cleaning task with an onsite demonstration. I gained confidence in myself, and today I am responsible for receiving and training temporary employees. This degree is recognized in the agri-food sector. Aurélie Coutand In 2018, we will be developing training plans to enhance skills in new job areas such as brand marketing. This training is also useful for skills development. It is a way to develop the new skills required to grow our business and to reinforce employee knowledge in such areas as brand marketing, digital communications and social networks. The training also allows employees to adapt their skills to emerging fields such as automation and machine programming. EMPLOYMENT COMMITMENT N°11 TO MAKE OUR BUSINESS ATTRACTIVE FOR POTENTIAL PARTNERS To make ourselves more attractive as an employer, we aim to work on our employer brand in 2018. In the framework of our CSR and Human Resources policies, we strive to increase the group's visibility. Mademoiselle Desserts is also committed to making itself more attractive as a business and promoting the professional growth of its employees. For the past few years, we have forged partnerships with schools like CESI Angoulême, specialised in safety training; CISP Boulazac, which offers apprenticeships in maintenance; and IUT Périgueux, a training facility for quality assurance. We participate in job fairs such as the forum organised by town of Périgueux employment centre in May, an event where supply meets demand . We promote internships and work-study contracts to assist young people in their career training. 22 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 After completing my degree at Anabiotec, I am now studying at the ISARA school of engineering in Lyon with a work placement at the Renaison site. I wanted to pursue my studies while gaining practical work experience in the field. In this way I can apply my current skills and learn new ones at the same time. Mademoiselle Desserts is also allowing me to complete a three-month placement in England at the Taunton site. My work placement will involve rationalising the number of raw materials used in production. I am thrilled to participate in this work-study experience with an expanding international group. Bérangère PICOT. In 2017, Mademoiselle Desserts sponsored the Interpromo tournament at the AgroParisTech agri-food institute. We donated 500 units of pastries for the occasion. The feedback has been very positive, as you can see in the photos! Our communication strategies are evolving and adapting to new technologies! Mademoiselle Desserts now has a presence on social networks like Facebook, Instagram, and Linkedin. DIALOGUE DIALOGUE ET AND CLIMATSOCIAL SOCIALCLIMATE COMMITMENT N°12 & 13 TO DEVELOP SOCIAL DIALOGUE & PROMOTE A POSITIVE SOCIAL CLIMATE TEAM MEETINGS Our monthly meetings are a great opportunity for managers to share what is happening in their respective departments. They encourage open and honest conversations and exchanges. They are a platform for sharing success stories as well as difficulties or changes that could affect site activities. Meetings allow the team to work in a practical way, thus strengthening decision-making capacity. Katherine Barrett, Human Resources Manager, Taunton 23 In 2017, certain employees were awarded medals for their service! Mademoiselle Desserts held a celebratory meal to honour employees who have worked for many years within the group. Medals were given to all employees who had been with the company for more than 20 years. Some of them have even worked with us for more than 45 years! Our Broons and Saint Renan sites have implemented a program called Celebrating Safety , which recognised benchmarks in the number of accident-free days at a coffee-and-croissant reception with the distribution of gift cheques for Mademoiselle Desserts teams. At the Saint Renan site, the maintenance team passed the benchmark of 365 days without a workplace accident! RETIREMENT ASSISTANCE A half-day information session was organised at the Broons site for people over the age of 55, hosted by the management body of our complementary pension scheme. The whole process was covered and the 18 employees who attended were given ample time to ask questions. The session was followed by a personalised telephone call from the organisers. Employees really appreciated this approach, which will be adopted again in the future. 24 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 ORIENTATION FOR NEW STAFF To introduce the new Thenon site to all group employees (24), the team and its activities were filmed during a typical workday. Product packaging for the Oh Yes! line is carried out at this site, among other activities, using the baked goods produced at other group sites. It is important to show the final stage of a product to every person involved in the manufacturing process. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d74y8HYzRVw 25 PRESERVING THE ENVIRONMENT Mademoiselle Desserts has committed to various initiatives to reduce its environmental footprint and ensure the sustainability of its activities. We also think it's necessary to preserve biodiversity. In the years ahead, Mademoiselle Desserts is committed to establishing a dialogue with different stakeholders, including local environmental associations, to better understand how human society is changing and to analyse its direct and indirect interactions with the activities of living organisms and ecosystems. Case in point: the orchids that have made their appearance on the grounds of Mademoiselle Desserts Valade. An orchid seed can only germinate in an environment that meets ecological requirements for exposure, moisture and soil quality, and it takes three to 12 years for the plant to bloom. We maintain our green spaces and ensure a sensible management (tagging, late mowing) of our grounds, respecting the environment and local biodiversity. 26 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 ENERGY COMMITMENT N°14 TO OPTIMISE OUR ENERGY EFFICIENCY LED At a time when the environment and energy savings are a real subject of concern for society, Mademoiselle Desserts has committed to concrete actions for the protection of the planet. For example, in 2017 the Valade and Renaison plants invested in LED lamps for their production facilities and offices. This decision to upgrade the lighting system had a two-fold advantage: a positive impact on the environment, since LED bulbs do not contain mercury or polluting gases, and better lighting for our teams! In 2017 the Broons plant invested 40,000 euros in a project to install a variable speed compressor to optimise energy consumption. This compressor adjusts motor speed as a function of the flow consumed in real time, which completely eliminates the idling phase of an 'all-or-nothing' compressor . Jean-Luc Petit, Maintenance Manager, Broons In 2018, the Valade site team will install a heat recovery system in the machine room of the production facility. Patrice Campourcy, Director Site, Valade WATER COMMITMENT N°15 REDUCE WATER CONSUMPTION In 2017, various initiatives were carried out at our production sites. Our teams strive to better understand and minimise water consumption in our facilities. Installing meters has allowed us to keep frequent records of our consumption so that we can issue reduction targets. In 2017 the Broons acquired two new meters. Training and awareness programs have been designed for production and cleaning staff. At the Valade site, cleaning crews have been provided with water-saving hoses. 27 WASTE COMMITMENT N°16 TO REDUCE RAW MATERIAL LOSS, AND TO SORT AND RECOVER WASTE Fully aware that waste can be a valuable resource and a major environmental concern for businesses, Mademoiselle Desserts strives to implement and improve sorting and recycling processes at each of its sites. Measures have also been taken to reduce material loss, in particular through the group's participation in ADEME's IAA test site program for food waste reduction. In 2017, the group generated 5,283 tonnes of waste. Mademoiselle Desserts is pursuing waste recycling partnerships with its various service providers based on different categories of waste. At group headquarters, the Joyeux Recycleurs (Happy Recyclers) company collects our waste paper and bottles twice monthly. For every kilo of waste collected, five cents are donated to the Ares Atelier association. In total, the company has been able to collect 495 kilos of recyclable waste from our offices. In 2017, the Broons site optimised maintenance waste recycling by using a service provider specialised in steel, stainless steel, aluminium etc... Recovering wooden pallets also generates a savings of €2,000 per year. At the Valade site, waste management and recovery translate to economic gains. Waste is a real resource. 28 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 GHG IMPACT COMMITMENT N°17 TO REDUCE THE IMPACT OF GHC EMISSIONS RESULTING FROM RAW MATERIALS AND PACKAGING – TO REDUCE OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT The use of renewable energies, the protection of fauna and flora, the fight against climate change, responsible consumption and production ... these environmental issues have been assigned 2030 targets through the Sustainable Development Objectives program. Through our greenhouse gas emissions reduction initiatives, we are addressing target number 13. LOCAL SOURCING AS SOON AS POSSIBLE Sourcing raw materials locally is one of the criteria for the CSR component of our CLEAN M project. The flour we use comes from the nearest purchase point to our sites in France and is produced locally in Beauce and Périgord. Our beet sugar comes from the north of France and our milk from the greater Aquitaine region. 83% of the raw materials we use are produced in France. In this way we are able to minimise transportation distances for these raw materials and support French producers whenever possible. In England, our Maidenhead site sources 70% of its raw materials within a perimeter of 250 km. ENCOURAGING GREEN TRANSIT In 2017, Mademoiselle Desserts Valade worked in collaboration with the SDE 24 energy union to install charging stations for electric cars. After committing to the installation of 133 public charging stations in the Dordogne region, this union signed its first partnership with a private company: Mademoiselle Desserts! Four charging stations will be installed in our car parks in spring 2018. And this is just the beginning! 29 ENSURING OUR IMPACT ON SOCIETY AND OUR LOCAL BIAS FAIR TRADE PRACTICES AND LOCAL DEVELOPMENT Aware of the impact of its activities on the environment, on local operations, on suppliers and on service providers, Mademoiselle Desserts is committed to upholding and making public its Responsible Purchasing charter. The group manufactures more than 50,000 tons of baked goods using nearly 500 raw materials and 200 packaging standards. Our Responsible Purchasing charter invokes the commitments of the group with respect to ISO 26000 and Global Compact: responsible practices, good relations with other organisations and respect for property rights, the prevention of child labour, the fight against corruption, fair competition... COMMITMENT N°18 RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE PURCHASING In 2017, the group updated its responsible purchasing charter with respect to ISO 26000 and the concerns of stakeholders. This charter has been distributed to all of the group's ingredient suppliers. It is related to our supplier CSR selfassessment questionnaire, which also serves as the basis for our CLEAN M project CSR ratings, integrating social performance criteria into our production of baked goods. A score will be given depending on the sector, responsible sourcing and action plans with our suppliers relating to social issues. The main criteria considered in this rating are local procurement, the reduction of pesticides and GHG emissions, animal welfare.... The group uses tonnes of fresh eggs for its pastry production. More and more of our clients already request eggs from floor-reared or free range hens rather than battery hens, or are preparing to switch to these products in the near future. Currently, 13% of our eggs sourced in France are already designated free range or floorreared . At our Maidenhead site in England, 100% of eggs used in production are already free range . We launched a project to analyse client demand and factory production processes involving eggs, and to meet with current or prospective suppliers to collaborate in developing the sector. We are committed to a multi-year plan based on client contracts to end the sale of eggs or egg-based products from caged hens between 2020 and 2025. 30 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 COMMITMENT N°19 TO PRIORITISE LOCAL PURCHASING WHENEVER POSSIBLE The group buys more than 50,000 tonnes of raw materials per year, the majority of which are from animal or plant sources. We prioritise local suppliers near our production sites whenever possible. 83% of the raw materials used by our sites in France are of national origin: flour, eggs, milk, cream, sugar, apples.... FLOUR We work in close collaboration with Minoterie Allafort, Périgord Farine, located near the Valade site. We will continue to fulfil the commitments of the three-party local contract signed between the mill, the farmers of the Dordogne region represented by the Périgourdine co-operative, and Mademoiselle Desserts. APPLES Mademoiselle Desserts has selected Pomanjou as its apple supplier, a world leader in the agri-food industry. At Pomanjou, we work with the local labour force in the interest of maintaining a rural economy. Our apple production is spread over 10 orchards in the Loire valley, all of which are certified Glowwwbal Gap. We mainly supply Golden Delicious apples to Mademoiselle Desserts. In response to increasing consumer demand, we are limiting the human footprint in our agricultural activities. Our orchard managers and technicians take pride in developing innovative processes to improve our efficiency and reduce the environmental impact of our activities. One example of this is the use of biological control measures. We use Typhlodromus mites (natural predators of spider mites) to curb the proliferation of pests. Another technique known as sexual confusion allows us to reduce the use of chemical insecticides in our orchard. We've also taken steps to attract helpful biological agents, setting up beehives on our farms for improved pollination as well as birdhouses in our orchards. To minimise our water consumption and reduce the risk of fungus, we have installed drip irrigation systems. François Richard, Orchard Manager at Pomanjou. COMMITMENT N°20 ENSURING A SUSTAINABLE AND DYNAMIC LOCAL APPROACH Businesses have a major role in regional development at a local level and their initiatives can have an important impact. We'd like to be involved in the areas where our businesses are located so that we can boost and maintain local initiatives. Our various sites have a considerable economic impact on the regions that host them. Most often located in rural areas, they help to maintain activity in often deserted regions. In 2017 they employed more than 1,300 workers directly and generated nearly 4,000 additional jobs indirectly. The local bias of the company is also reinforced by three factory outlet stores at the Broons, Renaison, and Taunton sites. They allow us to interact directly with the locals and to introduce them to our products. DONATIONS Local associations also make regional development possible. Our involvement is reinforced through close cooperation with them. We support associations and initiatives of every kind through the donation of funds or products, whether they be social, humanitarian or cultural. Examples include athletic associations for our employees and their families, food banks, blood donation events...Mademoiselle Desserts is committed to associations such as Restos du Cœur and Le Téléthon, as well as many other local associations. Some 250 associations benefited from group donations in 2017. In 2017, for example, Mademoiselle Desserts collaborated with the Secours populaire of Lille, donating nearly 5,000 units or the equivalent of €14,752 worth of pastries. We also supported the food assistance organisation Les Restos du Coeur with a donation of 9,700 units of pastries, a value of €5,000. 31 VALADE SITE In 2017 Mademoiselle Desserts invested in a renovation of the Valade plant to make certain work stations more ergonomic. An automatic palletising system was put in place to prevent accidents and potential occupational illnesses. For the past five years we have been investing in measures to improve our productivity and, above all else, our working conditions. We are striving to reduce occupational illnesses and to keep workers employed who may already be suffering from such conditions. With each investment, our focus is on health and safety. We wish to improve working conditions for all workers on the production floor. Our aim with this project has been to make everyday tasks more comfortable for workers. Corinne Escot, Nurse, Safety Manager. 32 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 To ensure our economic sustainability TURNOVER IN FRANCE (€) ......................................................................................................................... 95,593 EXPORT TURNOVER (%) ........................................................................................................................................... 4 MANUFACTURED PRODUCT TONNAGE (TONNES)................................................................................. 29,541 NUMBER OF REFERENCES PRODUCED ........................................................................................................... 608 PROPORTION OF TURNOVER ACHIEVED WITH PRODUCTS LAUNCHED WITHIN OF LAST 12 MONTHS (%).... 0.6 NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN R&D................................................................................................................................... 9 NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS PER 100 TONNES OF PRODUCTS DELIVERED (%) .................................... 0.12 IFS/BRC CERTIFICATION ..................................................................................................................................... yes OTHER CERTIFICATION: SEDEX ......................................................................................................................... yes To be a responsible employer NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES (INDEFINITE CONTRACTS) .................................................................................. 432 AVERAGE AGE OF EMPLOYEES ............................................................................................................................ 41 FEMALE STAFF (%) ................................................................................................................................................. 47 NUMBER OF HOURS’ TRAINING.................................................................................................................... 4,035 NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE HAD AT LEAST ONE TRAINING COURSE ............................................. 220 NUMBER OF APPRENTICESHIPS ............................................................................................................................. 9 NUMBER OF WORKPLACE FIRST-AIDERS ......................................................................................................... 80 ABSENTEEISM RATE (%)........................................................................................................................................... 9 SEVERITY RATE OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS ........................................................................................ 1.88 FREQUENCY RATE OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS ................................................................................... 28.2 NUMBER OF SPECULATIVE CVS RECEIVED ....................................................................................................... 67 To preserve the environment ANNUAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (KWH) ........................................................................... 19,802,776 ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION/TONNE OF PRODUCT (KWH/T) .................................................................... 670 ANNUAL GAS CONSUMPTION KWH ................................................................................................. 5,908,240 GAS CONSUMPTION/TOTAL PRODUCTION (KWH/T) .................................................................................... 200 WATER CONSUMPTION (M3) ..................................................................................................................... 76,017 WATER CONSUMPTION/TOTAL PRODUCTION (M3/T) ................................................................................ 2.57 TOTAL QUANTITY OF WASTE (TONNES) ..................................................................................................... 1,839 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (T CO2EQ) ............................................................................................................. 2,099 To ensure our impact on society and our local integration NUMBER OF ASSOCIATIONS HELPED ................................................................................................................. 84 NUMBER OF PORTIONS OF DESSERTS OFFERED TO ASSOCIATIONS ........................................... 249,769 33 COMMITMENT N°6 TO GUARANTEE HIGH-QUALITY, HEALTHY AND SAFE PRODUCTS In the spring of 2017, four client audits were carried out at Valade with respect to food safety. Most of the audits were performed by export clients. Some of the issues addressed included team reactivity, product quality, process control, hygiene, and inspections. These audits were successfully completed and all our clients were satisfied with their visit and with our factory conditions. As professionals in the agri-food sector, we need to establish strict hygiene regulations to ensure the food safety of finished products sold to consumers. A HACCP study has been established to identify four categories of hazard, whether they be Chemical, Microbiological, Physical or Allergenic, and to define adequate control measures for all the site's production lines. In order to verify that these good manufacturing and hygiene practices are adhered to and understood by all production staff, a HACCP team meets every three months. Audits and training sessions are conducted during these meetings to help plant production staff become accountable for relevant HACCP inspection points, to raise awareness and to share expertise. In 2017, the team worked to create an official document to assess different types of hazards in various production zones but also to test staff knowledge of basic regulations. We can therefore assign a score for each category, identify nonconformances and establish an action plan in partnership with the production department. The HACCP team COMMITMENT N°8 TO IMPROVE WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY 2017 has been an important year for safety at the Valade site! Following a study on musculoskeletal disorders at the site, the packaging department was determined to be one of the most critical areas. Approximately 60 persons, mostly women working in the area, were exposed to risks for occupational illnesses. To prevent such illnesses from occurring, €655,000 was invested in automating the palletising process to improve working conditions at the production site. In more concrete terms, a robot prepares pallets according to a previously defined, automatic program. Automation attempts to address several issues in reducing shoulder, wrist and back strain, freeing up work spaces and reducing environmental constraints. Modernising our equipment will help us to reduce the number of occupational shoulder injuries, create accessible jobs, support employees with recognized occupational illnesses, promote versatility in positions between manufacturing and packaging, and reduce harshness factors. 34 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 COMMITMENT N°14 TO OPTIMISE OUR ENERGY EFFICIENCY The energy efficiency certificate system was established in France following the adoption of a programming act which defined the orientations of the 13 July 2005 energy policy and which was influenced by the Kyoto protocol. These certificates are potential financial levers for businesses with respect to energy management. Thanks to these provisions and a 2016 energy audit, the Valade site proceeded to launch an energy efficiency project in 2017 to recover and store heat from cold compressors at production facilities. The idea was to use this heat to boil water for cleaning and steam production, as well as heat the loft area (using hot water unit heaters rather than electric ones). It's a great project that will be online in 2018! In 2017 Mademoiselle Desserts Valade also launched a project to replace its lighting system with a €34,000 investment in LED lights. LED is an indispensable technology to light our factories while preserving the environment, thanks to its ease of mounting on circuit boards, low energy consumption, mechanical resistance and long life. In 2017, our cold storage room was completely refitted for lighting. Other areas of the production site will be progressively refitted in 2018. COMMITMENT N°20 ENSURING A SUSTAINABLE AND DYNAMIC LOCAL APPROACH Our computers and accessories are enjoying a second life in Togo! Five laptops, nine computers, three monitors and a printer from the Valade site were shipped to the offices of the Togo Tourism and Development Association this summer. The association has a mandate to develop education and solidarity tourism through home-stays with locals. Some of their projects include increasing access to computer tools, renovating hospitals and schools, and the creation of a youth training centre. In Togo, young people are trained by the association to refurbish donated equipment. The devices will then be installed in colleges, high schools and village homes so that young people and women can learn computer skills. 35 BROONS SITE The R&D teams at the Broons site have been busy developing the CLEAN M project and have already transformed two products: the opera cake and the feuillantine. These products no longer contain hydrogenated vegetable fats, gelatine, stabilisers or artificial flavours...and they still have the same great taste. Laurent Pillard, R&D Manager 36 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 To ensure our economic sustainability TURNOVER IN FRANCE (€) ......................................................................................................................... 23,023 EXPORT TURNOVER (%) ........................................................................................................................................ 19 MANUFACTURED PRODUCT TONNAGE (TONNES) ................................................................................... 2,487 NUMBER OF REFERENCES PRODUCED ........................................................................................................... 499 PROPORTION OF TURNOVER ACHIEVED WITH PRODUCTS LAUNCHED WITHIN OF LAST 12 MONTHS (%)..... 19.8 PROPORTION OF TURNOVER DEVOTED TO R&D (%) ................................................................................... 0.2 NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN R&D .................................................................................................................................. 9 NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS PER 100 TONNES OF PRODUCTS DELIVERED (%) ....................................... 3.1 IFS/BRC CERTIFICATION ..................................................................................................................................... yes OTHER CERTIFICATION: SEDEX ......................................................................................................................... yes To be a responsible employer NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES (INDEFINITE CONTRACTS) .................................................................................. 169 AVERAGE AGE OF EMPLOYEES ............................................................................................................................ 42 FEMALE STAFF (%) ................................................................................................................................................. 55 NUMBER OF HOURS’ TRAINING .................................................................................................................. 1,699 NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE HAD AT LEAST ONE TRAINING COURSE ................................................ 51 PROPORTION OF EMPLOYEES TRAINED (%) .................................................................................................... 30 NUMBER OF APPRENTICESHIPS ............................................................................................................................. 1 NUMBER OF WORKPLACE FIRST-AIDERS ......................................................................................................... 39 ABSENTEEISM RATE (%) ....................................................................................................................................... 14 SEVERITY RATE OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS ....................................................................................... 1.51 FREQUENCY RATE OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS ................................................................................... 57.2 NUMBER OF SPECULATIVE CVS RECEIVED .................................................................................................... 106 To preserve the environment ANNUAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (KWH) .............................................................................. 6,911,000 ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION/TONNE OF PRODUCT (KWH/T) ............................................................... 2,778 ANNUAL GAS CONSUMPTION KWH ................................................................................................. 3,416,000 GAS CONSUMPTION/TOTAL PRODUCTION (KWH/T) ............................................................................... 1,373 WATER CONSUMPTION (M3) ..................................................................................................................... 35,749 WATER CONSUMPTION/TOTAL PRODUCTION (M3/T) ............................................................................. 14.37 TOTAL QUANTITY OF WASTE (TONNES) ..................................................................................................... 1,100 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (T CO2EQ) ............................................................................................................. 2,042 To ensure our impact on society and our local integration NUMBER OF ASSOCIATIONS HELPED..................................................................................................................... 6 FACTORY OUTLET TURNOVER (K€).................................................................................................................. 160 NUMBER OF PORTIONS OF DESSERTS OFFERED TO ASSOCIATIONS............................................ 110,947 37 COMMITMENT N°5 TO EXPAND EXPORTS FROM OUR FACTORY BASE AND DEVELOP INTERNATIONALLY For the past 5 years, the Broons plant has continued its tradition of making Yule logs and other holiday products for export to England, where they are always very popular among our clients, their customers and the British media. English consumers are particularly fond of our Black Forest log! With its outer layer of chocolate mousse and inner layer of cherry juice-soaked biscuit and whipped cream with pieces of cherry, this dessert will surely indulge your sweet tooth. In 2017 more than 40,000 units were sold. The success of this product can be explained by its combination of traditional recipes and made-by-Mademoiselle Desserts innovation. Jerôme Houssiaux, Key Export Accounts Manager COMMITMENT N°6 TO GUARANTEE HIGH-QUALITY, HEALTHY AND SAFE PRODUCTS 50 desserts will have been cleaned by 2018. Gelatine will be replaced by fruit pectin, natural flavours will replace artificial ones, spirulina algae and beet will be used as natural dyes, fruit purées will be used in toppings... COMMITMENT N°8 TO IMPROVE WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY HYGIENE TRAINING Food safety training is a mandatory regulatory requirement and an important concern for our clients. The Broons site quality department trains one third of its staff every year with respect to HACCP issues, including microbiology, allergens, foreign bodies, claims, factory road maps... Training material is revised in light of new requirements from clients, regulations and work areas for the current year. In 2017 the site prepared training material for the managers involved. Specific training materials have also been created for the maintenance and logistics departments. Managers are also satisfied with this approach and intend to use these tools according to their needs and to train new staff. 38 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 SAFETY AT THE BROONS SITE! We are proud to have received in 2017 a CARSAT award in recognition of our initiatives to improve factory health and safety. We set up an ergonomic work area and established a working group to develop recommendations and an action plan to improve safety conditions at the production site. Guillaume MAROULIER Broons Site Manager In the spring of 2017 we launched our Passport to Safety project! It is a new system to receive and identify temporary agency workers which streamlines necessary information. It allows us, for example, to know a worker's access and effective dates of employment at the site. The initial rollout date for the passport program was in September 2017, but this has been rescheduled for early 2018. Through this program, temporary agency workers will be briefed in general safety regulations for the site. More specific instructions will be provided for each department at the production site. Finally, new temporary staff will be provided with a concrete and precise introduction to the facility and their work station to inform them of potential risks. All team leaders in charge of temporary staff were given training to effectively carry out these safety briefings. Stay tuned for more news! COMMITMENT N°13 TO PROMOTE A GOOD INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS CLIMATE This summer the Broons site hosted an awards reception to present medals celebrating the careers of long-time employees. Five employees were given medals depending on their seniority: silver for more than 20 years of employment, red for more than 30 years and gold for more than 45 years! COMMITMENT N°16 TO REDUCE RAW MATERIAL WASTE TO SELECT AND RECOVER WASTE At the Broons site we use around 500 tonnes of golden delicious apples per year. To better manage material waste, we've implemented a process which covers all steps from start to finish, from peeling to cutting the apples. These optimisations are essential to reduce material waste. In 2017, our maintenance team adjusted equipment settings in order to minimise waste. Thanks to this helpful adjustment, we've reduced apple waste from 32% to 28%, which is quite a remarkable achievement! Yvan Geho Production Manager 39 RENAISON SITE 2017 is the year of the Yule log. Buttercream Yule logs are in high demand! This traditional dessert is synonymous with Christmas for the whole family! Our special holiday line is an ode to indulgence. Our carefully researched recipes are given a subtle finish with trendy gourmet decorations. Between September and November we made 128 different products. This scale of production requires a high level of organisation and adaptability from our teams. Our Yule logs are worthy of the finest pastry chefs, with a mix of textures that go from smooth to crunchy, from fluffy mousse to syrup! Pascal Robert, Site Manager 40 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 To ensure our economic sustainability TURNOVER IN FRANCE (€) ......................................................................................................................... 15,035 EXPORT TURNOVER (%) ........................................................................................................................................ 10 MANUFACTURED PRODUCT TONNAGE (TONNES) ................................................................................... 2,459 NUMBER OF REFERENCES PRODUCED ........................................................................................................... 444 PROPORTION OF TURNOVER ACHIEVED WITH PRODUCTS LAUNCHED WITHIN OF LAST 12 MONTHS (%) ... 2.2 NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN R&D................................................................................................................................... 3 NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS PER 100 TONNES OF PRODUCTS DELIVERED (%) ....................................... 2.1 IFS/BRC CERTIFICATION ..................................................................................................................................... yes OTHER CERTIFICATION: SEDEX ............................................................................................................................ no To be a responsible employer NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES (INDEFINITE CONTRACTS) ..................................................................................... 78 AVERAGE AGE OF EMPLOYEES ............................................................................................................................ 45 FEMALE STAFF (%) ................................................................................................................................................. 65 NUMBER OF HOURS’ TRAINING ....................................................................................................................... 780 NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE HAD AT LEAST ONE TRAINING COURSE ................................................ 76 PROPORTION OF EMPLOYEES TRAINED (%) .................................................................................................... 95 NUMBER OF WORKPLACE FIRST-AIDERS ......................................................................................................... 12 ABSENTEEISM RATE (%) ....................................................................................................................................... 14 SEVERITY RATE OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS ..................................................................................... 12.54 FREQUENCY RATE OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS ........................................................................................ 65 To preserve the environment ANNUAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (KWH) .............................................................................. 4,021,185 ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION/TONNE OF PRODUCT (KWH/T) ............................................................... 1,635 ANNUAL GAS CONSUMPTION KWH ................................................................................................. 4,042,151 GAS CONSUMPTION/TOTAL PRODUCTION (KWH/T) ............................................................................... 1,643 WATER CONSUMPTION (M3) ..................................................................................................................... 22,328 WATER CONSUMPTION/TOTAL PRODUCTION (M3/T) ................................................................................ 9.08 TOTAL QUANTITY OF WASTE (TONNES) .......................................................................................................... 678 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (T CO2EQ) ............................................................................................................. 1,198 To ensure our impact on society and our local integration NUMBER OF ASSOCIATIONS HELPED .................................................................................................................... 1 FACTORY OUTLET TURNOVER (K€) .................................................................................................................. 391 NUMBER OF PORTIONS OF DESSERTS OFFERED TO ASSOCIATIONS ................................................. 4,044 41 COMMITMENT N°4 TO EXPAND OUR LINE AND ENCOURAGE PRODUCT INNOVATION The campaign for our line of holiday products began in the summer because we wanted to anticipate volume for this season, given that 2017 volumes surpassed those of 2016 by 55%. The Renaison site has a production schedule of six days per week over three months, and teams are mobilised for a successful campaign. Great taste makes all the difference, and it's why dessert-lovers chose our products during the holiday season! Some of our best-selling and most popular desserts include our buttercream Yule logs, available in chocolate, praline, coffee, vanilla and Grand Marnier flavours, as well as our custard logs. COMMITMENT N°10 TO SUPPORT THE DEVELOPMENT OF CAREER PATHS During the summer, the entire staff of Mademoiselle Desserts Renaison met in the events hall to mark the end of a two-year collaboration. In May 2015, the Odyssey project was launched in response to difficulties at the site. The project's aim was to perform an analysis of the site's teams and collectively develop an organisational model aimed at finding solutions to the problems. Today, things are going much better for the site. Odyssey has brought many improvements and the site is once again performing well. There are still issues that need to be addressed, but we are determined to repeat our past successes. And we have many examples to follow: site certification, increasing sales, fewer customer complaints and meeting goals for our labour and material budgets. The testimonies provided at this meeting confirm that Renaison has changed! To celebrate this, the meeting ended in the sunshine with a giant plancha grill barbecue. 42 CORPORATE CORPORATESOCIAL SOCIALRESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITYREPORT REPORT/ 2017 / 2017 COMMITMENT N°16 TO REDUCE RAW MATERIAL LOSS, AND TO SORT AND RECOVER WASTE LESS FOOD WASTE FOR GREATER PERFORMANCE! Teams at the Renaison site are involved in the IAA test site program to reduce food waste, supported by Ademe. Why? The three major concerns are ethical, environmental and economic. ETHICS Wasting food while many people go hungry. THE ENVIRONMENT Unnecessary consumption of natural resources to produce food that is ultimately thrown away... THE ECONOMY Losses from food waste are estimated at €160 per year for every French citizen. Following a global analysis carried out at the production site, we have decided to implement measures at the Choux Pastry / Readyto-garnish facilities. These include streamlining certain products, optimising preventive maintenance plans to reduce equipment failure rate, strengthening internal audits, encouraging, through R&D, pastry cut-out forms that minimise waste... Our challenge: to remove almost 300 tonnes of waste, resulting in savings of more than €100,000! 43 THE SAINT RENAN SITE 2017 was a good year for the Saint Renan site, one which saw the development and reinforcement of our technology and industrial expertise. The production team, in close collaboration with the process department, has consolidated its manufacturing processes and the tracking of performance indicators. Our teams work better together, in the best conditions and with the best results! Sylvain Roudaut, Production Manager 44 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 To ensure our economic sustainability TURNOVER IN FRANCE (€) ............................................................................................................................ 8,806 EXPORT TURNOVER (%) ........................................................................................................................................... 6 MANUFACTURED PRODUCT TONNAGE (TONNES) ................................................................................. 2,692 NUMBER OF REFERENCES PRODUCED ........................................................................................................... 163 PROPORTION OF TURNOVER ACHIEVED WITH PRODUCTS LAUNCHED WITHIN OF LAST 12 MONTHS (%) ... 2.2 NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN R&D .................................................................................................................................. 1 NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS PER 100 TONNES OF PRODUCTS DELIVERED (%) .................................... 0.67 IFS/BRC CERTIFICATION ...................................................................................................................................... oui OTHER CERTIFICATION: SEDEX ......................................................................................................................... non To be a responsible employer NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES (INDEFINITE CONTRACTS) ..................................................................................... 56 AVERAGE AGE OF EMPLOYEES ............................................................................................................................ 42 FEMALE STAFF (%) ................................................................................................................................................. 47 NUMBER OF HOURS’ TRAINING ....................................................................................................................... 270 NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE HAD AT LEAST ONE TRAINING COURSE ................................................ 29 PROPORTION OF EMPLOYEES TRAINED (%) .................................................................................................... 52 NUMBER OF APPRENTICESHIPS ............................................................................................................................. 1 NUMBER OF WORKPLACE FIRST-AIDERS ......................................................................................................... 18 ABSENTEEISM RATE (%) ....................................................................................................................................... 13 SEVERITY RATE OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS ................................................................................................ 3 FREQUENCY RATE OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS ........................................................................................ 44 To preserve the environment ANNUAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (KWH) .............................................................................. 1,890,030 ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION/TONNE OF PRODUCT (KWH/T) .................................................................... 702 ANNUAL GAS CONSUMPTION KWH ...................................................................................................... 304,571 GAS CONSUMPTION/TOTAL PRODUCTION (KWH/T) .................................................................................... 113 WATER CONSUMPTION (M3) ........................................................................................................................ 2,895 WATER CONSUMPTION/TOTAL PRODUCTION (M3/T) ............................................................................... 1.08 TOTAL QUANTITY OF WASTE (TONNES) .......................................................................................................... 290 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (T CO2EQ) .................................................................................................................. 590 To ensure our impact on society and our local integration NUMBER OF ASSOCIATIONS HELPED .................................................................................................................... 1 NUMBER OF PORTIONS OF DESSERTS OFFERED TO ASSOCIATIONS ...................................................... 500 45 COMMITMENT N°7 TO MAINTAIN OUR MODERN, INTEGRATED AND EFFICIENT APPROACH 2017 saw a significant renovation of the Saint Renan offices with the aim of creating better working conditions for employees. After some work, the offices of Mademoiselle Desserts have become more pleasant and better heated, and the teams enjoy a nice view outside. COMMITMENT N°8 TO IMPROVE WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY Safety Week took place in the month of April at the Mademoiselle Desserts St Renan site. It was an opportunity to recall best practices to avoid injuries and accidents. The week was organised around various topics: Monday: Movement and posture , a day that began with a muscular warm-up and tips on organising work stations. Examples were also given of correct posture for certain routine movements. Tuesday: Tools and actors , a series of situational judgment and word association games to teach employees how to react when a problem arises. Wednesday: Behavioural safety guided tour through a multiple-choice quiz, a scavenger hunt for risks, and an actual tour of the facility. Thursday: Work safety sheet , 40 questions and a highway code style test. Friday: Review and challenge to close the week with a quiz and debriefing. All employees at the Saint Renan site participated in the daily activities in groups of seven to eight people. Each day teams were awarded points during the activities, and a winning team was determined at the end of the week! One third of the employees prepared and facilitated various workshops throughout the factory... Our watchword: Eliminate workplace accidents! 46 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 COMMITMENT N°16 TO REDUCE RAW MATERIAL WASTE TO SELECT AND RECOVER WASTE Since 2017, the team at Mademoiselle Desserts Saint Renan has focused on outreach work with staff to reduce material waste. To this end, instructions on how to avoid waste for each product used in the facility have been posted at various information stations. In 2017 we set a goal of 2.41% growth in raw material yield. We surpassed this goal at the end of December with a yield of 2.50%. The Saint Renan site also launched a call for proposals in 2017 concerning its overall waste management processes. The end goal is to only have one partner so that waste tracking is more precise. See you next year for the results of this project! The site also installed bins in the break room to sort and recover cups, aluminium cans and plastic bottles. Similar bins for paper recycling have been installed in our offices. From the moment these bins were installed, we saw a real change in terms of recycling. Factory employees are using them correctly! Anthony Audrain, Logistics Manager 47 THE CORBY SITE 2017 was a year of expansion and increased capacity for the Mademoiselle Desserts Corby site. A significant contract was secured with Nando’s to supply their four main desserts, requiring the implementation of new processes to manufacture these products to specification. In addition, construction is underway to increase capacity for baking and storing dry goods in anticipation of pudding production at the Corby site in early 2018. Frans Visser, Supply Chain Director Mademoiselle Desserts UK 48 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 To ensure our economic sustainability TURNOVER IN FRANCE (€) ............................................................................................................................ 7,967 EXPORT TURNOVER (%) ...................................................................................................................................... 3.2 MANUFACTURED PRODUCT TONNAGE (TONNES) ................................................................................... 1,626 NUMBER OF REFERENCES PRODUCED ........................................................................................................... 231 PROPORTION OF TURNOVER ACHIEVED WITH PRODUCTS LAUNCHED WITHIN OF LAST 12 MONTHS (%)..... 24.7 NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN R&D................................................................................................................................... 4 NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS PER 100 TONNES OF PRODUCTS DELIVERED (%) ............................................ 5 IFS/BRC CERTIFICATION ..................................................................................................................................... yes OTHER CERTIFICATION: SEDEX ............................................................................................................................ no To be a responsible employer NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES (INDEFINITE CONTRACTS) ..................................................................................... 93 AVERAGE AGE OF EMPLOYEES ............................................................................................................................ 38 FEMALE STAFF (%) ................................................................................................................................................. 47 NUMBER OF HOURS’ TRAINING ........................................................................................................................... 84 NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE HAD AT LEAST ONE TRAINING COURSE ................................................ 12 PROPORTION OF EMPLOYEES TRAINED (%) .................................................................................................... 21 NUMBER OF WORKPLACE FIRST-AIDERS ......................................................................................................... 11 ABSENTEEISM RATE (%)........................................................................................................................................... 1 FREQUENCY RATE OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS ................................................................................... 40.3 To preserve the environment ANNUAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (KWH).................................................................................... 881,087 ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION/TONNE OF PRODUCT (KWH/T) .................................................................... 541 ANNUAL GAS CONSUMPTION KWH ...................................................................................................... 604,199 GAS CONSUMPTION/TOTAL PRODUCTION (KWH/T) .................................................................................... 371 WATER CONSUMPTION (M3) ........................................................................................................................ 3,786 WATER CONSUMPTION/TOTAL PRODUCTION (M3/T) ................................................................................ 2.33 TOTAL QUANTITY OF WASTE (TONNES) .......................................................................................................... 211 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (T CO2EQ) .................................................................................................................. 580 To ensure our impact on society and our local integration NUMBER OF ASSOCIATIONS HELPED .................................................................................................................... 1 NUMBER OF PORTIONS OF DESSERTS OFFERED TO ASSOCIATIONS....................................................... 300 49 COMMITMENT N°5 TO EXPAND EXPORTS FROM OUR FACTORY BASE AND DEVELOP INTERNATIONALLY In 2017 the Corby site launched a mini-dessert trio for the British market: the lime chocolate tart, the chocolate brownie cheesecake and the salted caramel pecan tart. It was a real opportunity for group development at an international level! In addition, five new products were launched at the Corby site for export to Jeddah in Saudi Arabia and will now be available to wholesalers in the Middle East. It was an excellent opportunity to enter new markets with five never-before-seen products: Chocolate Truffle Trio, Rocky Road Brownie Cheesecake, Near Death by Chocolate, Chocolate Chip Cookie Stack and Ultimate Choc Fudge Cake. COMMITMENT N°7 TO MAINTAIN OUR MODERN, INTEGRATED AND EFFICIENT APPROACH Mademoiselle Desserts Corby has invested in a new ultrasonic cutting machine that inserts spaces between cut pieces. This new feature ensures a cleaner and simpler way to manage products and we are sure it will appeal to our prospective clients. Loading and unloading processes for the product are also improved and greater cost savings are achieved when compared to our existing machines. COMMITMENT N°8 TO IMPROVE HEALTH PROTECTION AND WORKPLACE SAFETY Corby is investing in safety for its employees. In 2017, first aid training was offered to 16 individuals, representing over 17% of all staff, who learned to treat patients with concussions, loss of consciousness, bleeding, seizures, fractures or sprains. Awareness and education tools were also distributed to small groups to remind employees about health and safety measures in the workplace. The teams worked on topics such as the handling of materials, the transport of pallets...Finally, four members of the staff received training to identify potential risks that may affect employees and communicate to management any concerns related to health and safety in the workplace. 50 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 COMMITMENT N°9 DRAWING UP, PUBLICISING AND ENSURING THE APPLICATION OF OUR ETHICAL CHARTER The ethical charter should be at the heart of all employees' decisionmaking. This distinguishes the ethical charter from other decision-making models and recognises the need for all decisions to be consistent with the principles and standards of behaviour set out in the charter. The charter developed by the company includes principles of fairness and respect. Research shows these to be the most crucial factors in maintaining and enhancing confidence in businesses both by employees and customers. The charter originates from our core morals/ethics/standards, which reflect the expectations that each employee should have of themselves, and that the customer has of the company and the organization itself. Whilst clearly setting out rules, regulations and guidelines, the ethical charter is not restrictive. It is wholly positive in setting out strategies for both our individual and collective behaviour. It should be promoted at a grassroots level. Alyson Stringer, Accounts Manager COMMITMENT N°19 TO PRIORITISE LOCAL PURCHASING WHENEVER POSSIBLE In 2017, the Corby plant has made a point of prioritising local sugar producers. The site has decided to source raw materials exclusively from suppliers in Great Britain. It's a positive move for the environment and for national sugar producers! 51 THE MAIDENHEAD SITE 2017 has been a challenging year for the Handmade Cake Company site because we experienced a rapid growth of 29% in sales. Thanks to the excellent work of Simon Law and his team, we have won contracts with clients such as John Lewis and Wyevale.. Michael Wheeler, Group Manufacturing Director Simon Law, Channel Director 52 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 To ensure our economic sustainability TURNOVER IN FRANCE (€).......................................................................................................................... 21,180 EXPORT TURNOVER (%) ........................................................................................................................................... 6 MANUFACTURED PRODUCT TONNAGE (TONNES) ................................................................................... 1,626 NUMBER OF REFERENCES PRODUCED ........................................................................................................... 300 PROPORTION OF TURNOVER ACHIEVED WITH PRODUCTS LAUNCHED WITHIN OF LAST 12 MONTHS (%)... 14.7 NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN R&D................................................................................................................................... 5 NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS PER 100 TONNES OF PRODUCTS DELIVERED (%) .................................... 4.31 IFS/BRC CERTIFICATION ..................................................................................................................................... yes OTHER CERTIFICATION: SEDEX ......................................................................................................................... yes To be a responsible employer NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES (INDEFINITE CONTRACTS) .................................................................................. 197 AVERAGE AGE OF EMPLOYEES ............................................................................................................................ 38 FEMALE STAFF (%) ................................................................................................................................................. 32 NUMBER OF HOURS’ TRAINING ....................................................................................................................... 740 NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE HAD AT LEAST ONE TRAINING COURSE.............................................. 123 PROPORTION OF EMPLOYEES TRAINED (%) .................................................................................................... 62 NUMBER OF WORKPLACE FIRST-AIDERS ......................................................................................................... 15 ABSENTEEISM RATE (%) ....................................................................................................................................... 10 FREQUENCY RATE OF OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS ................................................................................ 65.82 To preserve the environment ANNUAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (KWH) .............................................................................. 2,096,761 ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION/TONNE OF PRODUCT (KWH/T) .................................................................... 723 ANNUAL GAS CONSUMPTION KWH ................................................................................................. 1,394,174 GAS CONSUMPTION/TOTAL PRODUCTION (KWH/T) .................................................................................... 481 WATER CONSUMPTION (M3) ........................................................................................................................ 9,091 WATER CONSUMPTION/TOTAL PRODUCTION (M3/T) ................................................................................ 3.14 TOTAL QUANTITY OF WASTE (TONNES) .......................................................................................................... 238 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (T CO2EQ) .................................................................................................................. 985 To ensure our impact on society and our local integration NUMBER OF ASSOCIATIONS HELPED .............................................................................................................. 153 NUMBER OF PORTIONS OF DESSERTS OFFERED TO ASSOCIATIONS ................................................. 1,600 53 COMMITMENT N°2 TO DEVELOP THE CULTURE OF THE BUSINESS To provide our hungriest customers with delicious and innovative snack products for any time of day, we began production on the Oh Yes! line in spring 2017 at the Handmade Cake Company site for three bar products: brownies, caramel shortcake and almond raspberry. Mademoiselle Desserts wishes to further develop these products for all markets! COMMITMENT N°6 TO GUARANTEE HIGH-QUALITY, HEALTHY AND SAFE PRODUCTS The market share of gluten-free products continues to expand! In 2017, two bar products from the Gluten-free line manufactured by HMC were exported to Canada! We are referring to the caramel shortcake (one of HMC's bestsellers) and the brownie. The almond raspberry bar may also be added to the list in 2018! COMMITMENT N°18 RESPONSIBLE, SUSTAINABLE PURCHASING TO STRENGTHEN OUR PARTNERSHIPS WITH OUR KEY SUPPLIERS For over 10 years now, HMC has been committed to working with companies that prioritise animal welfare, thereby resulting in higher quality products. HMC exclusively sources its eggs from free range suppliers. It's a matter of respect and quality for Mademoiselle Desserts! 54 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 COMMITMENT N°19 TO PRIORITISE LOCAL PURCHASING WHENEVER POSSIBLE Our facility strives to develop local sectors and thus contribute to the economic momentum of our partners, all the while reducing our environmental footprint. That is why HMC sources its flour from suppliers who grow their wheat in locations less than 200 km from the production site. COMMITMENT N°20 ENSURING A SUSTAINABLE AND DYNAMIC LOCAL APPROACH The Handmade Cake Company wishes to invest locally. Some members of the production team visited Forest Bridge School located near the site to show the children how to make and decorate cakes. Forest Bridge School is a special school for children aged four to 13 who have been diagnosed with autism. We are particularly committed to this important initiative. 55 THE WEERT SITE The Weert site specialty: mille-feuille. In 2017 we produced 16,000 mille-feuille per hour, or more than 50 million units per year! There is a simple key to our success: mille-feuille is easily recognisable and enjoyed by all. This iconic French pastry is a true classic, with the first recipe dating back to 1806. The name mille-feuille comes from the way it is assembled: two or three layers of overlapping puff pastry separated by custard and topped with white fondant and chocolate feathering. The mille-feuille comes in a variety of recipes that can be adapted to the season or trend (fruit, chocolate, salted caramel, flavoured mousseline cream etc...). Our R&D team does not lack imagination when responding to consumer demand. 56 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 To ensure our economic sustainability TURNOVER (€) .............................................................................................................................................. 11,093 EXPORT TURNOVER (%) ........................................................................................................................................... 4 MANUFACTURED PRODUCT TONNAGE (TONNES) ................................................................................... 3,740 NUMBER OF REFERENCES PRODUCED ........................................................................................................... 231 NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN R&D .................................................................................................................................. 3 IFS/BRC CERTIFICATION ...................................................................................................................................... oui OTHER CERTIFICATION: KAT, RSPO MB, UTZ, GMP+ .................................................................................. oui To be a responsible employer AVERAGE AGE OF EMPLOYEES ..................................................................................................................... 47.5 FEMALE STAFF (%) ............................................................................................................................................... 40 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES (INDEFINITE CONTRACTS) ................................................................................... 58 NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE HAD AT LEAST ONE TRAINING COURSE .............................................. 23 PROPORTION OF EMPLOYEES TRAINED (%) .................................................................................................. 40 To preserve the environment ANNUAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (KWH) .............................................................................. 1,948,015 ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION/TONNE OF PRODUCT (KWH/T) .................................................................... 580 ANNUAL GAS CONSUMPTION KWH ...................................................................................................... 219,016 GAS CONSUMPTION/TOTAL PRODUCTION (KWH/T) ....................................................................................... 59 WATER CONSUMPTION (M3) ........................................................................................................................ 8,601 WATER CONSUMPTION/TOTAL PRODUCTION (M3/T) ................................................................................... 2.3 TOTAL QUANTITY OF WASTE (TONNES) .......................................................................................................... 546 57 COMMITMENT N°4 TO EXPAND OUR LINE WITH INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS In response to growing consumer demand for mille-feuilles, we have developed a wide range of products available in 30 flavours, types and sizes. Vanilla slice and three-layer mille-feuilles are bestsellers, but there is also high demand for more unique creations like our artisanal strawberry desserts (with real strawberries) and our chocolate cakes (with real Belgian chocolate). As a manufacturer of private label products, we happily do our best to satisfy even our hungriest customers. COMMITMENT N°5 FROM OUR INDUSTRIAL BASE AND THROUGH OUR DEPLOYMENT STRATEGY TO DEVELOP THE GROUP'S EXPORTS AND INTERNATIONALISATION Amsterdam was the site of the PLMA conference which took place in May 2017, an international event for private label specialists. This trade show has helped to highlight the Mademoiselle Desserts line of products as well as new additions to this line. We had a lot of meetings with current and potential clients and there seem to be many opportunities for the future. Stay tuned in 2018! COMMITMENT N°6 TO GUARANTEE HIGH-QUALITY, HEALTHY AND SAFE PRODUCTS In 2017, following an audit concerning the use of palm oil in baked goods at our production site, the Weert facility has obtained RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) certification for palm oil that meets sustainability criteria! This audit has considered factors like traceability, training, verification of raw material specifications, invoices, incoming product inspection, etc. The site is also certified for UTZ (cocoa) and KAT (for the egg). The site is certified by the BRC (British Retail Consortium) as grade AA, and received a high-level IFS (International Food Standard) rating. These certifications allow us to meet client demand in ensuring traceability and food safety throughout the production chain. They are related to other official certifications like GMP + (Good Manufacturing Practice), which involves the recovery of organic waste by converting it to animal feed. COMMITMENT N°13 TO PROMOTE A GOOD INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS CLIMATE We've been part of the Mademoiselle Desserts family for one year already! A new mother, new colleagues in France and in England. New cultures and a new atmosphere. We really felt welcomed. We also had to adapt to a new energy, the energy of a large group, but In love with patisserie is what we're all about. This year went by very, very quickly! My colleagues join me in thanking all the people who have welcomed us so warmly. In 2017 we had the pleasure of participating in the managers' meeting. It was a real opportunity for exchange within the group. Jan Martin Ridder, Managing Director 58 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 THE TAUNTON SITE Since 2017, the group has expanded with a new site in Taunton, located in the south of England. It's an opportunity for Mademoiselle Desserts to conquer the UK as it shares and develops its line of pastries! The Taunton is well known as a specialist in chocolate fudge cake, an English dessert prized by chocolate lovers! At the end of 2017 the site joined the CLEAN M working group. The R&D and quality teams immediately got involved to develop lists of clean ingredients, evaluate and move forward with our suppliers in terms of sustainable development. Penny WEYMOUTH, Dorian JAWORSKI, Garry HEWINGS, Quality Manager Quality Supervisor R&D Manager THE FACTORY OUTLET The Taunton factory outlet is open from: Monday to Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Thursday to Friday from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. And has a turnover of €182,550. Our highest selling products in 2017 have been fudge cakes, carrot cakes and cheesecakes. 59 THE THENON SITE 2017 was an important year for Mademoiselle Desserts as the group also expanded in France. With the launch of our own exclusive line of Oh Yes! products, the group built a new packaging facility for pastries. Finished products arrive from all the group's production sites in France and England--cheesecakes, glutenfree brownies, chocolate fondant, apple financier cakes--to be packaged in individual portions and labelled. The facility is located on the STEF premises in Thenon, in the Dordogne valley, as part of an industrial cooperation project between the two groups. It was inaugurated at the end of 2017 in the presence of the Prefect of the Dordogne region. The geographic location is ideal for delivery within France in less than 24 hours. The site currently employs 18 people. Christelle Veyriras, Site Manager Meet the team and discover their workplace environment by clicking on the link below: https://www.youtube.com /watch?v=d74y8HYzRVw 60 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT / 2017 61 CONTACT BARBARA BOSQUETTE Responsable communication & Développement Durable b.bosquette@mdesserts.com
