COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 TABLE OF CONTENTS Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Statement of Continued Support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 About Hemmersbach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Our Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Corporate Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Contribution to UNGC 10 Principles Human Rights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Labour Standards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Anti-Corruption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 CSR Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Agenda 2018 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Annex:Hemmersbach Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 INTRODUCTION STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT As a global IT services provider with business dealings in many countries in the world, Our mission at Hemmersbach is to enthuse our customers In order to fulfill this mission, 4 Hemmersbach fully complies and expects all associated parties to comply with local, we do not only offer our customer a great service experience, we operate according 5 regional, national, and international laws and regulations to the principles of corporate governance and act as a diligent corporate citizen in all societies Further, Hemmersbach recognizes that as a global company we have the With the signature and statement letter of commitment on the 8th May 2017, we responsibility helping to create a better world and to ensure that future generations will dedicated ourselves to an ongoing commitment to respect and support the initiative of have a more sustainable place to live in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) As a participant, we commit ourselves with immediate effect to bringing our actions in line with the principles of the UNGC through a I am therefore pleased to confirm that Hemmersbach reaffirms its support of the culture of integrity and corporate sustainability that meets fundamental responsibilities United Nations Global Compact In our first year as a participant, we incorporated the in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment, and anti-corruption By joining 10 principles in our strategy and culture We take the UNGC`s mission as a foundation this initiative, we have the great chance to help create a better future for all of us to build on and as an inspiration to grow upon Our commitment to this initiative and its principles is ongoing and we are looking to forward to keep up our work in order to This is our first Communication on Progress (COP) and herein we aim to present the achieve the Sustainable Development Goals achievements and actions we have implemented regarding the 10 principles of the UNGC Furthermore, we would like to display our future goals and strategies to keep This is our first Communication on Progress and the gateway for Hemmersbach up to the requirements of the UNGC as well as show our motivation of getting the GC regarding reporting on labour standards, human rights, environment and corruption This Advanced Level and implementing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) within progress report encompasses the two pillars of our sustainability program The first pillar our next year`s COP – Hemmersbach Global Sustainability – relates to our core business With the help of the ISO 26000 we are able to integrate the three dimensions of sustainability as well as the We strongly believe that implementing the 10 Principles can help creating a fairer, more 10 principles to our daily business sustainable-simply a better future The second pillar – Hemmersbach Corporate Social Sustainability – covers our non-core business Our biggest project here is the Hemmersbach Rhino Force where we operate as a direct action conservation organisation to protect one of the most endangered species on earth We at Hemmersbach are highly motivated and dedicated and see this report as the start of the continuous improvement process on which we will foster the upcoming years in order to help creating a better future for all of us Ralph Koczwara CEO Hemmersbach ABOUT HEMMERSBACH OUR SERVICES 6 HEMMERSBACH BUSINESS 7 The core of our IT services is based on three key elements, which make our business Additional model unique. This represents our DNA. Service Desk INDIRECT BUSINESS ONLY We only work for the leading companies in the IT industry and keep Global IT Field Services our word by saying that we never sign contracts with end customers. Therefore, we avoid conflicts between our main contractors and their Additional direct sales force or channel partners. Supply Chain Dedicated Mobile Engineers Engineers AUTONOMIC TECHNOLOGY APPLIED WORLDWIDE We are convinced that the only way to survive is the avoidance and automation of tickets and tasks. Therefore, we have built up our own Additional workflow systems by utilising automation and autonomic computing Repair Center technology. Ultimately, we are able to reduce costs and improve quality at the same time. PAID FOR RESULTS, NOT HOURS What sets us apart? We differentiate ourselves through our unrivalled indirect business model and the fact that our customers are global market leaders. Our ticket-based approach places the overall responsibility for productivity and quality on Hemmersbach. Having the responsibility That is how we made it to the very top: Not only do most of our processes run automatically in our hands highly motivates us to achieve an optimum operation. but also our operations are controlled centrally through our self-developed software.Our In fact, 90% of our revenue is generated by means of being paid for Service Delivery Code (SDC) is an open, agile, and learning system designed for excellent performance. Another advantage for our customers is the predictability service delivery. All of these factors raise the benchmark in the IT service industry. of the costs as the operational hustle to steer ticket volumes and utilisation stays with us. Crossing the finish line means for us to have completed the project successfully and most important to have an enthused customer. We are doing everything in our power to offer our customers excellent services everydayeverywhere. Our commitment to provide excellent services for our customers are verified by several ISO Certificates: CORPORATE POLICY Since 1997 we have been certified in ISO 9001. One fundamental principle of the ISO As service provider for the IT industry, we do our best every day to offer our customers 8 is the process orientation. Our Quality Management System accompanies all essential excellent performance – everywhere. 9 processes and puts them to the test ensuring continual improvement of the quality of our services. We can only achieve this together with our most important asset: our employees. Besides our flat hierarchies and open communication, we all live our mission according In order to raise awareness and encouragement for the environment we established an to our principles. The operational principles defined in our Corporate Policy result in high Environmental Management System, which is ISO 14001 certified. In order to ensure customer satisfaction while handling requirements. the sustainable use of resources, the environmental impact of each new activity and process will be judged by the responsible person in advance, and environmentally friendly, advanced technology will be used. Confidential handling of data and information is a top priority at Hemmersbach. We ensure our customers to be a trustworthy partner by having implemented the ISO 27001Information Security Management System standards throughout all hierarchical levels. OUR PRINCIPLES: How we live our mission i OUR PRINCIPLES: How we live our mission in everyday life WE SOLVE WE ARE WE ARE WE ARE WE ENTHUSE WE SOLVE PROBLEMS RELIABLE We are punctual, keep WE ARE EFFECTIVE A TEAM WE ARE CUSTOMERS We are always friendly We focus on the efficient We communicate openly We always exceed expectations PROBLEMS when dealing with our clients and help solve our word and are committed to high quality. RELIABLE attainment of our company´s goals constantly improving and honestly with one another and provide EFFECTIVE in every customer contact. their problems. ourselves personally and each other mutual support. We are always friendly We are punctual, keep professionally. We focus on the efficient We when dealing with our our word and are attainment of our company´s and clients and help solve committed to high quality. goals constantly improving ano OUR PRINCIPLES: How we live our mission in everyday life their problems. ourselves personally and eac professionally. WE SOLVE WE ARE WE ARE WE ARE WE ENTHUSE PROBLEMS RELIABLE EFFECTIVE A TEAM CUSTOMERS We are always friendly We are punctual, keep We focus on the efficient We communicate openly We always exceed expectations when dealing with our our word and are attainment of our company´s and honestly with one in every customer contact. clients and help solve committed to high quality. goals constantly improving another and provide their problems. ourselves personally and each other mutual support. professionally. Today, we are supported by more than 3,000 permanent employees in more than 35 Over the last 17 years, Hemmersbach grew rapidly which is a sign that our business subsidiaries and offer our services in more than 190 countries worldwide In countries model is a real benefit for our customers and that we are able to make a difference in where we do not have own entities, we work with Authorized Partners who are legally the IT section bound to Hemmersbach and integrated into our ticket system 10 In fact, Hemmersbach achieved a spot among Europe’s 50 fastest growing companies 11 with more than € 100 M Revenue This award has been given by the Financial Times statistic „FT1000: Europe’s Fastest Growing Companies” in 2017 and honors Hemmersbach as one of Europe’s best performing companies In the category, “Technology” Hemmersbach even achieved a Top 10 position of companies with a total revenue of more than € 100 M 35+ 3,000+ 190 Country subsidiaries Permanent employees Countries covered Equal job opportunities are mandatory to develop further and grow sustainable As the IT sector is predominately attractive for men, we are promoting gender diversity at all levels Currently 21 % of all employees are women We are proud to highlight that when it comes to women in management positions we are above the German average of 22 5 % (Statista, 2018) with 27 % 21 % 27 % 980 Percentage of Women Percentage of Women Hemmersbach Authorized in Management Partners CONTRIBUTION TO UNGC 10 PRINCIPLES SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN We are fully committed to our HEM Policy LABOUR STANDARDS highlighted above and we expect our Principle 3: 12 responsible professional conduct. Our Policy Service Provider and any other third party Freedom of association 13 HUMAN RIGHTS is made up of five subsections: Labour, to do the same. The Hemmersbach Service & effective recognition Health and Safety, Environment, Ethics and Provider Code of Conduct contains all “Businesses should uphold the freedom Principle 1: the elements of a Management System. The these key principles. All Service Providers of association and the effective Support and respect for human rights adherence to this Policy is mandatory for all – and their sub-service Providers – must recognition of the right to collective “Businesses should support and employees at all levels. comply with the Code and we expect the bargaining” respect the protection of internationally communication to ensure compliance proclaimed human rights” throughout their organisation. Any form HUMAN RIGHTS DUE DILIGENCE of non-compliance will not be tolerated. Principle 4: Elimination of forced labour Principle 2: Human rights due diligence is an ongoing We further reserve the right to verify management process to ensure our compliance through Service Provider “The elimination of all forms of forced Assurance of no complicity human rights impacts. Internal HR Audits. So far, we did not face any human and compulsory labour” in human rights abuses “Businesses should make sure that they policies and guidelines guarantee that rights abuses during our onsite audits. In are not complicit in human rights abuses” we are not complicit in any abuse. An case of any non-conformance concerning Principle 5: external web based platform safeguards human rights, we will end our business Abolition of child labour immediate information flow whenever an relationship. Our goal for 2018 is to “The effective abolition of child labour” FOUNDATION FOR OUR HUMAN amendment or law was updated, added conduct ten audits at the premises of our RIGHTS ACTION or removed. Data protection and privacy Authorized Partner. Principle 6: of personal information is a top priority at We recognise that different countries have To go over and above, we also started to Elimination of discrimination Hemmersbach. We are committed to the different legal systems, standards and evaluate our Service Provider concerning “The elimination of discrimination in confidential handling at any time. regulations. Hemmersbach is committed diversity aspects. As a first step, our respect of employment and occupation” to the adherence to the highest standards Information sharing is the key to the focus was on determining KPIs that of social, ethical and environmental corporate success on all hierarchical indicate how much minorities and responsibility and to continual levels. All policies and standards are women are employed as well as if the As a German company, we comply with improvement in these areas. shared in our employee handbook, which company falls under the definition of a all applicable laws, German Laws and EU is also available in various languages on small business given by the EU. Our focus Laws in particular. First and foremost Based on the UN Universal Declaration of the Basic Law of the Federal Republic our internal SharePoint for all employees. for 2018 will be to develop the evaluation Human Rights, the Responsible Business of Germany where Article 9 states that Thus, we ensure that the content is scheme further and to increase the data Alliance Code of Conduct (RBA), the everyone in every job has the right to build always up to date. In order to emphasise quality through automation. International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the freedom to uphold an association. the importance of our policies, mandatory Declaration on Fundamental Principles We guarantee that every employee is free online training has to be done as well. and Rights at Work, we developed to build an association as a matter of the Hemmersbach Social, Ethical and There has not been any incident of human course. Environmental Responsibility Policy (HEM rights abuses at Hemmersbach. We will do Policy, attached in annex). The goal of this our best and are highly motivated to stay Policy consists of exacting an ethical and incident free. Young Professionals and Potentials Collaboration with Nuremberg Institute The development of young professionals of Technology Georg Simon Ohm and adolescents is one key element of We strive to achieve a fruitful cooperation the Human Resource Development as a with the Nuremberg Institute of 14 15 well-trained and solid young generation Technology Georg Simon Ohm and are is necessary for sustainable growth and sponsoring a lecture hall. entrepreneurial prosperity. We fulfil our fiduciary duty as we are taking EMPLOYEE EVENTS RECRUITMENT CONTINUOUS special care of minors and apprentices. Honest and open communication as According to the ILO there are currently EMPLOYEE EDUCATION Working hours, breaks and holidays are well as providing each other with mutual about 21 million people victims of forced No matter on which level of the career, handled with care and monitored by support and respect are elements in our labour – not only in 3rd world countries but we at Hemmersbach give people the their supervisors. Our apprenticeship mission. Hence, Hemmersbach has a zero all around the world in nearly every sector chance to grow. Our People Development programme is improved continuously and tolerance policy regarding discrimination or industry. Programme aims at recognising and we strive to build a solid basis for their of all kinds as stated in our HEM Policy. promoting our employees’ potential on future careers. In the last three years, we This is one of the many reasons why we trained nine apprentices successfully in We organise regularly team building every hierarchical level. We believe that dedicated ourselves to help change our headquarters. events and summits for our employees to giving employees new opportunities those frightening statistics. We are bind and raise team spirit. Furthermore, within our company and developing their fully committed to ensure that work Our Management Trainee Programme is talents is the basis for our expertise. Hemmersbach supports and sponsors performed shall be based on a recognised a specially designed trainee programme several sports activities to underline that employment relationship with an Our employees can access constant training within a period of twelve months. Our team spirit for our employees even in their understandable contract as basis. Further, and courses through our own training trainees participate in interesting projects free time. one essential part of our commitment, is platform. Besides, we offer a variety of in where they can jump into global business our zero-tolerance approach to any form of house trainings and depending on the topic right away and grow professionally and This year we also introduced our modern slavery, which is uncompromising the we use external trainers as well. personally. In the last six years, we trained company sports programme, where our in our expectations of ethical behaviour. 104 young professionals. 43.27 % of them employees can chose from a portfolio that We act with integrity and transparency Some of the training topics are: were female. Hemmersbach subsidises. in all our business dealings and are –English – courses putting systems and controls in place to safeguard against any form of forced –Soft – Skill Training labour within our business or supply chain. ––Leadership Training Our endeavours during the fiscal year 2017 –Lean – Six Sigma can be found in our statement published under the Modern Slavery Act 2015. The effective abolition of child labour is a key element of our Human Resource department whose procedures ensure global compliance. Any form of noncompliance is not tolerated. HEALTH AND SAFETY ENVIRONMENT Our environmental policy takes account of all relevant aspects in making strategic CONSERVATION OF ENERGY AND Proper working conditions that protect the RAW MATERIALS and business decisions and we commit health of and provide safety for employees Principle 7: Effort has been made in the past years ourselves to the observance of all valid 16 are a major concern at Hemmersbach Support an approach to in order to decrease our consumption 17 juridical demands In order to strengthen Through regular risk assessments and environmental challenges of fossil fuels and our total energy our environmental policy and actions trainings, we want to prevent occupational “Businesses should support a consumption Besides the sensitisation we decided to implement the ISO14001 injuries and illnesses and put our systems precautionary approach to environmental of employees we installed solar panels on standard to our management system regularly to the test We value exposure challenges” our headquarter buildings, changed the to physical tasks the same ways as The objectives of our environmental settings of printers and installed socket ergonomic issues policy are: trips Principle 8: Besides the physiological health, Initiatives to promote greater – Conservation of energy and psychological health is vital Training environmental responsibility raw materials courses are offered to prevent employees “Undertake initiatives to promote greater – Reduction of environmental risks from burnout and advisory services environmental responsibility” – Cost savings regarding smoking cessation, alcohol and drug related problems, are in place Principle 9: However, not only those who have 2017: Reduction of energy Encourage environmentally a special responsibility to protect the consumption in HQ by IMPROVEMENTS friendly technologies environment, but rather, all employees 15.29 % “Encourage the development and are committed to environmental We are always aiming to become better protection at Hemmersbach Therefore, we diffusion of environmentally friendly and therefore continuous support from continuously invest in raising awareness technologies” everyone is needed to optimise our about our objectives and targets through daily business processes Therefore, we for example internal trainings implemented a system where employees ISO 14001: ENVIRONMENTAL can log their ideas directly to the COO 2017: Reduction of energy MANAGEMENT SYSTEM If the idea results in an internal project, consumption per employee by Hemmersbach strives to minimise the every employee will receive a reward adverse environmental impacts of its 3.92 % Furthermore, all rewarded ideas will participate in the Hemmersbach Annual activities, products and services In Best Improvement Contest, where the top order to ensure the sustainable use of three improvements will be awarded resources, each responsible person judges the environmental impact of every new activity and process in advance, to make use of environmentally friendly, advanced technology Total reduction per employee in 5 years per 31.10 % Taking into account the old measurement, we were able to reduce our CO2 ANTI-CORRUPTION policy we want to ensure that the highest standards of integrity are being upheld emissions by 4.82% per car in Germany. in all business transactions and that Principle 10: Additionally, we were awarded from intellectual property rights are being 18 Work against corruption 19 Reduction of waste “Myclimate Deutschland gGmbH” for respected. Additionally, we do not tolerate making a considerable climate protection “Businesses should work against all the acceptance of benefits or gifts in paper in 2017 by contribution by reducing 1297,33t CO2 in forms of corruption, including extortion apparent or disguised form from third 3% 2017. and bribery” parties. To decrease our consumption of print On behalf of the ISO 9001, we implemented pages, the communication of “think ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS FOR 2018 a control of documented information, before you print” as well as using which is a direct implementation of the misprints as scribbling paper was Our environmental goals are not two-man rule. The control of documented done. Coloured printing is to be avoided accessible for the public, however in 2018 information guarantees that every whenever possible. we will focus on the following areas: Good business ethics and compliance with created document, record or data has applicable laws and regulations are the to be reviewed and approved as to their ––Ongoing reduction of CO2 core of Hemmersbach´s business practice, suitability and appropriateness. This is ENVIRONMENTAL-FRIENDLY emissions per car which is why we have a zero tolerance valid for every department. TECHNOLOGIES ––More sustainable and policy for corruption, extortion and bribery. economical fleet We are proud to say that Hemmersbach One of our main environmental influencing ––Expand our environmental concept This policy is part of our employee has not been involved in any legal cases, factors is our technicians’ car fleet. Our through the whole supply chain handbook, which is uploaded on our arbitration proceedings or any other event self-developed tool enables us to manage SharePoint and therefore accessible to alike related to corruption, extortion and our onsite interventions in an economical every employee at any time. With this bribery. and environmental friendly way. Complementary, our technicians receive driving trainings that includes diligent driving methods. In 2017, we changed our measurement from driven kilometres to the actual fuel consumption, which leads to full transparency about our own emitted carbon emissions. This is a great step towards to gathering our own data instead of relying on embellished figures. CSR ACTIVITIES Greater Kruger Project More than 5,100 African rhinos have been lost to poaching in the past five HEMMERSBACH RHINO FORCE years, 50% of those being killed in Kruger 20 21 The species of rhinos is over 50 million National Park. With 80% of the world’s years old and is now under threat of rhino population in South Africa and the extinction. Since 2007, 7143 rhinos have vast majority of those in the Greater been poached for greed and false beliefs. Kruger area, Kruger National Park is a main target for poaching syndicates who approach from all sides and surrounding countries. We are proud to say that we are the most effective rhino conservation army in South to safety, as in the case of the April 2017 As of early 2017, Hemmersbach Rhino Africa. Rangers are fighting with their lives riots, and fighting illegal activities in the Force and Zimbabwe National Parks to end the hunting and slaughtering of the bush. Additionally, our elite squads are jointly began anti-poaching activities in rhinos ensuring their survival. We have trained to perform forensic autopsies of the Lower Zambezi Valley, Zimbabwe. Our We want to put an end to the illegal three elite squads operating in the Greater carcases found and the South African headquarters is based on the Zambezi poaching and help provide a peaceful Kruger region along with a base camp and Police Service calls on our forensic skills in River and coordination of the teams during habitat for the rhinos. In order to do so we a sniffer dog unit protecting the Western order to retrieve the bullet(s), DNA and any ambush and detainment operations are operate as a direct action conservation border of Greater Kruger Park. incriminating evidence, which can then be managed from this base. We have a base organization to protect one of the most used in court for arrest, prosecution and camp from which we will have two boat endangered species on earth. Using Our squads support law enforcement sentencing. squads, a plane squad and a vehicle squad innovative tactics and technologies, our agencies in their daily operations, such as operating and we have geo-mapped the teams do everything in their power to setting up entry blockades, disqualifying Hemmersbach Rhino Force is collaborating area within which we operate to build prevent the killing of rhinos and to expose any prohibited items being carried into or with the Greater Kruger Environmental intelligence and gain full understanding of and confront all other illegal activities. out of parks, helping social unrest victims Protection Foundation with whom we the challenges ahead. work closely to reach the best outcomes for the wildlife, nature and people in the Furthermore, we also support the areas covered. national park staff and the local community by improving their living and Chirundu Anti-Poaching Project working conditions and supporting law enforcement. Currently our focus is on The Lower Zambezi Valley was once home to restoring and equipping the Karl Pisec two thousand black rhinos; however, all have School in Marongora and supporting the since been poached or translocated to safer intiatives of Chief Chundu, chief of the areas. One of our goals and motivations Hurungwe area. in initiating the Chirundu Anti-Poaching Project is to make this land safe again so that rhinos can be securely re-introduced and given the opportunity to thrive. AGENDA 2018 We see our contribution to the UNGC`s 10 principles as a continuous improvement process on which we will put our effort in 2018. Our main targets are: RESPONSIBILITY POLICY 22 SOCIAL, ETHICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL 23 –– Expand our supplier diversity to pave the way for a more integrated and measureable approach towards the use of KPIs As a global IT services provider with business dealings in many countries in the world, Hemmersbach fully complies and expects all associated parties to comply –– Incorporating relevant Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with local, regional, national, and international laws and regulations. Moreover, while –– Focus on anti-corruption activities and creating synergy effects we recognize that different countries will have different legal systems, standards, –– Improve our Stakeholder Dialogue to extend our perspective and to recognise and and regulations, Hemmersbach is committed to the adherence to the highest approach vital trends on time standards of social, ethical and environmental responsibility and to continual –– Expansion of our data base improvement in these areas. –– Saving 100 elephants from culling by relocating them from South Zimbabwe to The goal of the Hemmersbach Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibility Policy North Zimbabwe (hereinafter, the “Policy”) consists of exacting an ethical and responsible professional conduct, based on the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA), formerly Electronic Industry –– Empowering underprivileged women in Zimbabwe by launching a waste cleaning Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct, ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles initiative. Through this initiative, the women will be able to provide supplies for and Rights at work and the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights themselves and their families. The adherence to the Policy delineated below is mandatory and shall be expected by Hemmersbach and its entire workforce in the conduct of their business anywhere in the world on every hierarchical level. Further information as well as the sources of the Policy can be found at the end of the document. All employees are encouraged to engage with the sources listed in order to gain a better understanding and to gather additional information therefrom. Any instance of non-compliance with any of the principles and standards below by employees shall be subject to immediate disciplinary action and should directly be brought to the attention of the central Human Resources Department. Any instance of non-compliance by service providers, suppliers or other third parties shall immediately be brought to the attention of the central Partnermanagement Department to bring about a reevaluation of the contractual agreements and possible termination thereof. For any other request you may have with regards to the Hemmersbach Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibility Policy, please send an email to Quality Management. The Hemmersbach Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibility Policy is made B. Health and Safety up of 5 Sections. Section A, B, and C outline standards for Labour, Health and Safety, Proper working conditions that protect the health of and provide safety for employees and the Environment. Section D adds standards relating to business ethics. Section E are a top priority at Hemmersbach. outlines the elements of an acceptable system to manage the conformity to this Policy. 24 –– Exposure to potential safety hazards are to be identified and assessed, and controlled 25 through proper design, controls, preventative maintenance, safe work procedures A. Labour and ongoing safety training. Reasonable steps must be taken to reduce or remove Hemmersbach is committed to ensure that work performed shall be on the basis of a any workplace health and safety risks to pregnant women and nursing mothers. recognized employment relationship established in compliance with applicable laws, regulations and practices as well as international labour standards. –– Emergency situations are to be identified, assessed, prepared for, and their impact minimized through emergency plans and response procedures. –– All employment shall be freely chosen and no instance of forced, bonded, involuntary or exploitative prison labour, slavery or trafficking of persons shall be –– Occupational injury and illness is to be prevented, managed, kept track of and used or tolerated. reported through appropriate systems and procedures. –– Child labour may not be used or tolerated. –– The exposure of workers to chemical, biological, and physical agents is to be identified, evaluated and controlled. –– Working hours are not to exceed the maximum allowed by local law and at least one day off per seven day week shall be guaranteed. –– Exposure to demanding physical tasks must be identified, evaluated, and controlled. –– Compensation to workers shall comply with all applicable laws, including those relating to minimum wages, overtime hours and legally mandated benefits. –– Machinery must be evaluated for safety hazards and proper safety implements Deductions from wages as disciplinary measures shall not be permitted. and procedures put in place in case an injury hazard is present. –– No harsh or inhumane treatment, sexual abuse or harassment, corporal –– Workers are to have access to proper sanitation facilities, sanitary food preparation punishment, mental, verbal, or physical abuse or coercion, or the threat thereof, areas, potable water, and eating facilities. shall be tolerated. –– Workplace health and safety training shall be provided in a language the worker –– No one may be discriminated against on the basis of race, color, age, gender, can understand and such information shall be clearly posted in the facilities or in a sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, ethnicity, or national origin, location identifiable and accessible by workers. Training is provided to all workers disability, pregnancy, religion, political affiliation, union membership, veteran prior to the beginning of work and regularly thereafter. status, protected genetic information or marital status in any hiring or employment practices. –– Workers’ rights to collective bargaining, peaceful assembly, union membership, or the abstinence therefrom, shall be respected. C. Environment D. Ethics Hemmersbach strives to minimize the adverse environmental impacts of its activities, Good business ethics and compliance with applicable laws and regulations are the core products and services. of Hemmersbach’s business practice. 26 –– All required environmental permits, approvals and registrations will be obtained, –– The highest standards of integrity are to be upheld in all business transactions 27 maintained and kept up to date, and their requirements followed. including a zero-tolerance policy with respect to bribery, corruption, extortion, and embezzlement. Business dealings shall be transparently performed and –– Emissions and discharges of pollutants and generation of waste and are to be accurately reflected on the business’s books or records. minimized or eliminated at the source or by practices such as adding pollution control equipment, modifying production, maintenance and facility processes, or –– No means for obtaining undue or improper advantage are to be promised, offered, by other means. The use of natural resources is to be conserved or by practices authorized, given or accepted. Monitoring and enforcement procedures shall be such as modifying production, maintenance and facility processes, materials implemented to ensure compliance with anti-corruption laws. substitution, re-use, conservation, recycling or other methods. –– All business dealings have to be accurately reflected on business books –– Hazardous chemical or other materials are to be clearly identified, labelled and and records. Information is to be disclosed in accordance with applicable their safe handling, movement, storage, use, recycling, reuse or disposal managed regulations and prevailing industry practices. The falsification of records and the safely. misrepresentation of processes or conditions are not to be tolerated. –– Solid waste shall be appropriately identified, monitored, managed, reduced, and –– Intellectual property rights are to be respected. responsibly disposed of through a systematic approach. –– Standards of fair business, advertising, and competition are to be upheld. –– Air emissions are to be characterized, monitored, controlled and treated, and the performance of the air emissions control systems routinely monitored. –– The confidentiality, anonymity, and protection of whistleblowers are to be maintained, unless prohibited by law. –– All applicable legal, regulatory, and customer requirements regarding materials restrictions are to be adhered to. –– Reasonable privacy expectations of the personal information of everyone involved in business dealings are to be met and the information protected. Privacy and –– All water consumption is to be measured and monitored. Routine monitoring of the information security laws and regulatory requirements are to be upheld. performance of the wastewater treatment shall be conducted. –– Cost-effective methods for the improvement of energy efficiency and the E. Management System minimization of energy consumption are to be sought out. Hemmersbach adopts a system whose scope is related to the content of this Policy. This management system is designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and customer requirements related to our operations and services; conformance with this Policy; and identification and mitigation of operational risks related to this Policy. Thus, we are able to facilitate continual improvement. With the application of those standards and the effort to continually improve in the relevant areas of social, ethical, and environmental responsibility, Hemmersbach can ensure to uphold the highest standards in our business dealings, thus doing our part to making the world a fairer, better, safer, cleaner and more sustainable place. THE FOLLOWING STANDARDS WERE USED IN PREPARING THIS POLICY For further information or questions, please contact us: AND MAY BE A USEFUL SOURCE OF ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: Hemmersbach GmbH & Co. KG Responsible Business Alliance, 28 formerly the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Conduct: Sulzbacher Str. 9 29 90489 Nürnberg www.responsiblebusiness.org/standards/code-of-conduct/ Phone +49 911 52-798-0 ILO International Labour Standards: Fax +49 911 52-798-870 www.ilo.org/global/standards/lang--en/index.html info@hemmersbach.com ISO 14001: www.hemmersbach.com www.iso.org/iso-14001-environmental-management.html ISO 26000: www.iso.org/iso-26000-social-responsibility.html ISO 9001: www.iso.org/iso-9001-quality-management.html Universal Declaration of Human Rights: www.un.org/en/documents/udhr/ United Nations Global Compact: www.unglobalcompact.org Statista Female Percentage: https://de.statista.com/statistik/daten/studie/182457/umfrage/frauenanteil-in-fuehrungspositionen-nach-bundeslaendern/ WWF www.wwf.de/fileadmin/fm-wwf/Publikationen-PDF/WWF_Wilderei_und_illegaler_Artenhandel.pdf Environmental Affairs Republic of South Africa 2018 www.environment.gov.za/mediarelease/molewa_highlightsprogressonimplementationofintegratedstrategicmanagementofrhinoceros www.hemmersbach.com
