Sustainability Report 2017-2018 “We are all so immersed in our daily lives that we hardly stop to think how our work, our attitudes and actions affect our surrounding environment. It is therefore necessary to remind ourselves that we are ‘enablers’ and not just ‘victims’ when it comes to climate change or any other natural calamity. In this annual sustainability report, Metito shares with its stakeholders the company’s latest achievements, best practices and initiatives. This includes our efforts with regards to the community, the environment and education, as well as our latest business wins, in an attempt to lead our industry by example and inspire others to follow suit.” Mutaz Ghandour Metito Chairman and CEO Table of Contents Table of Contents LOCAL PRESENCE... GLOBAL KNOW-HOW 06 OUR COMMITMENT 08 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 04 LEADING BY EXAMPLE 10 Our People -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------26 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------30 03 Message From The CEO “It always seems impossible Having an international multipronged and coordinated approach to tackle water scarcity is the most logical strategy and must involve more until it’s done.” intensified engagement with the world’s policymakers. This year, the International Desalination Association (IDA) took the initiative to Nelson Mandela put this goal into action and has successfully established the IDA Honorary Council. The IDA aims to leverage the knowledge, experience and volunteerism of its honorary members boosting their advocacy In this landmark year for Metito, our 60th year of operations, I would like for desalination and advanced water treatment solutions among to take a moment to reflect on what a remarkable journey it has been so policymakers. This is especially significant in the Middle East and North far and to personally thank all our staff, customers and partners that have Africa (MENA) region, with desalination being one of the most viable made Metito what it is today. I am both humbled and proud to think of water management solutions in the dry, arid conditions. I am proud to so many people both past and present, who have contributed to Metito’s have accepted an invitation from the IDA Board of Directors to become growth into one of the world’s leading and most pioneering providers a member of this Honorary Council and an IDA Ambassador. This new of water and wastewater treatment solutions. Over the years we have role will enable me, the IDA and Metito, to intensify our engagement with built a unique, resilient and human-centric business with the ultimate goal the world policymakers and ensure desalination is at the top of their of sustaining the most precious and essential commodity on our planet, agendas. This makes it possible to implement sustainable solutions water. and further tackle growing challenges in water scarcity. At this level, we Metito was created with a vision to sustain the environment through can widen the reach and exposure of our mission and share our critical providing sustainable water management solutions and systems, taking knowledge with key players at a global scale. a pledge to lead the water and wastewater industry by example and a Our work with IDA complements a momentous year for Metito in terms mission to advocate for water accessibility as a basic human right. This of advocating and leading iconic desalination projects in the MENA unwavering commitment remains at the heart of our operations. Our region. Metito has successfully developed some of the most strategic comprehensive portfolio of often ground-breaking projects, services, and iconic desalination projects this year including; Al Yosr plant, Egypt’s innovations and growing international footprint clearly demonstrates this largest seawater reverse osmosis desalination plant to date, serving more commitment. than 500,000 residents; Al Galala mega seawater desalination plant with Whilst managing water is our core area of expertise, it remains the a 150,000 m3/day capacity being developed as part of a joint venture collective responsibility of all human beings to play an active role in with Orascom Construction; and King Abdullah Economic City’s seawater sustaining and managing the world’s water resources. Never before desalination plant which is partially powered by solar energy. has this level of accountability been needed with countries across the Another seemingly obvious but extremely important approach to world progressively being challenged with pressing problems, chief diminishing the challenge of water scarcity is water recycling and reuse, among these being the issue of water scarcity. Climate change, growing reconnoitering the neglected reserves. It is a strategic solution that can populations, industrialization and globalization are all taking a toll on yield long-term, sustainable results in achieving water stability and coping the earth’s natural water sources and without more effort to combat with the excessive demand for water, especially in arid regions such as and manage these growing trends, we are jeopardizing the livelihood of the GCC. Whilst this solution is slowly being further explored, there is generations to come. much more that needs to be done. Metito is working to achieve this on Water scarcity is a critical world challenge and should be a regularly several different fronts, from the projects we are implementing through trending topic in today’s media landscape. However, despite the clear to the use of state-of-the-art technology and the advocacy work we do correlation between water scarcity and climate change, this growing issue with media, schools and universities. of potentially catastrophic consequences still receives little attention from Generating awareness of the importance of an efficient water supply the media. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), half of chain is one way that we can increase momentum. It is paramount that the world’s population will be living in water-stressed areas by 2025. The the general public has an understanding of the best ways to safeguard United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and WHO reported that almost this natural resource. 663 million people lack access to an improved water source. These numbers are expected to rise. As part of this year’s CSR activity, Metito developed an intensive campaign to promote water recycling and reuse with students from the UAE, India, Cape Town narrowly avoided running dry this year, and even countries Indonesia, and many other countries around the world. We noticed a real that have not been concerned about water scarcity in the past like the UK, interest in water sustainability education by the large number of schools which is facing its driest summer in history, are having to address this issue and universities who reached out for insights and information from our in a manner that previous generations would not have thought possible. To expert team. Knowledge is the most effective driver for change, and it is put this into context, the Isle of Anglesey in Wales spent 1.5 GBP a week reassuring to know that the youth of today are already participating in this summer on tankers to bring extra water while the Isle of Wight has the creation of positive change. By focusing our efforts on educating the been pumping 12 million liters a day from Hampshire via undersea pipes. younger generation at a global level, we have a tangible opportunity to change future consumption habits. 04 Message From The CEO Infrastructural projects, similar to large water projects, are capitalThere are significant steps being taken to tackle water scarcity in different intensive and the development of scaled solutions to address the world’s parts of the world, but is this enough? With the nature of our industry, and water shortage problems requires a revised and enlightened approach the growing factors that contribute to water shortage, there is a lot more to financing. We fully promote the use of public-private partnerships that needs to be done, and quickly. We must not succumb to our own (PPPs) especially in emerging and capital stressed markets, as a muchindividual successes. Instead, stay focused and work towards achievable needed solution to the funding of strategic, lifeline water projects. We goals, connecting and sharing knowledge, leveraging learnings and best have excelled in endorsing PPPs in the MENA and GCC regions and most practice. Both the public and private sectors have an opportunity to recently in Sub-Saharan Africa. It is with great pride that we are able to work together in a more coordinated manner to tackle this potentially play an active role in empowering communities around the world through devastating world-wide issue and together we must look forward and developing strategic water projects and leading-edge business models. support this synergistic approach. The Kigali Bulk Water Supply PPP project was a true milestone for Metito Climate change, abuse of water resources are some of the factors that and all of the stakeholders involved with this iconic development. This will continue to test us. Whether having fear of living in water-stressed year, the project was globally acknowledged in some of the most coveted conditions or feeling hopeful for the sustainable future of our planet, industry events and we are humbled by the recognition the project we must strive to create a lasting change. This starts with each of us received so far. As the first of its kind PPP water project in Sub-Saharan making small but fundamental changes to how we use and value water in Africa, the Kigali Bulk Water Project serves as a template for similar everyday use, challenging ourselves and defying the odds by making the upcoming projects in Africa and plays a crucial role in infrastructure impossible possible. development in the region. Furthermore, this project has a huge impact on the development of Rwanda, providing clean potable water to the population and therefore contributing to the improvement of public health, economic growth, and the redeployment of government's Sincerely, budgetary savings to areas of need. Again, I am incredibly proud of what we have achieved over the past 60 years; our efforts to increase the life and supply of the water cycle and to educate the public about water safety have made a palpable difference to the lives of many. I firmly believe that the fundamental reason for our Mutaz Ghandour sustained success and accumulative growth is the continued efforts of our people, our most valuable driving force, inspiration and motivation. Generation after generation, our dedicated team has taken us from strength to strength. Indeed, we have a lot to be proud of and to celebrate as a company, but the loyalty, experience and commitment of our staff is what fills me with gratitude. The world is undergoing huge and unprecedented changes, from the exponential rate of technological advancement to the mounting pressure on our fragile natural ecosystems. We are navigating new territory.Ó 05 Local Presence... Global Know-How Bank are financing US$40.6 million of the capital cost Kigali Water Limited At A Glance of the project; US$38 million of senior debt and US$2.6 million of junior debt with all loans on 18-year terms. Kigali Water Limited (KWL) is a wholly owned subsidiary The balance will be provided by Metito as equity finance. of Metito Group that was founded in March 2015 with The Kigali Water project also benefits from a US$6.25 a vision to play a sustainable role in the development of million grant from PIDG’s Technical Assistance Facility. the water and wastewater sector in Rwanda. The Kigali Water project reached financial close in 2017, KWL was primarily missioned to develop the first thereby marking another precedent and spelling the competitively tendered Build Own Transfer (BOT) water start of execution of this highly-anticipated project. concession awarded by the Government of Rwanda, and the largest in terms of capacity and value in Sub-Saharan Africa; the Kigali Water Bulk Water Supply Public Private More About The Project Partnership (PPP) project (the Kigali Water project). The Kigali Water project will be located in Kanzenze, In 2014, the Government of Rwanda awarded Metito in the South Eastern part of Kigali. The Project will the concession agreement to develop the Kigali Water provide 40 million liters per day of fresh, clean and project after the Group submitted a highly competitive safe water to the residents of Rwanda’s capital city financial and technical package. The project aims to and the eastern province district of Bugesera to secure a new, sustainable bulk water supply source to serve domestic, commercial and industrial end users. serve the potable water requirements for the city of Bugesara is predominantly an agricultural district home Kigali and Bugesera, a district in the Eastern Province of to Rwanda’s new international airport that is currently Rwanda and the surrounding areas. under construction, an industrial park, and what will be the biggest stadium in Rwanda. The Emerging Africa Infrastructure Fund (EAIF), a member of the Private Infrastructure Development Group The treated water will be extracted from the south bank (PIDG), is the mandated Lead Arranger of the financing of the Nyabarongo River and will supplement existing of this project with a total project cost of approximately water supplies in a strategic move to meet Kigali’s US$60.8 million. EAIF and The African Development growing water demands – a city with a population of over one million residents. 06 Local Presence...Global Know-How Snapshot from the Kigali Water Limited project 3D design work Kigali Water Limited will design, build, maintain and operate the treatment plant and will then sell potable water to the Water & Sanitation Corporation of Rwanda The Project aligns with the Government of Rwanda’s (WASAC) under a 27 year PPP Agreement. policy objectives outlined in the Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy II (EDPRS II), targeting The completion of financing also marks a historic universal access to water and sanitation, improving the milestone in Rwanda’s progressive vision to build a quality of water consumed, and increasing management prosperous and first class developed country. It also of water supplied by the private sector. The Rwandan highlights the effective partnership between the public government had set a target of 100% water access by and private sectors. 2017-18. According to the Rwanda Utility Regulatory Agency, water access currently stands at 86%. The construction is forecasted to last 30 months from the commencement date. It is expected that this How do you see this project affecting the development landmark project will pave the way for other similar outcomes for Rwanda in the medium to long run? capital-intensive projects in Africa. The availability of sustainable potable water plays a huge role in the economic development of any country. It serves the various businesses and communities alike The Outlook and builds confidence in the infrastructure industry, inviting international investors to put up businesses in Africa has a huge potential in terms of infrastructure Rwanda. development. Metito anticipates a brighter future for this country as it continues to develop its provision Tangible impact on the development outcomes in of key utilities. To undertake such capital-intensive Rwanda will be observed in many areas such as: infrastructure projects, the PPP remains to be the • Improved public health and standard of living, higher best and sometimes assured project scheme – Metito productivity, and the ability to re-deploy Government spend to acknowledges this. other priority areas and/or other infrastructure sectors • More developed industrial sector and support to businesses The diligence and effort put into the structuring of the with high requirement of water such as factories, hotels, Kigali Water project including its reaching financial restaurants, etc. close was intense. Metito looks forward to replicating • Maintained leadership status in the international community this successful experience, working with its existing as pioneers in implementing large-scale water concessions partners, in other similar opportunities in Rwanda and thereby providing a framework and becoming a go-to expert in the wider region. which will provide economic impetus to Rwanda and the region Where do you see Kigali Water Limited in 5-10 years? Kigali Water Limited has a strong local team managing I envision Kigali Water Limited successfully managing the operations in Kigali with support from the Metito and operating the Kigali Water project and showcasing Group global resources. This ongoing partnership, an exemplar customer service experience to its intensified by the progressive vision of the Rwandan stakeholders while developing other projects in Rwanda Government, has brought success to the Kigali Water and beyond. project. Which one word would you want Kigali Water Limited Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, shares to own in the minds of its stakeholders; external and more insights in this brief interview: internal alike? Pioneering How does the Kigali Water Limited project align with the overall strategy and direction of the Rwandan Government? 07 Our Commitment Our Mission Metito commits to a sustainable environment through providing effective water management and treatment 08 systems that can reconcile the ever-growing demand for water and its dwindling natural resources. Our Commitment...Our Values Customer Focus Every employee is customer satisfaction driven. We commit to provide our clients with value-added products and services and to achieve high returns on investments for our shareholders; we further strive to exceed their expectations and keep them continuously informed through personable, honest and open communications. People Focus Our employees are our most valuable asset; we recognise their needs and professional aspirations and make every effort to provide them with relevant training and opportunities to empower them to achieve their goals, and in turn support our mission by their high quality performance and refined service. The health and safety of our employees is also paramount to our organisation and we commit to continually improve their standards. Leadership We lead with integrity, refined expertise Quality and creativity, both as individuals within an organisation and as an organisation operating in We commit to deliver quality services and products that are in local and global markets. Our proven leadership line with our customers’ needs, and to maintain world-class approach demands leading by example and performance in all our business undertakings. This is founded influencing others to do likewise and with on the highest standards of customer service, uncompromised this, accountability becomes a guaranteed ethics and environmental consciousness. Our quality systems bi-product. ensure that we do this right the first time, every time. Collaboration, Team Work & Passion Sustainability We believe in, and encourage teamwork, as it Metito is a responsible corporate citizen that aims to creates a sustainable flow of information and implement sustainable practices throughout its businesses. knowledge sharing that helps benchmark our Our commitment to sustain the environment is achieved work, enables us to better our performance fundamentally through being an integral player in an industry and leverage our collective know-how and with a mission to meet the world’s water demands and to refined skills. Our passion and belief in what preserve its resources. Stemming from our People Focus, we we do complement this spirit and take us that also aim to invest in and develop human elements to help extra mile that helps Metito stand out, further, provide a sustainable pool of talents to the communities we from its competitors. work with. 09 Leading By Example 10 Leading By Example A Case Study Seawater Reverse Osmosis Plant Hurghada City, Red Sea Governorate, Egypt Scope of Work The scope of work included: • Detailed engineering for the full plant which included: intake works, civil works, process and electrical works • Delivery of all equipment, material, and spare parts • Installation, commissioning and startup • Onshore & offshore training • Full operations and maintenance Introduction The plant consists of: • Raw water intake system Due to Egypt’s scarce water resources, and the rising demand • Chemical pre-treatment between the supply and demand of water, the country is embarking into a strategic direction to capitalize and further • Multi-media filtration focus on seawater desalination as a key source for municipal • Micron filtration water supply, particularly for coastal areas. • Desalination with double pass reverse osmosis system Accordingly, the Egyptian Government has launched the • Energy recovery system (by isobaric pressure exchangers) Al-Yosr project in the city of Hurghada, Red Sea Governorate, • Post treatment – Langelier Saturation index adjustment by: to construct a seawater reverse osmosis desalination plant Lime stone contactors with a capacity of 80,000m³/day to produce water with potable standards for drinking purposes to serve the city and CO2 injection system a population of more than 500,000 residents. Degasser with blending tank and pump station • Water treatment laboratory Metito was awarded the project based on its extensive engineering experience and history with developing • Stand-by generators covering 50% of plant capacity desalination projects and its world-class quality process • Step-down transformers and substation design, construction, operation and maintenance of plants • Medium and low voltage distribution system utilizing the reverse osmosis technology. • Instrumentation, controls, and SCADA system As part of the mandate set by the Egyptian Government, Al-Yosr SWRO plant was realised as the first large SWRO in Egypt. 11 • Safe and clean water supply: Product water Key Benefits remineralization systems ensure the supply of high quality water to consumers as well as protect the city • A comprehensive solution: Al-Yosr SWRO is a total water distribution pipe grid. solution for the potable water shortage crisis in the city of Hurghada and a progressive approach aimed at • The treated water quality meets international coping with the expected future growth in population standards and the most stringent requirements for and demand. potable water achieving permeate water with boron levels less than 0.5 mg/l. • Economic viability: Al-Yosr is a large reverse osmosis plant that is in-line with Egypt's strategy to utilize seawater desalination for the supply of municipal water in remote coastal areas. This solution offers a more economically viable alternative for water provision compared to using transfer pipelines extended for over 200km from the Nile River. • Trouble-free operation: Utilizing novel and reliable technology and integrating it across the design of the plant lead to minimum downtime and more sustainable operations. • Energy Savings: Utilizing state-of-the-art technology in energy recovery lowers the plant energy consumption and carbon footprint to a minimum. 12 Leading By Example Industry Recognition And Engagement Industry Engagement Al Galalah SWRO A New Milestone For Metito Metito Egypt successfully commissioned the first stream of Al Galalah mega desalination plant in Egypt five months ahead of schedule. Al Galalah is the largest seawater desalination plant in Egypt and the largest capacity desalination project of its type in Metito's history. With its significance as a milestone project in the country, Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi embarked on an inspection tour twice to visit the project among other urban service projects being carried out at Mount Galalah. His visits were documented by news coverage including print and broadcast. touristic and residential destination. The entire city Al Galalah mega desalination plant has capacity of is located at a 19,000-acres land which is on top of 150,000 m3/day and is being developed by Metito the highest plateau of Al Galalah Mountain with a Egypt as a turnkey project part of a joint venture with breathtaking view of the Suez Gulf. It is designed to Orascom Construction. include world-class hotels, water entertainment parks, an international marina, a commercial and residential Al Galalah city is one of the most ambitious projects complex, and King Abdullah Bin Abdul Aziz University. in Egypt with the concept of becoming a world class Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi during his visit to Al Galalah SWRO desalination plant alongside his official delegation. Metito Orascom joint venture representatives from left to right: Salah Deghedy, Metito Africa Executive Director; Mohamed Hemeida, Metito Africa Operations Director; Farag Ayoub, Orascom Executive Director; Karim Madwar, Metito Africa Managing Director; and Medhat Refaat, Metito Project Manager. 13 Caption to go here... The Metito Egypt team led by Metito Africa Managing Director, Karim Madwar, were honored to welcome President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi to the project site and were proud to share the progress made in developing such an inspiring project. “It is a privilege and honor to head the team for such a mega desalination plant from start to commissioning,” commented Mohamed Hemeida, Metito Africa Operations Director. “Words cannot describe how proud we feel as a team alongside our partners for commissioning this strategic project for Egypt, considering the challenges in work conditions due to location. We were adamant on honoring Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi's commitment to an early operational date and we extremely delighted to have Karim Madwar, Metito Africa Managing Director delivered on this commitment, 5 months ahead of time,” added Hemeida. “Success is a state of mind. This is an exemplary “This year, Metito has successfully achieved many firsts project and will become a benchmark for similar not just for the Group but also for the regions and the mega desalination projects in Egypt and beyond. The communities that we serve. It is of great honor to witness innovation, persistence, thorough planning, monitoring, Metito Egypt take on this groundbreaking national perseverance, commitment and dedication to succeed project and commissioning it significantly ahead of time shown by Metito Egypt on this most prestigious job without compromising on quality,” commented Mutaz were really evident and we exceeded the expectations Ghandour, Metito Chairman and CEO. of this most important client,” added Mutaz Ghandour. 14 Al Galalah Water Environment Desalination Plant Environmental Management System SWRO plant location along the wester side of the Gulf of Suez required an intense system to be in place due to the fact that the plant is being design to be environmentally compatible with the highest international Standards. Environmental & Social Impact Assessment Prior to any construction activities, studies are carried out to asses key environmental aspects such as near-shore marine ecological systems, flash floods, soil heterogeneity, and the relatively rough terrain. Under Water Surveying Are performed to identify and map all corals in terms of type and surface coverage density. It was successfully managed to avoid impacting any corals through diverting marine Off-Shore works Flood Risk Assessment 3 Line pipes jacking under Ain El Sokhna road to connect the intake The Western side of the Gulf of Suez has recently received floods causing serious damage st time in to roads and buildings, the assessments was done through specialised studies to identify Egypt using jacking concrete pipes with lining GRP safest protection solutions 2 Intakes Heads Carrier Pipes GRP with 5m height and 4.5m diameter including Using the carrier pipes of sea water HDPE and GRP which are most environmentally screens GRP friendly 2 Intakes HDPE 1600mm Pipes Energy Recovery System With Length 250 L.M from shore line Using Energy Recovery 1 Reject HDPE 1400mm Pipes system at RO Building to With Length 350 L.M from shore line reduce the consumption of Electricity Plant Capacity 150,000m3 Per Day Cairo OnShore 12 6 140 61.7m3/hr Cap Energy 35,000m3 1490m3/hr 1565m3/hr 350ton Recovery Raw Water Feed Blending Water Concrete Pumps Pumps Steel Structure 22 1254 tons steel Media Filters 57tons/per 10 8 filter 200,000m3 635m3/hr 1042m3/hr 2,000,000 4 4000m3/hr Traveling Band Screen Earth Works High Pressure Product Water Man hours Pumps Pumps 4 Manual Bar Screen 10 8 1000 855m3/hr 20Mw 60,000m2 Workforce Booster Pumps Project Land Generators Area Health & Safety 2,000,000 hrs without lost time injury The Galalah Sea water desalination plant has achieved 2,000,000 working hours without lost time injury in a fast track project with high progress, quality and safety despite server weather and difficult mountainous terrain. Welfare & Accommodation | Waste Management System | HSE Training Full PPE and fall protection system 15 Front row left to right: Mutaz Ghandour, Metito Chairman and CEO; Fahd bin Abdul Mohsen Al Rasheed, KAEC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Second row left to right: Assem Zakaria-Metito Sr. Projects Manager; Amr Salah KAEC-Utilities Director; Jean Lahoud KAEC -COO-City Development & Management; Fady JuezMetito Managing Director; Ahmed Ibrahim Linjawy, KAEC Deputy Group Chief Executive Officer; Shadi Ghamri KAEC-Senior Director, Utilities and City Services; Ahmed Abo Obied KAECLegal Advisor; Hesham Al-Abd KAEC-Senior Director Procurement. King Abdullah Economic City Signs Contract With Metito For The Design And Construction Of A Seawater Desalination Plant King Abdullah Economic City (KAEC) signed a contract with Metito Saudi Ltd (Metito) for the design and construction of a seawater desalination plant powered by solar energy and valued at SAR220,404,144. Metito was awarded the project after competing with 10 Mutaz Ghandour, Metito Chairman and CEO and Fahd bin Abdul Mohsen Al Rasheed, international and regional companies for the tender. KAEC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer discussing the project against a picturesque view at KAEC The seawater treatment and desalination plant will start with the capacity to produce 30,000 cubic meters of drinking water per day, and expandable to 60,000 cubic meters per day. The development period of the project is 24 months, with a plan to start production in the first quarter of the year 2020. The new plant will be the second desalination plant in KAEC with an objective to increase the production capacity of drinking water to meet the needs of new projects and the growing population in the city, especially Ahmed Ibrahim Linjawy, KAEC Deputy Group Chief Executive Officer and Mutaz Ghandour, with the pilot operation of Al Haramain Express train. Metito Chairman and CEO, laying the foundation stone for the SWRO plant powered by solar energy in KAEC, joined by representatives from both parties and members of the project management team 16 Leading By Example Metito team from left to right: Ecem Akineri, Technical Sales Engineer; Murat Ege, Project Engineer; Ahmed Hayajneh,General Manager Sales-DNE & Oman; Mutaz Ghandour, Chairman and CEO; Rami Ghandour, Managing Director; Fady Juez, Managing Director; Mehmet Enes Kutluka, Biopipe Inventor; Reem Saleh, Head of Communications; Yigit Yarimbas, Biopipe Project Manager; Riyas Poothor, Senior ICT Engineer; Gems Evardo, Corporate Communications Coordinator; Farah Shams, Regional Operations Engineer; Azim Qadar, Sales Development Specialist; Hanin Ali, Sales Engineer; Naseem Zaya, Technology Officer Metito Showcases Ground Breaking Water The New Realities Of Construction In The Region Technologies At WETEX Metito exhibited at the Dubai Solar Show, part of the 19th Water, Energy, Technology, and Environment Exhibition (WETEX 2017) at the Dubai International Convention and Exhibition Centre. Metito showcased a number of innovative and sustainable new water tech solutions including; a patented new solution to secure real-time water contamination detection and quality monitoring; Left to right: Mohammad Khader Al Shouli, Mashreq Bank Senior Vice President; Wail Farsakh, fully in-pipe biological water treatment; and the Root Dutco Balfour Beatty General Manager; Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director; Bill Bodie, Parsons MEA Executive Vice President; Richard Thompson, MEED Editorial Director Enhanced Bioreactor technology. Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, joined Metito also live-streamed one of its local projects to 'The New Realities Of Construction In The Region' live demonstrate how some of these new technologies work webinar which was organized by Mashreq Bank and and can be integrated or retrofitted for more efficient hosted by MEED. operations. At the exhibition, the team representing Metito also performed on-site demonstrations for With the region's economy being transformed by some of the new technologies to further create reforms that are introduced to reduce government awareness among the visitors and engage with existing spending and develop the private sector, new and potential clients. challenges and opportunities for the construction industry are emerging. The webinar discussed the outlook and challenges of the GCC's construction industry and what industry players should do to make the most of them. 17 industry are emerging. The webinar discussed the edition. Out of the five major projects featured in this outlook and challenges for the regional construction article, three projects are being developed by Metito. industry in the GCC and what should the construction industry do to make the most of them. Desalination projects underway in Egypt Until recently, Egypt’s largest desalination plant serving Joining Rami at the Webinar were the following panellists: Mohammad Khader Al Shouli, Mashreq Bank municipal customers was less than 20,000m3/d in Senior Vice President; Wail Farsakh, Dutco Balfour size. The crop of projects currently under development Beatty General Manager; and Bill Bodie, Parsons MEA will transform the scale of the country’s desalination Executive Vice President. The Webinar was moderated base especially with the completion of the largest by Richard Thompson, MEED Editorial Director. desalination plant in Egypt being developed by Metito; Plant Capacity (m3/d) Contractor Status A Metito First Yosr 80,000 Metito In commissioning Al Galalah 150,000 Metito/Orascom Under construction East Port 150,000 Metito/Orascom Under construction Said El Alamein 150,000 Aqualia Under construction Ain Sokhna 150,000 Hyflux Under negotiation Source: DesalData, GWI Metito was awarded the project based on its extensive engineering experience and history with developing desalination projects and its world class quality process design, construction, operation and maintenance of plants utilizing the reverse osmosis technology. Walid Oraby, Metito Qatar General Manager Construction Week Online Interviews Fady Juez Metito Qatar achieved a new milestone by adding a Fady Juez, Metito Managing Director was interviewed new ‘first’ to Metito’s iconic portfolio of projects. by Construction Week where he shared his insights on how efficient water management has become a mandate and not a luxury, how we must ensure that The Public Work Authority (Ashghal) awarded Metito we are making the most of the water available, and how a Framework Contract, Sewer Network Inspection and communities can avoid water wastage where possible. Cleaning Services (SICS) worth over QAR 137,000,000, marking the first contract of its kind in Metito’s history. Egypt Lays Out It's 20Year Desalination Plans Egypt’s 20 – year desalination plans were highlighted in the Global Water Intelligence (GWI) magazine April 18 Leading By Example GWI Interviews Rami Ghandour Metito was represented by Joaquim Beleza, DouroECI General Manager, as a panelist in the World Bank Group and Partners session discussing 'Performance-Based Non-Revenue Water Reduction: Finding the Balance' at the International Water Association – Water Loss Conference in Cape Town, South Africa. DouroECI is a Metito subsidiary headquartered in Portugal. The panel focused on the design of performance-based contracts, and how these could improve non-revenue water reduction. There was further discussion on the impact this would have on striking a balance between various objectives, while ultimately increasing the overall value-for-money. The panel concluded that there is still a lot to achieve in this area and that there is a growing need for new initiatives and complementary methods with an eye on Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director results. There is also a critical need for consolidating strategies to focus long-term goals and shortThe Global Water Intelligence magazine December term gains for a more integrated approach that can edition, featured an interview with Rami Ghandour, support the development of more resilient systems. Metito Managing Director. In the interview Rami talks about the Kigali Bulk Surface Water Supply project, Al Tijara Magazine Interviews Fady Juez and how it sets a precedent. While there was a learning curve on this project, Rami expects that future projects Al Tijara, a magazine published by the Jeddah Chamber will be less complex and take less time to complete. of Commerce, met Fadi Juez, Metito Managing Director, to get his views on the water and wastewater industry Joining The Water Loss 2018 Conference in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. They discussed the growth potential of the industry, and Metito's expansion plans in the Kingdom. Saudi Gazette Interviews Fady Juez Saudi Gazette met with Fadi Juez, Metito Managing Director to discuss the water and wastewater industry in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Vision 2030, and Metito's plans in the Kingdom. Water Loss 2018 panelist Joaquim Beleza, DouroECI General Manager 19 Fady Juez Joins World-Renowned Guest Fady shared statistics on water scarcity and the ultimate Speakers At Al-Attiyah Foundation CEO solutions the GCC must focus on. Round-Table Vision, Goals And Leading By Example The vision and leadership insights of Mutaz Ghandour, Metito Chairman and CEO, were once again in the spotlight as part of an elaborate cover story in the February edition of CEO Magazine. The CEO Magazine is a global business magazine with headquarters in Sydney, and regional offices in Stockholm, Manila, and Singapore. The magazine recently featured Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's CEO, Elon Musk, the founder of SpaceX and the mastermind behind Tesla Inc.; and Sir Richard Branson, the founder of Virgin Group. This is a truly special interview because for the first Fady Juez speaking at the Al-Attiyah Foundation CEO Round-table time ever Mutaz Ghandour shares candid stories and milestone moments from his personal and The Abdullah Bin Hamad Al-Attiyah International professional life. Foundation for Energy and Sustainable Development hosted its ‘8th Quarterly CEO Round-table’, which Sharjah City MunicipalityÕs Agriculture And explored the priority steps required to ensure the Environment Sector Pioneers Biopipe availability and sustainable management of water. SWTP Projects In The Region The roundtable was well attended by representatives from Woqod, Qatar Chemical Company, ExxonMobil Sharjah City Municipality’s Agriculture and Environment Qatar, Sasol Qatar, Conoco Phillips Qatar, Qatar Shell, Sector celebrated the launch of the first-of-its-kind ecoDolphin Energy, Marubeni Corporation, and Hamad Bin friendly sewage treatment plant in the region, utilizing Khalifa University (HBKU). the Biopipe. In addition to member CEOs, the Al-Attiyah Foundation The plant has been designed and developed by Metito also invited world-renowned guest speakers including alongside a professional and inspiring team in the Fady Juez, Metito Managing Director, Dr Samer Adham, workshops of the Agriculture and Environment Sector. Global Water Sustainability Center at Qatar Science and The plant is aimed at strengthening the municipality’s Technology Park Manager, and Nick Carter, PwC Senior Advisor, to share their insights and vision on sustainable leading status in the field of sewage treatment water management. operations. 20 20 Leading By Example Biopipe is an all-in-pipe biological water treatment solution and is the only system in the world that utilizes this revolutionary technology. It can recycle wastewater without creating any waste by-products. The treated water is completely safe for use in organic farming, irrigation, underground aquifer injection, discharging into lakes, rivers or sea, or alternatively it can be stored in clean water tanks for later usage. Biopipe is vastly scalable with the ability to treat the Ahmed Hayajneh, Metito General Manager Sales DNE & Oman, revealing the wastewater generated by an individual house or new Biopipe plant at the event cities of millions of people just as efficiently and in an ecologically friendly way. To put this into context, assuming an average wastewater flow of 250 liters per person per day, a city of 1 million people generates around 250 million litres (250,000m) of wastewater per day. With the Biopipe system, this amount of water could be safely reused to irrigate areas where water is scarce and needed the most. Metito was represented at the event by Ahmed Hayajneh, Metito General Manager Sales DNE & Murat Ege, Biopipe Project Engineer received the Certificate of Appreciation Oman and Murat Ege, Metito Project Engineer. 21 Walid Madwar, Metito Utilities VP Business Development and Neill Goonting, Metito Utilities Senior Legal Advisor receiving the African 'Water Deal of the Year' award at the IJ Global event in London. Industry Recognition Kigali Water Project Wins Prestigious IJ Global Award The Kigali Bulk Water Supply PPP project was announced as the winner of the prestigious IJ Global African 'Water Deal of the Year' award. Walid Madwar, Metito Utilities V.P. Business Development, and Neill Goonting, Senior Legal Advisor, represented Metito at the event and received the award on behalf of Kigali Water Project Grand Prix Winner At the team. The Partnerships Awards 2018 Metito invited to the event: Amit Singh, Associate The Kigali Bulk Water Supply PPP project added two Director Synergy; David White, EAIF Chair; Martijn coveted titles to its portfolio of awards. The marque Proos, Investec Director; Madhavi Gosavi, NRF Partner; project was announced the winner of both the 'Best Tim Scales, A&O Partner; Jane Jamieson; IFC Senior Utilities Project' award and the 'Grand Prix' award at the Infrastructure Specialist; Michael Opagi, IFC Principal Partnerships Awards 2018 ceremony in London. Investment Officer; Sebastien Mellot; Mott MacDonald Country Manager for Rwanda; and John Crothers, Partner The Partnerships Awards recognize and reward the Gide, to celebrate this achievement and to celebrate this best in PPPÕs and the Kigali Bulk Water Supply project achievement and the teamwork that led to this success. stood out for its trailblazing nature and ability to act as 22 Leading By Example a standard bearer for the PPP industry across emerging Metito Awarded By Africa Investor markets. The 2018 Africa Investor (AI) Infrastructure Investment The judges felt the project encourages investors into Awards were announced at the AI CEO African both new sectors and new parts of the world, as well Infrastructure Project Developers Summit in Mauritius, as recognized the impact that the project has had on its Metito was named the winner of the ‘AI Water Deal of community. Walid Madwar, VP Business Development, the YearÕ in recognition of the 1st PPP project of its kind attended the award ceremony on behalf of Metito and in sub-Saharan Africa; the Kigali Bulk Water Supply PPP alongside IFC. project. The AI Awards reward and showcase excellence This is an opportunity for Metito to play a more amongst Africa’s infrastructure investors and prominent role in shaping the general structure that highlight and recognize the achievements of the top governs PPPs on a global level. infrastructure investors, financiers, advisors and development partners operating in Africa. Metito Wins Big At The Global Water Awards 2018 Sulaiman Hallal, Metito Utilities VP Business Operations, attended the summit and received the award on behalf of Metito. Metito Awarded 'Best Water Cleantech PPP In Emerging Markets' By CFI CFI announced its 2018 awards and Metito was awarded the 'Best Water CleanTech PPP in Emerging Markets 2018'. The judges acknowledged Metito's pursuit of close partnerships with multilateral financiers, development agencies, and nonMetito is the proud winner of the ‘Water Deal of the Year’ governmental organisations (NGOs), to help improve and a distinction award recipient of the ‘Desalination access to clean and affordable water across the world Company of the Year’ category as announced at the – a key Sustainable Development Goal. 2018 Global Water Awards ceremony, part of the Global Water Summit 2018, that took place at the The award highlighted the Kigali Water PPP, the first Pavillon d’Armenonville in Paris, France. of its kind in Sub-Saharan Africa, as the judging panel noted that Metito has proven its technical competence Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, received and vison to help deliver on Sustainable Development the coveted awards at the ceremony. Metito was the Goal 6 – Universal Access to Safe Drinking Water. only company to receive two awards at this prestigious event. 23 Mutaz Ghandour Accepts IDA Honorary Commenting on this invitation Mutaz Ghandour said, “It is an honour to accept this expression of confidence Council Membership and invitation from the IDA, an organization that Metito The Board of Directors of has supported throughout the years and which I believe the International Desalination is an excellent platform to exchange ideas and come up Association (IDA) invited Mutaz with new ones”. Ghandour, Metito Chairman and “There is a lot more that can be done and I am confident CEO, to become a member of the that with the new IDA leaders more can be achieved IDA Honorary Council and an IDA especially through integrating with other organizations Ambassador in recognition of his extensive industry to widen the reach and exposure of its mission and the expertise, outstanding contribution to the water sector critical knowledge it has to share.” ‘Water scarcity is and for his service to the IDA over the years. not an industry issue but an issue of general and global The aim of this Council is to leverage the wealth importance and we strongly believe the IDA Honorary of knowledge and experience that resides with its Council can add shared value on this front’, Mutaz added. members to fulfil the IDA’s mission around the world and its commitment to encourage research, promote Mutaz Ghandour Named Water's Longest and exchange communication, disseminate information, Serving Chief Executive In The Global and support education in the field of desalination and Water Business water sciences. Global Water Intelligence (GWI) magazine declared “Among IDA’s great strengths are the commitment of Mutaz Ghandour, Metito Chairman and CEO, the its member to serve the Association and the depth longest-serving Chief Executive in the water business. of their industry experience and knowledge. The IDA Honorary Council is recognition of notable individuals Running long-term businesses needs long-term leaders, who have devoted their time to the Association and and Mutaz Ghandour has been leading the Group who have distinguished themselves in the field of successfully for more than 51 years demonstrating desalination and advanced water treatment solutions. how there is no limits to success when there is a They bring an extraordinary level of longstanding deep-rooted vision and a committed leader who is insight into the global industry. Through the support able to inspire his people every day, everywhere. of the Honorary Council members, who will act as ambassadors for the Association, IDA will intensify Rami Ghandour Joins The Top 25 Global the engagement with the world’s policymakers to help ensure sustainable solutions to growing water scarcity Water Leaders List challenges”, said Shannon McCarthy, IDA Secretary Rami Ghandour, Metito Managing Director, has been General. recognized by Water and Wastewater International (WWI) magazine among the ‘Top 25 Global Water IDA is a non-profit association and associated with the LeadersÕ as published in the magazine earlier this year. United Nations as part of a growing international network of non-governmental organizations (NGOs). The IDA The ‘Top 25 Global Water LeadersÕ initiative is now in its Honorary Council will be balanced by representation fourth year. The organisation encourages nominations from five regions: Europe, Latin America and the from an Advisory Board made up of independent Caribbean, Middle East and Africa, North America, industry experts. The shortlisted executives are then Pacific and Asia. listed, and a round of voting by WWI magazine readers is then launched to come up with the final list of the top 25 water leaders. 24 Leading By Example Metito Saudi Acknowledged For Excellence Metito Saudi received an appreciation letter from Moataz Hammamy, Metito General Manager for Operations SADARA after the successful commissioning of a special membrane-based RO plant for the world-class Metito Safety Recognition From The oil and gas company in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Government Of Sharjah The appreciation letter was awarded to Metito after Engineer Hind Al Hashimi, Head of Public Services completing its scope of work for this important project Department, Government of Sharjah-UAE, awarded in record time, exceeding the client's expectations. The Metito a certificate of recognition for its remarkable scope included: design, engineering, manufacturing, health and safety performance. inspection, testing, supervision of installation, precommissioning, commissioning and start-up activities. Metito, together with Darwish (effluent PS contractor) achieved 1,000,000 safe hours in Sharjah 4 & 5 The RO Unit 360 Propylene Oxide project was awarded upgrading effluent pumping stations and other projects to Metito in May 2013 by Foster Wheeler and was in Sharjah, UAE. commissioned in May 2017. Since then the plant has been in continuous, seamless operation, which has This recognition is part of a safety week organised by been well-received by SADARA. Metito achieved JACOBS consultants at Sharjah main sewage treatment 235 man-days without Lost Time due to Injury (LTI), works – phase 4 & 5 upgrade. During the celebration a a significant success that was also acknowledged by panel comprising Moataz El Hammamy, Metito General SADARA. Manager; Bilal Jose, SMDD; Hamid Nazir, JACOBS Projects Manager; Lutof Hanna, Jacobs Resident The project management team includes; Project Manager Engineer; Al Ameer Basheer; Humaid Al Suwaidi, DPW M; PV Mishra, Project Engineer Amar Smaili, and the project and Hind Al Hashimi, awarded 12 workers, 6 of whom commissioning team under the supervision of Metito KSA are from Metito, with appreciation certificates to Commissioning Head Fawzi Ghali, and Commissioning acknowledge their active involvement in developing a Engineers Roshan Waghe and Pankaj Dagade who safe work environment. received letters of appreciation on behalf of Metito. Metito Represented At The UNECE Metito Earns NSF/ANSI 60 Certification Metito is now officially represented at The United Metito Overseas Ltd received a Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) Certificate of Appreciation from The Project Team on General Framework of Legal Conditions American National Standard for for PPPs. Drinking Water Treatment Chemicals (NSF). Metito earned NSF/ANSI 60 Metito was approached by the UNECE earlier this year certification after going through an and Sulaiman Hallal, MUL VP Business Operations intense process of verification, sampling and product passed the selection process and has officially been sample testing. The rigorous testing was aimed at invited to become a member. recognizing and verifying standards and included detailed inspection of Metito’s manufacturing facility. In The UNECE was set up in 1947 by the United Nations partnership with NSF, Metito is currently in the process Economic and Social Council as one of five regional of extending the certified product range of reverse osmosis commissions of the United Nations. and domestic water systems. 25 Our People Metito’s most valuable asset is its people. The company’s continued success over the years stems from the Employees by Length of Service strength of its people; it stems from their knowledge, experience and passion to make a difference in such 4% 1% a critical industry. Data showcasing employees’ length < 5 years of service proves a pattern of longevity and minimal 13% 5-10 years turnover signifying their commitment and loyalty. 60% 10-15 years These two crucial qualities clearly play a fundamental 15-20 years role in Metito’s success. 22% > 20 years Building a strong team requires a deep understanding and appreciation of the unique strengths that each and every individual brings to the team. This is especially important as Metito operates in several countries, Employees by Nationality each with its own nuances, requiring customized 59% solutions for sustainable and successful projects. 60% 50% The most important element in making this work is 40% 40% diversity. Metito is true to its multinational stature, 30% hiring employees from diverse backgrounds, cultures 20% and with varying experiences; it is apparent that our 10% 0.26% 0.33% workforce nationality statistics follow the company’s 0% an ian A ethos of ‘Local Presence, Global Know-How’. The M frica id n dl a C me A pe ro As e nd Ea Au ana rica Eu data shows that the majority of Metito’s employees ste rn str dia n/ ali n/ an are from African and Asian backgrounds reflecting regions where the company is most active and where Training Statistics it envisions future growth. Metito invests in local talent No. of Employees Trained 5,138 as part of its commitment to the communities it serves No. of Training Hours 11,377 and strives to provide employees with opportunities to expand their knowledge and skills. 25% To continue being a resilient company with a team that grows from strength to strength, employees at Metito Training Type are given the right tools and access to vast resources Technical to inspire and enable them to reach their full potential. Non-Technical To this end, both technical and non-technical training 75% is provided. This year, for the first time ever, Metito introduced strength-based training for a select group of employees with results being assessed against set KPIs. QHSE Statistics Employees’ health and safety is also a key area of 1,654,619 focus for Metito, and this year the company continued No. of Safe Man-Hours since with the wellness day drives in different locations. June, 2017 until May, 2018 in the UAE The Quality, Health, Safety and Environment (QHSE) team has also introduced new processes this year for 0 LTI Frequency Rate since June, 2017 until May, 2018 in the UAE 26 Our People employees on project sites and at factories. The new Metito Chemicals Team Attends Gallup process includes Start Cards, Stop Cards and a new Strengths-Based Workshop coding system for all safety helmets used on sites to ensure further risk management and more safety for all Metito Chemicals team experienced Metito’s first employees and visitors on project sites. The safe manGallup Strengths-Based Workshop. The programme hours results and recognition reflects the effectiveness involved three parts; 1) A strengths assessment to of such measures and the company looks forward to discover their own talents as individuals and to see how marking new records and milestones in this area. they naturally think feel and behave; 2) A one-on-one coaching session with a certified strengths coach; 3) A team building activity, where the team was brought Metito Flu Fighters together to form complementary partnerships. To successfully build a strengths-based team, each team member must know the talents and strengths of his peer and understand which of their specific talents and strengths are needed by the group, and then position them in a way to contribute to the common goal. The training is aimed at helping employees build stronger relationships, increase self-awareness and strategize for the future thereby maximizing their potential in a more dynamic work environment. They train colleagues to excel in everyday scenarios. Strength-based coaching is based on successes “not As part of the company's ongoing commitment to failures” to apply research-backed practices proven to enhance employee's health and safety awareness, drive performance outcomes. Metito organized a flu vaccination campaign called 'Be a Flu Fighter'. Available to all employees across the world, Strengths-based practices found performance increase the campaign was aimed at providing free flu vaccine at or above the following ranges: shots to promote the importance of preventive measures • 10% to 19% increase in sales against the seasonal flu viruses, which can be fatal if not attended soon. • 14% to 29% increase in profit Free flu shots were offered to employees at different • 3% to 7% higher customer engagement locations across the Group, and employees were asked • 6% to 16% lower turnover (in low-turnover to spread the knowledge and the word among their organizations) family, friends and community as an extension of this corporate social responisbility initiative. • 26% to 72% lower turnover (in high-turnover organizations) The campaign also served as a reminder to the • 9% to 15% increase in engaged employees employees on how it is important to adapt a healthy lifestyle, encouraging everyone to become a Flu Fighter. • 22% to 59% fewer safety incidents 27 Team Building Intiatives Bring Your Kids To Work Family Day Metito organized an educational trip to the Dubai Investment Park (DIP) wastewater treatment plant for children of its UAE employees, aged 7 and above. Metito believes that the more exposure children are given to information about the real value of water, water recycling and reuse, the more effective and smart water users they will become. The visit started with a safety induction followed by an informative presentation covering some water and wastewater statistics, latest technologies and an overview of the DIP project and was followed by a site tour. 28 Team TeamBuilding Building Initiatives Intiatives Image Caption ... Mohamed Hamdy, DIP SPC Manager; Siegfred Panilagao, Metito HSE Team Leader; Gems Evardo, Metito Corporate Communications Coordinator and the Metito basketball team In It To Win It! Yoga is a physical and mental practice that embodies unity of mind and body, thought and action, restraint and fulfillment. Metito's Basketball team was declared overall winner at This year, the team at Metito Pune celebrated this day with the 12th Dubai Investment Park (DIP) Corporate Sports an impressive initiative that saw the whole team gathered Competitions. The event was held at the New World for a healthy cause and a group Yoga practice session. Private International School. Yoga symbolizes discipline, commitment and The one-day event engaged teams from different engagement which is basically an engineering formation companies encouraging camaraderie, promoting at its best, commented Hisham Fadda, Metito Group teamwork, endurance and determination through sports Human Capital Director. activities. Celebrating The International Yoga Day The United Nations declared June 21st as the International Yoga Day, highlighting the wholesome approach of yoga to health and well-being. 29 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity 30 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity Community Initiatives A woman from the Montong Tangi village extracting water manually from a water well, where there is great concern about the quality of water and possible contamination. Celebrating World Water Day According to the World Health Organization (WHO), half of the world’s population will be living in water-stressed areas by 2025. The United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and WHO reported that almost 663 million people lack access to an improved water source. These numbers can get worse with rising populations, urbanization and industrialization and with lack of sufficient knowledge among consumers about water scarcity, the importance of safe water access and the prospects of conflicts pertaining to water security. water poverty by delivering clean water access and This year, in the lead up to World Water Day, Metito hygiene education programs. augmented its efforts to promote the importance of Metito employee volunteers from Jakarta joined the team information dissemination and knowledge transfer on at Montong Tangi, a rural village located on the island water scarcity, water safety and security through its CSR of Lombok, Indonesia, where contaminated wells pose program which primarily targets school and university challenges among the community members in terms students. of drinking water conditions and healthy lifestyle. The In the GCC, Metito organized educational trips for students team constructed and deployed a clean water filtration and teachers from Dubai’s Nord Anglia School, Hartland system/AquaTower and a lifesaving water-health and International School and India’s SIES College-Mumbai, hygiene education program on World Water Day. showcasing the GCC’s first wastewater concession at Project 24 demonstrates how corporate and private Dubai Investment Park (DIP) as an exemplar project for citizens can join together to change, or even save water recycling and reuse. lives, by increasing awareness of the global water crisis In Indoneisa, Metito partnered with Planet Water and mobilizing to create action towards this issue. Foundation, a leading non-profit organization that delivers a program called 'Project 24' and which addresses global 31 This year alone, and through extensive communications Supporting Children With Special Needs via Facebook, Twitter, and traditional news media coverage, Planet Water Foundation was able to reach 1M people thereby effectively increasing global awareness about water poverty and engaging diverse communities around the impact individuals, non-profit organizations and corporations can make together. “With this year’s theme ‘Nature for Water’, World Water Day emphasizes nature’s full capacity to solve existing water challenges in the 21st century but for this to happen in a sustainable manner, we must all play an active part to positively influence each other through knowledge sharing. We believe that knowledge is the most effective driver able to bring about positive change. Tapping into the youth, their unrestricted thinking space and fresh energy, is the Metito renewed its contract with the Al Noor Centre for focal point of our CSR agenda,” commented Mutaz Children with Special Needs in Dubai, UAE to provide Ghandour, Chairman and CEO at Metito. complimentary essential water treatment services. “We are very honored to be partnering with Metito The work scope includes; bacterial analysis for the on this very important World Water Day program children’s swimming pool (every three months), bacterial in Indonesia,” said Nick Hill, Executive Chairman analysis for the water tank (every six months), and the of Planet Water Foundation. “Metito is a valued Legionella test analysis for the water tank (every three contributor to our Project 24 alliance of organizations months). that share a commitment to ending global water poverty.” 32 The ‘ ’ In Hu anity Knowledge Sharing and Educational Intiatives Metito India team from left to right: Ameya Dhongde, E&I Manager; Vinay Verma, Electrical Manager; Deepak Nyayadhish, General Manager; Umesh Tamhankar, Mechanical Designer; Umesh Dixit, Engineering Manager; Prafull Pochhi, Senior Process Engineer; Partha Deb, Procurement Engineer; Sulakshana Sule, Regional Proposals Manager Helping Orphans Reach Their Potential In India, Metito Pune extended its support to ‘Apalaghar NGOÕ located in Village Donje, around 24km away from its offices. With helping the new generation reach their full potential especially children of young age, a big part of Metito Corporate Responsibility strategy, Metito Pune identified the children at Apalaghar to benefit from this initiative. Metito presented twelve sets of computers to the children at Apalaghar. Employee volunteers also conducted an introductory session about computer literacy to the children to enable them to use and make best use of the new resource. Metito also supervised software courses during the weekends to train them on becoming more equipped. As a way to end the activity, Apalaghar children recited a poem in Marathi language followed by speeches from children representatives during a small ceremony. Currently, about 40 children in different age groups, are being supported by Apalaghar. 33 Mohamed Hamdy, DIP SPC Manager; Subramhanyam Barkur, Automation Engineer, Gems Evardo, Corporate Communications Coordinator together with the SIES College Mumbai, India students educational tour. SIES College Delegation Visits Dubai Investment Park Metito hosted a student delegation from SIES College Mumbai, India, as part of an international field trip organized for their Engineering and Business Management students. The visit started with a health and safety induction followed by a Metito Group toverview and an informative session covering the latest statistics on Reem Saleh, Head of Communications presenting a high level overview about Metito and the Dubai Investment Park project. fresh water availability, water scarcity and rising gap between demand and supply. The students were also introduced to the need behind water recycling and reuse and the new innovations and technology that are currently being incorporated in Metito’s projects across the world. 34 This report remains to be a measure of choice that demonstrates Metito’s willingness and efforts to track the effectiveness of its community engagement and a testament of our pledge to encourage others to follow suit. The report is uploaded annually/simultaneously on Metito’s official website, portal and on the United Nations Global Compact* as a continued support for this important initiative. 35 metito.com Design and Build l Utilities l Chemicals Intelligent Water Management
