UN GLOBAL COMPACT SALTERBAXTER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 02 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 Who we are and why we’re here We create big ideas to inspire and deliver the necessary step change towards business that 20 years led by founders Penny Baxter are simply sustainable. and Nigel Salter We believe that this will be achieved through collective ambition and action-led approaches that are built to respond to the fast pace of change. Less talking, more walking. 55% of our clients are from outside the UK This change is more than communications, more than business operating in isolation. We believe in doing things differently in order to engage all audiences differently. This means breaking the mould on conventional 29 New clients in 2017 approaches to strategy, performance and communications. This means taking a systems view of the issues and building strategies that are as agile as they are ambitious. Something that we have been doing for 20 years, with some of the world’s leading businesses. Wherever the journey starts, together with our clients, we will help to make the step change happen, delivering positive growth and business impact by making sustainability creative, tangible and actionable. 03 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 About this report This is Salterbaxter Contents Contact MSLGROUP’S 12th Section One | Our commitment and our impact 05. Statement from our new leadership Communication on Progress 06. Helping business and brands step up submitted to the UNGC. 07. Contributing to the debate through thought leadership 08. A food focus for If Only It covers the calendar year January to December 09. Think it, do it: For One Table Tracy Cheung 2017. As part of Publicis Groupe we are also covered 10. Think it, do it and change behaviour Operations Manager in their Group CSR and Annual Reporting documents 11. Scaling up Innovation Day and going global and their commitment to the UNGC. 13. Measure and report 14. Performance update: Social +44 (0)20 7229 5720 Section One talks about our business 16. Performance update: Environment tracy.cheung@salterbaxter.com and our approach to delivering value to 17. Looking forward 1 society through our work as well as our Section Two | The 10 Principles 82 Baker Street London W1U 6AE actions internally. of the UN Global Compact www.salterbaxter.com Section Two restates our commitment to the 19. The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact UNGC 10 Principles and highlights some 21. Human Rights 2 of our activities that make progress against 22. Labour each of these. 23. Environment 24. Anti-corruption Section Three is where you’ll find 3 our responsible business policies Section Three | Policies and procedures. 26. Anti-Slavery and human trafficking policy 29. Data privacy 30. Equal opportunities policy 31. Health and safety policy 32. Environmental procurement policy 04 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section one Our commitment and our impact 05 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section one Statement from our new leadership This is our 12th Communication For instance, we were proud to be named by our clients in the top ranking of the UK’s leading On Process to the UN Global management consultancies in Sustainability by the Compact and the first to be Financial Times newspaper. addressed from a new Reporting to the UN Global Compact each year gives us an opportunity to reflect on the changing dynamic leadership team. between business and society and how we ourselves live up to it. The UNGC is a true global movement for The strength of Salterbaxter has always been the corporate sustainability and its values and principles dedication of all of the staff to our guiding Purpose are central to our own way of thinking as well as how – to delivering positive growth by making we work with many of our clients. We remain sustainability creative, tangible and actionable so that committed to the UNGC and outline the progress Jeremy Cohen businesses are competitive whilst being fit for a future made and actions taken in 2017 through this report. Managing Director in which we all thrive. As we evolve as a business, we continue to reflect on And so at the beginning of 2018, when our two how we can embody what we advocate. Through founders Nigel Salter and Penny Baxter stepped taking actions such as understanding the big and down after almost 20 years at the helm, they left safe small nuances around diversity, how we share in the knowledge that the team would continue to knowledge and live our values through our drive ever greater positive impact in more behaviours, we can become a better place both to organisations all around the world. work for and with. This is what we have always stood for and it what we We hope you join and follow us in the next phase. will continue to pioneer. Salterbaxter is the hub of expertise on sustainability within MSL and Publicis Groupe. Our sphere of influence and power to challenge within this global organisation and client network provides us with Kathleen Enright exciting opportunities to shape the global business Deputy Managing Director agenda. 06 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section one Helping business opportunity to help them align a brand refresh programme with a sustainability narrative resulting in the clear ambition ‘Moving body and mind to and brands step up create a stronger world’. This ambition sat at the top of a framework that has created a structure for sustainability communications going forward. As a result, outputs that followed included product information labelling around environmental impacts and a social campaign with their charity partner Right to Play. Our ambition is to help business and brands Step Up to the challenge of the changing DSM | A renewable revolution for societal change DSM are a science-based company using technology relationship between business and innovation to create ingredients and materials and society through our smart that ‘can change the world’. They wanted to evolve their existing open innovation programme from a strategy, insights and creativity. campaign to a movement for societal change. Believing that the solutions to some of the world’s Our impact reaches further through our clients, some biggest problems already existed – we just needed of the world’s largest companies, embedding Xeros Technology Group | Cleaning up some of the to help DSM find them. sustainability in their DNA and driving transformation. world’s most polluting industries Xeros Technology Group (XTG) has developed a So we developed the Bright Minds Challenge: Some examples of our work from 2017 included: disruptive new polymer bead that has the potential a public competition on renewable energy, designed to transform industrial processes that have typically to identify and connect with a global community of used large amounts of fresh water, polluted the scientists and technologists across the world to environment and created hazardous working surface solutions that made renewable energy conditions. Polymer beads replace water and as a more scalable, efficient and accessible to all. result processes use up to 70% less water, 70% less chemicals, 70% less effluents and 50% less energy. Using a data-led approach to identify influencers Salterbaxter helped XTG define their Purpose ‘Giant and innovators, the campaign reached deep into Steps – to help the world use water more niche science and technology communities and built resourcefully’ and four big 2022 goals around the a global movement behind the competition. transforming industries, improving biodoversity, The finalists and ultimate winner were announced and of course saving billions of litres of fresh water. at key events in New York and Amsterdam, with We also created an identity, messaging and a DSM and its partners pledging support to take the SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 number of brand assets. We then applied these winner – Professor Ernest Calvo’s INQUIMAE solution ASICS | Aligning brand and sustainability purpose to two very different exhibition opportunities: for extracting lithium using solar power – through ASICS are one of the world’s leading sports brands. the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas to execution. We have worked with them for a number of years and an Innovate UK event in Shanghai. on their sustainability reporting. 2017 saw the 07 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section one Contributing to the debate through thought leadership Throughout the year we share our insights in the Campaignable reporting: In November, our Sustainable Business Forum A focus on system change at The Big Bang supplement (Left) our Sustainable Business Forum form of publications and events focused on current focused on system change – Fixing Food: How and in our 17th Annual and leading-edge sustainability topics and trends. Sustainability frameworks: Disruption will Save the System. We had an amazing Directions report The sustainability landscape is extremely dynamic Sharpening the focus range of contributors reflecting the scope of and supplement (Right) and continually evolving. It is key that we both interest in the challange. They included Tim Lang, challenge and support the ever-changing agenda as Professor of Food Policy at City, University of remaining at the forefront and shaping best practice London’s Centre for Food Policy; Nigel Topping CEO is of course business-critical. of the We Mean Business coalition; Anne Babkine, Brand, CSR & Corporate Communications Director, In 2017 we published two supplements: one about the Elior Group; Dr. Lee Howell, Member, Managing Board value of sustainability frameworks in communicating & Head of Global Programming, World Economic strategy and approach and another about maximising Forum; and Kate Hofman, CEO and Co-Founder, the reporting effort by building a strategic GrowUp Urban Farms – London’s first commercial communications plan into the process. aquaponics urban farming business. The event stimulated a valuable debate for attendees which www.salterbaxter.com was then reflected in the publication that followed – The Big Shift: Getting to Grips with Systems Change. https://forum.salterbaxter.com 08 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section one A food focus for If Only If Only is our internal programme that brings us all “Following the launch of the Common The If Only framework together to tackle the sustainability challenges we care passionately about, and to seek innovative ways Ground initiative we wanted to make to raise awareness and change behaviour. a contribution. Following the launch of the Common Ground initiative by Ban Ki-moon in the autumn of 2016, we placed an emphasis on issues relating to SDG 2: Zero Hunger. So we have applied an SDG 2 lens across all our If only activities so as Mission: to raise awareness of the food Inspire, innovate, impact system issues relating to the goal. We will make change happen by inspiring each other to innovate and make a positive impact on sustainability challenges. At the centre of this was Innovation Day. 50% of the social entrepreneurs we worked with across London and NYC had food at the heart of their business either as an issue to solve Think it, do it Measure and report or a means to solve issues.’ Awareness is not enough. Together we will create Action is key. We will find new an inspiring place to work Lynn Dickinson ways to interact, motivate where our people thrive. Senior Consultant and If Only Programme Director each other to participate and We will also improve the make an impact. We will do management of our business this through: impacts through: • Supporting social businesses • KPI scorecard via our Innovation Day • UN Global Compact • Engaging themes that lead Communication on Progress to understanding and drive including our annual behaviour change performance report 09 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section one Think it, do it: For One Table One Table Some highlights have included: In 2016, Publicis Groupe joined the Common Ground pact alongside five other major holding companies Leo Burnett MEA invited clients, colleagues and (WPP, Omnicom, Publicis Groupe, IPG, Dentsu Aegis Publicis Groupe agencies to help end world hunger by and Havas). Each of the holding companies pledged submitting a personal wish for the New Year, making its support to one of the United Nations Sustainable a donation to local SDG2 charity on behalf of every Development Goals (UN SDGs) to build a better world wish made. for everyone. Publicis Groupe were assigned SDG 2: Zero Hunger. BBH London worked with Tesco, a leading UK supermarket, to engage customers and their supply In 2017 Publicis Groupe, in collaboration with chain to reduce waste, eat healthier and improve their Salterbaxter and Sapientrazorfish, launched One agricultural sustainability. The project which went Table, on the United Nations’ International Volunteer across TV, print and online media included recipes Day. One Table is run day-to-day by Salterbaxter, and from customers on how best to use-up food waste. it aims at promoting action on improving nutrition, reducing food waste and reinforcing sustainable ZenithOptimedia France and Australia, Salterbaxter supply chains, all of which are major issues in the UK, Leo Burnett US, Publicis Health France, and BBH countries and cities where our Publicis Groupe US all took time out of their busy agency schedules to colleagues live and operate. volunteer for local causes to raise awareness, raise money, and welcomed food-social enterprises into The goal of One Table is to mobilise our entire their offices. organisation to come together to do what we do best as communicators, makers, and storytellers to help Sapientrazorfish have an ongoing relationships with end hunger. By showcasing the numerous initiatives non-profit Natural Resource Defense Counsel. The happening across the Groupe to support Zero multi-year campaign (over multiple media channels) Hunger, we will amplify the positive impact our called Save The Food shows consumers how a few agencies are already having, and inspire more to simple actions can curb food waste while reducing focus their efforts on areas that directly impact the carbon gas emissions. Each piece of campaign Zero Hunger Goal. content, easy to digest and easy to share through social media, further amplifies the campaign’s message and educational goals. http://publicisgroupeonetable.com/ 10 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section one Think it, do it and change behaviour If Only seeks to make change •F  ood Mate Fridays, which saw employees from across the London office bringing in food to share happen by inspiring each of at a lunch-time pot luck. our colleagues to innovate and Activites included: make a positive impact on •A  food waste cook off where the more confident cooks amongst us made recipes from food we sustainability challenges. might typically throw away – banana skin curry anyone? If Only initiatives in 2017 responded to the One Table programme and were themed all around SDG 2. •P  rizes for completing challenges such as Meat free Mondays and Waste Less Wednesdays. We created 5 pledges for 5 days of the week that we rolled out across the year focusing on how we can all •A  food description competition challenging how shop, cook and eat more sustainably. Teams and what we are being sold under labels such as organsied a number of challenges and activities ‘artisan’, ‘organic’, ‘protein’ etc. around each pledge: • Meat Free Mondays, where we championed vegetarian food for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. • Trim Back Tuesdays, where we were encouraged to cut out sugary snacks and snacks generally! • Waste Less Wednesdays, where we examined our behaviour around food waste. • Think Twice Thursdays, where we invited our colleagues to challenge their shopping habits – including food labels, food miles and packaging. 11 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section one Scaling up Innovation Watch the Innovation Day 2017 here: bit.ly/2n0Ouq7 Day and going global Social entrepreneurs build day with strong support from other Publicis agencies. More than 40 people from MSL signed up with up to businesses that tackle social 15 volunteers each from Arc, August, CNC, Poke, and environmental challenges. Publicis, Saatchi & Saatchi and Sapient Razorfish. With 200+ participants, 2 locations supporting For one day a year we dedicate our time to 12 entrepreneurs, Innovation Day 2017 was our largest supporting social entrepreneurs, using our skills and event to date. experience to help them increase their impact by The dynamic atmosphere on the day in both boosting their communications. locations was exhilarating for all who took part. Innovation Day 2017 was our sixth annual event, and The entrepreneurs were delighted with the outcomes for the first time went international with a parallel and the experience; first time participants relished the event in our New York office. In our focus on SDG 2 opportunity that the day brought, and experienced Zero Hunger, half of the enterprises specifically hands were reminded how much can be achieved focused on food issues, and a quarter directly tackling when we come together to solve big challenges. food poverty and food waste. Needless to say that once again, Salterbaxter We continue to work with UnLtd, who offer the colleagues demonstrated an enormous commitment UK’s largest network of social businesses and to delivering a positive social impact by designing an support hundreds of individuals each year through amazing event for all. The day continues to set a its programmes to identify the social businesses. precedent for more collaborative working and skills Our partners from the beginning, UnLtd help us sharing throughout all the agencies and launched new identify entrepreneurs for whom our support can networks and friendships across our London and New make a difference and help them scale up their York offices and the Groupe. The hope is that this will impact. This year UnLtd also helped us make the also lead to Innovation Day events in even more event go international by putting us touch with one locations next year. Amsterdam are already onboard. of their US partners, Blue Ridge Labs, a social enterprise tech incubator. At Salterbaxter we dedicate all our staff to the entire 12 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 Feedback from the day Meg Doherty, Fat Macy’s, London “Three months on your work has all been so useful we’ve used all of the social media assets, and are talking with a designer about the cook book idea. We sent out the press release to all journalists and have been adding the mission statements to all external work. All in all – such an enormous help to have your team working with us. Thank you!” Nemo Shaw, UnLtd Award Manager, London “A huge thanks for all your efforts and I can’t state enough how great an impact it has on the Social Entrepreneurs.” Jimmy Chen, Propel Founder and CEO, NYC “Thank you so much for your time and thoughtful advice! We have already started discussing ways to put your contributions to use in how we talk about the company and our work.” Robert Lee, RLC Founder and CEO, NYC “We really appreciate the team taking a full day to help us think through some of the issues we’ve been needing to work through. Plus we now have a great campaign for Restaurant week.” Hannah Calhoon, Director, Blue Ridge Labs, NYC “Thanks so much again for including us in Innovation Day I know both Propel and Rescuing Leftover Cuisine really appreciated all the advice and guidance and that they’ve got a lot of work to do as a next step!” 10 agencies from across 12 social entrepreneurs Publicis Groupe in one day participating 200+ 40 participants on the day social entrepreneurs in London and NYC supported since 2011 13 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section one Measure and report As a sustainability-focused “At the end of 2017 we were very pleased and excited to see Publicis Groupe sign up business, measuring our impact to the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™ on people and the environment pledge, the largest CEO-driven business is a central priority for us. commitment to advance diversity and inclusion in the workplace. We want to practice what we preach! As we share our working spaces in both Baker Street, London I’m looking forward to be representing and Broadway, New York with other Publicis Salterbaxter on this taskforce and helping to businesses, our direct control over some areas is shape the Groupe’s strategy locally at Baker limited – in particular our environmental impact. As a result we continue to evaluate the meaningfulness of Street. This is a real opportunity to make a the indicators we can measure and manage. This positive impact on a sector that has continued section reviews some of the measurements and to have challenges. It is imperative that we are indicators that we track. proactive in ensuring our business reflects the world in which we live and that our people work in an environment which all kinds of 65% female employees 3 male, people thrive.” Tracy Cheung 5 female Operations Manager 5 days of training members on the executive management board per employee 14 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section one Performance update: Social We are continuing to report Average daily hours: 8 (target 8.5) Length of service: 5 (down from 6.3 in 2016) on the indicators that are important to us as well as the For the third year in a row we have achieved our work-life balance target. We believe that this In 2017, six people celebrated 10 years in the business and the summer party was thrown in their honour. We ones that are material to our demonstrates that our efforts in monitoring and believe that this indicator shows that we have been managing workload is contributing to an improved able to provide new opportunities for many of our business success. work-life balance. Key to this has been a more most experienced staff. However, despite this average formalised ‘time off in lieu’ policy that has ensured that length of service went down from 6.3 to 5 years. colleagues get time back in recognition of a heavy This is still a relatively high number for our industry In addition, going forward Publicis Groupe has workload. However, we do also recognise that there but the decrease reflects that we need to work hard signed up to the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™ specific teams that continue to longer hourse and that to ensure that we offer career development pledge, the largest CEO-driven business commitment there is still work to do on process and planning to opportunitites in line with personal ambition. to advance diversity and inclusion in the workplace. help the areas that are overstretched. The initiative was collectively formed and is led by a Students: 0 (target: 2.0) steering committee of CEOs and leaders from Staff formal training days Interns: 1 (target: 3.0) Accenture, BCG, Deloitte US, The Executive (cumulative days per person): Leadership Council, EY, General Atlantic, KPMG, 0.8 (target: 0.5) In 2017, we took on one sustainability intern for a paid New York Life, P&G and PwC. Network agencies Staff informal training days internship. We have also continued to retain links with based at 82 Baker Street responded by setting up (cumulative days per person): Nottingham Business School providing research an Employee Resource Group with representatives 4 (target: 2.5) topics and sustainability careers advice. from all the brands including Salterbaxter to define an agenda. The group has senior management We are extremely pleased to have exceeded both With regard to student placements we have retained representation and aims to launch in 2018. As part the formal (i.e. externally provided) and informal the KPI despite failing to hit the mark in recent years. of the taskforce established, we look forward to (i.e. in-house mentoring, knowledge-sharing sessions) Relationships with design courses in the past have defining the strategy and measures for success. training targets. We believe that this is the result of proved frutiful in terms of providing a great our training and development planner aligned with experience for students, mentoring responsibilities our new appraisal system, access to Groupe wide for our employees and recruiting great talent. So we opportunities (eg. Viva Women and events) and a are aware that this is a missed oppotunity and would more strategic approach to knowlegde sharing. like to change our track record in 2018. We are also much more disciplined in how we record training time. 15 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section one Performance update: Social (continued) I feel proud to work for Salterbaxter: Additional social indicators Not measured (target: 85%) In order to avoid employee survey fatigue our internal Indicator 2016 2017 survey was postponed in order to align with MSL and Average number of full-time 47 50 Publicis Groupe’s broader employee engagement employees practices. However, in 2017 no employee survey was Average number of contractors 9.2 10.8 conducted, which we consider a missed opportunity. Therefore we will run our own Salterbaxter survey in Average sick days per person 3.1 1.4 2018 to ensure that alongside our compnay meetings, Average age 38.9 39 bi-annual reviews and monthly 1-2-1 line management Gender ratio male:female 1 34:66 35:65 meetings, we meet our own standards for open and 1 Percentage increase and decrease for gender ratio is as follows honest dialogue and feedback. (male:female) +2.8:-1.5 Volunteering day participation: 12% of employees (target 60%) KPIs 2016 Achievement 2017 Target 2017 Achievement Getting our employees to use their contractual volunteering day allowance remains a challenge. SOCIAL 6 employees participated in volunteering activity, If Only participation days 3 2 2.6 3 of whom were following connections made with Employees proud to work at Salterbaxter 77% 85% n/a social entrepreneurs during Innovation day. We must Number of student placements 0 2 0 continue to promote the day and encourage take up. Number of interns 1 3 1 Volunteering day take up 26% 60% 12% Average hours 8.3 8.5 8 Staff training formal (days per employee – c) 0.5 0.5 0.8 Staff training informal (days per employee – c) 6.5 2.5 4 16 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section one Performance update: Environment In 2016 we moved to a We are therefore unable to compare our performance with that of others in the building Publicis Groupe shared with whom we share every aspect of the building at 82 Baker Street infrastructure, or set meaningful targets against which we can measure progress. with centrally managed Publicis Groupe measures a number of other premises including utilities, environmental indicators including water usage waste management and which of course in some of the network’s international offices could have a material impact. stationery procurement. Going forward measures and targets must be set at Groupe level and campaigns driven building-wide. As discussed in our report last year, the move It is therefore our role and responsibility to see if we came with benefits and challenges and these can influence this in coming years. became apparent in our first year of performance data in comparison with our previous office space. For example, electricity usage per head reduced dramatically due to the modernity of the building, whilst waste per person increased due to a lack of best practice recycling behaviour building-wide For more on the Groupe’s approach please visit: and supporting infrastructure. http://publicisgroupe-csr-smart-data.com/en/ We therefore stated that we would review and disclosure/305-5 redefine what we can meaningfully measure and http://rse2017.publicisgroupe.com/en/ influence. Our conclusion is that we must align our environnement.html reporting on environmental indicators with Publicis Groupe. And whilst we can of course continue to apply best practice behaviours and try to influence operations and procurement at Baker Street, reduction targets are redundant. Numbers are calculated by building headcount of which we are approximately 50 of 600+ people. 17 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section one Looking forward “2017 was a big year for Their legacy also ensured a unique agency culture centred around empowering all of us to make a Salterbaxter. Not only did positive impact – whether its employee-driven it mark the 20 year initiatives such as Innovation Day or inspiring knowledge building and shaping thinking on the anniversary of our founders, issues that matter. Penny and Nigel, but it turned Looking forward Salterbaxter will continue to engage out to be their last full year in businesses in the transition, and have welcomed a new leadership team that will drive us forward. As the business.” part of this change we have looked internally to see what we need to step up, and have created three new internal initiatives with the purpose of building on our In their time Salterbaxter evolved and became the culture, our knowledge and our desire to do more and leading creative and strategic sustainability more great work that makes a positive impact. consultancy, helping businesses adapt to the changing relationship between business and society In 2018 we also hope to see Salterbaxter’s closer and help position them to thrive in a world where all alignment to MSL, in turn opening up more actors must work together for the planet we need. opportunities to promote our sustainability work across Publicis Groupe. How can we come together to create more opportunities for us all, benefit of our clients and ultimately make a bigger positive impact on our world – a new challenge for a new era. Caroline Carson Senior Consultant, Sustainability and Communications 18 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section two The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact 19 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section two The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Labour 1 2 3 45 6 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in the protection of human rights abuses. of association and the compulsory labour. respect of employment internationally effective recognition and occupation. proclaimed of the right to human rights. collective bargaining. Read more_ page 21 Read more_ page 21 Read more_ page 22 Read more_ page 22 Read more_ page 22 Read more_ page 22 20 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section two The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact (continued) Environment Anti-corruption 7 8 9 10 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 9: Encourage the development Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all approach to environmental and diffusion of its forms, including environmental responsibility. environmentally extortion and bribery. challenges. friendly technologies. Read more_ page 23 Read more_ page 23 Read more_ page 23 Read more_ page 24 21 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section two Human rights Principles Our approach and actions Approach Actions Principle 1: We continue to endorse the Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights We take a number of steps to ensure that we deliver a positive impact on the introduced by the UN Human Rights Council in 2011, as well as the Universal human rights of our employees: Businesses should support Declaration of Human Rights. We welcomed the Modern Slavery Act becoming and respect the protection • We promote the right to education, and encourage the development of skills law in 2015 as evidence that modern forms of slavery must be recognised as issues of internationally proclaimed through formal and informal training and mentoring, including participation in facing our society today in order to be systematically addressed and combated. workshops and talks with different agencies. human rights. We take a proactive approach and assess the real and potential impacts of our • Through the way we manage the business and the salaries paid, we promote the business operations, direct and indirect across our value chain. As our business right to adequate standards of living. Principle 2: continues to grow in the US we must apply the same standards when working with • Through the way we manage the business we promote the right to freedom of Make sure that they are not new suppliers in new territories. expression. complicit in human rights abuses. • We promote the right to safe and healthy working conditions through managing Through our work and influence, we support and encourage our clients to report their human rights challenges in line with best practice and help them to analyse the work environment and through a comprehensive Health and Safety policy. the importance of the topic to their business through materiality assessments. All new employees, both permanent and contract staff, are inducted in this as part of our new starter process. We have staff trained in first aid and fire risk Publicis Groupe take a systematic and zero tolerance approach to human rights assessment, prevention and response. abuses, assessing the real and potential impacts of business operations across the • We have a well communicated grievance procedure that ensures employees are value chain. As a subsidiary of Publicis Groupe, we report through the Groupe on familiar with how to raise concerns about staff, treatment or any other aspect of this topic, however we publish our Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy our work. in this report (see page 26). • As our business evolves and expands into new territories we continuously review our approach to ensure that we live up to best practice approaches. For more information about Publicis Groupe’s approach and policies please see their latest Report: http://publicisgroupe.com/#/en/responsibility/ More on this topic is covered under the Labour Standards principles on the governance-reporting-rse-csr following page. Further detail can also be found under ‘Our People’ in this report. 22 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section two Labour Principles Our approach and actions Approach sessions which meant that there were a few of our employees attending the event Principle 3: A culture in which all staff are treated fairly and each individual’s merits are as well as one of our employees mentoring at the sessions. Businesses should uphold the promoted equally is not just a good business practice or a regulatory requirement • We implemented new measures to not just monitor but proactively manage freedom of association and the – it is also essential to a happy and productive workforce. Publicis Groupe’s employees’ workload so that working hours are manageable. As a client-focused effective recognition of the right commitment is embodied by “Viva la Difference” – which embodies respect, business we need to be agile and responsive to client needs which does require celebration and encouragement of human diversity. We’re an equal opportunity to collective bargaining. some flexibility, however we have guidelines and training for managers for employer so of course there are no exceptions to this mantra; we live the difference assessing workloads and allocating lieu time when earned. every day, all employees at all levels. We strongly support instruments that promote global labour standards such as the ILO Core Conventions. Please see page 30 for • Women continue to make up a majority of all staff at every level. Across 2017 Principle 4: more information on the new Diversity and Inclusion group initiated at the end of women made up two-thirds of all employees and four out of seven senior The elimination of all forms of forced 2017. management positions. and compulsory labour. • We  are an equal opportunities employer with regards to both our employees and As a UK-based professional services SME, our risk of contributing to detrimental impact on labour rights is very low. However, we firmly believe that excellent labour recruitment processes. practices are fundamental for attracting, developing and retaining talented people • All permanent staff have access to health insurance, dental cover, discounted gym Principle 5: in a competitive field. We regularly review and update as required our Employee membership and a range of other wellbeing services. The effective abolition of child labour. Handbook, which covers staff benefits, our Human Resources policies and procedures including grievance mechanisms and Health and Safety. All employees • All permanent staff have access to an Employee Assistance Programme which can are free to join a union if they wish. offer a range of services including bereavement counselling, online resources and Principle 6: articles on health, family, money and work matters The elimination of discrimination Through our collaborative partnerships with clients and suppliers, we also encourage them to consider the direct and indirect impacts of their operations • The company also provides a pension scheme according to UK legislation. in respect of employment on labour rights. • Several employees have taken up opportunities to participate in a number of and occupation. For more information about Publicis Groupe’s approach and policies please see initiatives including: their latest Report: http://publicisgroupe.com/#/en/responsibility/ – Egalité – a Publicis-wide employee network for lesbian, gay, bisexual and governance-reporting-rse-csr transgender (LGBT) professionals and allies. Salterbaxter has continued to support the network and grow awareness in induction sessions and promoting events. Actions • Publicis Groupe has signed up to the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion™ pledge, – Viva Women, an international network of women focused on supporting the largest CEO-driven business commitment to advance diversity and inclusion in women to succeed and lead. In 2017, Viva Women events included ‘Miss the workplace. representation – what role does advertising play in gender acceptance?‘, a talk with Lesley-Anne Alexander, CBE the founder of the MicroLoan • Performance against objectives and compensation are formally reviewed on a Foundation and speed mentoring events to connect aspiring talent with twice-yearly basis supported by informal monthly check-ins with line managers. experienced professionals. • Informal mentoring takes place between staff outside of formal line management. Information on our social indicators can be found in ‘Measure and Report’ This includes Publicis-supported events such as the Viva Women speed mentoring in this report. 23 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section two Environment Principles Our approach and actions Approach Actions Principle 7: Since the business was founded more than 20 years ago, we have been working to • Having conducted an operational review in line with ISO 14001 in 2012 we are Businesses should support elevate awareness and communication on environmental issues. Our day-to-day aware of most significant environmental impacts. Up until our move into a shared a precautionary approach to work involves helping businesses address and communicate the major challenges Publicis-managed building in March 2016 we were able to measure them and set environmental challenges. facing society in the short, mid and long term. targets accordingly. However, the management of the facilities and procurement is no longer directly controlled by Salterbaxter and this has impacted on what As an office-based professional services business, our own impact on the we can control, influence and measure. On page 16 in ‘Measure and Report’ you environment is relatively minimal. Our greatest impact is through our influence. Principle 8: can read about the conclusions we have made 2 years on from our move and the However, we encourage more environmentally responsible behaviours as a way of increasing alignment with Publicis Groupe’s systems. Undertake initiatives to spreading positive change and recognise our responsibility to do what we can. promote greater environmental • Environmental topics remain a core component of our If Only programme. A The Groupe’s motto for environmental policy is ‘Consume less & better’ which has responsibility. focus on the different issues relating to SDG2 – Zero Hunger will encourage been developed around the EU’s 2030 strategy (https://ec.europa.eu/europeaid/ further understanding of global environmental challenges and how they relate to policies/european-development-policy/2030-agenda-sustainable-development_ the food we consume. Please see pages 8–12. en) and thus defines specific objectives. The four priority focus areas are: Principle 9: • Environmental challenges closer to home with regard to our own operational • Reducing employee transport and its impact through the introduction of Encourage the development teleconference and conference call systems. environmental footprint will also continue to be front of mind, and best practice and diffusion of environmentally behaviour will be encouraged through the sharing of information and the friendly technologies. • Reducing energy consumption and improving energy efficiency (by seeking to provision of the right tools, eg. non-recycling bins and programming printers to limit the impact relating to electricity, heating and air conditioning). provide duplex printing. • Reducing consumption of natural and raw materials (mainly paper and water). • Print specifications for client publications and our own marketing materials aim • Recycling and organised (non-hazardous) waste management systems. to keep their environmental impact to a minimum. • We use our positive influence to help our printing suppliers improve their environmental credentials. • Our in-house printing uses FSC-certified paper for colour prints and having recently moved to new shared facilities we are seeking to influence the central procurement purchasing of only recycled, FSC or PEFC-certified paper as the standard. We will update on our progress in our next report. • We recycle as much office waste as possible, from printer toners to IT equipment. • We also encourage positive sustainable behaviour through everyday business processes including providing recycling bins, isolating a single non-recycling bin to one area of the office only, and upgrading printers to provide duplex printing. 24 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section two Anti-corruption Principles Our approach and actions Approach Actions Principle 10: Publicis Groupe’s anti-corruption policy was revised and • Our Employee Handbook details our policy and procedure on Businesses should work against strengthened in 2015, as an extension to the work carried out in receiving gifts, and only permits us to accept gifts of no substantial corruption in all its forms, including previous years. Training for managers and support teams financial value. extortion and bribery. (Re:Sources) continued in 2016 and at Salterbaxter we are committed • Our client hospitality is restricted to very occasional end-of-project to operating ethically and against all forms of corruption at all times. celebration meals, when teams on both sides are thanked for their hard work. Publicis Groupe’s Code of Conduct, known as JANUS, addresses the issues of gifts, conflicts of interest and inappropriate or unethical • In 2016, we implemented Publicis Groupe’s Anti-bribery and relationships, either with clients or suppliers, competition and unfair corruption policy and all staff were asked to declare any conflicts of practices. JANUS is shared with all staff in inductions. The Groupe’s interest and sign this. This has now been incorporated into our legal experts play an important role in terms of awareness and the induction process. application of laws and regulations concerning corruption. Based in the shared services centres (Re:Sources) and functionally under the Groupe’s Legal Department, these legal experts keep an eye on laws and regulations dealing with corruption. They ensure agencies are made aware of the issues, work on prevention and lay down compliance procedures adapted to local markets. The aim is to maintain strict standards that comply with current applicable regulations. Progress has been made in developing new training programmes to facilitate improvement. We share all information that is shared at a Groupe level to the rest of our teams when appropriate – this is the top-down approach that we have adopted. 25 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section three Policies 26 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section three Anti-slavery and human trafficking policy The following UK policy and to implementing and enforcing effective systems and controls to ensure modern slavery is not Responsibility for the Policy The Groupe’s UK Compliance Officer has primary and on anti-slavery and human taking place anywhere in its business or in any day-to-day responsibility for implementing this policy, trafficking has been drafted of its supply chains. monitoring its use and effectiveness, dealing with any queries about it, and auditing internal control systems in order to comply with the Salterbaxter is committed to ensuring there and procedures to ensure they are effective in is transparency in its business and approach to countering modern slavery and human trafficking. Modern Slavery Act 2015 tackling modern slavery throughout its supply chains, Management at all levels are responsible for ensuring (the ‘Act’). It extends to all consistent with its disclosure obligations under the those reporting to them understand and comply with Act. Salterbaxter expects the same high standards this policy and are given adequate and regular of our business dealings and from all of its contractors, freelancers, suppliers and training on it and the issue of modern slavery in transactions in all countries other business partners. As part of its contracting supply chains. processes, Salterbaxter includes specific prohibitions around the world in which against the use of forced, compulsory or Suppliers we do business. trafficked labour, or anyone held in slavery or Suppliers of Salterbaxter are required to comply with servitude, whether adults or children, and it expects the supplier code of conduct (the ‘Code’) provided to that its suppliers will hold their own suppliers to the them. The Code sets out minimum behaviours, Policy Statement same high standards. This policy applies to all persons standards and practices Salterbaxter expects to see Modern slavery is a crime and a violation of working for Salterbaxter or on our behalf in any from its suppliers to ensure compliance with the Act. fundamental human rights. It takes various forms capacity, including employees at all levels, directors, Salterbaxter expects all who seek to have a business such as slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory officers, Salterbaxter workers, seconded workers, relationship with Salterbaxter or any member of labour and human trafficking, all of which have in volunteers, interns, agents, contractors, freelancers, the Publicis Groupe (the ‘Groupe’) to familiarise common the deprivation of a person’s liberty by external consultants, third-party representatives and themselves with the Code and act in a way that another in order to exploit them for personal or business partners (‘Salterbaxter Staff’). is consistent with it. commercial gain. This policy does not form part of any employee’s The Groupe has a zero-tolerance approach to modern contract of employment and may be amended at slavery and is committed to acting ethically and with any time. integrity in all its business dealings and relationships 27 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section three Anti-slavery and human trafficking policy (continued) Staff (b) Behaviour (f) Appearance All Salterbaxter Staff must ensure that they read, Victims of slavery and/or human trafficking may be Victims of slavery and/or human trafficking may understand and comply with this policy. unfamiliar with the local language or may act as if they suffer injuries that appear to be the result of an assault, are instructed by someone else. They may show fear or the result of the application of control measures. The prevention, detection and reporting of modern or anxiety and be distrustful of authorities. slavery in any part of Salterbaxter’s business or supply For a full list of potential indicators please visit chains is the responsibility of all Salterbaxter Staff. (c) Working conditions http://www.gla.gov.uk/who-we-are/modern-slavery/ Salterbaxter Staff are required to avoid any activity Victims of slavery and/or human trafficking may who-we-are-modern-slavery-spot-the-signs/ that might lead to, or suggest, a breach of this policy. have no contract or be unable to negotiate working conditions. They may be forced to work under If you believe or suspect that modern slavery, human You must notify your manager or Salterbaxter’s certain conditions or work excessively long hours trafficking and/or a breach of this policy has occurred compliance officer as soon as possible if you believe over long periods. They may lack basic training or or may occur you must notify your line manager or or suspect that a conflict with this policy has occurred, professional licences. Salterbaxter’s compliance officer or report it in or may occur in the future. accordance with our Whistleblowing Policy as soon (d) Accommodation as possible. You are encouraged to raise concerns about any issue Victims of slavery and/or human trafficking may not or suspicion of slavery and/or human trafficking in any know their home or work address. They may live in If you are unsure about whether a particular act, the parts of Salterbaxter’s business or supply chains of any poor or substandard accommodation, or have no treatment of workers more generally, or their working supplier at the earliest possible stage. In order to help choice where they live or who they live with. conditions within any tier of Salterbaxter’s supply chains identify modern slavery, there are a number of constitutes any of the various forms of modern slavery, indicators that you should be aware of. Not all the (e) Finances raise it with your line manager or Salterbaxter’s indicators will apply in every case, and some may not Victims of slavery and/or human trafficking may receive compliance officer. be immediately apparent. The indicators include, but little or no payment, or have no access to their earnings. are not limited to: They may be disciplined through punishment or fines. Salterbaxter encourages openness and will support They may be forced to open bank accounts or forced anyone who raises genuine concerns in good faith (a) Restricted freedom to sign documents to receive social security benefits, under this policy, even is committed to ensuring that Victims of slavery and/or human trafficking may not credit agreements or loan agreements. no one suffers any detrimental treatment as a result be in control of their passports or other travel or identity of reporting in good faith their suspicion that modern documents. They may have false identity documents slavery of whatever form is or may be taking place or are unable to move freely. in any part of Salterbaxter’s business or in any of its supply chains. 28 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section three Anti-slavery and human trafficking policy (continued) Detrimental treatment includes dismissal, disciplinary Breaches of this policy action, threats or other unfavourable treatment Any employee who breaches this policy will face connected with raising a concern. If you believe that disciplinary action, which could result in dismissal you have suffered any such treatment, you should for misconduct or gross misconduct. inform HR immediately. If the matter is not remedied, and you are an employee, you should raise it formally Subject to the relevant contractual terms, Salterbaxter using the Grievance Procedure, which can be found in may terminate its relationship with other individuals our Employee Handbook. and organisations working on its behalf if they breach this policy. Communication and awareness of this policy Training on this policy, and on the risks Salterbaxter faces from modern slavery in its supply chains will be provided as necessary. Salterbaxter’s zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery must be communicated to all suppliers, contractors and business partners at the outset of our business relationship with them and reinforced as appropriate thereafter. 29 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section three Data privacy In late 2017, an initiative was GDPR programme The programme was rolled out centrally and led by The IT department in each region remains responsible for ensuring that the systems and infrastructure are in launched to prepare Publicis the legal team in conjunction with the Global Security place to secure data and all Personal Information. The agencies in the UK in readiness Office, beginning with a data audit and creation of a Personal Data Register , followed by training for the Groupe have a top-down approach to managing data privacy policies throughout all agencies. These for the EU General Data DPS. The DPS are responsible for identifying risks, policies are then shared with agencies and the taking remedial actions as required, staff training implementation of the appropriate procedures are Protection Regulation (GDPR), and ensuring compliance with GDPR regulation. then managed by the DPS at agency level and any effective as of 25 May 2018. issues are referred back to the legal team or Global Salterbaxter are committed to protecting data privacy Security Office, as required. Salterbaxter assigned two staff responsibly, in compliance with client requirements to take the role of Data Privacy and any applicable data privacy laws worldwide. Stewards (DPS). The Groupe Data Privacy Policies have been developed to ensure the following: –T he Personal information that is collected and used is done so in accordance with GDPR regulation. –T he Personal information we hold on behalf of clients is properly protected so we can help clients comply with their own obligations under the law. –R equests from individuals for access to their own personal information are adequately managed. –R equests from third parties for access to personal information are adequately managed. 30 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section three Equal opportunities policy We are an equal opportunities Our approach In issuing this policy we have three main objectives: All employees are made aware of our equal opportunities policy and, if necessary, undergo employer. This means that it is • First, to encourage employees to take an active role any training and development activities to raise our policy to make every effort against all forms of bullying, harassment and discrimination; their awareness of equality issues. to ensure that there is no • second, to deter employees from participating in In late 2017, a Diversity & Inclusion group was set bullying, harassment or discriminatory behaviour; up at 82 Baker Street with representatives from each discrimination or harassment • and third, to demonstrate to all employees that they agency. Salterbaxter are active in this group, who of employees, job applicants, can rely upon our support in cases of bullying, are working to define its remit, identify priorities harassment or discrimination at work. and create action plans around four pillars: clients, contractors or visitors recruitment practices, flexible working, family on the grounds of colour, race, We are committed to a working environment that friendly workplace and diverse company culture. offers equal treatment and equal opportunities for A programme will be officially launched in 2018. nationality, religion or belief, all its employees, so that every employee is able Salterbaxer continues to support and promote Egalité ethnic origin, disability, age, to progress to their true potential. Even after and VivaWomen events to ensure access for all. employment has ended, we are committed to gender, marital status, sexual ensuring that discrimination does not occur. In 2017 there were no breaches of this policy. orientation, parental This policy applies to all aspects of our working responsibilities, part-time or practices and therefore applies to the recruitment fixed-term status. Bullying is and selection of employees, terms and conditions of employment, training, salary, work allocation, also a form of harassment and promotion, disciplinary and grievance procedures. this is also covered by our policy. Our people managers are given training on best practice recruitment processes and other management skills to reinforce anti-discriminatory behaviour. 31 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section three Health and Safety policy We want our employees to be Our approach The Company will provide and maintain a healthy •T  he provision of such information, instructions, training and supervision as is necessary to ensure as safe as possible in our and safe working environment with the objective the health and safety at work of its employees and working environment and of minimising the number of health and safety related instances. other persons. • The Company also recognises its duty to protect require all employees to follow the health and safety of all visitors to the Company, The Company will pay particular attention to: including contractors and temporary workers, as these guidelines at all times. • Maintaining the workplace in a safe condition well as any members of the public. 82 Baker Street While the Company will take and providing adequate facilities and arrangements has security personnel on site 24/7. for welfare at work. all reasonable steps to ensure • Providing information on first aiders, fire exits, The Company may take disciplinary action against the health and safety of its evacuation procedures and meeting points in the any employee who disregards health and safety rules event of an emergency. and procedures, or who fails to perform their duties employees, health and safety • Providing training for first aiders and fire marshalls under health and safety legislation. Depending on the at work is also the responsibility to support staff in the event of emergency seriousness of the offence, it may amount to potential • Giving access to staff to an Employee Assistance gross misconduct rendering the employee liable to of employees themselves. Programme which includes helplines for summary dismissal. bereavement counselling and probate helplines as It is the duty of all employees well as online resources for family, health and money In 2017 there were no breaches of this policy. issues to take reasonable care of their • Provision of a First Aid room so that staff who are own and other people’s health, taken ill at work have some privacy and a place to get some rest. safety and welfare. Employees • Access to taxi services if working after 9pm to should report any situation ensure safe passage home from the workplace. • The provision and maintenance of equipment that may pose a serious or that is safe. imminent threat to the wellbeing of themselves or of any other person. 32 SALTERBAXTER AN MSL COMPANY | UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 section three Environmental Procurement policy Our approach Print procurement policy We are committed to managing and reducing the Where we have the buying decision, we aim to company’s environmental impacts. The biggest place our print with suppliers who are managing impact we have on the environment is through their environmental impacts in a progressive and our supply chain and how we place work with transparent way. printers on behalf of our clients. Our print and paper policies can be read here. This process is managed through a key suppliers list. Paper policy Where we do not have the final buying decision All paper specified for our major projects must we will always advise clients to follow our guidelines. adhere to the following as a minimum: ISO 14001 is a key part of our criteria and although • Be ECF (elemental chlorine free) or TCF we understand the limitations of this system, we (total chlorine free). still feel it is a useful assurance process by which we • Any virgin pulp must be sourced from sustainably an assess a printer’s commitment to environmental managed forests. management. • The mills which produce the paper should have ISO 14001 accreditation. We may also consider other suppliers if their activities are transparent enough for us to assess without the We further aim to specify a percentage of those jobs ISO programme. from our ‘Top 10’ list of enhanced environmental paper stocks. All these papers are FSC accredited OR recycled with a minimum of 20% post-consumer waste. We are also looking into carbon neutral papers. Contact Tracy Cheung Operations Manager +44 (0)20 7229 5720 tracy.cheung@salterbaxter.com 82 Baker Street London W1U 6AE www.salterbaxter.com
