MORE THAN STEEL SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2015-2016 CONTENTS 8-23 24-43 44-65 66-91 92-119 120-135 CEO’s statement 4 SECTION 4. HUMAN RESOURCES Metinvest Group in numbers, 2006-2016 5 Metinvest Group. 10 years of growth. 10 facts 6 Human resource management. Milestones of Metinvest Group’s 10-year history 69 HR management 70 SECTION 1. METINVEST GROUP IN 2015-2016 Rewards and incentives 74 Employee training and development 84 Metinvest Group in numbers, 2015-2016 11 Workforce training 86 Sustainable development 12 Metinvest Corporate University training programmes 87 Our strategy 13 Internal communications 90 Challenges and achievements in 2015-2016 14 Short-term plans 91 Our products 17 Customer relations 19 Logistics and distribution 20 SECTION 5. CITIES AND PEOPLE Procurement 22 Development of cities and towns where we operate. Milestones of Metinvest Group’s 10-year history 95 SECTION 2. ECOLOGY Strategic partnership 96 Environmental protection. Milestones of Metinvest Group’s 10-year history 27 A city built with our hands 106 Environmental management 28 Rebuilding damaged towns 112 Production modernisation 29 Metinvest Green Centre 116 We care about the environment 35 Short-term plans 119 Community dialogue 40 Short-term plans 43 ABOUT THE REPORT SECTION 3. SAFETY General 122 Report preparation policy 124 Occupational health and safety. Milestones of Metinvest Group’s 10-year history 47 Annex 1 127 Annex 2 132 Investing in a safer workplace 48 HSE Management System 49 Personnel safety at plants located in areas affected by conflict 52 HSE training 55 Personal protective equipment 58 Employee health 59 Review of injuries 62 Short-term plans 65 MORE THAN STEEL ABOUT METINVEST GROUP Our streamlined business management system, Metinvest Group in numbers, 2006-2016 which we have been updating and improving throughout the past decade, has helped us to mitigate the impact from these losses. In 2016, we completed the process of building a single technology chain: the Mining and Metallurgical 15 divisions merged into the Operational Directorate, and an internal service company was established within the Group to perform repairs and PRODUCTION FACILITIES maintenance. The vertical integration enables us to control every stage of steel production IN UKRAINE, EUROPE and delivery, improve our cost effectiveness and remain competitive in global markets. AND THE US In 2015-2016, Metinvest continued investing to modernise its production, upgrading equipment and adopting advanced technology. We have 100 focused on projects that help to reduce carbon emissions from blast furnaces and sintering processes. In 2016, we completed the modernisation of Zaporizhstal’s sintering plant, COUNTRIES IMPORT reconstructed Azovstal’s blast furnace no. 4 and further modernised Ilyich Steel’s sintering plant. OUR PRODUCTS Dear colleagues and These projects will bring the best near-term environmental results. friends, Metinvest’s sphere of interests extends beyond 6.7 steelmaking. Our responsibility also lies in In 2016, Metinvest Group celebrated its 10th caring about our employees and the residents BILLION anniversary. During these past years, we have of communities where we operate, as well as grown into an international company with plants in Ukraine, Europe and the US. Our products are in the support of whoever needs help. In 2015 and 2016, we worked on restoring Avdiivka and INVESTED IN available all over the world, as consumers from a hundred countries put their trust in our quality. Mariupol, rebuilding demolished houses and infrastructure. We assisted in getting public MODERNISATION transport, ambulance and rescue services back Today, Metinvest Group is a leading global online. We repaired the railway bridge across steelmaker. In the period of 2006-2016, we 39 the Kalchik River – the only route that connects produced over 110 million tonnes of raw steel, Mariupol to the rest of Ukraine. 350 million tonnes of iron ore concentrate and BILLION UAH around 50 million tonnes of metallurgical coal Despite the calamities, we have withstood the concentrate. We also invested approximately test of time. Today, Metinvest ranks among the US$6.7 billion into production modernisation, top 50 global steelmakers. INVESTED IN SUSTAINABLE which increased plant operating efficiency and improved the environmental performance of Our products were used to build the Darnytskiy Bridge and Olympic Stadium in Kyiv; Turkey’s DEVELOPMENT our production. T. Esra and T. Aylin tankers; London’s tallest Over the past decade, we have lived through building, the Shard; and the lock gates of the several political and economic crises, global Panama Canal. We believe this is just the start of market instability and falling prices for the mining and metallurgical industry’s products. our journey and continue to pursue our strategy, which is to maintain a successful world-class UAH 8.47 B UAH 28.79 B business and build Ukraine’s future. INVESTED IN HEALTHIER SPENT ON ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFER WORKPLACE FOR PROTECTION AND PERSONNEL We have also clearly felt the effect of the armed EMPLOYEES DEVELOPMENT conflict in Eastern Ukraine. In March 2017, the Group lost operational control over its assets located in the temporarily non-governmentcontrolled territory, including Yenakiieve Steel, Krasnodon Coal and Khartsyzk Pipe. We are UAH 850.4 M UAH 399.6 M Yuriy Ryzhenkov employing every possible international and SOCIAL INVESTMENTS TO DEVELOP INVESTED IN EMPLOYEE national legal leverage to protect our rights to Chief Executive Officer, COMMUNITIES WHERE THE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT these plants. Metinvest Group GROUP’S FACILITIES OPERATE 4 5 MORE THAN STEEL ABOUT METINVEST GROUP Metinvest Group. 10 years of growth. 10 facts STRATEGY EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENT SAFETY PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES Metinvest Metinvest Metinvest is the largest Metinvest is a leading Metinvest is a long-term, is the leading is an attractive investor in building modern enabler of an effective strategic investor Ukrainian employer and sustainable industrial HSE Management System in developing local steelmaker plants in Ukraine communities in Ukraine — 2016 — — 2008 — — 2008 — — 2016 — — 2008 — Metinvest Group updated its Began to adopt transparent Rolled out of high-scale modernisation The Metinvest Holding management Signed the first social partnership agreecorporate strategy remuneration system based on role programme for steel production company and the Group’s key ments with local public authorities assessment — 2016 — enterprises all confirmed compliance — 2016 — — 2012 — of their Occupational Health and The Metinvest Holding management Safety Management Systems with Signed the partnership agreement with the Established the Metinvest companyand the Group’s key the OHSAS 18001 international Mariupol Development Fund. This is a new Corporate University enterprises all confirmed compliance of standard format of long-term partnership with — 2016 — their Environmental Management communities Systems with the ISO 14001 Metinvest ranked high in six international standard categories of the “BusinessHReformation 2016. Best Began renovating the sintering plant at Ukrainian Employers” rating Ilyich Steel. This is the largest environmental project in the history of independent Ukraine 6 7 SECTION 1 METINVEST GROUP IN 2015-2016 8 9 MORE THAN STEEL METINVEST GROUP IN 2015-2016 Metinvest Group in numbers, 2015-2016 In 2016, Metinvest Group celebrated its 10th anniversary. During the past decade, the Group has grown from a local factory into an international mining and metallurgical group with a full 59 thousand employees in ukraine 10 CUSTOMERS thousand 23 38 production cycle, plants in Europe and the US, and IN EUROPE, a global sales network. We set ambitious goals and ASIA, AFRICA AND NORTH reach them thanks to our modern management AMERICA system, continuous process improvement, SALES OFFICES IN UKRAINE constant product line updates and the technical 28.3 2.7 modernisation of enterprises billion UAH billion UAH INVESTED IN A SAFER TAXES PAID WORKPLACE 307.7 million UAH SOCIAL INVESTMENTS TO DEVELOP AFFECTED COMMUNITIES 101 8.7 million UAH billion UAH INVESTED IN EMPLOYEE SPENT ON ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT PROTECTION 10 11 MORE THAN STEEL METINVEST GROUP IN 2015-2016 Sustainable Our Metinvest Group development strategy Strategy To maintain our competitive edge in steel production through vertical Our idea of sustainable development is a fusion In 2015-2016, Metinvest Group continued The Group maintains efficient asset management business integration of environmental security, energy efficiency, investing in Ukraine’s sustainable development, by ensuring a timely response to external economic development, technical progress and focusing its efforts on implementing projects for changes and creating value for shareholders, To increase our share in strategic people’s wellbeing. These principles underlie environmental protection, improved personnel investors, customers, employees and suppliers, markets Metinvest’s decisions in every area of its activity. health and safety, employee training and as well as local communities. For us, it is essential to have them shared with developing local communities. To embrace best practices our partners, employees and local communities, in our work See below for more about the challenges and suppliers and customers, the government and achievements of 2015-2016. regulatory authorities, members of expert community and non-governmental organisations. Metinvest Group’s sustainable development priorities Vertical integration Transparency We control every stage of the production and logistic cycles, from Metinvest is a reliable business mining to getting the finished partner and a responsible company. Employee health and safety – Stakeholder interaction products and shipping them all over Its openness and transparency help the world. This helps to align the Group improve its efficiency. our key values for collaborative work to production and sales with current address social, economic and demand and achieve maximum cost effectiveness. environmental issues Employee wellbeing 4 pillars of and development — Corporate volunteering Metinvest Group’s being an attractive employer helps solve crucial social problems, business model develop corporate culture and Health, Safety and foster an environment for Environment (HSE) employees to unlock their potential Developing local communities to ensure Ukraine’s sustainable development Product and service quality meets our customers’ HSE is an integral part of expectations and needs Metinvest’s long-term investment Business ethics and Quality plans. The Group aspires to meet the highest health, safety and corporate management environment standards. We In whatever we do, we strive to to comply with the highest Energy efficiency deliver the highest quality. We annually invest in safer workplaces international standards minimises environmental maintain high standards in at our plants and reduce their management, production and impact on the environment. of business practice impact customer service by constantly improving in every area. 12 13 MORE THAN STEEL METINVEST GROUP IN 2015-2016 Challenges and Metinvest Group’s financial performance, 2013-2016 achievements in 2015-2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Consolidated 12,807 10,565 6,832 6,223 The armed conflict in Eastern Ukraine has forever revenues, US$ million changed the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. Despite the troubles and challenges, the Capital Group’s management did its best to keep the investment, US$ 747 613 285 374 plants going and secure the people’s wellbeing. million Strategy review The political and economic instability in Ukraine Metinvest Group’s operating highlights, combined falling prices on global raw materials markets created a new reality for business 2013-2016 operations. Metinvest reviewed its corporate strategy, with a new focus on producing Investments will be reduced in production of pig iron, semi-finished products and long products, whereas major funds will be channelled into the 2013 2014 2015 2016 low-cost production of steel, product quality improvement and making high value-added products. Pig iron output, kt 11,500 9,213 8,050 8,821 Steel output, kt 12,391 9,205 7,669 8,393 Semi-finished products (slab, square 2,304 1,688 1,400 1,032 Financial and billet), kt operational results Finished products (flat-rolled products, 8,706 6,471 5,516 6,376 The political and economic instability of 2015 In March 2017, Metinvest finalised the long products, rails), kt led to a 17% reduction in steel output at and an restructuring of financial debt to the extent of 8% drop in iron ore concentrate production at $2.3 billion. Negotiations with creditors began Metinvest’s plants. The Group’s revenues fell by in autumn 2014, resulting in the signing of a Pipes, kt 315 296 128 109 35% and its EBITDA decreased by 81%. restructuring agreement and affirmation of the Group’s reputation as a responsible borrower. The deal was the first of its kind for the industry In 2016, the Group’s performance improved. Net Iron ore concentrate and the entire Ukrainian corporate sector. 36,926 34,888 32,208 29,640 profit was US$118 million, having recovered after (IOC) output, kt International credit rating agencies upgraded the losses of 2015, and EBITDA doubled amid the outlook on their ratings for Metinvest ‘stable’. increased output of finished steel products and reduced costs. Steel output grew by 9%. Iron Iron ore products concentrate output dropped by 8%, with the More information on financial and operating (concentrate and 21,521 22,271 20,382 17,093 associated revenues decreasing by 9%. results is available in Metinvest’s Annual pellets), kt Report 2016 at the Group’s website: www. metinvestholding.com 14 15 MORE THAN STEEL METINVEST GROUP IN 2015-2016 Metinvest Group’s operational status Our products in Donetsk and Luhansk regions The armed conflict in Eastern Ukraine has forever Metinvest’s steel products have been used to The majority of Metinvest Group’s assets are On 15 March 2017, Metinvest Group lost changed the lives of hundreds of thousands of build landmarks all around the world. Our steel safe and functioning as usual. As Avdiivka control over the following assets located in people. Despite the troubles and challenges, the was used to construct the T. Esra and T. Aylin, Coke’s location is close to the demarcation the temporarily non-government-controlled Group’s management did its best to keep the the world’s largest asphalt tankers; the the line separating the areas under the control of territories: Yenakiieve Steel (including Makiivka plants going and secure the people’s wellbeing. Shard skyscraper, the UK’s tallest building; and Ukraine from the temporarily non-governmentIron and Steel Works), Yenakiieve Coke, Darnytskiy Bridge and Olympic Stadium in Kyiv. controlled territory, it has been repeatedly shut Khartsyzk Pipe, Komsomolske Flux, Krasnodon down due to shelling. In early 2017, two highCoal, Donetsk Coke and the Swiss-Ukrainian voltage power transmission lines that used to Metalen JV. support the heating of most parts of Avdiivka Metinvest is exploring all available avenues to were damaged. reinstate its rights to these companies. Their Metinvest is a reliable partner and supplier To avert a humanitarian disaster, Metinvest roughly 20,000 employees have been offered closed down two plant shops. The remaining alternative jobs elsewhere in the Group. of over 10,000 products two shops were working on power generated internally to ensure the operation of coke plants and supply heat to the town. After they ran out of coke gas, the plant was supplied with Made by Metinvest, 2006-2016 natural gas. Avdiivka Coke’s engineers worked together with DTEK’s specialists to resume 111 power supplies. STEEL MILLION TONNES OUTPUT IN 10 YEARS 100 OUR PRODUCTS COUNTRIES AROUND ARE EXPORTED TO THE GLOBE MORE THAN 61 OUR SALES OFFICES DISTRIBUTION 23 IN UKRAINE AND 38 NETWORK IN EUROPE, ASIA, AFRICA AND NORTH AMERICA INCLUDES 10 CUSTOMERS thousand PUT THEIR TRUST IN METINVEST’S STEEL 16 17 MORE THAN STEEL METINVEST GROUP IN 2015-2016 New products We aim to continuously expand our product line. In 2015-2016, the Group introduced 72 new products. The economic benefit from the products developed in 2016 totalled US$45 million. Overall, between 2010 and 2016, Metinvest introduced 169 new products to the market and generated US$214M total revenues of US$214 million from their sale. Metinvest’s weathering rolled steel is similar to the world-renowned COR-TEN steel. The product economic benefit from is intended for the European market and is used in the construction and design of building facades products developed and other structures. by Metinvest in Our biggest consumer in 2016 was still the construction industry, for which the Group 2010-2016 designed four new brands of galvanised rolled steel. To satisfy the demand from Ukrainian steelworks manufacturers, we began producing hot-rolled plate steel, coils and angle bars, as well as Customer In 2016, Ilyich Steel started building a new billet shaped pipes, all certified in compliance with casting machine, which will help increase the both the National Standards of Ukraine (DSTU) output of hot-rolled coils and reduce the output and European standards. To cater for carmakers, Metinvest added new products to its line of high-tensile, of commercial pig iron. Another project involves installing a new rolling unit, commissioning a new heat-treatment furnace and modernising relations thermomechanically treated plates and coils, shaping mill stands. This will improve product Metinvest Group focuses on delivering products rolled steel for pressure vessel making, thick quality and increase the output of high valueand services that fully meet our customers’ needs. plates and rolls for quenching and tempering added steel products. We analyse the market and produce high-quality according to European standards. alternatives to imported goods. The Group continues to invest in increasing the In 2015, in partnership with Module Ukraine, performance of its plants and improving product Metinvest started making polymer-coated rolled quality. steel. The Group provides Module Ukraine with raw materials to be galvanised and coated, whereas Metinvest sells the rolled steel via its distribution network. As a result, customers get the products Metinvest analyses fast, at competitive prices, and benefit from the market to expand customer support and technical expertise. STEEL FREEDOM production of its In 2016, at its Italian plant Trametal, Metinvest Metinvest is a member of the Ukrainian Steel Construction Centre (USCC). The association was established in 2013 to bring launched a new shot-blasting and coating line. most popular products: The steel plates produced by the Group are together steelmakers, as well as steelworks designers and used in ship construction, wind energy, bridge high-quality alternatives suppliers. USCC develops the Ukrainian steelworks market and construction and heavy equipment mechanical helps steelmakers to grow their share in foreign markets. engineering. The installation of this line will to imported materials make it possible to reallocate sales to higher Since 2014, USCC has held the annual National Architectural value-added European market segments and Student Competition STEEL FREEDOM. The contestants expand the range of services offered to partners. design their projects for real sites. The panel includes leading architects, property developers and members of consulting To increase the share of steelworks in construction, companies. The fairness of assessment is verified by the in 2016, Metinvest introduced the double Ukrainian market is compliant with the new DSTU/ international audit company KPMG. By taking part in the certification of hot-rolled sheets, which made EN10346 standard, which allows local processers competition, the students learn about the architectural and it possible to use the same steel for both exports to align their products with European standards. structural potential of steel and get to know future employers, and domestic orders. Apart from plates, the double while construction companies receive original ideas for certification applies to hot-rolled steel coils, equal their projects. leg angles and pipes. Besides, the entire range of galvanised hot-rolled steel intended for the 18 19 MORE THAN STEEL METINVEST GROUP IN 2015-2016 Logistics Quality audits and distribution Technical visits to customer sites and product audits ensure that our customers get the best possible solutions. During 2015-2016, we arranged over 50 meetings and around 40 customers visited Metinvest is enhancing its existing distribution models and adopting new ones. The Group the Group’s production sites to get a better idea Over 50 technical of the steel products we make. is broadening the scope of its marketing and visits arranged at sales functions, aiming to establish a longWe have analysed consumer demand and term personal relationship with every customer. preferences and moved to improve quality. Prior the Group’s sites This reaffirms the Group’s reputation as an to this, the outer layer of the box containing coldin 2015-2016 internationally acknowledged supplier of highrolled and galvanised steel produced at Ilyich quality services. Steel was made of cold-rolled sheets, so by the time the products were shipped to the customer, the box would be covered in rust. Now, the box is made of galvanised steel, which increases its Over 10,000 customers trust Metinvest resistance to corrosion. Group’s products Logistics Distribution The conflict in Eastern Ukraine disrupted the local transport infrastructure. Due to the destruction of railway stations and compromised c o m m u n i c a t i o n w i t h t h e t e m p o r a r i ly 24.7 non-government-controlled territories, the UAH M 23 sales offices in Ukraine Group had to transport raw materials down the Kamysh-Zarya-Volnovakha railway route, which remained intact. However, in view of its limited spent by Metinvest Group in 2015-2016 to repair track capacity, Metinvest had to import more metallurgical coal from the US, Australia, Canada damaged transport and other countries. infrastructure in In early 2015, the Group financed the construction Eastern Ukraine 38 offices in Europe, Asia, Africa and North America of a by-pass road around the destroyed bridge spanning the Kalchik River in Mariupol, and later in November 2015, it also restored the bridge itself. These efforts supported production and made it possible to resume passenger service between Mariupol and the rest of Ukraine. Overall, the Group spent UAH24.7 million to repair damaged transport infrastructure in Eastern Ukraine. Between 25 January and 10 February 2017, three To expand sales of steel products to Europe, at key stretches of the railroad used for railway the beginning of 2015, we resumed shipping from traffic between our plants in the governmentthe port of Mariupol and registered shipping lines controlled and temporarily non-governmentto Italy, Bulgaria, Turkey and Spain. The ships Metinvest runs 20 sales offices and warehouses In 2015, in a bid to increase sales efficiency, controlled territory remained closed. The closure are supplied by Italy’s Nova Marine and Turkey’s in Europe, including Germany, Italy, Spain, we centralised sales in Ukraine. Following the disrupted shipments and later resulted in the Canbaz Group. The Group used this opportunity Belgium, Switzerland, the UK, Romania and restructuring, the entire distribution network is loss of control over these assets. We covered to increase its share in the markets of the Black Bulgaria. In 2015, the Group opened additional now managed by Metinvest-SMC. the shortage of coke, coal and flux at the plants Sea and Mediterranean Sea basins. offices in Poland and Spain. in Mariupol and Zaporizhia with imports and started exporting surplus iron ore. 20 21 MORE THAN STEEL METINVEST GROUP IN 2015-2016 Procurement Centralisation and the adoption of common procurement standards work towards the achievement of one of Metinvest Group’s strategic goals – securing a competitive edge in steelmaking. Metinvest has zero tolerance for corruption and abuse in supplier relationships. We build and nurture an open, transparent competitive environment, continuously increasing the number of companies participating in the tendering Centralisation and the process. adoption of common Metinvest is an advocate of full compliance – a culture of complying with high ethical and legal procurement standards standards, avoiding risks of violating national and provide Metinvest Group international law and pursuing anti-corruption practices. During 2015-2016, the Group developed with a competitive edge direct strategic partnerships with producers and in steelmaking discontinued transactions with intermediaries and trade representatives. Due to the conflict in Eastern Ukraine and the loss of control over some assets, the market for manufacturing machinery, spare parts and industrial services has decreased significantly. When looking for alternative suppliers, Metinvest was faced with the reluctance of certain foreign companies to have business with Ukrainian enterprises, especially those with assets in Donetsk and Luhansk regions. Given the circumstances, the Group focused on developing regional business potential. It Our supplier informed suppliers of the situation in the region and held open briefings. Metinvest will relationships are keep developing long-term, mutually beneficial founded on the principles relations based on international procurement standards and continuously work to improve of transparency and procurement efficiency. openness Read more on Metinvest Group’s procurement at https://www.metinvestholding.com/en/activity/ supply 22 23 SECTION 2 ECOLOGY MORE THAN STEEL ECOLOGY Environmental protection. Milestones of Metinvest Group’s 10-year history ENVIRONMENTAL MODERNIZATION COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM OF STEEL-MAKING DIALOGUE We strive to carefully use natural resources by OPERATIONS continuously improving Metinvest Group enterprises 2008 Begin building an HSE management system based on global best practices: to become more modern, effective and environmentally • Create an HSE Directorate at the management company, Metinvest friendly manufacturing sites. This is our contribution Holding • Approve the Health, Safety and Environment Strategy to Ukraine’s stable future Large-scale modernisation of iron and steelmaking operations across Metinvest Group (Ilyich Steel, Azovstal and Zaporizhstal) is focused, among other things, on upgrading sinter and hot metal production Metinvest Group's Health, Safety and Environment Policy and Principles are developed 2009 and put into effect HSE Committee of the Supervisory Board starts work The HSE Management During Investment Projects corporate standard is introduced to 2010 assure compliance of planned investment projects with the requirements of Ukrainian laws and international investors The Technological Strategy is approved to target operations 2011 modernisation and energy performance improvement 2012 The Centre of Regional Environmental Cooperation is established in Mariupol1 Environmental activities planned by Ilyich Steel and Azovstal are included in Mariupol’s 2012-2020 environmental programme 2013 Metinvest Green Centre starts work in Mariupol 2014 A five-year (2014-2018) HSE improvement programme is adopted The CEO of Metinvest Group, Yuriy Ryzhenkov, starts regular meetings with Mariupol ecologists and community 2007 The management company, Metinvest Holding, and key enterprises2 of Metinvest Group — 2016 annually confirm the compliance of their environmental management systems with the requirements of the ISO 14001 international standard 2016 Metinvest Green Centre starts work in Kryvyi Rih 1 The Centre for Regional Environmental Cooperation in Mariupol has been transformed into Metinvest Green Centre 26 2 Key enterprises of Metinvest Group certified by ISO 140001 in 2008-2015 include Azovstal, Ilyich Steel, Yenakiieve Steel, Zaporizhstal, Khartsyzk Pipe, 27 Northern GOK, Central GOK, Ingulets GOK, Inkor Chemicals, Zaporizhia Coke, Mariupol Mechanical Repair Plant and Krasnodon Coal. MORE THAN STEEL ECOLOGY Environmental Management Environmental protection is a strategic priority for Metinvest Group. The Supervisory Board’s HSE Committee began working in 2009. The Group’s environmental management system is based on global best practices and meets the requirements of the ISO 14001:2004 standard. In 2014, Metinvest adopted a five-year HSE improvement programme that includes internal audits to prevent violations of environmental laws. 23 environmental audits were conducted in 2015-2016 at Metinvest Group Production enterprises modernisation Metinvest Group is committed to the highest In 2016, the modernisation of the sinter plant standards and requirements for environmental at Zaporizhstal was completed. At Ilyich Steel, compliance. During 2015-2016, the Group the reconstruction of the sinter plant continues. continued to modernise its iron and steel plants. Azovstal’s blast furnace no. 4 has become Our focus was on projects aimed at reducing one of Ukraine's most state-of-the-art and atmospheric pollutant emissions from blast environmentally friendly facilities after a bag furnace and sinter making operations. filter was installed. At Zaporizhstal, four blast furnaces were equipped with modern casthouse The Group carried out all major planned ENVIRONMENTAL OBJECTIVES OF EU INTEGRATION fume extraction and bottom house dedusting environmental activities, notwithstanding systems. Pursuing integration with the European Union, Ukraine has instability in Eastern Ukraine and global market signed agreements to bring its environmental legislation in line trends. The bulk of investments went to sites in with European norms. While preparing for the introduction of Mariupol and Zaporizhia. new standards, Metinvest Group has regularly participated in discussions of environmental issues with EU representatives to Ukraine and the Directorates General of the European Commission for environment, climate and neighbourhood, as well as the European External Action Service. Metinvest is one of a few Ukrainian companies whose shareholders continue to invest in business development amid economic and political uncertainty. Metinvest Group has adopted a systematic approach The Group’s primary focus is on modernising its production facilities with a view to reducing its environmental footprint. We aim to focus on projects to environmental management that yield the highest environmental benefits in the future. Yuriy Ryzhenkov, Chief Executive Officer of Metinvest Group 28 29 MORE THAN STEEL ECOLOGY Metinvest Group invested US$6.7 billion in modernisation during 2006-2016 Azovstal Ilyich Steel Zaporizhstal Northern GOK Central GOK 2011 2014 2009–2016 2013 2014 Decommissioned open-hearth steelmaking Decommissioned three open-hearth Installed six new gas cleaning systems Performed a major overhaul of Reconstructed dedusting systems furnaces ahead of schedule on sinter machines the Lurgi 552-В roasting machine 2012 Decommissioned three coke-oven batteries Performed a major overhaul of basic oxygen 2014 2015 furnace no. 1, including modernising the gas (no. 5, 6 and 7) and mothballed the cleaning system Performed a category 2 major overhaul (exInstalled three electrostatic sinter plant tended) of blast furnace no. 4, precipitators on the Lurgi 552-В including constructing casthouse fume exroasting machine 2015 2015 traction and bottom house dedusting systems Completely dismantled the sinter shop Reconstructed the sinter plant and began Switched cold-rolling shop no. 1 to 2016 installing cyclones manufactured by hydrochloric acid pickling and constructed Commissioned the first start-up 2016 Termokimik Corporation (Italy) on 12 sinter machines to replace obsolete gas cleaning a plant to regenerate spent pickling solution complex of the crusher and conveyor equipment system Completed modernising blast furnace no. 4 2016 2017 Performed a major overhaul of basic oxygen Started category 2 extended major overhaul furnace no. 2, including improving of blast furnace no. 3, including installing the gas cleaning system casthouse fume extraction systems and reconstructing bottom house dedusting systems 30 31 MORE THAN STEEL ECOLOGY Constructing new gas cleaning systems at the sinter plant has been our key project over the last few years. The gas cleaning systems of MODERNISATION OF ZAPORIZHSTAL two sinter machines have already reached their design specifications and another four are in pilot Zaporizhstal’s modernisation programme has been in place operation. Ultimately, the sinter plant will meet since 2012 and aims to improve the environment in the region. international environmental standards in terms Our priority is to reduce the share of emissions from facilities of dust and gas emissions. with the highest environmental impact: the sinter plant and Zaporizhstal has also resolved the issue of blast furnaces. The next stage is to construct the basic-oxygen discharge from the cold-rolling shop to the furnace shop and decommission the open-hearth furnaces. Zaporizhstal Dnipro River. The new hydrochloric pickling invested more than area allows the acid to be reused multiple times, reducing sulfuric acid vapour emissions by 83% UAH5.6 billion and stopping discharges to the Dnipro River. on modernisation during 2012-2016. The reconstruction of the sinter plant will reduce dust emissions threefold MINISTER OF ECOLOGY AND NATURAL RESOURCES OF UKRAINE VISITS ZAPORIZHSTAL 3 June, 2016 The Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Ostap Semerak, visited Zaporizhstal to see the modernisation of production capacities aimed at improving the environment in the region. What we have seen at Zaporizhstal makes us optimistic these are positive things resulting in emission reduction. However, we have a long road ahead together to improve the environment and natural beauty of Ukraine. We should support each other in each area of our joint work to stay on track and ahead of schedule. Ostap Semerak, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine 32 33 MORE THAN STEEL ECOLOGY State-of-the-art metallurgy offers environmentally friendly operations and high social responsibility standards We care about the environment MODERNISATION OF ILYICH STEEL Metinvest Group enterprises implement The reconstruction of gas cleaning systems The sinter plant reconstruction is in progress at Ilyich Steel. environmental protection programmes on an at the sintering machines had the greatest annual basis to reduce atmospheric emissions impact on the reduction of emissions. That said, In 2014, Ilyich Steel decommissioned its open-hearth furnaces, and water consumption, improve the quality emissions were affected by fluctuations in the thus reducing atmospheric emissions by almost 68% for nitrogen of waste water treatment, reduce waste total production volume and irregular utilisation compounds and by 12% for dust. production and make waste recycling more of production capacities at the enterprises, In 2015, obsolete gas cleaning systems at three of 12 sintering efficient. particularly those located within the conflict machines were replaced with cyclones supplied by Termokimik area. In 2016, emissions of key pollutants increased Corporation. by roughly 4% and emissions of sulphur dioxide By 2020, emissions will gradually go down by 90% for dust and and particulates decreased by 3% at Metinvest by 46% for sulphur compounds. This is one of the priority projects Group's enterprises. for Metinvest Group. Once the reconstruction has been completed, the sinter plant will achieve the best available European and world emission limits. The sinter plant reconstruction at Ilyich Steel with a total value of around US$220 million became the largest environmental SLUDGE POND AT AZOVSTAL project in Ukraine. This project is unique in terms of its scale and environmental effect. Azovstal continues to implement technologies to reduce discharge of waste water into the Azov Sea. Since 2012, the sludge collector dredger and floating sludge pipeline equipment has been replaced at the plant. Due to the increased volume, the efficiency of sludge collector waste water treatment has been improved. GEOFFREY PYATT, US AMBASSADOR TO UKRAINE, VISITS ILYICH STEEL 29 April, 2016 Geoffrey Pyatt, US Ambassador to Ukraine, visited Ilych Steel to Metinvest Group's investments in environmental see the implementation progress of the largest environmental activities, 2013-2016, UAH million project in Ukraine, the sinter plant reconstruction at Ilyich Steel. He also learned about the role Metinvest plays in the national economy and the Group’s other investment projects and social 2013 3,569 partnership programmes in Mariupol and other cities where it operates. 2014 4,251 2015 4,259 Metinvest is one of the largest exporters and importers in trading relationship with the US. We are very interested in developing and strengthening this partnership. The Group's investments in environmental projects are 2016 4,458 impressive. The exceptional strength of Ukrainians is exemplified by Metinvest. Note. Share of assets excluded from the scope of the 2015-2016 report: in 2013: 7.1% (253.39 UAH million); in 2014: 4.5% (189.2 UAH million) Geoffrey Pyatt, US Ambassador to Ukraine 34 35 MORE THAN STEEL ECOLOGY Mothballing obsolete operations and implementing the modernisation programme EFFECT FROM RECONSTRUCTION OF BLAST FURNACE NO. 4, AZOVSTAL In 2015, the reconstruction of blast furnace no. 4 was completed at Azovstal. The blast furnace treatment facilities now meet the best world environmental protection standards. Azovstal Atmospheric emissions of In 2012, the sinter-making dust, carbon dioxide, sulphur process was shut down dioxide gases and other and the sinter shop was hazardous substances were 340 demolished in 2015 reduced by almost one-third Obsolete coke oven batteries Hazardous atmospheric no.5, 6 and 7 were closed emissions were reduced by 20%, and emissions of coke-making ATMOSPHERIC operations were reduced by 50% EMISSIONS WERE tonnes/year REDUCED TO DUST EMISSIONS Ilyich Steel 30 WERE REDUCED MG / M3 Atmospheric emissions of In 2014, open-hearth nitrogen compounds were furnaces were closed reduced by almost 49%, and dust emissions decreased by 12% WHICH IS FULLY Gas cleaning systems of basic From 2014, atmospheric oxygen furnaces no. 1 and 2 dust and gas emissions IN LINE WITH were modernised decreased almost threefold EUROPEAN STANDARDS Northern GOK 1 UAH billion Two electrostatic precipitators were installed on the Lurgi Atmospheric dust emissions were reduced threefold FULL PROJECT 552-B roasting machine BUDGET 36 37 MORE THAN STEEL ECOLOGY Soil reclamation Gross atmospheric emissions of Metinvest Group enterprises in 2013-2016, thousand tonnes Central GOK continues reclamation works in open pit mine no. 2. In 2015-2016, the open pit mine was filled with over 12 million tonnes of waste 2013 534 rock. Waste disposal areas are reduced, while crop land that could otherwise be used for waste storage remain unaffected. 2014 437 2015 275 2016 282 Note. The percentage of assets excluded from the Report boundary for 2015-2016: in 2013: 31.6% (168.57 thousand tonnes); in 2014: 28.6% (124.9 thousand tonnes) Total waste water discharged by Metinvest Group enterprises in 2013-2016, million m3 2013 721 2014 649 2015 594 2016 580 Note. The percentage of assets excluded from the Report boundary for 2015-2016: in 2013: 0.9% (6.3 million m3); in 2013: 0.7% (4.9 million m3); Total volume of waste generated by Metinvest Group enterprises in 2013-2016, tonnes 2013 267 2014 242 2015 189 2016 175 Note. The percentage of assets excluded from the Report boundary for 2015-2016: in 2013: 2% (5.3 million tonnes); in 2014: 1.4% (3.3 million tonnes) 38 39 MORE THAN STEEL ECOLOGY Community dialogue Developing a dialogue To implement environmental projects, we build a dialogue with the residents of the towns and with the people villages where we operate, as well as public activists, ecology experts and other stakeholders. Local communities are very concerned with of Mariupol environmental issues, therefore, Metinvest continuously shares its plans about environmental To be kept abreast of the issues faced by modernisation, the achieved results and learns Mariupol, the senior managers of Azovstal and which problems concern the communities most. In 2011-2015, Ilyich Steel organise and participate in round Ilyich Steel and tables with the city’s activists. This helps them to take quick and effective measures by delivering Azovstal invested environmental programmes in the city. UAH1.6 billion for environmental protection in Metinvest Group Mariupol applies a systematic approach to environmental management AZOVSTAL AND ILYICH STEEL REPORT ON PROGRESS OF 2012-2020 ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMME As part of the 2012-2020 environmental programme of Mariupol, Azovstal and Ilyich Steel implemented nine major investment projects to improve the environmental situation in the city. Investments in the modernisation of production in 2011-2015 made it possible to reduce atmospheric emissions by almost a quarter. We are doing our best to maintain and develop a dialogue with Mariupol's local community. We do everything to be as open as possible.In 2013, we laid a solid foundation to improve the trust and mutual understanding between the steelmakers and Mariupol residents. We opened our doors to public activists. We organised several excursion visits for ecologists, NGO activists and METINVEST DISCUSSED IMPLEMENTATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL ordinary residents of Mariupol. This does not imply that all the issues have PROGRAMME FOR 2012-2020 WITH MEMBERS OF PUBLIC been resolved. We are willing to continue the practice of problem solving and developing our production facilities with your involvement and support 28 April, 2016 and for the benefit of Mariupol. Yuriy Ryzhenkov, CEO of Metinvest Group, informed Mariupol residents about the progress of the Yuriy Ryzhenkov, Environmental Protection and Improvement programme in Mariupol for 2012-2020, and shared the Chief Executive Officer of Metinvest Group plans regarding the modernisation of the steel plant's equipment. 40 41 MORE THAN STEEL ECOLOGY Short-term plans METINVEST PARTICIPATES IN GREEN MIND FORUM In 2017, Metinvest Group continued implementing environmental programmes, Metinvest regularly takes part in the Green Mind international including the ongoing installation of the gas cleaning system at Ilyich Steel’s forum for sustainable business development. This is a unique sinter plant, repair of gas exhaust ducts at Azovstal and replacement of filters platform, where the participants share their experiences in on Northern GOK's pellet roasting machines. the field of sustainable business development, establish partnerships and receive information to help them in making effective management decisions. On 19-20 October 2016, the fifth Forum in Kyiv gathered 120 experts from 27 countries. One of the major topics of discussion was using environmental tax proceeds as an incentive for business development and as a source for environmental transformations. Our experts think that the largest share of the tax proceeds should be received by the local communities empowered to channel them to environmental modernisation of local production enterprises. According to the experts, such an approach would be much more efficient than existing fund distribution practices. METINVEST IS A PARTICIPANT OF THE WORLD STEEL ASSOCIATION'S ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE Metinvest is the first and the only Ukrainian company that is a member of the World Steel Association and takes part in several of its committees. In June 2016, we participated in the discussion of the impact of the Paris Climate Agreement regulating CO2 emission reduction measures starting in 2020 on the metals and mining sector during the meeting of the World Steel Association's Environmental Committee. METINVEST GREEN CENTRE Environmental conditions can be improved if everyone treats the environment carefully. Therefore, Metinvest develops environmental culture projects in the community. The Metinvest Green Centre programme helps to establish a dialogue among the local communities, environmental organisations and the Group's enterprises, trains high school students and gets volunteers and activists involved in green activities. Since 2013, Metinvest Green Centre has been assisting the city residents to improve streets and yards of Mariupol. New projects include restoring abandoned spring wells. 42 43 SECTION 3 SAFETY MORE THAN STEEL SAFETY Occupational health and safety. Milestones of Metinvest Group’s 10-year history HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM In ensuring employee health and safety, Metinvest takes a systematic approach, 2008 Begin building the corporate Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) management system in compliance with best global practices relying on best global practices and Adoption of the HSE Strategy standards to prevent workplace injuries Preparation and approval of Metinvest Group’s HSE Policy and Principles 2009 Supervisory Board’s HSE Committee starts working 2010 Adoption of the HSE System Development Strategy Approval of the Five-Year HSE System Improvement Programme for 2014-2018 2014 CORPORATE STANDARDS The Institute of In-House Coaches begins 2009 providing training on corporate standards Metinvest is recognised by the World Steel Association for building a corporate 2011 standard training system using in-house coaches 2007 The Metinvest Holding management company and Metinvest Group’s key — enterprises all pass the certification of their HSE Management Systems in 2015 compliance with the OHSAS 18001 international standard and the ISO 14001 environmental management standard 2008 — The Group develops and implements 15 corporate standards based on 2016 best international HSE practices 46 47 MORE THAN STEEL SAFETY Investing in a safer workplace Metinvest Group makes an annual investment in a safer workplace through upgrading equipment and technology, improving workplace safety and providing personnel with modern and effective personal protective equipment (PPE) and HSE training. HSE Management System Metinvest Group’s investment in health and safety, 2013-2016, UAH million Metinvest Group’s Occupational Health and Safety Management System relies on best global 2013 924 practices and integrates all the tools required to minimise accidents and ensure production Work cannot be safety. 2014 1,135 considered successfully Safety issues are a top priority for the Group’s executives. Heads of functional units are completed if it entailed 2015 1,184 assessed on their ability to both deliver financial, damage to the health economic and quality performance, and ensure good HSE performance. of anyone performing it. This is stated in 2016 1,515 Metinvest Group’s HSE Note. The percentage of assets excluded from the Report boundary for 2015-2016: in 2013 – 19.8% (UAH183 million); in 2014 – 23.7% (UAH268.7 million). Policy Breakdown of Metinvest Group’s spending on health and safety 1 Creating a safe work environment Metinvest Group’s HSE Management System has been certified according to the OHSAS 18001 international standard 2 Supplying personnel with effective PPE Ensuring the safety of buildings, structures and equipment as per 3 regulatory instruments 4 Employee training and skills improvement in health and safety FIVE-YEAR HSE SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMME FOR 5 Healthcare 2014-2018 Metinvest Group continues to implement its Five-Year HSE 6 Emergencies and fire safety System Improvement Programme for 2014-2018. It determines which areas the Group focuses on. 7 Corporate standards 48 49 MORE THAN STEEL SAFETY Key initiatives of Metinvest Group’s Five-Year HSE Standards and programmes System Improvement Programme for 2014-2018 Metinvest has implemented corporate standards To improve workplace safety, the Group aimed at developing a common approach to developed the Operational Safety Analysis health and safety that applies to all Group plants, Standard — this is a self-guided (or assisted by Prepare documents for corporate Prepare capital environmental as well as to contracting organisations. the line manager) sequence of steps that needs HSE Management System investment plan A Security Fencing Standard was developed to to be performed prior to beginning and during any prevent accidents during equipment repair and works. The Operational Safety Analysis reviews Implement Corporate First Aid maintenance. It describes safe approaches to the the ability to work safely and the implementation Perform technical audits of plants construction, maintenance and design of security of required actions to protect personnel and Standard fencing and applies to all Metinvest plants. the environment. Based on this, employees can perform an adequate assessment of the situation The work delivered by contracting organisations and decide whether to begin a given task. Reduce risk of sudden cardiac is a special priority. According to the Contracting Provide training and support for Organisations Work Safety Standard, to ensure implementation of corporate death work safety, all contractors must go through an standards HSE prequalification process. Implement sudden cardiac death Perform audits of corporate prevention plans standards implementation Establish centralised system for Process risk assessment registration and review of all diseases Implementation of Metinvest Group’s corporate standards aimed at ensuring personnel safety Establish uniform system for Review development of corporate performing work capability HSE Management System assessments and helping employees to get back to work 2009-2010 2013-2014 Develop and implement integrated accident management system Safety audits at Metinvest Group’s plants Safe work in closed spaces Perform environmental audits Procedure for identifying the major causes Safety signs and marking of accidents Guidelines for the communication, Prepare gas safety improvement Track and respond to legislative recording and investigation of minor plan changes injuries and accident factors 2011-2012 Operational safety review 2015-2016 Lockout/tagout, verification Security fencing Requirements for protective garments, Management system review footwear and other personal protective Guidelines for working with employees equipment for plant personnel with frequent or chronic illnesses Operational safety for contractors General guidelines for HSE agencies Every three years, Metinvest performs an HSE Implement corporate concerning site visits to Metinvest Group’s Management System review at all its plants. standards Process risk assessment and mitigation plants Its findings are used to determine the areas for improvement and prepare guidelines to improve HSE management for investment projects Provision on the format, layout and the system’s efficiency. Healthcare update of information on the Days with Operational safety for hazardous work No Injuries boards We also carry out a bi-annual traffic-lights requiring permits assessment of the current state of health and Occupational safety in four areas. The areas are in turn broken Providing premedical and emergency first aid safety down to 20 categories covering the whole safety Safe work at height management system. Build a management Comprehensive HSE regulations system 50 51 MORE THAN STEEL SAFETY Personnel safety at plants WE MANAGED TO SURVIVE AND CONTINUE located in areas affected by PRODUCTION EVEN IN DIRE CIRCUMSTANCES 26 June 2016 conflict Employees’ lives and safety are the Group’s During 2015-2016, we worked to restore defensive overriding priority. To ensure the safety of people structures around all Metinvest Group’s plants working at plants located in the temporarily located close to the conflict zone. We also non-government-controlled territory in conducted routine readiness enhancement and Eastern Ukraine, a Crisis Response Concept was operating capability maintenance training in developed in 2014. It determines the procedure case of shelling. for addressing emergencies at different levels — from functional units to the management company. Our plant was built during the Cold War, so it has eight shelters. There were days, since the beginning of the conflict in Eastern Ukraine, when they accommodated over 2,000 people. On a relatively good day, you would work on the ground, but once bombing started, you would go underground. But often the shooting was so intense that we spent days on end underground. Naturally, we set up workplaces in the shelters, installed communication, SPECIAL SECURITY ACTION PLAN AT telephones and the Internet. But all this time, there were certain processes AVDIIVKA COKE above ground that had to carry on no matter what, such as releasing coke or feeding the furnaces.You would therefore hide underground during the Avdiivka Coke is located immediately behind the demarcation line, shelling, but then go back to the ground and start working. You repaired the so between 2014 and 2016, it damage from hits on pipes, pipelines and batteries. You would put out fires withstood over 320 direct hits and 12 shutdowns. A total of 10 of and try to balance out losses. Avdiivka Coke’s employees were killed and more than 50 were injured. Given the circumstances, ensuring people’s safety was When you stay by people wherever they are and share their burdens and our main concern. hardships, they realise they are not alone. In 2016, nine defence shelters capable of accommodating 2,200 Musa Magomedov, CEO of Avdiivka Coke people were in operation. The largest one had an emergency control room, was connected to computer, telephone and Internet networks, and had over 50 workplaces ready. The heating system there was completely renovated and the building had a dedicated sleeping area. All these efforts made it possible for Avdiivka Coke’s personnel to keep working normally even during shelling. Considering that the plant was a long distance away from hospitals, in 2016, its medical service was reinforced with an ambulance and a stock of medicines. 52 53 MORE THAN STEEL SAFETY Risk assessment Occupational health Metinvest Group’s risk assessment system covers all aspects of its operations, from Risk assessment system tools: • HAZID – assessment of HSE-related hazards and safety training industrial processes to investment projects. This is the foundation that defines risks and helps to • HAZOP – assessment of the operability of avoid potentially dangerous situations and their processes (units) consequences. • ENVID – assessment of environmental risks Metinvest Group maintains an ongoing health and their social impact and safety training programme for employees • JSA – job safety analysis based on Ukrainian legislation and corporate • Bow-Tie – assessment of significant or safety standards. complex risks The Group runs the Institute of In-House Coaches, • OSA – operational safety analysis which employs retired staff who used to be in charge of health and safety functions to train the personnel of the Group’s enterprises. Metinvest often shares its health and safety Over 96,000 experience and best practices with expert panels of international forums and conferences, employees received In 2016, the Group performed its first risk assessment using the including: training corporate safety HAZOP method for existing industrial processes. The analysis was • Annual “Industrial Safety. Best Practices” carried out on one of the blast furnaces at Ilyich Steel and on the international conference standards in 2009-2016, ore-treatment plant at Northern GOK. • International “Risk Assessment in HSE more than 16,000 of Management Systems” research and training whom were trained in conference 2015-2016 Metinvest also regularly participates in meetings 43 Metinvest Group employees received of the World Steel Association’s HSE Committee as a member of the Mining subgroup, takes part in HAZOP training in 2016 the committee’s working groups and participates in annual competitions for health and safety improvement projects among association members. Risk assessment in Metinvest Group 2011 2013-2017 Approval of the first edition of the Corporate More than 100 in-house experts Standards on Risk Assessment completed their training in HAZID, HAZOP, ENVID and JSA risk assessment, fully satisfying the Group’s need for 2012 such specialists and meeting the requirements of the corporate standard Launch of the first pilot projects on risk STOP-HOUR SAFETY BRIEFINGS assessment using the HAZID method for current production lines at Avdiivka Coke, Since 2012, each plant has held regular STOP-Hour safety Ingulets GOK and Ilyich Steel; and also project-based HAZID, HAZOP and ENVID risk briefings aimed at reviewing the reasons for high-profile assessment incidents and recurring accidents. In 2015-2016, STOP-Hours addressed the introduction of the special operation regime, gas safety, moving and rotating equipment and eye protection. Employees were briefed on electrical safety, prevention of accidents caused by falling from height and protection against The risk assessment system at Metinvest Group’s plants works falling from height. at every level, from industrial processes to investment projects 54 55 MORE THAN STEEL SAFETY Metinvest Group was awarded the grand prix of the 2nd Ukrainian National Festival of Animation and Video Films “Safe Work 2016” for its “Training film aimed at developing skills in evaluating risks of injuries and loss of production” METINVEST PROVIDES OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY TRAINING VIA COMPUTER GAMES Over 2016-2017, Metinvest used a business simulation method provided by the team at CTIG, which helped employees refine their safety skills and perform an in-depth analysis of the major causes of injuries. Global experience has proven that simulations provide an opportunity for trainees to “live through” certain situations and prevent possible future mistakes. Metinvest Group places the highest priority on issues of health, life and environment. We not only use the best international practices, but also implement our own projects to improve workplace safety at our plants. We train employees. This is an important factor in improving occupational safety. Our goal is to give people quality training, because it will determine how effective employees will be in putting these standards to practice. Oleg Tokar, HSE Officer at Metinvest Group For me, play is a brand-new approach to occupational safety training. It helps refine the skills I will need in my further work. The interesting format is better at retaining user attention. After using the simulator, I will be able to find the right solution in a real-life situation. Artyom Savchenko, head of the steelworks laboratory at Metinvest’s Mariupol Mechanical Repair Plant 56 57 MORE THAN STEEL SAFETY Employee health Our employees are the Group’s main asset. Preserving their life and health, as well as extending their working years, are no less important than creating a safe working environment. That is why Metinvest is taking comprehensive efforts in this area. Metinvest Group’s employee healthcare strategy STRATEGIC AREAS Personal protective equipment Metinvest Group keeps enhancing personal p ro t e c t i v e e q u i p m e n t (P P E ) w i t h d u e consideration for European standards. The PPE that the Group provides its employees is more effective and of a higher quality than the conventional industrial norms. In 2015, Metinvest Group introduced the Protective Goggles Instruction. Employees are required to wear goggles everywhere (except for dedicated areas). Employees with impaired vision are equipped with special protective eyewear. Providing emergency Reducing the incidence of Preventing medical services disease leading to cardiovascular temporary disability diseases PILOT PROJECT FOR NEW PERSONAL Every plant has implemented A special Signal System now Since 2016, all plants offer PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT the new standard of premedical dynamically tracks the level of comprehensive health screening and emergency first aid; temporary disability, with to their employees; two pilot workshops and offices are efforts on the way to minimise projects aimed at reducing the The industrial workplace environment can damage the skin on an supplied with all equipment it; plants report on cases of incidence of disease have been employee’s hands. Mariupol Mechanical Repair Plant is the first necessary for providing temporary disability; and special completed: the Healthy Heart emergency first aid; by the end procedures for employees with programme and another of Metinvest Group’s plants where household soap was replaced of 2016, 25% of employees had chronic diseases have been put programme intending to reduce with dermatological hand protection. received first aid training. in place. the number of temporary Employees can use pastes that gently yet effectively cleanse the disabilities among people with skin on their hands. They contain natural components, have a musculoskeletal diseases. neutral pH and are non-allergenic, yet they easily deal with even serious soiling. After the successful implementation of the pilot project, dermatological PPE will also gradually be introduced to the Group’s other plants. Metinvest Group’s industrial plants have implemented corporate plans for preventing cardiovascular diseases 58 59 MORE THAN STEEL SAFETY Health check-ups prior to the starting shift work help to reduce the number of diseases leading to temporary disability due to cardiovascular HEALTHY HEART disorders. In 2016, the rate of cardiovascular diseases was down 45% at Ilyich Steel, 16.3% at Metinvest places a great focus on the prevention of Ingulets GOK and 4.8% at Zaporizhstal, compared cardiovascular diseases. As part of its regulations for with the disease rates in 2015. performing “Advanced medical checks for employees in In 2015-2016, critical jobs”, the list of workers eligible for such checks is In 2016, the Group approved the Guidelines for constantly growing. Working with Employees with Frequent or Chronic 6,500 employees In 2016, the Group completed its Healthy Heart pilot project, Illnesses. The document helps to identify people received emergency who are the most exposed to frequent illnesses, which was initiated in 2014 at Ilyich Steel. The project was provide them prompt treatment and transfer first aid training developed to reduce the rates of cardiovascular diseases by them to a less strenuous job as necessary. mitigating and eliminating risk factors. Around 25,000 employees involved in hazardous work undergo annual medical screening, while around 1,500 employees do this daily This project is unparalleled throughout Ukraine. Its key advantage is its affordability. Patients can participate free of charge, exclusively of their own free will and in strict confidentiality. For the first time ever, instead of tackling cardiovascular diseases after they have already developed, we are trying to address the factors causing them. This kind of preventative effort will help change the situation and reduce the number of heart attacks and strokes among plant employees. Sergiy Khoruzhiy, chief physician of the diagnostic and treatment centre at Ilyich Steel Regular checks of employee health Advanced medical examinations help to promptly reveal signs of deteriorating health. Each year, around 25,000 employees in critical roles whose 100% of employees work may directly affect the life and health of others undergo these checks. Thanks to such at Metinvest Group’s examinations, the number of sudden deaths at industrial plants are the workplace have dropped to 14 cases in 2016, down more than 50% compared with 2014. During referred to advanced these two years, 144 employees were transferred examination as part of to a different job that was less harmful to their health given their medical condition. the corporate efforts to prevent cardiovascular diseases 60 61 MORE THAN STEEL SAFETY Metinvest`s mine rescuers are best in US Total number of fatalities The team from Wellmore, a subsidiary of United 10 Coal, won the National Mine Safety Competition in 2017 in Beckley, West Virginia, US, with the best result among more than 60 teams from 13 states. Wellmore’s Red Team was established in 2016 and 7 7 7 has won several titles at the regional level. After that, the team decided to enter the prestigious national competitions. Representatives of Metinvest Group became the only team that 0.08 showed the maximum result on both the first 0.07 0.07 FIFR and second days of competition. 0.05 The victory had special significance for the management of United Coal, as Vice President 2013 2014 2015 2016 J. P. Richardson was on the mine rescue team himself for nine years. Note. The percentage of assets excluded from the Report boundary for 2015-2016: in 2013 50% (5 people); in 2014 – 42.9% (3 people) Five most frequent injuries at Metinvest Group’s plants, 2016 Review of injuries In 2015-2016, 144 industrial injuries were Since 2012, the number of fatalities has fallen by registered at Metinvest Group’s plants (77 cases more than half. Despite our every effort, seven in 2015, 67 cases in 2016). The most frequent employees received fatal injuries in 2016. causes of injury included falling while moving, 35 % The Group suffered an accident at Ingulets GOK exposure to moving and rotating equipment, involving the deaths of two employees. During an accidents during load lifting and falling from equipment inspection at the ore-treatment plant, height. a section of reinforced concrete floor came down To prevent such incidents, the Group investigates and crushed a foreman and conveyor operator. 12 % each case and develops training programmes. Each incident was investigated, including the 9% 8% 7% For example, in 2016, personnel at Ilyich Steel and involvement of top management, and actions Azovstal received training in working at height. were taken to prevent hazardous situations in The integrated plants also built training areas future, including comprehensive inspections and for practicing work at height. These efforts led planning and conducting major capital work to to this no longer being one of the top 5 causes repair buildings and structures. of injuries in 2016. The enhanced lockout/tagout (LOTO) and verification standard for machinery 1 2 3 4 5 helps to reduce the frequency of injuries caused by working with moving and rotating equipment. 1. Falling while moving 2. Moving and rotating equipment 3. Exposure to a falling part 4. Load moving or lifting 5. Load handling operations 62 63 MORE THAN STEEL SAFETY Total number of disabling accidents 140 Short-term plans 125 The short-term priorities for Metinvest Group As part of its ongoing implementation of will remain the same. In line with the Fivecorporate standards, Metinvest Group will seek 77 Year Programme, we make every decision with to supply its personnel with modern and effective 0.97 67 employee safety in mind, doing our best to personal protective equipment. We also plan to 0.89 minimise the implications, such as disability install advanced LOTO systems for equipment at 0.81 0.79 LTIFR or death. The Group also takes daily efforts to each plant and to introduce an off-the-job injury ensure a safe workplace for employees working control system. 2013 2014 2015 2016 in Eastern Ukraine. The LTIFR and FIFR indicators were calculated with a multiplier of 1,000,000. Note. The percentage of assets excluded from the Report boundary for 2015-2016: in 2013 – 34.3% (48 people); in 2014 – 27.2% (34 people) Investigating the causes of workplace and off-the-job injuries Plant employees can be injured both at work and Thus, the only difference is in the time and place outside of work. Often the causes of workplace of the accident. In 2016, the Group developed and and off-the-job injuries are similar. As part of implemented an off-the-job injury classifier. It its efforts to foster a safety culture and reduce will be used to examine the underlying reasons employee accidents to zero, Metinvest sponsors and trends of illnesses caused by off-the-job research into and prevention of off-the-job injuries to propose corrective action. The next injuries. steps will be identifying the most common types of off-the-job injuries that can also take place A working group was established by the in the workplace and then developing a set of management of ore enrichment plants to analyse preventive actions aimed at minimising the the causes of injuries in the workplace. It turned number of accidents. out that only 30% of these causes are due to a particular production process. The remaining 70% involve people acting the same way for both on-the-job and off-the-job accidents. Total number of cases of occupational disease 107 96 86 78 0.21 0.15 0.16 multiplier коэффициент 0.14 2013 2014 2015 2016 64 65 Больше SECTION 4 чем сталь HUMAN RESOURCES 66 67 MORE THAN STEEL HUMAN RESOURCES Human resource management. Milestones of Metinvest Group’s 10-year history HR MANAGEMENT CORPORATE HR INITIATIVES EMPLOYEE SYSTEM UNIVERSITY AND PROJECTS COMMUNICATIONS Metinvest Group is one of Ukraine’s largest employers. The Group’s plants employ 2006 Start building the HR Management System 2009 around 59,000 people. We are grateful — 2010 Implement a grading system based on role assessment to our team for their diligent work, loyalty 2011 The Talent Pool initiative and commitment Establish a Group-wide newspaper, Metinvest. Success Territory Establish the Metinvest Corporate University 2012 Launch the Management DNA programme Implement the development programme at Skolkovo Business School Open the Leadership Academy in a joint effort with the EY Business Academy and CCL Open the Sales Academy for functional training of sales representatives 2013 Establish Metinvest Youth Organisation Launch the Young Leaders of Metinvest programme at steel and iron plants Open the HR Academy for functional training of HR staff 2013 — Adopt scheduled work meetings 2015 2013 — Launch the feedback system 2016 Launch the strategic leadership development programme at INSEAD 2014 for high-potential employees and top executives Launch the Schools for Professionals programme, which provides training for technical engineering personnel Begin developing individual benefits packages for employees Establish the Metinvest Gold Star award Create the Metinvest Group Internal Portal Launch the Thinking Outside the Box programme and implement the Transformational 2016 Leadership programme at IMD business school Run the Young Leaders of Metinvest programme at 12 of the Group’s plants 68 69 MORE THAN STEEL HUMAN RESOURCES HR management Attracting qualified talent Metinvest is building a transparent management To grow its business and ensure decent living their contribution to the accomplishment of system that helps the Group’s team to attract 321 standards for employees, Metinvest Group uses its business goals, and at the same time have an ambitious staff members and helps current staff HR management system to create an environment opportunity for personal growth and fulfilment to grow and climb the career ladder. where employees have the right knowledge and of their potential. skills, take interest in what they do and realise This system: • relies on a clearly formulated development framework; A modern HR management system is an important factor employees applied • stimulates employee growth for those of Metinvest Group’s growth interested in a long-term career at Metinvest for management Group; positions through • gives employees an opportunity to take part competitive job Our priorities in open competitions to fill vacancies; listings in • encourages job rotation across plants and Metinvest Group is a reliable and responsible between the management company and the 20152016 employer. The Group is a leader in terms of paying remaining assets. competitive salaries in the Ukrainian mining and We grow our talent pool and make the job steelmaking industry and provides its employees appointment process clear to everybody. Internal with additional social benefits. competitions are held for management positions In 2015-2016, the Group strived to retain and at all levels. support its team. It did everything in its power to keep the plants operational and to provide social Metinvest Group support and salaries to employees working in Eastern Ukraine. was rated high In early 2017, Metinvest Group lost control over its in six categories assets located in the temporarily non-governmentof the “Business We encourage employees to build their career at Metinvest Group, controlled territory. We offered our staff working so we always turn to internal resources first when considering at those plants jobs in other cities. For those who HReformation 2016. decided to no longer work at the Group, severance Best Ukrainian candidates for a role was provided in full compliance with the Ukrainian law. Employers” ranking WE FOCUS ON THE FOLLOWING THREE AREAS OF HR MANAGEMENT: CAREER MANAGEMENT POLICY In June 2016, we adopted our Career Management Policy. It reflects the Group’s key career growth and decision-making principles. Career roadmaps have been developed for different staff categories that show routes to reach the target role. An 1. ATTRACT and retain 2. EFFICIENT human resources 3. TRAIN and develop important growth principle consists in moving up via job rotation talented people management and incentive employees across plants, and also vertically, between the management system company and plants or vice versa. 70 71 MORE THAN STEEL HUMAN RESOURCES In 2016, Metinvest Group conducted a survey of almost 2,000 respondents from Zaporizhia. The We retain and support our workforce goal was to determine young people’s criteria for choosing an employer, and whether they Amid the political and economic instability of The outflow of people from the conflict zone are aware of the Group and consider our plants 2015-2016 and the conflict in Eastern Ukraine, impacted the labour market. Due to the shelling of attractive places to work. one of Metinvest Group’s overriding priorities Mariupol and Avdiivka, the number of Metinvest The results of the survey helped us to adjust was to retain and support our workforce and Group’s employees in these towns declined. In our approach to attracting talented young ensure their safety. 2015, a total of 6,400 people resigned from plants located in the war zone. However, around 4,000 people. Also, 2016 saw changes to certain youth One of Metinvest Group’s new staff were taken on. development programmes: priorities is to improve • The Young Leaders of Metinvest programme became a Group-wide effort. About 2,000 our efforts to attract candidates applied, more than 100 of whom talented young people made it into the super final. The winners had the chance to visit Metinvest’s and retain our staff Retaining our workforce, maintaining uninterrupted operations and • As part of our partnership with AIESEC, ensuring the safety of our staff while continuing to develop strategic HR international interns taught lessons in science and technology to our employees’ children, development programmes were among Metinvest Group’s most crucial while Northern GOK’s Youth Organisation tasks in 2015-2016 arranged a foreign language club. Improving business process efficiency EMPLOYEE RETENTION ACTION PLAN • Less busy employees were involved in the restoration of Metinvest has optimised its corporate structure, All non-core operations have been outsourced. the damaged infrastructure and in volunteering under the consequently improving the efficiency of its The Group has also focused on reducing the auspices of the Rinat Akhmetov Humanitarian Centre. business processes. The maintenance and repair number of management layers. • Employees of idle functional units were retrained. The function and auxiliary production have been training was carried out on site by plant staff, at in-house centralised at the Group level. vocational training centres. • At plants with the lowest production load, some employees were laid off at a rate of two-thirds of their monthly salary. Metinvest’s registered payroll, • The Group kept paying wages on time and continued people providing benefits. • Plant CEOs had regular meetings with their workforce. The Group did its best to create a safe and stable work 2013 90,951 environment and to continue implementing programmes that had begun in times of peace. We also tried to provide moral support to our people. 2014 85,207 2015 63,498 2016 58,638 In 2015, our employee retention efforts helped to reduce staff outflow by Note. 1. The percentage of assets excluded from the Report boundary for 2015-2016: in 2013 – 28.8% (26,164 people); in 2014 – 27.7% (23,591 people) 2. The data for 2015-2016 includes personnel of Metinvest-Promservis: 2015 – 4,022 people, 2016 – 5,751 people; and Metinvest’s Mariupol Mechanical Repair 60% year-on-year Plant: 2015 – 2,779 people, 2016 – 2,270 people. 72 73 MORE THAN STEEL HUMAN RESOURCES Common competency model Rewards and incentives Starting from 2011, Metinvest has embraced the common competency model with employee behaviour standards derived from the Group's In 2015, the competency model was changed to include the personal traits that helped people overcome challenges and find outside-the-box values and business priorities. The situation solutions under conditions of limited resources The Group’s success depends directly on staff in Eastern Ukraine has prompted the staff to and high stress. productivity and professionalism. As we greatly occasionally challenge the standards. There was Every employee who has worked at least three appreciate each employee’s contribution to an urgent need to amend the competency model. months by the end of the year undergoes our achievements, one of our priorities is to In 2015, we studied the leadership qualities of a performance and corporate competency implement transparent and fair approaches over 5,000 employees at 12 plants. The findings assessment. The results of this assessment to labour assessment and ensure reasonable showed that the personal and business qualities are used to decide on possible rewards and to compensation. that allowed employees to secure top results recommend the employee to be enrolled in the during annual assessments did not necessarily Talent Pool programme. make them efficient in times of conflict. Our goal is to retain and incentivise qualified staff Deliver quality Focus on Grow consumers professionally Know, adhere METINVEST to and GROUP Act efficiently support HSE standards COMPETENCY MODEL Work as a team towards Be a common responsible goal Be a leader In 2015, having studied the leadership qualities of our employees, we amended the competency model to attract and encourage people whose competencies meet today’s business needs 74 75 MORE THAN STEEL HUMAN RESOURCES Compensation Corporate social initiatives for employees In 2009, Metinvest adopted a grading system. In 2015, to compensate for the significant currency The more complicated the tasks an employee depreciation and growing inflation, salaries across Metinvest places the utmost importance on the on their happiness and confidence in the future has performed, the higher their grade and, the Group’s plants were raised by an average of 21.7%. wellbeing of its employees and their families. of their loved ones. With this in mind, the Group consequently, their compensation. Grades In June 2016, we raised all employees’ wages by an We understand that people’s performance and maintains social programmes for children, young are considered the most progressive reward average of 10.6% and, in October later that year, by confidence in the future depend to a great extent people and veterans. management system. They make it possible to another 5%. compare existing payment practices with the Ukrainian benefit market. Ongoing assessment committees ensure the fairness and flexibility of the system across the Group THE CHILDHOOD TERRITORY PROGRAMME The Childhood Territory programme brings together various projects focused on employees’ children. Each summer, children’s Benchmark of average monthly wages at Metinvest Group recreation camps host “A Day with Metinvest”. By playing games, against the average monthly Ukrainian wages throughout children get to know more about the Group and their parent’s the industry, 2013-2016 profession. The programme involves over 9,000 people a year. 8,267 GIFTS FOR CHILDREN Every year, to celebrate Knowledge Day, Metinvest gives out school supply kits to children in the first year of school. Over 6,984 6,906 2015-2016, it handed out 7,755 kits. To treat children in the winter holiday season, the Group gives them sweets and confectionery. Over 2015-2016, the Group handed out 96,749 packs of sweets. 5,891 5,739 4,975 4,989 VETERAN HOLIDAYS 4,620 We visit veterans and retirees, helping them to celebrate holidays and provide them with assistance in their daily lives. 2013 2014 2015 2016 METINVEST YOUTH FORUM 18 August 2016 Metinvest wages Industry wages In August 2016, we held the Fourth Annual Metinvest Youth Forum, which brought together 150 young employees of the Group. This was meant to be a platform for developing and implementing ideas, communicating and acquiring new knowledge and skills. In 2016, the forum was dedicated to We implement transparent and fair approaches to the developing entrepreneurial thinking, which the participants could use in their everyday work and share that knowledge assessment of each employee’s contribution to our with their colleagues. The participants designed projects, achievements and offer competitive compensation worked in teams and sought like-minded fellows. 76 77 MORE THAN STEEL HUMAN RESOURCES Benefits package crowdsourced We care about employee health Metinvest Group is implementing an innovative Each employee at Metinvest is entitled to corporate plans and insurance terms help to project for benefits management. Based on voluntary health insurance (VHI). In 2016, the improve the quality of healthcare services and employee feedback, we compiled a set of benefits Group designed and implemented the Common employees can choose their own clinics and available to staff members and their families. 9,000 Corporate Standard of VHI Delivery. Healthcare packages for different employee categories were pharmacies. This approach was first tested at Ilyich Steel in employees standardised. We offer our employees vouchers to health 2014. resorts and children’s recreation camps on an In 2015, the packages were split into separate of Ilyich Steel took The Group pays the insurance premium for each annual basis. options with a certain number of credits. Any part in the survey employee, looks for ways to extend insurance coverage and monitors the service quality. The employee can then “assemble” their own benefits package. Employee satisfaction with the benefits package at Ilyich Steel and their trust in the top management grew by 29% and 31%, respectively. 5 comprehensive Read more about our social initiatives at Metinvest’s Corporate Social Responsibility portal: benefits packages kso.metinvestholding.com were built to meet the needs of each target audience Our HR management has been recognised in the professional community. In 2016, the Group took first place in the regional category of the HR Brand Ukraine award, instituted by HeadHunter Ukraine. Metinvest’s HR team presented a project titled “From set meal to self-service buffet. Crowdsourcing as a way to build individual benefits packages for employees at Ilyich Steel”. I am happy to use the corporate discount programme. When I was renovating my flat, I purchased all the materials with a 20% discount at a partner store that is part of the benefits package. I took the purchases home by car and saved again when I stopped to refuel my car at the Parallel gas station. More discounts can be used at gyms, hairdressers and dental clinics. The range of Over 90,000 Metinvest employees and their family members options is being expanded all the time, so by the end of the year I will have had an opportunity to improve their health in 2015-2016. On top saved a hefty amount. of that, about 8,000 people used health resort vouchers during their vacations Andriy Koval, cold steel cutter at Ilyich Steel’s cold-rolling workshop 78 79 MORE THAN STEEL HUMAN RESOURCES Incentives TALENT POOL Filling the Metinvest Talent Pool is a strategic task. A young generation of managers will take charge of our plants, and their knowledge, skills and personal traits will largely define business performance in the long run. The Group initiated the Talent Pool programme in 2011. Its purpose is to identify the most talented employees to give them a chance to unleash their potential and grow. The people in the Talent Pool get an opportunity to study in international programmes at INSEAD and the Skolkovo business school. Talent Pool members also receive priority when filling vacancies. Such indicators as the Internal Appointment Rate and the Talent Pool Member Appointment Rate have proved the efficiency of the Talent Pool. In 2013-2016, the percentage of job appointments for Talent Pool members doubled to 50%. In 2015, Talent Pool members accomplished two leadership development programmes. In particular, 62 employees took the Leadership Academy course with consulting company Ernst and Young, while another 40 people worked on their strategic leadership traits at the French business school INSEAD. In 2016, 91 members of the Talent Pool attended training, of which 22 went to INSEAD, 18 to the Skolkovo business school and 51 to the Leadership Academy. YOUNG LEADERS OF METINVEST The Young Leaders of Metinvest programme was launched in 2013. The key application criteria for candidates included having a college degree, being no more than 35 years old and having ideas In 2015, 90% for projects in production, finances, logistics, etc. The programme provides an opportunity to evaluate young employees’ potential and include the best candidates in the succession plan for key roles. Young people go through training, project design and finally pitch of all job appointments their projects to the top management. The best solutions are across the Group were then given the green light to go into production. Winners at plant offered to existing levels can proceed to the Group-wide super final and present their achievements to a panel consisting of the Group’s executives. employees In 2016, the programme was updated. The main changes concerned the way members were involved. The new programme included teambuilding events, training sessions and sharing experience with colleagues from other plants, as well as communication via social media. and 36% to Talent Pool members 80 81 MORE THAN STEEL HUMAN RESOURCES Metinvest Gold Star Since 2014, the annual Metinvest Gold Star award When we got to the super final, we were challenged with a tough problem: has been awarded to the Group’s top employees eliminating the need to shut down the magnetic separators at the ROF-2 iron for outstanding professionalism, aspiration and enrichment factory when low-grade iron ore gets into them. We reviewed 294 achievement. The award is made of gold and possible designs and listened to four hours of audio recordings. We won first comes with an additional prize of UAH50,000. place because we came up with a relevant and cost-effective solution. Our In 2015-2016, it was given to 59 staff members. team made a great presentation. We took the time beforehand to work through the answers to possible questions from the panel. Now comes the easy part: implementing the design at the plant. ТTetyana Yatsunok, member of the winning team, Head of acceptance control at Ingulets GOK’s QA department 150M over UAH over 3,000 STAFF MEMBERS ECONOMIC EFFECT FROM IMPLEMENTING PROJECT WORKS TOOK PART IN THE YOUNG LEADERS OF METINVEST INITIATIVE BETWEEN 2013 AND 2015 Most contestants faced problems that lay within the scope of their professional work or had something to do with their home plant’s line of business. We, on the other hand, had to figure out how to rectify the inefficient application of usable space in a magnetic separator at the dry magnetic separation line of a crushing plant at Central GOK. We managed to solve this problem in a limited amount of 303 time despite this being uncharted territory for us. We had never even been to a crushing plant before! After our presentation, we like the project so much that we want to be sent to Central GOK so we can work on the project’s implementation. EMPLOYEES WERE Alla Nosova, leader of the Grand Prix winning team, head of the laboratory PROMOTED at Mariupol Mechanical Repair Plant 82 83 MORE THAN STEEL HUMAN RESOURCES Employee training Training in-house coaches and development In 2016, we established a new system for the selection and compensation of coaches who, apart from training our staff, continued in their The employees who took advantage of the training greatly appreciated the quality of the work performed by the coaches. According to primary job at our plants. The new system questionnaires, the satisfaction rate in 2016 Vocational training of personnel is a strategic described the procedure of coach training and was 96.5%. The highest rating was given to task for Metinvest. Qualified staff ensure the teaching quality assessment mechanisms, the good structure of information delivery, the 101M Group’s high business performance and get more new training fees and approaches to preparing advice on how to put theory to practice and the opportunities for further growth. The Metinvest learning materials. This approach is already in visualisation of the learning materials. Training System includes specialised training place at dozens of the Group’s plants. programmes for all categories of employees. UAH invested by Metinvest After staff received training at Schools for Professionals, in employee training the number of workplace incidents dropped by 77% in 2015-2016 Training of technical Our goal is to enhance our staff’s management and vocational engineering staff skills. To that end, we have accomplished the following steps: The technical engineering staff at Metinvest receive training at Schools for Professionals, which, on top of the general improvement of vocational skills, help solve concrete job-related PERFORMED training for senior management, problems. Overall, 13 Schools for Professionals as well as department and line managers operate at Ilyich Steel, Zaporizhstal, Northern GOK, Central GOK and Ingulets GOK. Over 1,000 employees received training IMPLEMENTED a new system for selection, training and compensation of teachers and at Schools for in-house coaches Professionals in 2015-2016 ACTED to promote vocational training During the training, we reviewed all the factors that affect sinter production. IMPLEMENTED a system for assessing the Special emphasis was placed on actions that used to be overlooked. Today, efficiency of vocational training our sinter is of consistently high quality and we have increased output. Oleg Svinarenko, senior sinter operator at Ilyich Steel 84 85 MORE THAN STEEL HUMAN RESOURCES Workforce training Metinvest Corporate University training programmes New module-based To introduce standard A common training efficiency The Group designed syllabi were put in terminology, modsystem was adopted, includand approved 10 new Management DNA place covering 22 ule-based syllabi were ing: professional stanvocations at 9 supplemented with dards A fundamental management skills development • Input and output knowlplants digital textbooks for 15 edge tests programme that also helps get a clear understandvocations, and with ing of a manager’s role, the economic and financial video films for 4 voca• Teacher satisfaction tions ratings business picture, corporate culture and the Group’s • Satisfaction ratings for values. managers of the students to measure their level of knowledge and skills Next-level specialised programmes aim to raise managerial maturity, improve ad-hoc management skills, encourage the growth of subordinates and boost personal efficiency. They also help managers to find their own flexible management style. METINVEST CORPORATE UNIVERSITY Leadership Academy To provide employees a systematic training, learning and development experience, in 2012, Metinvest established the Corporate University This programme takes the candidates from the Talent for managers of all levels. Pool to the strategic level. It helps them acquire an integrated approach to plant management. Today the Corporate University offers: 21 custom-built training sessions conducted by 20 in-house coaches at 16 Group plants; corporate training and development programmes for the Talent Metinvest Strategic Leadership DevelopPool, designed in collaboration with the EY Business Academy ment Programme and INSEAD. (in collaboration with INSEAD) Develops strategic thinking and business management skills. Includes a review of best international business practices. Sales Academy Aims to help the Group’s sales reps to develop professional knowledge and skills. 86 87 MORE THAN STEEL HUMAN RESOURCES 10,755 12,926 Corporate University training stats, 2015-2016 (actual students) 19,228 people trained at the people trained in the Corporate University new management in 2016 14,228 training programmes 12,620 in 20152016 9,249 Management DNA Specialised programmes 2015 2016 Summing up the results of the Management DNA programme In 2015-2016, a total of 21,869 people were trained in the Management DNA programme. The 25.6 following specialised programmes were launched to further managers’ development: “Metallurgy: a future outlook”, “HR Management and employee development”, “Communication skills”, and “Corporate time management.” Students used these programmes to master self-organisation and HR management, and to learn persuasive average hours spent techniques. Over 2015-2016, these programmes by each manager helped 12,926 people get the right skills. at the Corporate University in 2016 88 89 MORE THAN STEEL HUMAN RESOURCES Internal communications Short-term plans The Group’s success depends directly on whether staff understand its values, acknowledges its In the near term, we aim to maintain our efforts in the three main areas business goals and actively works to achieve of HR management: employee attraction and retention, payroll and them. To this end, Metinvest builds its internal reward system management, and employee training and development. communications on the principles of openness The internal Among our key HR management goals, we want to focus on making the and accessibility. communications HR function more efficient and improving vocational training, developing To ensure the maximum audience reach, the system helps to engage an employee incentive system and managing the reward system. Group maintains various communication employees in reaching channels. business goals and In 2016, the Group-wide newspaper Metinvest. staying committed to Success Territory was retargeted at the workforce. Its publications focus mainly on information results about the Group’s key projects and employee feedback, with articles featuring success stories and structures made using Metinvest’s steel, etc. To streamline communications with administrative staff, in 2016, the Group established the weekly digital Metinvest Group News Digest. In 2016, the interactive functionality of Metinvest’s internal portal was enhanced to provide a better user experience. Plant-specific portals were The newspaper created for Northern GOK, Central GOK, Ingulets GOK, Metinvest Business Service and MetinvestMetinvest. SMC, and all of them were connected to the GroupSuccess Territory wide newsfeed. A feedback section was added to the Ilyich Steel portal to let users ask questions, ranked second get answers and rate them, and leave comments. in the Corporate We have provided our staff with tools for Newspaper category communicating with their line manager, as well as of the Best Ukrainian with the plant’s senior management. The Group has updated its Work Meeting Regulations, requiring Corporate Media plant CEOs and unit managers to attend meetings, 2016 competition for beginning in 2013 at the Group’s steelmaking plants and in 2015 at its mining assets. This helped to its motivational and streamline the regular exchange of information integration functions and encouraged personnel to ask questions about and professional matters concerning them and instantly receive answers. content In 2016, Northern GOK introduced the Coffee and Ingulets GOK established a new tradition of Talk initiative. This is a direct communication informal meetings with young workers of the plant channel between personnel and management. and introduced scheduled meetings between the There were eight talks that year, with topics CEO and shop supervisors. including plant changes, new projects and other relevant issues. 90 91 Больше SECTION 5 чем сталь CITIES AND PEOPLE MORE THAN STEEL CITIES AND PEOPLE Development of cities and towns where we operate. Milestones of Metinvest Group’s 10-year history SOCIAL PROJECTS METINVEST Investing in sustainable development creates SOCIAL PARTNERSHIP AND INITIATIVES GREEN CENTRE a robust foundation for economic growth 2007 Launch the Children’s and Youth Football Development programme and plays an important role in raising living standards in the cities and towns where our 2008 Conclude the first social partnership agreements with local authorities plants operate. Metinvest Group invests in education, sports and cultural projects 2011 Launch A City Built with Our Hands, a social initiative, in Yenakiieve and Kryvyi Rih Develop corporate volunteering within the Group and launch the Good Deeds Troop 2012 initiative Launch A City Built with Our Hands in Avdiivka, Mariupol, Khartsyzk, Krasnodon, Komsomolske and Novhorodske All social projects and initiatives aimed at developing the affected communities are integrated into the Social Partnership Programme 2011 — Implement the Healthy Environment is Everybody’s Concern programme 2013 2013 A City Built with Our Hands comes to Makiivka The We Are the City initiative starts in Zaporizhia Metinvest Green Centre starts operating in Mariupol and Yenakiieve 2016 Metinvest signs a partnership agreement with the Mariupol Development Fund Metinvest Green Centre starts operating in Kryvyi Rih 94 95 MORE THAN STEEL CITIES AND PEOPLE Strategic partnership A new format of partnership with local communities To ensure an efficient and transparent partnership with local communities, we have designed common A priority area of local community development The Mariupol Development Fund’s primary goal approaches to investing in the areas affected for Metinvest Group is the improvement of living is to come up with a long-term strategy for the by the Group’s activity. the Group has switched standards and building a nurturing environment for development of city infrastructure. In fact, the from occasional charitable activity to systematic growing business in the cities and towns affected Fund is a municipal development agency and strategic changes, laying a foundation for an by the Group’s activity. its projects are of a strategic, integrated and efficient social partnership with communities, local long-term nature. The Fund provides a platform In 2016, the Group initiated a new partnership authorities and non-governmental organisations. for constructive dialogue between small and format with local communities, which was medium businesses, potential investors, sponsor To promote efficient cooperation with local In 2006-2016, approbated through signing a partnership organisations and local public authorities. authorities, Metinvest Group was one of the first agreement with the Mariupol Development companies in Ukraine that began entering social Metinvest Group Fund. This non-governmental organisation brings The Fund’s initiatives include the Public Services partnership agreements and chose to carefully invested UAH850.4M together representatives of industrial plants, Reform, the Mariupol Development Strategy to plan its social initiatives. When selecting projects, businesses, NGOs and civil activists to push 2021 and the Structural Changes Plan for the New the Group is guided by the long-term development in local community forward promising ideas and projects aimed at Municipality Management System. strategy of each particular community, taking into development raising the city’s living standards. account its specific nature and the opinions of local residents. We consistently communicate with all stakeholders and come to their aid wherever necessary. Metinvest implements a strategic and systematic approach to bringing social initiatives to life and maintains effective communication with stakeholders. We help to address the problems of local communities and provide mechanisms for avoiding them in the long run Social investment, UAH million 165.5 142.3 133.0 97.0 2013 2014 2015 2016 Note. The percentage of assets excluded from the Report boundary for 2015-2016: in 2013 – 25.3% (UAH24.6 million); in 2014 – 25.3% (UAH33.7 million) 96 97 MORE THAN STEEL CITIES AND PEOPLE Social partnership programme Improving urban land and infrastructure The social partnership programme is an to raise the living standards of residents of the efficient format for partnership between cities and towns where we operate. Together with citizens, Metinvest improves parks Metinvest plants and the local communities and green spaces, builds recreational areas, and public authorities. The programme works repairs roads, and constructs athletic fields and 170.5 playgrounds. The social partnership programme is our contribution UAH M to improve the living conditions in the areas where Metinvest Group operates Metinvest Group’s investment in municipal improvement Metinvest Group’s investment in the social in 2015-2016 partnership programme, 2015-2016 EDUCATION UAH13M CORPORATE VOLUNTEERING UAH0.4M THE LEPORSKIY PARK IN MARIUPOL SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE RECEIVED NEW ALLEYS UAH170.5M CULTURE AND SPORTS AND A MUSIC VENUE UAH17.6M 22 September 2015 Azovstal completed a new stage in the renovation of the Leporskyi Park, which began in 2012. During the first stage, the Group built an athletic field and an open-air gym with weight benches. In CHARITY 2015, it extended the skatepark, constructed parking lots and ENCOURAGING THE ACTIVITY UAH36.7M walking paths, installed swings, benches, trash bins and lighting, OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES and built a small stage. Overall, in 2012-2015, the Group allocated UAH12.3M HEALTHCARE UAH7 million for the park’s renovation. UAH21M ENVIRONMENTAL CULTURE UAH36.3M It is great to see so many improvements at the park. It has become a scenic place that is nice for taking walks. I now come here every day with my daughter. Once Lesia is old enough to run on her own feet, she will get to explore a new and wonderful world for herself and find her first friends here, and maybe one day she will even meet her first love here. Anastasiia Lavrova, a new mother 98 99 MORE THAN STEEL CITIES AND PEOPLE RENOVATED GREEN AREA IN KRYVYI RIH 20 December 2016 Central GOK helped to breathe new life into a green area on Ivan Mazepa Street in Kryvyi Rih, including pruning trees and adding lighting, benches, trash bins, walking paths and flowerbeds, as well as an athletic field and playground. The project budget was UAH3 million. The Central GOK Youth Organisation volunteered to supervise the recreation area and intends to arrange regular Saturday clean-ups there. I am happy that there is now a nice new park in Pokrovskyi District. It has become very popular. I like coming here with my 5-year-old son Vlad. While he is riding his bike, I can sit down on a bench and take in the fresh air. Olena Kozhukhar, a resident of Kryvyi Rih WATER IS THE SOURCE OF LIFE 29 January 2016 In Novhorodske’s Petrivska Hora neighbourhood, 5,000 residents have finally gained better access to drinking water. A new water well and modern booster pumps have extended the amount of time that residential homes are supplied with water. According to lab data, water quality has also improved. There is now an equipped pump room beside the well from where anyone can get water. The Water is the Source of Life initiative is a result of the cooperation between Inkor Chemicals, Novhorodske Village Council, the Novhorodska Gromada charity and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Within the first days of the launch of the new well, water pressure in homes got stronger. Even when the water main was closed for maintenance, water kept coming to homes. We appreciate the help of Metinvest Group’s Inkor Chemicals and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. I am certain that our collaboration in this area will continue. Mykola Lenko, mayor of Novhorodske 100 101 MORE THAN STEEL CITIES AND PEOPLE MODERN EQUIPMENT FOR MARIUPOL’S EMERGENCY STATION 29 January 2016 Healthcare Azovstal purchased 15 fully equipped paramedic kits and an oxygen compressor. The new equipment will help speed up and Metinvest makes annual investments in improve emergency care. Earlier, the plant sponsored replacing capital works and renovation of healthcare the roof, reinforcing the frame, insulating the building and facilities, helping them to purchase replacing windows and doors. state-of-the-art equipment and medicines. IN 2015-2016, METINVEST GROUP INVESTED UAH21M IN HEALTHCARE The paramedic kits are fully supplied with the required medicines and bandage materials. These are the basics that we need in our daily work. The new compressor features a faster recharge of oxygen containers. In our profession, every second matters: the faster we respond, the more lives we can save. Valerii Zakrzhevskyi, chief physician of the Mariupol Emergency Station NEW MEDICAL EQUIPMENT FOR KRYVYI RIH CITY HOSPITAL NO. 9 1 October 2015 Central GOK purchased a range of medical equipment for City Hospital no. 9 in Kryvyi Rih. The hospital runs the city’s only cardiac care unit for treating patients with acute cardiovascular diseases. It can accommodate 60 patients and covers the entire city of Kryvyi Rih and four villages. This unit is essential to patients. It consists of three instruments that work together to save one life at a time. The artificial ventilation machine sustains brain and heart activity. The oxygen concentrator helps deliver enough oxygen to heart muscles. The ECG recorder monitors the heart’s activity and records any changes. The unit will help reduce mortality rates by 25%. Olena Klymovych, chief physician of the cardiac care unit at Kryvyi Rih’s City Hospital no. 9 102 103 MORE THAN STEEL CITIES AND PEOPLE NEW SUBJECT-BASED CLASSROOMS FOR MARIUPOL SCHOOLCHILDREN 1 September 2015 Ilyich Steel and Azovstal helped to prepare 14 schools for the start of the school year. The steelmakers helped to add new subject-based classrooms, refurbish schools and buy new learning resources. This classroom used to be outdated. With the new equipment, it will be a much more comfortable place to learn. This is now a perfect physics classroom. Mariana, 10th-grade student Secondary School no. 26 Education Metinvest places a high priority on supporting educational institutions. The Group renovates day care facilities and schools, furnishes subject-based classrooms and labs at schools and colleges, and supports out-of-school AVDIIVKA COKE PRESENTED facilities. Our long-term projects include helping THE CITY’S SCHOOLCHILDREN WITH to relocate the Donetsk National Medical In 2015-2016, A MODERN FUNCTION HALL University to Mariupol. In 2017, Metinvest Metinvest 2 September 2016 Group took part in the construction of the university’s new teaching building. Group invested Avdiivka Coke completely renovated the function hall at School UAH12.9M in no. 6 in Avdiivka. The work included refurbishing the heating system, repairing the floors, walls and ceilings, and installing education new windows and doors. The plant also helped to replace the seats and stage. Now, the schoolchildren have everything they need to boost their creative growth. This year, almost all city events were hosted at our school, yet the function The relocation to Mariupol is a milestone event for our university. The support hall was clearly subpar. At one of the ceremonies, Avdiivka Coke’s CEO, of the municipal and regional authorities, Metinvest Group and the Mariupol Musa Magomedov, noticed the miserable state of the premises and said he Development Fund was a crucial factor in the city’s healthcare improvement, would help to solve the problem. And he did! This is the first comprehensive specifically in training doctors and nurses to work in the region. renovation project for our school. Yuriy Dumanskyi, Viktoriia Shliakhova, Headmaster of School no. 6 Rector of Donetsk National Medical University 104 105 MORE THAN STEEL CITIES AND PEOPLE A city built with A CITY BUILT WITH OUR HANDS. FACTS AND FIGURES, 2015-2016 our hands 15 Since 2011, Metinvest has held an annual grant CITIES AND TOWNS competition, A City Built with Our Hands. This in Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk, project encourages people to make life in their home cities more comfortable. Zaporizhia and Kirovohrad regions 183 1,134 PROJECTS ACCOMPLISHED APPLICATIONS RECEIVED 15.9 UAH M INVESTED BY METINVEST GROUP IN 20152016 athletic fields and 17 playgrounds 19 recreation grounds children’s and youth 12 development centres 2 children’s traffic parks parks and green spaces now 18 have comfortable rest areas 7 exhibition and museum projects development facilities for children educational facilities 5 with special needs 9 renovated A DEDICATED RECREATION AREA on the city beach for people with special needs 106 107 MORE THAN STEEL CITIES AND PEOPLE Mariupol ETHNO GARDEN I have been working in this school for almost 15 years. We used to largely 27 August 2015 ignore this patch of land, although our team of teachers would occasionally In 2015, a small open-air museum was unveiled in the backyard of suggest ideas on how to make the backyard look nicer. But being realistic School no. 26. The Ethno Garden exhibits items of Ukrainian art, about the amount of money needed to implement those ideas, we dropped household goods and crafts. The project is part of the school’s them. Last year, we competed in A City Built with Our Hands but did not win ethnographic complex, where children learn about Ukrainian because our idea was still raw. This year, we have done better research and history and culture, try various crafts and celebrate events. talked to experts. As a result, we got the grant to fulfil our dream. Larisa Malinovskaya, physics teacher, one of the project’s initiators AZURE BEACH ON AZOV SEA COAST 25 August 2016 A resident of Mariupol, Andrii Altunian, wanted to develop a new city beach project, Azure Beach. Thanks to a UAH100,000 grant, the coastline near the railway station has been completely transformed. The activists cleaned up rubbish from the sand and installed new lounge chairs, tents and changing cabins. In 2017, the beach improvement project continued. We believe that nothing can ever change if we don’t attempt to improve our city. It is inspiring to see how beautiful it can become. Many families come to this beach, but now we have another problem – no matter when you come, you can’t find a free space. Andrii Altunian, project leader 108 109 MORE THAN STEEL CITIES AND PEOPLE Kryvyi Rih Zaporizhia PATHWAY TO PEACEFUL SPACE STEPS TOWARDS GOOD HEALTH 14 October 2015 28 November 2015 In the village of Shyroke, a new club opened for model rocket In 2015, a new online portal, Steps towards Good Health, was enthusiasts. Ingulets GOK granted UAH150,000 to purchase launched in Zaporizhia. The website gives information on self-help computers, remote control equipment and equipment to and healthy lifestyles and offers online advice from practicing make various parts and components. This will encourage doctors. The project won the main prize in Zaporizhstal’s We Are young engineers to develop their creativity and participate in the City programme. competitions. The portal provides value to both ordinary residents of Zaporizhia and health professionals. A new educational media centre with state-of-the-art communication tools was set up as part of the project. It serves as a platform for online lectures that the world’s leading paediatricians can deliver to the students of Zaporizhia State Medical University and paediatricians of Zaporizhia City Children’s Hospital no. 5. Today, it is important to increase the attractiveness of vocations and foster interest to applied science in the younger generation. To consolidate and further develop such knowledge, Ingulets GOK invests in improving technical equipment as educational facilities. Oleksandr Gerasymchuk, CEO of Ingulets GOK Polina was born weighing less than 1 kg and just 33 cm in length. We had to stay in the hospital for intensive care and later for rehabilitation. I had to look for heaps of information on my own. Now, moms have an opportunity to quickly find the information they need and to get a doctor’s advice. A NEW MINI ZOO IN KRYVYI RIH Anastasiia Kabaniuk, Polina’s mother 29 October 2015 The children from Zhovtnevyi District’s Young Naturalists Station won the competition for the second year in a row. Central GOK’s grant of UAH150,000 helped them to get their own mini zoo, called Animal Planet. The zoo has an aviary and THERAPEUTIC HORSEMANSHIP FACILITY an animal enclosure. There is also a place for visitors who are fond of exotic reptiles and spiders. The open-air enclosure is IN ZAPORIZHIA home for poultry and rabbits live in wooden hutches. 3 December 2015 As part of the We Are the City initiative, Zaporizhia implemented an innovative project called Natural Resources for My Health. Khortytsia National Training and Rehabilitation Multipurpose Centre allocated a space for therapeutic horsemanship for children with special needs. The therapeutic sessions help to alleviate the burden of various medical conditions and raise the kids’ spirits. In addition to riding, the children learn to bond with horses and care for them. 110 111 MORE THAN STEEL CITIES AND PEOPLE MARIUPOL We rebuild EASTERN DISTRICT damaged cities 5 thousand people received aid from Metinvest plants to rebuild their homes Metinvest Group strives to quickly and supply and helped to get public transport back efficiently solve the problems of cities and on the roads. We did not just finance these towns affected by the conflict in Eastern initiatives, our employees volunteered to help OBJECTS RESTORED: Ukraine. Throughout 2015-2016, the Group rebuild the houses in Mariupol and Avdiivka. 2 4 31 OVER 1,5 has rebuilt houses, schools, hospitals and thousand infrastructure, restored power and heating SCHOOLS KINDERGARTENS APARTMENTS GLASSED PRIVATE COTTAGES We are doing everything in our power to return civilians to AROUND 1 10 normal life: rebuilding houses, schools, hospitals, roads UAH M and transportation; and resuming operations of important thousand invested infrastructure. Metinvest employees worked daily to rebuild to restore residential areas Eastern District SARTANA REBUILT: 5 high-rise buildings rebuilt 1.7 UAH M invested to rebuild Sartana 124 private cottages BRIDGE OVER THE KALCHIK RIVER 16 UAH M The bridge over the Kalchik River was rebuilt invested by to restore a key regional railway line between METINVEST the stations of Sartana and Mariupol AVDIIVKA 10 18 thousand UAH M people received invested to rebuild aid to rebuild destroyed the city structures THE COKE PLANT SUPPORTED THE RESTORATION OF: 69 high-rise buildings 135 private cottages 15 social facilities 112 113 MORE THAN STEEL CITIES AND PEOPLE The motto “Let’s Rebuild Avdiivka Together!” is taking on a new meaning. For years, we have mainly been brought together by joyous occasions, now we have been united by grief. Not a day passes without terrifying news about new victims and more damage caused by the shelling. Avdiivka Coke is also going through hard times. But with each new problem, we, the people working at the plant, can feel the tremendous support from Avdiivka’s residents. This empowers us to fight for the town’s major taxpayer and employer, for the town itself, for the chance to return to peaceful life. No matter what happens, we will keep rebuilding residential houses and public amenities. Musa Magomedov, Avdiivka Coke CEO Mariupol Mariupol has also been shelled repeatedly. On 24 January 2015, Eastern District was shelled. People were killed and homes and crucial public amenities were destroyed. Following the tragedy, every day, dozens of employees of Ilyich Steel and Avdiivka Azovstal would clear the debris, repair damaged roofs, replace broken windows in schools and kindergartens, and restore water and power supply. Throughout 2014-2016, the town of Avdiivka, 13 A quarter of all Avdiivka’s population works at km to the north of Donetsk, has regularly been hit the plant. The Group contributes over 70% of In August 2015, artillery fire damaged 60 houses by artillery fire. As the town did not have enough the town’s budget and supplies heat to highin the town of Sartana, five of which were beyond resources to rebuild the damaged houses and rise residential buildings, public amenities and repair. Metinvest Group allocated UAH1.7 million to restore the disrupted utilities, Avdiivka Coke took administrative buildings. More than 1,000 coke rebuild the demolished houses, while Ilyich Steel charge of returning Avdiivka to normal life. plant employees helped to restore the demolished employees volunteered to do major repairs and infrastructure. helped hundreds of families regain their homes. Our apartment was demolished by a direct hit. Our home was destroyed in a blink of an eye. Four neighbouring apartments were damaged too. Fortunately, several hours before the shelling, my husband and I left home, but after that, we had nowhere to return to. We could not possibly live there again. Today our apartment is completely rebuilt – thanks to our dear coke Our teachers and parents are very grateful to the plants. After the shelling, plant. We are grateful to the people working at the plant for such precious the steelmakers did not abandon us to cope with the disaster singlehelp! It would have never been possible for many people in the town to cope handedly, they restored everything very quickly and to a great quality. with the damage on their own. Svitlana Zaitseva, head of Kindergarten no. 165 Alina Gorkunova, resident of house that was destroyed by artillery fire 114 115 MORE THAN STEEL CITIES AND PEOPLE Metinvest Green Centre METINVEST GREEN CENTRE PUBLIC ASSOCIATION. ORGANISATION’S PERFORMANCE IN 2015-2016 1,5 OVER thousand PEOPLE ENGAGED IN VOLUNTEERING AND ACTIVISM 105 900 hectares OF LAND CLEARED TREES PLANTED FROM RUBBISH 964 INITIATIVES TO PLANT GREENERY AND BEAUTIFY PUBLIC SPACES PLAYGROUNDS 935 13 INSTALLED REQUESTS FULFILLED 116 37 11 BEAUTIFICATION PROJECTS SPORTS COMPLEXES 117 MORE THAN STEEL CITIES AND PEOPLE In 2013, Metinvest Green Centre began to operate in Mariupol. In 2015-2016, Metinvest Group GREEN SPROUT continued working on the public association’s In 2014, Metinvest Green Centre in Mariupol launched an projects. Metinvest Green educational ecology programme for schoolchildren called Green Metinvest Green Centre supports initiatives Centre’s goal is to Sprout. Kids help to plant trees and flowers and attend energyand provides practical assistance to residents saving research conferences, festivals and workshops. In 2016, as and non-governmental organisation in planting work with local part of the project, a landscape design school and a debate school greenery and beautifying the city’s territory. Its communities to make were opened in the city. mission also includes fostering a caring attitude towards the environment and natural resources our cities and towns in young people and providing them with relevant more comfortable, training. clean, eco-friendly and attractive Save the primrose Fostering a caring attitude towards nature and developing creativity in kids are the primary goals of the Save the Primrose ecological initiative, which took place throughout the Green Sprout club in CLEAN ENTRANCE HALL 2016 spring 2016. Over 130 activists joined the initiative. At the first stage, the young environmentalists 6–20 February 2016 received an assignment to grow tulips at their The residents of high-rise buildings in Mariupol did some springhomes for their mothers and grandmothers. To cleaning in their entrance halls. Overall, 42 blocks of flats said help them make it work, the florists at Azaliia “yes” to Metinvest Green Centre’s invitation to participate in the Nova’s greenhouse organised workshops for 140 competition by cleaning their entrance halls. children, where they demonstrated how to take Metinvest Green Centre brought cleaning supplies, mops, and care of bulbous plants. At the second stage, the buckets and presented the residents of each participating apartment kids carried out a survey during which they asked with a nice-looking doormat. Metinvest Green Centre awarded the Mariupol citizens whether they could think of an winners of the competition with new mailboxes and entrance doors. alternative gift for the 8th of March to replace the traditional bunch of spring flowers, many of which are now endangered species. The initiative ended with a photo contest in which children entered photographs of them giving their moms In September 2016, Metinvest Green Centre started the flowers they had grown. The children voted to operating in Kryvyi Rih, where it will design and select the winner and Metinvest Green Centre gave implement minor projects including environmental out prizes, including accessories for digital devices. protection, ecological development and solving housing policy issues. Residents can take their questions and suggestions to the Metinvest Green Centre offices in several districts of Kryvyi Rih. In 2016, an initiative called A Hundred Streets was launched to encourage people to improve Over 1,500 residents of the condition of the yards and streets in front of their houses. The project managers received 230 42 apartment blocks in proposals, of which 24 were selected. The initiative’s Mariupol participated in implementation continued in 2017. the Clean Entrance Hall Short-term plans 2016 initiative Metinvest Group continues to implement the social partnership programme in the cities and towns where the Group’s plants operate. We hope to extend our cooperation with the Mariupol Development Fund, as we believe this collaboration format opens great opportunities for local communities in all areas affected by the Group’s activity. 118 119 ABOUT THE REPORT 120 121 MORE THAN STEEL ABOUT THE REPORT General information Plant / Company Report boundary Report boundary 2013-2014 2015-2016 T h i s i s M e t i n ve s t G ro u p’s f i f t h S o c i a l main version). The Group has adopted a two-year Metinvest Holding + + Responsibility Report. It covers the period reporting cycle. The next Report (2017-2018) is between 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2016. due to be published in 2019. Wherever reasonable, it also includes information Northern GOK + + The Report was prepared in line with the UN’s outside of the Report boundary. Sustainable Development Goals approved in Central GOK + + The Report has been prepared in accordance September 2015. with the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines as defined by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI, Ingulets GOK + + Krasnodon Coal + Komsomolske Flux + Report structure Azovstal + + The Report provides crucial information on the • occupational health and safety; economic, environmental and social aspects of Ilyich Steel + + • environmental safety; Metinvest Group’s activity. • responsibility for the quality of products and Yenakiieve Steel + The Report includes the details on the Group’s services. activity in the following areas: When preparing the Report, Metinvest included Khartsyzk Pipe + • company management; links to additional sources of information, such • stakeholder engagement; as the Group’s website and publicly accessible Avdiivka Coke + + social media pages, which make the Report more • development of local communities; convenient to read. Inkor Chemicals + + • employee compensation, social benefits and professional growth; Zaporizhia Coke + + Report boundary The Report includes details about the management The elimination of the four plants from the Report Partial inclusion of Zaporizhstal in the Report boundary company and Metinvest Group’s major production boundary significantly affected the accuracy of the plants (see table below). representation of data trends as compared with the previous periods (it exceeds 5% in Metinvest Zaporizhstal is viewed as a joint venture since The holding company of Metinvest Group is Compared with the previous reporting period both financial and operational decisions are METINVEST B.V. (the Netherlands). Its primary Group’s general data for a range of performance (2013-2014), this Report’s boundary has changed made jointly with other shareholders. Therefore, shareholders are SCM Group (71.24%) and Smart indicators). To present the data in a comparable (in terms of quantitative data); the following Zaporizhstal was not included in the scope Holding Group (23.76%), which manage the Group format, Metinvest has specified the share of four Group entities have been excluded due to of the Social Responsibility Report in terms as partners. The remaining 5% of equity belongs the four plants excluded from the 2015-2016 Metinvest losing control of those entities in March of quantitative non-financial performance to Clarendale Limited (Cyprus). Report boundary in the data for 2013-2014. See 2017 and it being impossible to duly gather and indicators. more information in Annex 1 “Metinvest Group’s The words “Metinvest Group”, “The Group”, verify the related quantitative data: quantitative performance indicators 2015-2016.” The data related to the management company, “Metinvest”, “The Company” and “we” refer to • Krasnodon Coal; Metinvest Holding, are included into all Metinvest Group entities included in the Report • Yenakiieve Steel; quantitative indicators, except for environmental boundary, unless specified otherwise. The phrase and energy data, injury rates and occupational “Metinvest Holding” refers to Metinvest Group’s • Khartsyzk Pipe; diseases, due to their irrelevance. The salary management company. • Komsomolske Flux. data were also excluded to provide adequate comparability with average data across the industry and similar sectors of the Ukrainian economy. 122 123 MORE THAN STEEL ABOUT THE REPORT The report focuses on Metinvest Group’s contribution Material aspect to Ukraine’s sustainable development. Therefore, foreign companies and plants are not included in the identification matrix Report boundary. Reporting principles Fair wages and social benefits for employees Improvement of living standards in the areas affected by the Group’s activity Principles for defining Report content In defining the Report content, Metinvest adhered to the GRI G4 Guidelines. Annex 2 Involvement in the social and economic development of Ukraine provides information on the GRI disclosures in the Report. HIGH Stakeholder engagement Responsibility for the quality of products and services Material aspects Professional growth of employees To identify material aspects, Metinvest used the • reviewing the results of the media analysis Reduction of environmental impact following approaches: (monitoring media for topics that concern Metinvest Group’s activity); Employee health and safety • interviewing heads of functions at the management company and Group plants; • considering the best reporting practices of the world’s leading industrial companies. Climate change mitigation • analysis of Metinvest Group’s internal regulations (including policies); • reviewing the stakeholder engagement Development of local communities results; Business transparency and openness MIDDLE Business ethics and anti-corruption Methods used to calculate indicators Company management The Report presents key events that took place Some GRI indicators were reformulated: within the reporting period, without excluding Energy efficiency • to calculate the ratio of the average monthly any significant events or facts. salary at Group plants to the average monthly The source of quantitative data are official salary across the Ukrainian industries (G4Human rights reports submitted annually to the state statistics EC5), a total average recorded payroll across authorities. Several indicators are gathered and all assets within the Report boundary was calculated based on internal reports that are used; verified during the preparation of the Report by • the G4-LA9 indicator was reformulated due Metinvest’s internal auditors. to the use of internal accounting systems, which specify “the number of actual training and skills improvement experiences”. 124 125 MORE THAN STEEL ABOUT THE REPORT Principles for defining Annex 1 Report quality Metinvest Group’s quantitative performance indicators 2015-2016 BALANCE ACCURACY The Report presents information about The reported information is sufficiently both achievements and problems in the detailed (in both text format and Group’s activity numerical data) for the stakeholders to assess the Group’s performance in Environmental performance COMPARABILITY respect to each material aspect The Report outlines performance trends over several years CLARITY Table 1. Gross emissions, kt (2013-2016) The Report is written in accessible language Nitrogen Sulphur Carbon TIMELINESS Year Total1 Solids The Report presents data for 2015-2016 RELIABILITY oxides oxides dioxide and was published in 2017 The Report contains references to data sources 2013 533.5 21.6 30.3 319.7 44.2 2014 437.3 15.1 26.3 217.0 35.7 2015 274.9 11.2 20.6 207.5 23.3 2016 282.0 12.2 19.4 217.3 24.3 Internal procedures for ensuring Report Note. The percentage of assets excluded from the Report boundary for 2015-2016: 1. In 2013 – 31.6% (168,600 tonnes); in 2014 – 28.6% (124,900 tonnes) quality and reliability Metinvest Group has streamlined its internal numerical data. Moreover, Metinvest Group’s Table 2. GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2, million tonnes system for non-financial reporting. The Group’s Internal Audit Department must ensure sufficient business units responsible for providing confidence in the reliability of the reported information on each of the priority areas of information. Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 sustainable development must ensure the quality and reliability of both textual information and Total 26.8 20.2 9.3 10.2 Note. The percentage of assets excluded from the Report boundary for 2015-2016: in 2013 – 29.2% (7.8 million tonnes); in 2014 – 28.7% (5.8 million tonnes) Table 3. Water withdrawal, million m3 Disclaimer regarding the publication Total volume Surface Ground Other of projections Year of water1 water water Utilities sources The Report contains information on Metinvest Group’s short-term and medium-term plans. 2013 849.0 762.1 2.1 68.8 16.0 The plans are projected, with their implementation depending, among other things, on a 2014 726.8 649.3 2.4 57.9 17.2 range of external factors outside the Group’s influence, such as economic, political and legal factors. In view of this, the actual performance indicators of the future reporting periods 2015 652.7 600.5 1.6 39.7 10.9 may differ from the projections published in this Report. 2016 639.3 590.6 2.0 38.0 8.8 Note. The percentage of assets excluded from the Report boundary for 2015-2016: 1. in 2013 -2.7% (23.3 million m3); in 2014 – 2.8% (19.5 million m3) 126 127 MORE THAN STEEL ABOUT THE REPORT Table 4. Volume of water recycled and reused, million m3 Table 7. Total weight of waste, million tonnes Total weight Weight of waste Year Total volume1 Water recycled Water reused Weight of Weight of treated Year of waste transported to disposed waste2 waste4 production1 third parties3 2013 3,698.0 3,591.1 106.9 2013 266.7 179.2 1.7 87.1 2014 2,938.6 2,862.2 76.4 2014 242.1 167.0 1.0 73.3 2015 2,441.0 2,391.8 49.1 2015 189.0 132.2 0.8 56.0 2016 2,457.0 2,411.0 45.9 2016 175.2 124.3 0.7 49.4 Note. The percentage of assets excluded from the Report boundary for 2015-2016: 1. in 2013 -16.3% (604.3 million m ); in 2014 – 15.6% (458,1 million m ) 3 3 Note. The percentage of assets excluded from the Report boundary for 2015-2016: 1. In 2013 2% 5.3 million tonnes); in 2014 – 1.4% (3.3 million tonnes) 2. In 2013 2% (3.5 million tonnes); in 2014 – 1.0% (1.7 million tonnes) 3. In 2013 26.8% (0.4 million tonnes); in 2014 – 19.4% (0.2 million tonnes) 4. In 2013 1.7%( 1.4 million tonnes); in 2014 – 1.2% (0.9 million tonnes) Table 5. Percentage of recycled and reused water out of the total volume of water withdrawn (including recycled) Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 Energy efficiency % 81.0 80.2 78.9 79.4 Note. The percentage of recycled and reused water of the total volume of water withdrawn without the assets excluded from the Report boundary for 20152016 would Table 8. Direct energy use, toe have been: in 2013 – 78.9%; in 2014 – 77.8% Natural Heating Diesel Electric Year Total1 Coke Petrol Coal gas oil fuel power 2013 16,697.7 1,808.9 30.6 5,456.9 213.0 7.2 7,300.7 1,880.5 Table 6. Content of water pollutants in discharged water, tonnes 2014 11,574.1 1,412.0 16.5 4,412.0 218.2 6.4 2,177.5 3,331.6 Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 2015 6,343.3 985.2 6.0 2,066.0 179.8 3.2 2,196.7 906.3 2016 6,625.8 925.9 11.7 2,204.2 173.7 2.8 2,394.4 913.1 BOD (total) 270.2 236.0 111.0 105.1 Note. The percentage of assets excluded from the Report boundary for 2015-2016: 1. in 2013 – 11.3 % (1,888,300 toe); in 2014 – 13.8% (1,593,090 toe) Oil products 9.8 8.0 3.9 5.3 Suspended 807.3 735.0 444.0 459.7 substances Solid residue 14,8254.7 126,824.0 79,073.1 74,875.9 Table 9. Electric power savings, MWh Chlorides 21,396.9 16,981.0 10,337.3 11,161.7 Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 Sulfates 62,929.5 60,596.0 38,168.2 33,421.9 Ammoniacal nitrogen 98.4 70.0 40.5 44.5 Power saved 88,680.0 81,971.2 82,063.7 147,553.7 Total iron 19.2 22.0 10.7 10.2 Note. The percentage of assets excluded from the Report boundary for 2015-2016: in 2013 – 23.3% (20,633 MWh); in 2014 – 17.2% (14,088 MWh) Nitrates 843.9 810.0 395.0 546.7 128 129 MORE THAN STEEL ABOUT THE REPORT Table 10. Economic effect from power savings, UAH million Table 13. Staff structure by age, % Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 Year < 30 years1 30-50 years2 > 50 years3 Economic 285.5 310.0 508.8 612.4 2013 21 58 21 effect 2014 20 59 21 Note. The percentage of assets excluded from the Report boundary for 2015-2016: in 2013 – 38.7%( UAH110.4 million); in 2014 – 12.1% (UAH37.5 million) 2015 20 58 21 2016 19 61 21 Note. The percentage of assets excluded from the Report boundary for 2015-2016: 1. In 2013 29% (5,433 people); in 2014 – 27.2% (4,606 people) 2. In 2013 29.4% (15,532 people); in 2014 – 27.7% (13,943 people) 3. In 2013 29.8% (18,175 people); in 2014 – 28.1% (5,042 people) Occupational health and safety Table 14. Number of training experiences for the company’s employees Table 11. Lost day rate, tonnes of fuel equivalent Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 Year 2013 2014 2015 2016 Indicator 97,289 80,964 79,604 76,962 Value 8.86 8.21 7.66 9.25 Note. The percentage of assets excluded from the Report boundary for 2015-2016: in 2013 – 22.3% (21,680 experiences); in 2014 – 12.5% (10,157 experiences) HR management Table 12. Staff structure by categories and gender, % Staff category Gender Year Mgrs/profs Workers Males Females 2013 26 74 67 33 2014 23 77 67 33 2015 25 75 65 35 2016 24 76 65 35 130 131 MORE THAN STEEL ABOUT THE REPORT CrossGeneral reference to Report Annex 2 standard the Global Report section and other sources/direct answer page disclosures Compact no. Principles The description of GRI indicators and The definition of the principles of the Global disclosures is available at the GRI website: Compact is provided at the Global Compact G4-15, Metinvest is a UN Global Compact participant and a member h t t p s : // w w w . g l o b a l r e p o r t i n g . o r g / website: https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ G4-16 of the World Steel Association resourcelibrary/GRIG4-Part1-Reportingwhat-is-gc/mission/principles Principles-and-Standard-Disclosures.pdf Identified material aspects and boundaries “About the Report” (General information), G4-17 Metinvest Group Annual Reports 2015, 2016 122 https://www.metinvestholding.com/en/investors/reports Table of GRI indicators G4-18, G4-21, G4-22, G4-23 “About the Report” (General Information, Reporting Principles) 122, 124 CrossG4-19 “About the Report” (Reporting Principles) 124 General reference to Report standard the Global Report section and other sources/direct answer page G4-20 “About the Report” (Reporting Principles) 124 disclosures Compact no. Principles Stakeholder engagement Strategy and analysis “Sustainable Development”, “Customer Interaction”, 12, 19, G4-24, “Procurement”, “Corporate Social Initiatives for Employees”, 22, 77, G4-27 G4-1 “CEO’s statement” 4 “Cities and People” 93 “Sustainable development”, “Our strategy”, Challenges and G4-25 “Sustainable Development”, “Cities and People” 12, 93 achievements in 2015-2016. Information on business risks 12, 13, G4-26 “Cities and People” 93 G4-2 and Metinvest Group’s mitigation efforts is 14 also outlined in the Metinvest Group Annual Report 2016 Report profile https://www.metinvestholding.com/en/investors/reports) G4-28, G4“About the Report” (General information) 122 Organisational profile 30, G4-31 G4-3, G4-7 “Metinvest Group in 2015-2016” 9 October 2015 G4-29 https://www.metinvestholding.com/upload/metinvest/ “Key production performance of Metinvest Group in 2013report/32/Social_Report_Metinvest_3_Medium.pdf G4-4, G4-6, 2016”, “Our products”, “New products”, “Logistics and 15, 17, G4-32 “About the Report”, “Annex 2” 121, 132 G4-8 distribution” https://www.metinvestholding.com 18, 20 (“About us”, “Our business”) Metinvest Group’s Internal Audit Department must ensure G4-33 sufficient confidence in the reliability of the reported G4-5 12, Laboratornyi Ln., Kyiv, 01033 information “Metinvest Group’s financial performance”, “Employees”, Governance https://www.metinvestholding.com (“About us”, “Our https://www.metinvestholding.com/en/about/ G4-9 business”), http://sales.metinvestholding.com, 15, 67 commonhttps://www.metinvestholding.com/en/about/ Metinvest Group Annual Reports 2015, 2016. common (“About us”). Metinvest Group’s major shareholders https://www.metinvestholding.com/en/investors/reports are SCM Group (71.24%) and Smart Holding Group (23.76%), G4-34 which manage Metinvest as partners. Metinvest Group’s G4-10 “Employees”, “Annex 1” (HR management) 67, 130 primary holding company is Metinvest B.V. (the Netherlands, Collective employment agreements are signed with 100% of registration number 24321697), registered address G4-11 Alexanderstraat 23, 2514JM‘s-Gravenhage, the Netherlands the company employees “Logistics and distribution” Ethics and integrity G4-12 Sales portal http://sales.metinvestholding.com, 20 Governance structure: https://www.metinvestholding. https://www.metinvestholding.com/en/activity/supply com/en/about/governance/principles and https://www. metinvestholding.com/en/about/governance/principles. G4-13 https://www.metinvestholding.com (“About us”) G4-56 Metinvest regularly updates its shareholders on the current business situation in Metinvest Group. The company is guidThe precautionary principle is ensured by the corporate ed by its corporate values: G4-14 Standard “HSE Management for Investment Projects” https://www.metinvestholding.com/en/about/values 132 133 MORE THAN STEEL ABOUT THE REPORT CrossCrossGeneral reference to Report General reference to Report standard the Global Report section and other sources/direct answer page standard the Global Report section and other sources/direct answer page disclosures Compact no. disclosures Compact no. Principles Principles Specific standard disclosures Principle G4-EN19 “Annex 1” (Environmental performance) 127 7, 8, 9 Economic Principle “Challenges and achievements in 2015-2016”, G4-EN27 “Annex 1” (Environmental performance), “Environment” 25, 127 impact 14, 17, 7, 8 “Our products” management 18 G4-EN31 “We care about the environment” 35 approaches Corporate social initiatives for employees, “Benefits package 77, 78, G4-LA2 crowdsourced”, “We care about employee health” 79 Environmen“Review of injuries”, “Review of the causes of occupational and 62, 64, tal impact Principle G4-LA6 “Environment”, “Annex 1” (Energy efficiency) 25, 129 off-the-job injuries”, “Annex 1” (Occupational health and safety) 130 management 7, 8 approaches “Personal protective equipment”, “Employee health”, “Review of 58, 59, G4-LA7 injuries” 60, 62 Employee health and safety issues are addressed in Labor G4-LA8 collective employment agreements which are signed with the “Health and safety training”, “Employee health”, “Review of 55, 59, involvement of trade unions management injuries”, “Employee training and development 62, 84 approaches G4-LA9 “Annex 1” (HR management) 131 Human Principle 45, 67, Employee training and development”, “Workforce training”, 84, 86, “Safety”, “Employees”, “Cities and people” G4-LA10 rights 1, 2 93 “Metinvest Corporate University training programmes” 87 During the reporting period, the Company did not receive any G4-HR3 Public human rights complaints, including on discrimination relations “Cities and people” 93 G4-HR4 Principle 3 “Procurement” 22 management approaches During the reporting period, the Company did not receive any G4-HR5, G4Principle human rights complaints. In accordance with Ukrainian law, the HR6 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 Company does not employ child labour or forced labour Product “Customer relations”, “New products”, “Logistics and 18, 19, G4SO1 Principle 1 “Cities and people” 93 management distribution” 20 approaches During the reporting period, the Company did not receive any G4-SO5 Principle 10 corruption complaints G4-EC1 “Challenges and achievements in 2015-2016” 14 During the reporting period, the Company was not subject to G4-SO7 competition or antitrust mitigation Metinvest Group did not receive any public financing G4-EC4 in 2015-2016 The Company did not receive any complaints or claims in “Employees”, “About the Report” (Methods used to calculate the respect of the negative impact of its products on consumer G4-EC5 67, 124 health and safety or in respect of failure to properly label its indicators) G4-PR2 product characteristics. The Company was not subject to any G4-EC7 “Employees”, “Cities and people” 67, 93 penalties for breach of law in connection with the delivery or use of products G4-EN3, G4Principle “Annex 1” (Energy efficiency) 129 EN6 7, 8 The Company did not receive any complaints or claims in respect of the negative impact of its products on consumer G4-EN8, G4-PR4, G4health and safety or in respect of failure to properly label its G4EN21, PR9 product characteristics. The Company was not subject to any G4-EN22 Principle “Annex 1” (Environmental performance), “Environment” 25, 127 penalties for breach of law in connection with the delivery or (частично), 7,8 use of products G4-EN23 (частично) G4-PR3, G417, 18, “Our products”, “Customer relations”, “Logistics and distribution” PR5 19, 20 Principle G4-EN10 “Annex 1” (Environmental performance) 128 7,8 G4-PR9 cf. G4-PR4 134 135
