Communication on Progress Of Stein / Germany November 14th, 2018 Member of the United Nations Global Compact (This CoP report 2018 is only valid together with our Sustainability Report and the Faber-Castell’s corporate Website www.faber-castell.de) OUR CONCERN IS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY The values of all well-managed family business include sustainability, social and environmental responsibility, and human virtues such as tolerance, humbleness and honesty. Lothar von Faber (4th generation) was far-sighted entrepreneur of great social dedication, and his descendants have been committed to these values ever since. The Social Charter signed in 2000 prohibits discrimination and child labour and further protects our employees against exploitation. The code of conduct of the International Labour Organization (ILO), on which the Charter is based on, are for FaberCastell no more than entrepreneurial basics for global companies. As a company that has been active for more than 250 years, one must think in decades rather than quarters to achieve long-term success. The prerequisite to run a sustainable business is to not make profit at the cost of future generations. Above all, it is essential for Faber-Castell to ensure that wood, our most valuable raw material, comes only from sustainable sources and that forestry and wood processing are socially and ecologically compatible. This is why, some 30 years ago, Faber-Castell set up a forestry project in Brazil which was certified by the Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) as being „environmentally sound, socially responsible and economically sustainable“ and continues to maintain the highest standards for procuring wood. Self-managed, sustainable forestry is not only crucial for planet preservation, but also a measure to control our wood quality and reduce dependence from third-party suppliers. It thus contributes to our long-term profitability – one of the main objectives of our company. The fact that business and integrity go hand in hand lies at the core of our corporate values. We aspire to build a company culture which encourages all our employees to have entrepreneurial and responsible thinking, open-mindedness, ambition, an enduring and passionate nature in addition to a quality-driven and sustainable approach in our daily work. I gladly invite you to read the achievements of this global commitment in the latest sustainability fact sheet 2018. We will be aligning ourselves with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and look forward to sharing our progress with you in the future. Dr. Hans-Kurt von Werder Chief Technical Officer 1 CONTENTS 1. THE 10 GUIDING PRINCIPLES OF FABER-CASTELL ................................................................ 3 2. THE BRAND ESSENTIALS – CORE VALUES OF A UNIQUE BRAND ..................................... 5 3. THE FABER-CASTELL SOCIAL CHARTER – PRACTICAL CORPORATE CULTURE ........... 7 4. MAINTAINING FSC CERTIFICATION AND EXPANDING SCOPE ........................................... 9 5. BIODIVERSITY PROJECT IN BRAZIL......................................................................................... 11 6. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ........................................................................................... 12 7. CO2-NEUTRAL PROJECT & CERTIFICATION ........................................................................... 13 8. SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS ....................................................................................................... 14 9. SUMMARY OF THE COMMUNICATION IN PROGRESS ......................................................... 15 2 1. THE 10 GUIDING PRINCIPLES OF FABER-CASTELL Faber-Castell’s core strategies are defined by its board of directors and implemented by all worldwide subsidiaries. The values by which all decisions and targets are ultimately governed are the “10 GUIDING PRINCIPLES”. These guidelines are designed to make the company an innovative, competitive and profitable brand in the global writing, drawing and creative design market. The “10 GUIDING PRINCIPLES” are the following: 1. Tradition & Heritage Faber-Castell was founded in 1761 and is the oldest manufacturer of writing instruments in the world. The company is also set to be managed as an independent family firm in the future. 2. Staff Our employees and our brand are our most important assets. We encourage and demand innovative and enterprising thought and action as well as international expertise. We deal openly with one another and resolve conflicts in a manner which is practical and appropriate in an organisation of trust. We feel duty bound to our traditions and our social responsibility. Faber-Castell had already established Germany’s second oldest company health insurance fund and Bavaria’s oldest kindergarten by 1844. 3. Our Brand Our main focus is on a stringent brand management from product design to adequate communication. A unique, timeless design is a constituent part of our brand philosophy. We are fully focused on strengthening our brand, as this substantially contributes to securing Faber-Castell’s profitability in the long term. 4. Products In 1839 Faber-Castell created the first brand lead pencil in the world and did so with outstanding quality. Pencil writing also remains a core area of expertise of the company today. In clearly defined fields of competence Faber-Castell develops, produces and markets products of excellent quality for writing, drawing, painting and the creative arts as well as decorative cosmetic products. We set ourselves the benchmark of providing a product which is the “best of its class” for all products offered. Our products should be a lifelong companion for people, and in this regard we feel we have a special duty to children as a target group. 5. Innovation Faber-Castell innovation is not pursued for innovation’s sake, but as the means to securing our own future and providing added value for our customers. We stimulate creativity through an open working atmosphere and we attain synergies by means of interdisciplinary, international creative teams. It is Faber-Castell’s objective to also apply its innovative power and existing know-how to new areas of business. This applies particularly to the Faber-Castell Cosmetics and Eberhard Faber brands. 3 6. Globalisation Faber-Castell opened its first branch office in New York in 1849 and thus laid the foundation for a worldwide business. Today we manufacture in 9 countries and market our products through 22 sales organisations in over 120 countries. We regard the world as our global market, while taking into consideration the different needs in the regions. Our objective is to utilise the opportunities of globalisation to develop Faber-Castell into a global brand. 7. Customer Benefits Faber-Castell products perfectly meet the needs of our customers. The opinion of the users of our products is the focal point of our approach. It is our primary objective to increase the benefits for our customers by constantly improving existing products and developing new ones, and at the same time to set ourselves apart from the competition through a “point of difference” in order to offer our customers noticeable added value in terms of product performance. 8. Environment & Social Responsibility Faber-Castell feels a particular obligation and commitment towards our environment. Our products are produced from ecologically sound raw materials, some even cultivated by ourselves, and by using environmentally friendly processes. Faber-Castell is also committed to traditional social and ethical values. The Faber-Castell Social Charter applies to all our employees and regular independent audits are carried out to ensure that it is put into practice. 9. Organisation To assure strict customer focus, Faber-Castell is a company which has been decentralised according to regional responsibility with a non-hierarchic, non-bureaucratic structure and short decision-making processes based on confidence in the expertise of its responsible regional and local management. FaberCastell is a company for entrepreneurs, in which a cooperative management style and teamwork are both promoted and demanded in the interest of overall performance. 10. Future As a medium-sized company active worldwide, we wish to strengthen our profitability and retain our independence by the following success factors, to which we are committed: • Global action, but decentralised entrepreneurial management; • Employees who act efficiently and responsibly; • Stringent brand and quality management; • Innovative quality products responsive to market needs; • Aim towards cost leadership within defined quality parameters; • Purposefully conducted, consistent market orientations and customer focus; • International growth through a presence in all significant markets. 4 2. THE BRAND ESSENTIALS – CORE VALUES OF A UNIQUE BRAND On the basis of the “10 GUIDING PRINCIPLES”, four core values were identified for the consistent management of the Faber-Castell brand, values that give the brand and thus the company its identity. These core values are known as the “BRAND ESSENTIALS”, and they set out clear guidelines as to how things are done both within the company and in our dealings with customers, business partners, the wider community and environment. However, simply defining and publicising a set of values is not enough to ensure that these values are implemented. Instead, they must be rooted in our everyday activities and actively encouraged. Employees at all levels throughout the Group therefore receive training in the core brand values. For each aspect there are DO’s and DON’Ts that govern how employees should act both within and between different areas of the company (e.g. the behaviour towards business partners and how you can avoid corruption). The “brand essentials” of Faber-Castell are based on the following four pillars: 5 6 3. THE FABER-CASTELL SOCIAL CHARTER – PRACTICAL CORPORATE CULTURE In March 2000, Faber-Castell and the German trade union IG Metall signed the Faber-Castell Social Charter. This internationally binding agreement is one of the first of its kind in terms of scope. By signing it, Faber-Castell undertakes to guarantee conditions of employment and labour in all companies of the Faber-Castell group, as recommended by the International Labour Organization (ILO). The Social Charter contains the following agreements: • No forced labour • No child labour • Payment of minimum wages • No excessive working hours • Equal opportunities and equal treatment of the employees • The right of association and the right of collective bargaining are respected • Safe working conditions and decent payment • Definition of employment conditions An independent committee monitors the implementation of the Social Charter at regular intervals in all plants. For this purpose, the corporate processes are examined by both internal and external boards. The monitoring mechanism is divided into three levels: • 1st Level: Self-information of all plants in social checklists • 2nd Level: Regular audits of the plants by internal auditors • 3rd Level: Verification audits by an external monitoring committee every 2 years In October 2008, the point “Contractors, subcontractors and suppliers” was integrated into the Social Charter: It is the objective of Faber-Castell to only co-operate with contractors, sub-contractors and suppliers who themselves recognise and implement the standards and recommendations. When drawing up a contract with a supplier, Faber-Castell shall include a self-assessment made up by the supplier in the supplier rating. In addition, the responsible staff of the purchasing department shall undergo further advanced training in this respect. On a long-term basis, it is our intention to also apply our internal, multistage monitoring procedure to the suppliers. Since the implementation of the Social Charter seventeen years ago, numerous positive impacts could be observed: • The Social Charter provides legal security that social, health and safety requirements are met within the company as well as within the supply chain; • The collaboration with labour unions on the national and international level has been intensified; • The Social Charter enables the employees to organize unions in all sites of Faber-Castell and, if possible, to conclude collective wage agreements; • Positive impact on suppliers regarding the acceptance of the ILO criteria; 7 • Strengthening of communication and collaboration between employee representative committees and the management; • Continuous improvement and exposure of weaknesses due to frequent internal and external social audits; • Realization of noise reduction measures at the sites of Faber-Castell; employees have been equipped with modern personal protective equipment and ergonomic measures like lifting assistances. The Key Performance Indicators for social aspects of the Faber-Castell Group: 8 4. MAINTAINING FSC CERTIFICATION AND EXPANDING SCOPE Faber-Castell has long been committed to reaching targets for its proportion of FSC-certified timber resources. Progress is demonstrated from about 80% in 2008 to 90% by mid-2010. Since then, 93% of all the wood used by the entire Faber-Castell group is now certified according to the stringent FSC criteria. The remainder is procured through other sustainable forestry certified sources. That guarantees environmentally compatible, economically viable, and socially responsible conditions of forestry. To offer a larger range of sustainably-certified products, Faber-Castell has increased the product list during the recertification in 2017 and now includes FSC-certified paper products. The significance of timber resources – not just for the company but also for the environment – has remained the concern of Count Anton Wolfgang von Faber-Castell (19412016†), chairman and CEO from 1978 to January 2016. Over two decades ago, he started a unique afforestation programme in the south-east of Brazil. The forests have now grown to 10,000 hectares (100 km2) and were awarded the FSC-FM (Forest Management) seal of environmental quality in 1999. In addition, all production sites of the Faber-Castell group around the world and all Faber-Castell sales companies have received the FSC-CoC (Chain of Custody) certificate, so that the origin of all the wood, from felling the tree to packaging the pencils, can be traced with full transparency. Besides the use of FSC-certified timber and the active commitment to maintaining biodiversity, the entire life cycle of the products is based on ecological principles. Not just the application of environment-friendly water-based paint for the pencils, but also stringent selection criteria of suppliers in accordance with their ecological commitment: those are examples of Faber-Castell’s environmental management. 9 10 5. BIODIVERSITY PROJECT IN BRAZIL The forests in Brazil are not used purely for timber production, but also, for biodiversity conservation. Some 2,700 hectares of woodland are left in their natural state as a habitat for flora and fauna, including some species threatened with extinction. The Animalis and Arboris biodiversity programmes launched in 2001, analyse the on-going progress of biological diversity in the Brazilian forests. The Animalis project is arguably the most visible part of the environmental protection programme: in collaboration with recognised local universities, the local biodiversity has been recorded, the stocks controlled and the animals' habitat secured since 1992. To perform the annual survey, researchers record observations, footprints and droppings. Faber-Castell cooperates closely with local universities to monitor the species diversity on the plantation, and since the beginning of these projects the number of animal species have grown steadily. During the first 15 years of this project which started in 1992, of conducting the inventory, a total of 372 species of mammals, birds, amphibians, reptiles and ants were identified. As of the last inventory conducted between 2012 – 2017, a total of 624 species were recorded within the 10.000 hectares of land. Some of these species observed in the latest survey are considered endangered, such as the elusive maned wolf Chrysocyon brachyurus, which attracts national scientific attention for the project. So far, Project Arboris has seeded 40,000 local trees and other crops planted in the reserved areas of the plantation to establish and promote the natural flora. Arboris, however, is not just aimed at preserving native plant species, but also at ensuring natural pest control for the forests through the multitude of insect populations settling on the plants. It is also securing high levels of soil and water quality and providing protection against erosion, in addition to sequestrating CO2 from the atmosphere. Data on species development and other analyses are continuously updated and have been published in the Sustainability Report. 11 6. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The world-wide development of Key Performance Indicators (KPI’s) is used to measure our progress in resource-efficiency and environmental performance. The defined KPI’s include: • Effluent (m3) / Million pieces of produced products • Non-renewable energy + Purchased Energy (MWh) / Million pieces of produced products • CO2 Emissions (t CO2e) / Million pieces of produced products • Waste (t) / Million pieces of produced products Between the Fiscal Years 2013/14 to 2016/17, there has been significant improvement of the intensity of our waste water and non-renewable energy consumption. The KPIs are based on the total amount of input/output of materials or emissions divided per million pieces of writing instruments. These KPIs are used measure the development of our environmental performance. In the year 2016/17, there has been slight decrease in intensity of waste water, CO2 emissions, the amount of non-renewable energy and purchased energy as well as plastic packaging. The only KPI which had increased was waste, and the reason is due to the construction of cisterns in Stein Germany, during which soil was removed and is classified as non-hazardous waste. The drop of plastic packaging has been replaced by more fiber-based (paper) packaging. 12 7. CO2-NEUTRAL PROJECT & CERTIFICATION The Faber-Castell Group systematically records greenhouse gas emissions in order to identify potential areas of optimization. These records are especially important as a means of increasing the use of renewable energy and objectively measuring the positive impact of the company’s tree plantations. In 2010/11, Faber-Castell decided to engage the help of external experts to measure climate-relevant data at all its production sites worldwide. In collaboration with external institutes and in accordance with the standards GHG Protocol and ISO 14064, the company continues to measure its overall carbon footprint annually ever since. The internationally recognized GHG Protocol includes three different Scopes of greenhouse gas emissions. Scope 1 covers all of the emissions which are directly linked to the company, such as CO2 emissions from production or process emissions. Scope 2 includes indirect emissions related to a company’s energy use from external energy providers. For Scope 3 emissions, the company has currently included transport and business travel into the total calculation, with further plans to incorporate more upstream emissions in the data collection. The data conducted for Faber-Castell’s CO2 footprint shows that annually over one third of the total energy needs of the company are covered by the use of renewable energy sources such as wood pellets and hydraulic energy. To compensate for Faber-Castell’s CO2 emissions, a scientific study of the Faber-Castell pine plantations in Prata, Brazil was conducted. The study included a detailed analysis of the carbon sequestration potential of the plantations and portrays the CO2 neutrality of the Faber-Castell Group. The Greenhouse Gas Report concluded that the forests contribute to atmospheric greenhouse gas reductions with a total of 913.279 t CO2e. which makes the Faber-Castell group a carbon-neutral company. As a global concern, Faber-Castell will continue to work to prevent climate change not only by optimizing production and logistic processes but also by using sustainable energy. Although its wood plantations already capture a large amount of CO2, Faber-Castell has set itself the goal of further optimizing its carbon footprint by expanding its own wood production capacity. 13 8. SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS Every year, a group-wide data collection takes place for environmental, social, health and safety, quality and energy topics. This process is referred to as the “FIS-Report”, meaning “FABIQUS Information System”. FABIQUS is an abbreviation for the “Faber-Castell Integrated Management System for Quality, Environment and Social aspects” in German. All production sites were invited to participate in an online survey for setting group-wide targets on the topic of sustainability. The categories include waste management, resource-efficiency, sustainablycertified materials, reduction of CO2 emissions, etc. The targets are communicated internally and discussed during “cluster meetings”, which are expertise group for certain materials (e.g. wood and plastic) as well as topics (e.g. quality and environment). These sessions take place online to improve global communication and avoid unnecessary business travel. 14 9. SUMMARY OF THE COMMUNICATION IN PROGRESS Principle Practical example 1. Businesses should support and respect the Human protection of internationally proclaimed human • Social Charter including annual rights and internal/external audits Rights 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human • 10 Guiding Principles rights abuses. • Brand Essentials 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of • Social Supplier Survey Social association and the effective recognition of the right Charter incl. regular monitoring to collective bargaining, • Regular training for employees Labour 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and • Supplier Audits compulsory labour, • Indirectly: the Policy for the 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and Association with FSC forbids the 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of ILO Core Conventions employment and occupation. • Brand Essentials • Environmental Management System and annual audits • Climate Protection (e.g. Corporate Carbon Footprint & neutralization, Product Life 7. As a matter of precaution, companies should Cycle Analysis) support a precautionary approach to environmental • Certification according to ISO challenges; 14001, ISO 50001, FSC® and PEFC Environment • Environmental projects (e.g. Forestry project in Brazil and Colombia, “Animalis” & “Arboris”, CDM forestry project Colombia) • Sustainable certification (FSC®) 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater • Participation in different work environmental responsibility; and groups and initiatives • Sustainable products (e.g. waterbased coating, refillable designs) 9. encourage the development and diffusion of • Renewable energy (heating with environmentally friendly technologies. wood chips, hydro-energy) • Alternative materials (recycled plastics) • Internal Compliance Principles, Anti10. Businesses should work against corruption in all Risk Management System, its forms, including extortion and bribery. internal, external and supplier Corruption audits 15
