Eczacıbaşı Group Sustainability Report 2017 Contents Joint Statement from the Chairman and CEO 02 Eczacıbası Group Environmental Highlights 04 Who We Are 06 What We Do 08 Signiﬁcant Progress on all Fronts 10 Managing Sustainability 12 Materiality and Priorities 13 Targets, Projects and Performance 21 Stakeholder Engagement 34 Eczacıbası Group’s Reporting Guidance 50 Independent Assurance Report 53 Reference Guide to UN Global Compact Principles 55 Joint Statement from the Chairman and CEO responsibilities of each generation. Hence, we are constantly reviewing and renewing our activities to enable us to adapt and respond proactively to our stakeholders. This is the context in which we celebrated, in 2017, the 75th anniversary of the Eczacıbaşı Group, which has 44 companies in four core sectors and more than 12,500 employees. Every individual in the Eczacıbaşı Group knows that they are also corporate citizens with associated responsibilities. Every Group employee, every business that chooses to work with us, and every customer who purchases our products or services knows that we will respect their rights unconditionally. To maintain this trust, we are working hard to ensure that our products and services are not only high quality, healthy, and internationally competitive, but that they are also aligned with the sustainability approach that is at the heart of our business strategy. In this regard, we firmly believe that economic value add must be accompanied by social and cultural development and created in a way that is sensitive to the environment. These are the guidelines we are communicating to our employees and endeavoring to put in practice. In addition to the changes affecting our industries and markets, we consider both global and local challenges and opportunities when shaping our sustainability strategies. Global developments are particularly important in the area of energy efficiency, one of our top priorities of the past decade. We are delighted to present to our stakeholders this 10 th Eczacıbaşı Group In 2017, global energy demand increased by 2.1%, Sustainability Report. Since 2006, when we driven largely by demand from China and India. became a signatory to the United Nations Fossil fuels provided 72% of the increase, resulting – Global Compact, we have continually sought after three years of zero or negative growth – in a to improve our sustainability performance and 1.4% increase in global energy-related CO2 emissions to communicate the results of our efforts as to a new high of 32.5 gigatons. On the upside, transparently as possible. To this end, we have renewable energy was the fastest growing energy steadily expanded the scope of data assurance source in 2017, supplying a quarter of global energy provided by our independent auditor, demand growth last year. PricewaterhouseCoopers, from energy use and carbon emissions in 2009, to all of our key These developments have good and bad global performance indicators in priority areas. implications. On the one hand, extreme weather events are now at the top of the World Economic We are acutely aware that conditions in Turkey Forum’s Global Risk Index. On the other, efforts to and worldwide are continually evolving, as are reverse this trend are growing, too. An increasing the demands, expectations, and number of public and private institutions around the 2 world are developing road maps for overcoming equality, and supporting research on sustainable these and other global challenges using the 17 solutions for issues affecting business in every UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as industry. Eco-labeling is one such area where we their guide. have provided leadership, with several of our operations being the first in their industries to For its part, the Eczacıbaşı Group has developed attain international eco-labels for their products. a road map that takes into account not only the In 2017, these operations also became the first to SDGs and global risks, but also the challenges receive Turkey’s new national eco-label. unique to Turkey. In line with this road map, we have set ourselves the target of reducing, by In another major achievement, VitrA Innovation 2020, the per-ton energy and water Center, our center for the research and consumption of Group operations in Turkey by development of new technologies for bathrooms 4% relative to 2016. and tiles, was named Second Best R&D Center in Turkey by Turkey’s Ministry of Science, Industry Local challenges provide the main reference and Technology following an evaluation 751 R&D point for our social sustainability strategies. centers from every industry in Turkey, including According to the World Economic Forum’s 2017 those belonging to some of the largest and most Global Gender Gap Report, Turkey lags behind prominent providers of technology, 130 countries in terms of gender equality, with a communication, and defense equipment and score of 63%. In this challenging context, we services in the country. have set ourselves ambitious equal opportunities targets: raising the share of women in new VitrA Innovation Center’s achievement recruits to 50%, in overall professional demonstrates what we are able to achieve when employment to 40%, and in management we are focused on excellence. We are confident, positions to 35% by end-2020. therefore, that by applying the same resolve to the challenges we face in meeting our To achieve this, we are continuing to expand our sustainability targets, we will not only achieve best practices in the area of equal opportunities. our three-year performance goals but also set In addition to affirmative action in recruitment, new benchmarks for ourselves and others flexible work schedules, and a home office day, aiming to contribute to the United Nations we introduced, in 2017, Turkey’s first Sustainable Development Goals. gender-blind CV policy for job applications. We are also investing in technologies that make all our operations – including production lines – more accessible to women. Occupational health and safety is another local challenge and a top priority for us in the area of social responsibility. Here, we have set ourselves the target of steadily lowering our injury rate to Bülent Eczacıbaşı below 1.0 per 200 thousand work hours through Chairman comprehensive health and safety programs that tackle both structural and behavioral risks, with the ultimate goal of a zero accident rate. As in previous years, we continued to share our best practices in every field of sustainability with national and international sustainability Atalay M. Gümrah initiatives in 2017. Through our collaboration with CEO these initiatives, we are helping to promote best practices in energy and water efficiency, gender 3 Eczacıbaşı Group Environmental Highlights Energy, Carbon Emissions and Water per ton-equivalent of Output* *Per ton data for 110 industrial sites in Turkey do not 105 104.0 104.0 include Esan Eczacıbaşı Raw Materials because it 100 accounts for close to 98.1 80 percent of total output on a ton 95 2016 basis, so small 2017 changes in its output can have a 90 disproportionately large impact on per 85 ton data. Per ton data for previous years are adjusted to 80 reflect changes in Energy CO2 Water assets and facilitate comparison between years. Energy Consumption Source** (% in MWh equivalent) LPG/LNG 2% Diesel Renewables 3% 0.1% Steam 11% Electricity 24% Natural gas 60% **Total energy consumed by the Group’s industrial sites in Turkey 4 Eczacıbaşı Group Sustainability Highlights Total Energy Total Share of Energy Women 1759 Per ton of output thousand MWh 2.45 32.4% thousand MWh Women Total Carbon Total Carbon 484 Per ton of output (Turkey) thousand tons 0.64 38.9% thousand tons Water Injury Total Water Rate Per ton of output 1.74 4114 3.74 thousand thousand m m Total Waste Share of Reycled per Talent** 58 Waste* 13.5 thousand tons 54% hrs Aim Timeline Progress Explanation Reducing the per-ton energy 2016 2020 Needs Reviewing action plans consumption of our industrial improvement sites in Turkey by 4% Reducing the per-ton water 2016 2020 On Target 1.4% reduction at the end of first year of consumption of our industrial the target period sites in Turkey by 4% Creating awareness of green 2012 On Target Placed 4th in Ecological Environmental brands and sustainable ongoing Sensitivity in Capital Magazine’s 2017 consumption habits among “Turkey’s Most Admired Companies” stakeholders survey Increasing the share of women 2016 – 2020 Ongoing University-wide communication of among new recruits in Turkey AllforAll initiative to 50% Increasing the share of women 2016 – 2020 Ongoing Introduced gender blind CVs in overall professional employment to 40% Increasing the share of women 2016 – 2020 Ongoing Introduced leadership and mentoring in management positions to program for women 35% Steadily lowering injury rates 2016 – 2020 Ongoing Reduced injury rates by 27.8% in 2017 to below 1 per 200 thousand work hours Refurbishing wet spaces at 60 2007 2020 On Target 18,000 students at 40 boarding schools boarding schools around in 33 cities have benefitted from the Turkey project; the goal for 2020 is 60 schools in total Training pre-school teachers at 2016 2017 On Target 90 teachers at 30 schools in Hatay, schools around Turkey on the Konya and Samsun received training Orff approach to musical education 5 Who We Are 75 Years +12,500 44 Employees Net Sales In 1942, the founder We are a group of In 32 business ﬁelds, Diversity is our of the Eczacıbaşı young, well-educated our companies are strength. We earn our Group established a and talented people focused on providing income from very small venture to with shared values the best and fastest produce vitamins that and a deep response to the and markets. In 2017, 10 years later became commitment to speciﬁc needs of international sales Turkey’s ﬁrst modern providing the very their customer base. accounted for 36 pharmaceutical plant. best quality to our Acting together, they percent of our total From the start, our customers in a are powerful revenue. mission has been to sustainable way. We organizations with Our goal is to invest in ﬁelds that are also proud to take extensive expertise increase this improve the health part in the Group’s and vertical contribution to over and quality of life of initiatives to promote integration in their 50 percent in the our customers and cultural and social industries. decade ahead. communities. development. 6 40 120 Brand Markets We have founded and Our production sites Our products and We have nine leader continuously range in variety from services are available brands – one or more supported numerous radiopharmaceutical in 120 countries in each of our main initiatives to advance plants to one of the worldwide. Europe, business ﬁelds. culture and the arts, world’s largest which accounts for Recognizing that scientiﬁc and public complexes for 52 percent of our customers are the policy research, high ceramic sanitary ware international sales, is source of our quality education, and tile production. the home of our leadership, we and women in sports. Our 14 production primary strategic continually We are proud to be sites abroad and 26 markets; in the years reenergize our brands recognized for our around Turkey are ahead, we aim to with innovations contributions in these competitively located grow fast in selected and improvements areas because they near suppliers and markets of Africa, that deepen their enrich and customers and give India and the Gulf. trust in us. strengthen our us privileged access society. to local talent and markets. 7 What We Do Consumer Products Healthcare • Eczacıbaşı Consumer • Eczacıbaşı • Eczacıbaşı Investment Products Inc. Co. Products Co. • Burgbad AG • İpek Kağıt Central • Eczacıbaşı Investment • Eczacıbaşı-Monrol • Burgbad GmbH Nuclear Products Co. • Eczacıbaşı • Burgbad France SAS • Monrol Poland Ltd. • • • Monrol MENA Ltd. • • Monrol Gulf DMCC GmbH&Co.KG • Personal care products • S.C. Monrol Europe SRL. • Baby care products • S.A.E. • Sales Inc. Co. products Health Products Co. • İntema Yaşam Home and • and food products • Eczacıbaşı Health Health and Safety Products LLC • Rx drugs • • Non-Rx products Products LLC • • Products Europe GmbH • • • • • • • • • • JV Partners • • • Bozlu Group (Turkey) 8 Natural Resources Other Products and Technology Technology • • Kanyon Management and Systems Co. Trade Co. • Eczacıbaşı Property Development and Investment Co. JV Partners • IT • Eczacıbaşı Insurance Agency Co. • E-card systems JV Partners (Germany) • • • Insurance • Property development • JV Partners • İş REIT (Turkey) 9 Significant Progress on all Fronts TOTAL NET SALES & GROWTH + 20.7% * INTERNATIONAL SALES & GROWTH + 5.4% * In Euro terms * EBITDA & GROWTH + 75.4% * 10 Other Products and 34.4% (3,999 M) 26.5% (3,079.9 M) Natural Resources 13% (1,511.6 M) Healthcare 8.1% (945.8 M) Consumer Products 18% (2,089.3 M) 2.2% (22.5 M) Natural Resources 28.3% (286.8 M) Products 59.3% (600.8 M) Consumer Products 9.1% (92.7 M) Healthcare 1.1% (10.7 M) 9.5% (86.7 M) 33.5% (304.6 M) Natural Resources 38.4% (348.7 M) Healthcare 3.6% (32.4 M) Consumer Products 15% (136.3 M) 11 Managing Sustainability Organizational Structure Board of Directors Executive Management CEO Head Comptroller & Healthcare Consumer Products Corporate Human Resources Sustainability Management CEO Sustainability Working Groups Water Energy Waste Management Equal Health and Safety 12 Sustainability Management and Strategy The Eczacıbaşı Group is committed to designing and implementing business strategies that improve its long-term economic performance, enhance the well-being of society, and contribute to the sustainable use of natural resources. To this end, Eczacıbaşı Group companies are endeavoring to incorporate sustainability principles into every business process, from the procurement of raw materials through to the design of products and services, marketing and distribution; to strengthen their communication with stakeholders to understand better their values and expectations and promote sustainable solutions; and to attract, motivate, train and retain the human resources that will drive this transformation. To achieve these goals, we have determined a set of medium-term priorities based on our evaluation of the risks and opportunities our companies face, the expectations of our stakeholders, and our most pressing concerns. These priorities can be grouped into ﬁve main categories, each with associated medium to long-term economic gains: 1. reduce costs and increase productivity. 2. Sustainability-led innovation sustainable and innovative products and services to a growing base of eco-conscious consumers. 3. Sustainability communications increase brand and corporate value. 4. Gender equality unleash new vision and leadership talent. 5. Excellence in health and safety employee satisfaction. Materiality and Priorities High Moderate Moderate Impact on Eczacıbaşı Group High 13 Eczacıbaşı Group 14 • • • • • • • ) Platforms • • • • • • • • • Award • “Gender Equality at Work” Award of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security 15 Sustainability and with our customers, so as to observe their habits and behavior patterns and understand and Innovation measure their passions. We then develop products that address these findings. Our Innovation Strategy Innovation for our Group From its earliest days, the Eczacıbaşı Group has We know that innovation is the only way to recognized the value of creative and original differentiate our business and ensure its survival ideas. For us, innovation is a corporate culture in today’s highly competitive economic that is sustainable, measurable and manageable environment. We also know that innovations do and that enables us to keep one step ahead of not happen by accident or chance, which is why the competition. Hence, we strive continually to we approach innovation as a repeatable develop this culture systematically. disciplined process. Innovation is one of the Eczacıbaşı Group’s top priorities, and We see innovation as an integral part of our accordingly, we coordinate and manage it at the daily lives, something that affects all our highest level just as we do production, business processes, independent of our job marketing, sales, finance, information descriptions. Successful innovation, we believe, technology, and corporate communications. By is the most creative solution to a consumer’s real employing the value-creating practices of need. By looking at life, our environment and our unconventional methods, we strive to ensure products through the eyes of consumers, we are that the Eczacıbaşı Group is as competitive and able to take an innovative approach to every powerful in the future as it is today. stage of the product development journey from conception to launch. Innovation for our Employees Recognizing the many complementary aspects of innovation and sustainability, we pursue our We benefit from the power of innovation not creative process in ways that minimize our only in the design of our products and services environmental impact. By including our business but also in the shaping of our processes and partners in this process, we strive to develop ways of doing business. Using diverse and products and services that create the most effective methods, we create inspiring work value for consumers and facilitate sustainable environments that are both enjoyable and development. productive. We consider it essential for the success of our innovation that we have both an Innovation for Everyone approach that encourages participation and the human resources able to think from different perspectives. People are the source of our For the Eczacıbaşı Group, innovation and value creativity, so we develop our human resource creation are inseparable. Every innovation and communication policies accordingly. should contribute new value to our companies and all our stakeholders, and the process of Inocino innovating and creating value should be continual and sustainable. In 2009, as part of our efforts to internalize innovation, we developed the Inocino Adding to this momentum is the Inocino Mobile Suggestion Evaluation System, which enables us Application, which we launched in 2016. Via this to transform valuable new ideas into application, employees can share their value-creating projects. All Eczacıbaşı Group suggestions immediately and employees, individually or as teams, may submit location-independently using their cell phones. their ideas to any unit or company in the Group through the Inocino Suggestion Evaluation Innovation for Consumers System. We evaluate all suggestions submitted through Inocino on their innovativeness, The consumer is always at the center of our potential contribution to the Group, and innovation efforts. Successful innovation requires capacity for replication in other departments or that we make a difference, which we achieve by Group companies. Everyone can track the designing and producing goods and services evaluation and development of their project that respond to our customers’ values but ideas through the Inocino system, which starts exceed their expectations. Our approach starts with an evaluation by the Inocino leader of the with the customer and is based on value employee/team who submitted the idea and innovation. It involves spending much more time then continues with the Innovation Committee 16 of the company or department to which the idea to develop innovative projects that contribute to applies. Submissions have picked up since the the Eczacıbaşı Group’s strategic targets and launch of the new portlet in January 2015, which business results. enables users to “like” other people’s suggestions, add their own ideas to suggestions, or share The primary aims of Meetinnovation are to: suggestions with other colleagues via e-mail. In 2017, the system received more than 10 thousand • Establish an environment that encourages suggestions from 1,300 people in 28 companies. innovation in our companies, To date, Eczacıbaşı Group employees have • Present successful examples of creative and submitted over 65,000 ideas, 40% of which have innovative differentiation in products, become ongoing or completed projects. In 2017, processes and services, the Group’s natural resources company, Esan, • Establish a foundation for innovative thinking planted a young tree for each of the 400 at every stage of a project, from the initial idea suggestions that Esan employees submitted to through to tangible results, Inocino’s evaluation system that year. • Reward creative and innovative projects by individuals or teams that contribute to our Meetinnovation strategic targets and business results. We know that innovation only occurs in an Innovation Awards environment that encourages creativity and innovative thinking. We are taking steps to The Eczacıbaşı Group’s annual innovation establish this environment and transform competition has been an integral part of innovation into a corporate culture. Meetinnovation since 1999. Here, companies compete for awards in five categories: Innovative Since 1998, we have organized annual events to Products and Services, Innovative Efficiency share information about Group companies’ Projects, Innovative Communication, innovative projects and recognize the most E-Transformation and Sustainability. The winners innovative among them. First called “Eczacıbaşı in each category are announced at Creativity and Innovation Day” and then, after Meetinnovation, a daylong event attended by 2008, “Meetinnovation”, this annual event aims to employees, business partners and the press. encourage every employee, alone or with a team, 2017 Innovation Award Winners Category Company Project Name 2017 Eczacıbaşı Innovation Esan Safety System for Underground Metallic Grand Prizes Mineral Mining E-Transformation Esan Safety System for Underground Metallic Mineral Mining Sustainability Esan Safety System for Underground Metallic Mineral Mining Most Innovative Product Eczacıbaşı Building Products V-care Smart WC Pan Most Innovative Service Eczacıbaşı-Monrol Nuclear Ankara University Project Products Most Innovative Eczacıbaşı Consumer Detan Insecticide Campaign Communication Products Most Innovative Efficiency VitrA Tiles Cost-Reducing Glaze Technology Project 17 In 2017, 17 Eczacıbaşı Group Companies DIPlomats are also responsible for organizing submitted 69 innovative projects that together annual workshops on DIP theory and best contributed $46.5 million to the Group’s practices. In its fourth full year of operation, over performance. To date, 476 projects have 1,200 DIP projects generated savings equivalent competed for these awards and collectively to 1.8% of the Group’s total expenditures, a figure contributed as much as $348.5 million in value well above target. to the Group through resource savings, increased productivity and new sales. Every year, the target is distributed to companies according to their operating DIP Value Improvement Program expenses. DIP projects contributing to the Eczacıbası Group’s environmental performance In 2014, we launched our Group-wide Value accounted for about 14% of total savings and 9% Improvement Program (DIP), which aims to spur of all projects in 2017. Notably, total savings in people to review every expense in their business this area increased by 33% relative to 2016, in processes for ways to reduce costs while line with a sharp rise in energy, scrap and maintaining or increasing the value of products waste-reduction related DIP projects. and services in question. Supported by a comprehensive training program and a VitrA Innovation Center Group-wide team of DIPlomats (internal advocates), DIP provides a transparent and VitrA Innovation Center, which we established in systematic framework for the development, 2011 to develop new products, materials, and reporting, evaluation and recognition of technologies for our Building Products Division, successful value improvement projects. DIP’s contributes significantly to our business results organization is parallel to the organizations of and presence in research and development. Group companies: each company is represented by a Company DIPlomat, On Site DIPlomat, and This performance has been recognized by the Department Diplomats who actively Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, communicate DIP to all the employees and help which carries out an annual evaluation of R&D generate new projects in their companies. centers all around Turkey. In 2017, VitrA Innovation Center jumped up in the Ministry’s DIP Performance overall nationwide ranking of R&D centers from 7th to 2 nd place according to 2016 performance Other Expenses evaluation results following an evaluation 144 2% R&D centers in diverse industries around Turkey, Operational Expenses Expenses of Goods Sold including those belonging to the country’s 19% 79% largest and most prominent providers of technology, communication and defense equipment and services. VitrA Innovation Center surpassed all but one in the 2016 evaluation of performance indicators. Additionally, for the fifth consecutive year, VitrA Innovation Center received the Ministry’s “Most Successful R&D Center” award in the Glass and Refractory Sustainability-Related industry. DIP Savings Water As in 2016, VitrA Innovation Center made 57 Logistics Recycle/ Reuse 3% 1% 2% patent applications in Turkey in 2017. During the Waste reduction year, it completed 26 projects and launched 22 15% new ones: five focused on product development, 16 on R&D, and one on cost improvement. As of Energy end-2017, the Center had 32 ongoing projects. 40% In 2017, the Center also submitted eight different Scrap projects to national and international incentive 26% programs. Three of these received combined Packaging weight reduction financial support of TL 943 thousand, one from 13% the HORIZON 2020 program, and two others from national support programs. 18 During the year, the Center concluded a joint Also in 2017, the Center partnered with Tecnan study with Boğaziçi University launched in 2016 of Spain and RND of Turkey to develop to compare the lifecycle impact of WC pans and eco-friendly coating technologies for faucets faucets produced with polymers with those and submitted their proposal to the international using ceramic and metal. The study revealed HORIZON 2020-MANUNET funding program. that alternative polymer materials are more The program approved the project, enabling environment-friendly than the metals partner companies to begin research and traditionally used in faucet production but less development of a high quality, low-cost and environmentally-friendly than the ceramics used environmentally friendly alternative to traditional in WC pan production. chrome plating in January 2018. Preparations were made for mass production of In 2017, VitrA Innovation Center organized a an eco-friendly, bio-polymer toilet seat unique workshop program for schoolchildren in containing 37% plant-derived renewable collaboration with the Bozüyük District material, which the Center developed with Governor’s office and District Directorate of Dupont in 2016. The new product, which National Education. Titled “Design-Focused combines a high level of functionality and Thinking Workshops”, the program introduced aesthetics with a much lower environmental more than 200 8 to 12-year-olds to the principles footprint, will be produced on a large-scale in of design-focused thinking and taught them 2018. how to use their creativity to solve real-life problems. Using an empathy-based human In 2017, the Eczacıbaşı Building Products centered approach, students developed a range Division exhibited its first two smart connected of ideas for solving the problem, then picked technologies products – the Smart Panel and one and used simple materials to make a Smart Mirror – at the ISH fair in Messe Frankfurt. prototype. Then, they created a model of the The two products were created at the Eczacıbaşı prototype with a computer program, giving Smart Connected Technologies Lab (SCT Lab) them their first opportunity to experiment with at the Istanbul Teknopark. Sales of the Smart this technology. Panel will begin in 2018 and sales of the Smart Mirror, in 2019. In 2017, the Division began In addition to project R&D, VitrA Innovation collaborating with Vestel Electronics on the Center staff are involved in broader theoretical scaling-up of the Smart Mirror. The project has work. In 2017, they presented some of this been accepted into TÜBİTAK’s 1501 Industrial research in speeches and poster presentations at R&D Project Support Program. two different international congresses and published two articles in scientific journals During the year, VitrA Innovation Center included in the Science Citation Index. continued to work on its joint R&D project with Vernet of France to develop a smart faucet that Collaboration with Universities reduces water and energy consumption. In tandem with our drive to promote innovative Supported by EUREKA, the project aims to ideas, we have expanded our research and prevent water from being wasted while waiting development capability through collaboration for warm water. The new faucet will not require with universities. additional heat sources nor a significant change in plumbing infrastructure and will be the first of its kind worldwide as well as in Turkey. Funding Completed Ongoing Applications Applications Under Institutions Projects Projects Submitted in Accepted Evaluation 2016 TÜBİTAK-TEYDEB 2 6 TÜBİTAK-BIDEB 1 1 6 BOREN 1 EUREKA 1 1 HORIZON 2020 7 TÜBİTAK: Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey BOREN: National Boron Research Institute TEYDEB: Technology and Innovation Funding Programs Directorate BIDEB: Scientist Support Directorate 19 VitrA Innovation Center currently has 17 projects with 10 universities, among them Bilkent University, Bogaziçi University, Middle East Technical University, and İstanbul Technical University in Turkey, and Shefield Hallam University abroad. Additionally, nine of our companies partnered with one international and 15 local universities on 27 projects involving the development of new products, materials and product design in 2016. Esan has the most ongoing projects with universities –17 in all with 14 universities, among them Istanbul Technical University, Sabancı University, Koç University, and Yıldız Technical University. Three are collaborative projects with TÜBITAK. In 2017, Esan continued to work on 10 different projects with a wide variety of departments at 6 different universities. One of the Tubitak funded projects about halloysite in membrane systems for industrial water treatment has been completed. Esan kicked off 4 new projects to increase efficiency, reuse recycled water, develop new products, and underground exploration. Askaynak Automation collaborates with VitrA Askaynak and Eczacıbaşı Building Products have begun to collaborate on automation projects. Before the start of this collaboration, VitrA was purchasing its robotic glazing systems from suppliers outside of Turkey; now, Askaynak Automation will design and produce these systems for VitrA. The internal transfer of knowledge and capital that this collaboration has initiated is as important as the improvements it is making to VitrA’s sustainability performance. Robotic glazing systems This system uses at least two robots at the same time. One robot moves the components that are going to be glazed and the other sprays the glaze. This automated process can glaze objects of different shapes, one after the other, without difficulty. Aside from saving labor, robotic glazing removes related health risks because the process takes place in a stainless steel-encased room. Robotic glazing also reduces glaze consumption and increases the quality of glazing, because the robot can be programmed to change spraying parameters depending on the geometry of the part to achieve the exact level of glazing required. Askaynak Automation designed and implemented its first robotic glazing system for VitrA in just 16 weeks. 20 Targets, Projects & Performance Energy Energy use in production processes The Eczacıbaşı Group has set itself an overall VitrA Tiles undertook 24 energy projects in 2017 per-ton energy reduction target of 4% for its that will save it nearly 16 thousand MWh of third three-year target period 2017-2020. To this energy consumption annually. Additionally, end, each operation has determined its own during the move of its production plant at Tuzla annual and three-year targets. to Bozüyük in 2017, it made adjustments to its machinery and equipment that it expects will In 2017, our Consumer Products Division save it another 3,000 MWh annually in the years achieved the best performance in the area of ahead. energy efficiency. Here, the top performer was Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products’ chemical Eczacıbaşı Building Products has begun using products plant, which reduced its per-ton energy waste heat from its kilns to heat water. This consumption by almost 10% in 2017 with several project saved the company about 7,000 major energy efficiency projects implemented in MWh-equivalent of natural gas in 2017. both 2016 and 2017. Esan, our mining and mineral processing Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products’ tissue paper company, completed 19 projects in 2017 that will plant achieved the second largest reduction in generate more than 6,300 MWh of energy per-ton energy consumption with efficiency savings annually. Esan’s single largest project, improvements in 2017. Last year, it continued to which will save nearly 2,000 MWh per year, switch to LED lighting and sensor use, and from enables it to pump the aqueous concentrate of low to high efficiency motors in its production lead-zinc at the Balya plant directly through the plant. dewatering unit without any reduction in its solid ratio. Other projects aimed at improving production processes through investments and operational changes, such as the installation of Efforts to reduce our energy footprint pulverized washing out systems, the reviewing of water cycles, and upgrading of electrical Over the last decade, the Eczacıbaşı Group has equipment, are expected to generate another carried out numerous projects in the following 1,500 MWh annually in energy savings. areas to improve its energy efficiency. • Solar thermal energy for heating water and Overall, our manufacturing operations in Turkey photovoltaic electricity generation completed 68 major projects in 2017 that will • Waste heat recycling save them close to 30,000 MW of energy • Co-generation systems annually, an amount equivalent to 1.7% of their • Improved insulation systems total energy consumption in 2017. • High efficiency heating and cooling systems • LED lighting and greater use of sensors • Detailed energy use and efficiency studies of each business • Changes in production processes to increase efficiency. 21 Industrial Energy Efficiency Projects in 2017 Esan, one of our most active companies in Turkey in the area of energy management, joined Number of MWh the first round of participants in an advanced Projects Savings training course for Energy Management System Building Products Division 43 23,642 experts organized by Turkey’s Renewable Energy Consumer Products Division 6 257 Directorate in collaboration with the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and Other Industrial Operations 19 6,331 funded by the United Nations Industrial Grand Total 68 30,230 Development Organization (UNIDO). At the end of the nine-month project, which involved audits, training and reporting, Esan, received an Energy Management System Certificate of Energy management systems Achievement” in 2017. Every Eczacıbaşı Group company monitors and evaluates its energy consumption in order to Renewable energy determine areas for improvement. Four of our companies accounting for over 80% of the Solar energy is abundant in Turkey and most of Group’s energy consumption (Eczacıbaşı our industrial operations are taking advantage of Building Products, VitrA Tiles, Eczacıbaşı this renewable resource. Almost all of our Consumer Products’ tissue paper plant, and industrial operations in Turkey have installed Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products’ chemical solar water heating systems for both domestic products plant) also have ISO 50001 certified and industrial use and a significant number have energy management systems. designed or restructured the roofs of their production plants to reduce their reliance on artificial lighting throughout much of the year. VitrA Wins Energy Still, until Esan, our mining operation, installed Efficiency Award 500 kilowatts of photovoltaic panels to power its VitrA won third prize in the 17 th new storage depot in Güllük, Milas, Turkey, we Energy Efficiency in Industry Project had not harnessed sunlight for energy Competition organized by the production. The largest solar-based auto Ministry of Energy and Natural production investment of its kind in the region, Resources for its project to reuse waste heat in ceramic sanitaryware this project is providing all the electricity needed production. to run the depot’s tripper belt conveyors and power related equipment. Additionally, Eczacıbaşı Building Products, VitrA In 2015, Esan completed a second solar energy Tiles, Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products’ paper project with a fixed capacity of 2,350 kW, the tissue plant, and Esan (at its Balya plant) have largest solar energy auto-production facility in carried out detailed studies of their energy use, Turkey, which generated close to 3.0 thousand which they have then used to determine priority MWh of electricity in 2017, as expected. In projects. Eczacıbaşı Building Products’ faucet combination with the Güllük project, Esan production plant, for example, has to date generated 3.6 thousand MWh of energy and implemented 90% of the projects that resulted prevented about 2 thousand tons of carbon from its energy study. emission. Esan is using this energy for its new plant in Eskisehir, Turkey’s first and Europe’s only primary magnesium metal production facility. 22 To encourage more companies to follow in the Since 2013, we have extended these practices footsteps of Esan, the Eczacıbaşı Group is throughout the Group as regular components of generating awareness about the growing our energy efficiency management systems. We potential of renewable energy for electricity are also continuing the process of switching all production as a result of falling costs and buildings to LED lighting systems, which we will changes in Turkey’s legal framework. It is also continue until the transition is completed. creating opportunities for companies to learn from experiences and best practices in this area and encouraging them to evaluate the feasibility Logistics and of renewable energy in electricity production for new and existing operations. Transportation The Eczacıbaşı Group is also encouraging Since 2014, our sustainability working group operations to find electricity companies that focused on logistics and transport has overseen offer power generated from renewable sources. efforts to calculate the carbon emissions of all Many electricity companies have a choice of outgoing shipments from industrial operations in suppliers and energy sources, and customer Turkey, including both shipments abroad and in demand determines their offering. This was the Turkey; created an inventory of our vehicle park case of our bathroom furniture producer in in Turkey; and established an electronic system Germany, Burgbad, which encouraged its for collecting and calculating the carbon electricity supplier to offer electricity from emissions associated with our vehicle fleet’s renewable sources. Burgbad continued to business travel. It has also begun to develop an purchase electricity from this supplier in 2017. inventory of logistics solutions for finished products currently used by Group operations, as well as strategies and targets for achieving Energy use in buildings further reductions in associated emissions. Energy use in buildings was the first area where In 2017, we calculate that our carbon emissions we achieved our energy reduction goals. With from logistics totaled 47.3 thousand tons, an the support of specialist consultants and a team amount equivalent to about 10% of our total of representatives from our largest emissions, including Esan. This figure is 4% lower administrative and commercial buildings, we than in 2016. Part of this reduction can be carried out systematic studies of building attributed to our vehicle fleet, which saw its features, functions and energy-use equipment in average motor size decline 1% in 2017 following order to develop and implement dozens of an executive-level decision in 2016 that all new projects aimed at improving the efficiency of vehicles have smaller engines. lighting systems, heating and air conditioning systems, motors, and automation systems as To date, the primary solutions we have found for well as improving insulation. During this period, reducing carbon emissions from shipments members of our working group on Energy involve multi-modal transportation routes, Efficiency in Buildings, now part of our Energy reorganizing factory layouts and business Efficiency Working Group, coordinated with operations to reduce distances between managers, engineers, building administrators, processes, and working with logistics partners technicians and maintenance specialists to who offer sustainable transport solutions, such design, implement and evaluate energy as low-emission vehicles. efficiency projects and practices for 20 commercial and administrative buildings in Carbon Emissions from Transportation, Thousand tons* Turkey covering roughly 150,000 m2. 2014 2015 2016 2017 Logistics in Turkey 13.8 14.2 14.9 14.2 Logistics Abroad 40.7 34.7 34.4 33.2 Total Logistics 54.5 48.8 49.2 47.4 Vehicle fleet in Turkey 7.3 8.5 6.5 6.5 Total Carbon Emissions 61.7 57.3 55.8 53.9 * Results are based on carbon conversion factors, assumptions and reporting guidelines and procedures developed in 2014 in collaboration with My Climate. 23 Five of our nine companies included in our Business travel and meetings coverage achieved the water reduction targets they set for themselves in 2017. The remaining Another source of carbon emissions is business four are reviewing their plans for the three-year travel. To reduce these emissions, the Group has target period to determine the actions they need developed and installed video conferencing to achieve their targets. systems in all of its operations and encouraged employees to take advantage of the Group’s Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products’ tissue paper internal instant messaging and communications plant, our most intensive water consuming systems. operations, reduced its per-ton water consumption by 9% in 2017. During the year, it Although we do not yet calculate the emissions implemented a number of changes in its from business travel, we do monitor the ratio of production processes that will save it close to 43 travel expenses to net sales. This ratio declined thousand m3 of water annually. by 23% between 2013 and 2016 and by another 9% in 2017. Over the same period, the use of Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products’ baby and audio visual conferences increased by 15% and personal care plant reduced its per-ton water their length by 17%. These increases indicate that use by 23% in 2017, thanks to the increase in people are increasingly replacing travel with production levels at its new plant and a variety video conferencing. of efficiency projects. The new plant, to which it moved in 2016, has an in-house distillation Water system for water purification that also contributed to the rise in per-ton water use during the first year. The efficient use of water – the most important resource for life – is one of our top priorities. Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products’ chemical Here, our efforts are two-fold: on the one hand products plant also treats water before using it we are developing technologies and in its production processes. However, rather than implementing measures that reduce our own discharging the waste water from its reverse water consumption during production. On the osmosis system, it uses it for flushing and other, we are developing technologies and watering gardens. In 2017, a 45% increase in the products that enable our customers to enjoy the company’s production level led to a large same level of comfort and satisfaction with a far increase in wastewater from the distillation lower level of water consumption. process as well as in water from sanitization processes. By reusing this wastewater, the In 2017, the Eczacıbaşı Group reduced its per-ton company was able to reduce its per-ton water water consumption by 1.4% with respect to the consumption by 4% in 2017. previous year, giving it a strong start towards its 2017-2020 target of a 4% reduction for the Eczacıbaşı Building Products lowered its per-ton Group as a whole. As with energy consumption water consumption by 4.8% in 2017, its largest data, all water consumption data stated in this reduction since 2010, largely due to the reuse of report for the years 2016 and 2017 have passed backwash water from the filtration system at its PwC’s rigorous evaluation for limited assurance. faucet plant to water gardens. Measures taken by Eczacıbaşı Group companies in their plants to conserve water • Improving water treatment systems to facilitate waste water recycling • Using reverse osmosis to recycle rinse water • Improving the efficiency of rinse processes to reduce rinse frequency • Collecting and using rainwater as well as underground water generated by mineral extraction processes, • Changing product formulas. 24 Water Use and Wastewater The majority of wastewater created by our operations is treated on-site, either at our own Discharge treatment facilities or at the treatment facilities of the industrial zones where our plants are On a Group-wide basis, most water is used for located. In 2017, 28% of our wastewater – all of it production processes. Included in this category domestic – was discharged into the municipal is water used for washing production equipment sewage system. and products as well as water used as a transporting medium. Included in the latter All of our companies in Turkey are systematically definition is water used for paper production studying how to increase their treatment and and in the preparation of ceramic slurry. reuse of wastewater and rainwater. Water as an ingredient in the final product, such as cleaning products produced by Eczacıbaşı Wastewater discharge detail Consumer Products’ chemical products plant or personal care products manufactured by Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products’ baby and Municipal personal care plant, are classified under “Product sewage Ingredient”. This use of water accounted for the system; 28% lowest share of water consumption in 2017. Treatment Water sources plant; 72% Reused/ recycled *Excludes Esan water; 12% Groundwater consumption; Municipal water Waste consumption; 19% 69% In addition to reducing its energy and waste consumption, the Eczacıbaşı Group is increasingly focusing its environmental sustainability efforts on waste management. Esan, our natural resources operations, is the *Excludes Esan largest producer of waste in the Group, followed by our ceramic sanitary ware and tile operations, Eczacıbaşı Building Products and VitrA Tiles, and Water use detail our tissue paper manufacturer Eczacıbaşı Watering & Consumer Products’ tissue paper plant. These Heating Cooling Cleaning of three operations produced 125 of the 131 Steam; 1% Grounds; 3% thousand tons of waste produced by all Group Water Product Ingredient; 0.4% operations in Turkey except Esan in 2017. Of this Purification; 2% amount, 10 categories of waste accounted for Plumbing; 4% 93% of the total volume. Production Processes; 90% *Excludes Esan 25 As in the previous year, 98% of the waste Zero waste systems in our produced by our manufacturing operations in Turkey is non-hazardous, 54% of which we companies recycle or reuse. The largest volume of All of our operations are looking for ways to non-hazardous waste is created in ceramic reduce or eliminate waste through reuse, production processes prior to thermal recycling and changes in production processes processing (36%) and is currently disposed. This or product formulations. Most of our operations is followed by ceramic scrap created during the in Turkey recycle or reuse more than half of their thermal process (32%) and sludge created by waste, so our average recycling/reuse rate, the production process for ceramic sanitary excluding our mining operations, is 54%. On the ware (11%) which is reused by Building Products downside, disposal is still a major component of Division companies. The remaining waste management, so there is significant room non-hazardous waste comprises molds for the for improvement in this area. casting process, pulp fiber sludge, domestic waste, wood and wood dust, and scrap iron, In this regard, several Group companies made most of which is recycled or reused either on changes aimed at reducing waste and/or waste site or through licensed waste management disposal in 2017. Eczacıbaşı Building Product’s companies. ceramic sanitary ware plant installed a machine for compressing the styrofoam used during the Waste market production process. By increasing its density and reducing its volume, this waste has become With the establishment of a Working Group on more attractive for recycling intermediaries. Waste Management, we aim to transform company best practices into a Group-wide drive Eczacıbaşı Building Product’s faucet production to make waste disposal a thing of the past. This plant began to send the core sand used in its means reducing, reusing and recycling waste. casting process to a cement plant, which is using One of the first goals of the working group is it in its cement mix. This way, a material that was creating a standardized inventory of waste by once disposed of as waste has now become a company, division and for the entire Group. raw material for another production process. Another is determining potential areas for collaboration between operations, such as joint In 2017, our tissue paper producer Eczacıbaşı agreements with third-party recyclers or Consumer Products’ tissue paper plant transfers between companies in a Group-wide continued to expand its cooperation with a “waste market”. The working group is also packaging producer who began using 100% of organizing opportunities for production and its DAF (Dissolved air flotation) unite sludge as marketing teams to share best practices. an input the previous year. This year, about 40% of the plant’s total waste was consumed by this Currently, the main waste product transferred packaging producer. between Group operations in Turkey is the treatment sludge of Eczacıbaşı Building Kanyon, the Group’s shopping center, has Products’ VitrA ceramic sanitary ware plant, composted 26 tons of domestic waste collected which amounted to roughly 15 thousand tons in from restaurants at the center and produced 8 2017. VitrA Tiles is using this sludge in its tons of compost since installing an on-site porcelain tile manufacturing process located at composting machine in 2016. With this project, the same production site. The aim is to Kanyon has enabled customers to contribute to continually find more opportunities of this kind waste management and be a part of a within the Group or involving third parties. sustainable solution. 26 Our ceramic sanitary ware plant in Bozüyük, which produces more than 5 million ceramic sanitary ware units annually, has a Our goal is zero waste recycling/reuse rate of 84%, the highest in the Group. Solid ceramic waste, which accounts for 33% of the plant’s total waste, is purchased by a • The Eczacıbaşı Group is working to make its local cement manufacturing plant. Sludge from products not only longer-lasting and more waste water treatment, which accounts for eco-friendly but also a source of value-add for another 32% overall, is used on-site by VitrA other processes after their useful lives are over. Tiles to make porcelain tiles. • For this reason, from the design stage onward, we Alongside these company efforts to reduce consider the environmental impact of every stage waste, we are encouraging companies to rethink of production: from the resources used to the design of their products so as to facilitate produce them, to the resources consumed during reuse or recycling and to imagine new business their use, through to the disposal of our products models that reduce or eliminate product at the end of their useful lifespans. disposal at the end of their useful lifespans. • In addition to our responsibility to produce a high-quality product, we constantly review our Waste detail production processes to ensure that we are Hazardous; responding to changing customer expectations. 2% • We embrace a zero-waste approach to waste management, which means making robust efforts to design waste out of the entire production process. Non • Thanks to our waste inventory, we are quickly able hazardous; to determine if there is an opportunity for 98% recycling or reusing waste products within Group companies or externally. *Excludes Esan Waste management Disposal; 44% Reuse/ recycle; 54% Energy use; 2% *Excludes Esan 27 Social The Eczacıbaşı Group believes that a sustainable future is only possible if women actively participate in all areas of life, particularly in the Women and Equal Opportunities business world. We also believe that the long-term success of our businesses depend on In Turkey, as around the world, there are still our ability to not only increase the overall share significant barriers to women’s access to of women in our organizations, but also to education and healthcare services, and to their ensure that they ultimately have equal input in full and equal participation in economic, social management decisions. Hence, achieving equal and political life. Research shows that women opportunities in our own businesses is one of thrive under fair and equal conditions and make our top sustainability goals. greater contributions to the welfare of their communities and per capita GDP growth in their To this end, we are enriching our human countries. Hence, ensuring equal opportunities resources policies and applications with for women is absolutely essential to economic, measures that make it easier for women to play social and environmental sustainability. an active and equal role in business life. We are also continually advancing our system for According to the World Economic Forum’s 2017 measuring, monitoring and reporting our Global Gender Gap Report, Turkey ranked 131 performance in this area. overall out of 144 countries in gender equality with a score of 63%. Iceland, which ranked first, The Eczacıbaşı Group’s equal opportunities had a score of 88%, while Yemen at the bottom efforts gained momentum after 2011. That was scored 52%. the year that we articulated in our Human Resources Handbook – the primary reference for This annual study of gender inequalities around the Group’s human resources principles, the world looks at four main categories – approach and polices – our principle of giving economic participation, educational attainment, priority to the recruitment of women. health and survival, and political empowerment – and ranks countries in each of these areas and Starting on 8 March 2011, the Eczacıbaşı Group overall. Unfortunately, after placing first in health adopted the following guideline for recruitment and survival in the period 2014-2016, Turkey fell in Turkey: when faced with a choice between back to 59 th position in 2017, its level of 2013. men and women candidates of equal talent, preference will be given to women. Soon after, In the business world, Turkey’s gender equality we also began to apply this principle to internal performance is relatively better, at least among recruitment for professional positions. The same its largest companies. According to year, we also joined the “Equality at Work McKinsey&Company’s 10 th annual survey of the Platform” established in collaboration with the top 102 companies in the EU and Turkey, women World Economic Forum and Turkey’s Ministry of have a 40% share of professional positions in Family and Social Policies. Turkey’s top companies (36% in the EU), and a 25% share of senior management positions (20% in the EU). However, most of the senior management positions held by women are in finance and other support functions: marketing, human resources, corporate communications, and legal affairs. Numerous studies show a strong correlation between the share of women on executive committees and corporate performance, and many companies, recognizing this, have taken measures to increase the presence of women in leadership positions. But progress continues to be slow in the EU as well as in Turkey. 28 In 2013, we adopted “flexible work schedules” to make it easier for working parents to balance work and home responsibilities, introduced “Gender Equality training programs”, and became a signatory to the UN Women Empowerment Principles. In 2014, we introduced equal opportunity targets in our sustainability key performance indicators (KPIs) for Group operations based in Turkey, and in 2015, we began a project to make our workplaces in Turkey more comfortable for working mothers with young babies by renewing lactation rooms at all our operations. In 2016, we carried the idea of flexible work Leadership development program for women schedules one step further by offering employees the option of working out of the office one day Liderizbiz, our new leadership development and every week. mentoring program for women, is one of two programs we launched in 2017 as part of our We also carried out a comprehensive evaluation ALLforALL equal opportunities initiative. of the Group’s equal opportunities performance Designed to support the development of women that began with a funnel analysis and leaders through both classroom training and self-evaluation exercise of 11 human resources mentoring, the program is creating opportunities functions and outcomes, an online survey of for women to meet with role models, learn from employees in Turkey that received close to 1,500 their experiences, and share ideas in order to responses, and one-on-one interviews with more become more effective leaders. Since November than 25 members of Eczacıbaşı’s top 2017, we have organized two sessions attended management team. In October 2016, the action by 40 women managerial candidates, five of team leading the project organized a mirror whom have since been appointed to workshop to share the results of the data management positions. The third session is being obtained and in November 2016, an action organized in the fall of 2018. prioritization workshop. The result is ALLforALL, a “good to great Gender diversity management program for initiative” that we launched in Turkey on 8 March managers 2017, International Women’s Day, to advance our efforts to increase the recruitment, retention and Farkındayızbiz, the second ALLforALL promotion of women throughout our Group. development program that we launched in July 2017, aims to create awareness about Through a series of specific measures such as unconscious gender biases and assist people in gender blind application processes, mentoring, recognizing and overcoming them. Management leadership programs and anti-bias training, we is the first target audience of this program, and aim to increase the share of women in by year-end 2017, 65% of all managers had recruitment from 43% to at least 50% by 2020, completed the program. In 2018, after all and the share of women in overall professional managers have completed the program, training positions and management positions from will be extended to other teams of employees. respectively 33% to 40% and from 28% to 35%. Representatives of Group companies who participate in panel talks at universities or are invited to speak in university classes always tell students about the Group’s equal opportunity efforts. Group companies also regularly organize talks and workshops on equal opportunities for their own employees. 29 New equal opportunities measure: gender-blind CVs The Eczacıbaşı Group has begun to use gender-blind CVs in its recruitment processes to eliminate the possibility of unconscious gender biases shaping recruitment decisions. To this end, the names, photographs, and any other information that might indicate gender (such as military service) are removed from the CVs that are given to managers who make the final selection among candidates. ALLforALL in Production Eczacıbaşı Building Products has adjusted several production lines at its bathroom furniture and ceramic sanitary ware plants to make them more attractive to women employees. Eczacıbaşı Building Products has installed new machinery at its ceramic sanitary ware plant with weight-lifting systems to remove physical barriers associated with lifting heavy objects. Now, for the first time in the plant’s history, women are working on its casting line – not just one or two, but fully 40% of all employees on the line. At it bathroom furniture plant, Eczacıbaşı Building Products has set up an assembly line that only employs women. Originally for mirrors only, the new line is more nimble and flexible and able to assemble a variety of bathroom furniture products. The supervisor of the new line says that women have enriched the work environment and given everyone, including managers, whole new perspectives. She and the other women employees on the line are very happy to be in this new project and proud to demonstrate that women can do many different kinds of jobs. Both of these projects aim to eliminate the distinction made between “women’s work and men’s work” and increase the share of women in production in the years ahead. 30 Healthy and Safe Work operations in Turkey that requires them to reduce injury rates by 10 to 30% each year until Environments they are well below 1.0 on a consistent basis. In 2017, as in the previous year, seven of our operations in Turkey successfully reduced their accident rates. Although only four achieved The Eczacıbaşı Group’s efforts to achieve the accident rates below 1.0, our overall average best possible occupational health and safety continued to decline to 1.74 in 2017. standards in its industry and social projects to promote healthy personal care, sexual wellbeing, and good hygiene practices directly promote UN Sustainable Development Goals 3 and 8. Accident rate 4.00 Healthy and safe environments in every Eczacıbaşı Group workplace 3.00 The Eczacıbaşı Group’s first priority is to ensure 2.00 the healthiest and safest environments in its own workplaces. With the vision of being the best in occupational health and safety standards in 1.00 Turkey and among the best worldwide, our OHS specialists are carrying out detailed statistical research to evaluate performance in every 0.00 company and determine areas for improvement. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Our occupational health and safety targets, policies, and programs reflect our priority and strong commitment to excellence in this area, Companies with accident rate ˂ 1 not only with regard to our own employees, but also contract workers and other stakeholders 7 impacted by our business operations. In all our operations, we aim to achieve a track record of 6 zero accidents and a significant reduction in the 5 likelihood of occupational diseases. 4 Our two most critical goals in occupational health and safety (OHS) are disease prevention 3 and highly effective near-miss and accident 2 prevention programs in operations with relatively high operational risks. To demonstrate our 1 resolve, we introduced an occupational health and safety target in our sustainability key 0 performance indicators (KPIs) for Group 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 31 Notably, for the third year in a row, the Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products’ baby and Eczacıbaşı Building Products Division’s personal care plant and chemical products plant showering and bathtubs plant achieved an improved their fire prevention measures and accident-free year in 2017. systems with automatic fire extinguishing systems. The baby and personal care plant During the year, Group companies continued installed new systems on the extractor hoods in comprehensive efforts to raise employee its cafeteria, and chemical products plant, in its awareness of occupational and health and safety electrical panels. Chemical products plant also issues and determine the sources of added protective cages to its forklifts in the occupational risks, so as to implement production materials unit to protect forklift preventative measures, adjust workplace operators and initiated on-the-job (Toolbox) behaviors and reorganize business processes. talks. They are also implementing their own projects and measures aimed at raising awareness and The Building Products Division reduced its reducing risks. accident rate by 6% in 2017, thanks to continuing projects to improve on-the-job health and safety. For example, the Eczacıbaşı Building Products Division has an OHS training hall at its In 2017, the Building Products Division initiated production complex in Bozüyük with prototypes Kiken Yochi (hazard prediction) training as part in miniature of typical risks in the plant of its TPM (Total Productive Maintenance) and environment. Using these prototypes, OHS staff OSH activities. In addition to obligatory OHS demonstrate to new employees the importance training for personnel involved in accidents, of wearing personal protective equipment, and VitrA Tiles began holding monthly meetings with how to use it and store it properly. They also all plant employees to evaluate each accident demonstrate the proper techniques for safe occurring during the previous 30-day period. At lifting and carrying. To strengthen its OHS these meetings, OHS staff analyze the root culture, the Division has also created an causes of each accident with the person “Occupational Health and Safety Tunnel” in the involved in the accident and ask other entrance corridor of its Bozüyük production participants to suggest ideas for preventing complex to remind employees about the similar accidents in the future. importance of using their personal protective equipment at all times and respecting safety The Building Products Division also continued to rules. expand its use of pneumatic systems for lifting heavy objects in 2017, with the aim of soon Virtually all our companies organize regular eliminating all tasks requiring employees to lift on-the-job (Toolbox) talks and single-point heavy objects. training sessions to highlight risks in specific functions and demonstrate the best behavior for Eczacıbaşı Monrol developed and installed reducing them. Many are also investing in software that enables a central office at robotic and pneumatic lifting equipment to headquarters to monitor and evaluate the minimize and eventually eliminate the need for radiation exposure of employees at plants employees to lift heavy objects. around the country. Toolbox session New “safety awareness” entrance 32 Esan expanded further its occupational health and safety activities in 2017 with a new campaign titled “Target: Zero Accident”. In addition to adopting new safety measures and organizing activities, the company prepared numerous messages, visual materials and texts to drive home the priority it gives to achieving an accident-free work environment. Askaynak adopted behavior-based safety training in 2017, which it developed for each of its departments to focus on the specific behavioral risks in each business function. At the same time, Askaynak reviewed and re-engineered its work environment to reduce risks associated with the layout of machinery and production processes. Esan has a new signaling system for underground traffic that has greatly improved traffic safety. Previously, all traffic in the mine shafts was directed through a wireless radio system. Now, Esan has traffic lights on the most travelled routes as well as speed radars to check speeds and report back violations. Another investment enables Esan to track the movement of every employee underground and pinpoint their location at any moment. By connecting wireless systems at different points, the system ensures communication in the event that one or more points are cut off from the main system. These two projects won Esan two IDC awards in 2016: “Best IoT Project of the Year in Production” and “Best Innovation Project of the Year”. 33 Stakeholder Engagement Employees team spirit, and, based on their performance and potential, advance their career. Maintaining an efficient backup system that any new and/or vacant position resulting from the strategic plans Recognizing that our Group’s success depends are filled by the Group employees that have on the success and engagement of our priority in accordance with the talent employees, we strive to ensure that every one of management. our operations has in place the best human resources recruitment, development and Through performance evaluation, open-door retention programs, provides professional, access to management, strategy meetings, appealing and healthy working environments, innovation teams, and our Group-wide and develops long-term relationships with their suggestion system, we are harnessing the employees that begin in their university years creative energy of our employees and and continue into and through their retirement encouraging their participation in management (the human resources value chain). decisions. Sustainable success in the implementation of our Our mission statement and values provide clear corporate strategies requires that we have a guidelines on the Group’s policy regarding dynamic structure that is prepared for change. In human rights, freedom of association and this, our employees are our most essential corruption, as does its Human Resources source of power, so we support and motivate Handbook. For more information, please visit the them to achieve their top performance. To this Human Resources section of our corporate end, we offer our employees the opportunity to website, www.eczacibasi.com. discover and exploit their potential, develop their talents further in view of attaining corporate goals, strengthen their individual motivation and Talent Management Performance Management Development after Career Management 34 Personal and proffesional growth Both “Future Fit”, our talent development program, and “Manage To”, our management The Eczacıbaşı Group aims to provide an development program, aim to build a community environment where employees are continually of qualified, successful and motivated managers given opportunities to learn, gain experience, with strong leadership skills and Group-wide and this way steadily advance their personal and vision. We want to ensure that our managers are professional development. This is the not only capable of achieving the Group’s environment that we earnestly believe will most ambitious growth targets, but that they also encourage people to develop themselves and support the Group’s innovation and sustainability their work and create added value. processes, and provide the opportunities and environment needed for recognizing and Using performance management applications developing the talents required by their and career maps, we help employees determine organizations. their objectives and prepare development and action plans for acquiring the required personal The Eczacıbaşı Group’s extensive and and professional competencies. comprehensive training and development activities have contributed to employee loyalty The main goals of our human resource policies and competency, which we systematically are to attract, develop and retain the highest monitor and measure. Since the start of our quality human resources and to ensure that we managerial development programs, we have have a dynamic organization that is aligned with achieved an average 5% increase in both our companies’ strategic plans and goals. variables. Accordingly, we are dedicated to creating an appealing work environment that offers the best human resource management applications and The Eczacıbaşı Group has a growing training programs, strong communication channels, and continual opportunities for number of award-winning managerial personal and professional development. This development programs that it has way, we aim to establish long-term relationships with our employees that begin in their university developed in-house and patented. years and continue through their retirement. Developing our talents Leadership development For us, “excellent human resources” means Future Fit is a patented development program people who are well-educated and that supports the Eczacıbaşı Group’s talent well-prepared for life, open to innovation and management processes. Individuals taking part change, entrepreneurial and energetic, and who in the program attend classes, take online actively work on their personal and professional courses, are coached, mentored, participate in a development, are open to training others, and project, share experiences and take part in other embrace the Group’s core values. development activities over the course of 2.5 years. This long-term program is focused on The Eczacıbası Group views every employee as a three general skill areas: leadership, people talent. One of our basic principles in the area of management, and business management. people management is investing in people. Every Group employee is made aware of their Management development individual responsibility to expand and develop their personal abilities as much as possible, and “Manage To” is a patented training program for provided management support to achieve this managers designed to create a common through training, mentoring and other managerial culture throughout the Group and opportunities for personal and professional ensure that managers have the basic development. competencies that will enable them to develop a strategic perspective and focus on people Training and development activities are linked to management. The program also includes a the current and future goals of the Group and its preparatory program for potential managers operations, which are linked, in turn, to the called “Manager To Be”. development of individuals. Leadership & Talent, Management, and Soft-Skill Competency Development are provided by our Group-wide training and development programs, while technical training is coordinated by each company according to its needs. 35 People Management Eczacıbaşı Group company have completed the program. Now, the game is a crucial component “Talent HeRo” is a game designed to teach and of the orientation program for new managerial assist managers internalize their principal HR appointments. functions and processes and increase their awareness about their HR roles and Talent HeRo won a Silver Medal in the “Best Use responsibilities. Gamification ensures that of Games and Simulations for Learning” managers enjoy the learning experience and category of the 2016 Brandon Hall HCM retain their new knowledge through increased Excellence Awards. In 2017, it received a Silver engagement with the subject matter. It is a Medal in the “Achievement in Workforce patented training program designed entirely by Development and Learning – EMEA” category of the Eczacıbaşı Group’s human resources team. the 2017 Stevie Awards Great Employers. “Talent HeRo” aims to develop heroes of talent. Smart Act, A Talent HeRo Experience From onboarding to retirement, managers have a “hero” role in an employee’s lifecycle. In order SMART ACT, a Talent HeRo Experience, is a to ensure that they fulfill this role satisfactorily, component of Talent HeRo focused on the “Talent HeRo” equips managers with the relevant recruitment and selection processes. It explains people management knowledge and the different stages of the recruitment and experiences. selection journey, guides managers in making their interviews more effective, and facilitates The name “Talent HeRo” is derived from this decision-making by helping them pay attention approach. “HeRo” emphasizes “HR”, illustrating to all assessment results. the pivotal role that human resources skills play in becoming a hero. The motto for the game is In 2017, the Eczacıbaşı Group’s HR selection “Who is the hero among us in the war for process won a Silver Medal in the “Best Sourcing talent?” & Assessment Strategy” category of the Brandon Hall HCM Excellence Awards and a The aims of the program, which are also the Bronze Medal in the “Achievement in strategic aims of the Eczacıbaşı Group’s HR Recruitment” category of the Stevie Awards policies, are as follows: Great Employers. SMART ACT capitalizes on this excellence and aims to embed it further in the • Increasing the eﬀectiveness of people Group’s management culture by teaching the management by ensuring all line managers core principles to line and hiring managers. adopt HR roles and responsibilities, As with the other programs, SMART ACT was • Ensuring line managers comprehend how HR created by the Eczacıbaşı Group and is a practices affect their business plans and patented HR program. results, the logic inherent in HR practices, the relations between HR concepts, and, accordingly, increase their ownership of HR practices, • Supporting line managers’ personal development by improving their management skills, • Supporting and strengthening the Eczacıbaşı Group’s corporate culture, management principles, and approaches, In 2017, the Eczacıbaşı Group • Positively contributing to internal and launched a pre-boarding external corporate brand perception through creative design and implementation. mobile application that gives As a group, Eczacıbaşı aims to create a shared new recruits the opportunity approach to attracting, developing, and retaining to begin preparing themselves talent by instilling these principles in its management culture. This strategy is for their job before they emphasized by its slogan: “Every manager is an HR Manager”. Since the start of the program in officially join the company. February 2016, all managers from every 36 Retaining our talent Aside from professional development programs, we are developing and adopting measures that improve employee motivation and satisfaction with their work. In 2016, following on the success of a 2013 measure to allow for flexibility in work schedules, we launched a new policy in Turkey enabling employees to work out-of-office one day a week. Stronger organizations with “Lead the Attracting young talent Chain” The Eczacıbası Group’s flagship graduate The Consumer Products Division has developed a new recruitment program, “Career Test Drive”, aims training program for members of the Supply Chain to attract young talents from Turkey’s colleges Department that will contribute to their personal and and higher education institutions by recruiting professional development. “Lead the Chain”, as the “pilots”, undergraduate students in their program is called, will involve technical training with penultimate year and graduate students in their specialists, seminars, technical visits, online discussions freshman year, for exclusive internship programs and more over the course of about one year. At the in the corporate communications, finance, end of the program, successful participants will receive human resources, information technologies, a certificate from Istanbul Technical University. The aim innovation, marketing, new business of the program is to strengthen teams by giving them development, product development, production, the skills to see problems from different perspectives quality R&D, sales, and the supply chain and proactively find solutions. In addition to “Lead the management departments of Group companies. Chain”, the Division is also contributing to the professional development of its employees with Career Test Drive (CTD) program openings are academic programs for marketing, sales, finance, advertised in campus job fairs and via lectures, production and trade marketing. tea talks, consultations, in-house activities like area visits in our company locations, the social media accounts of the Eczacıbası Group, and print and online advertisements. CTD assigns a mentor, a copilot (i.e. buddy) and a project to each new “pilot”. The drive begins with an orientation program for new groups of CTD drivers, continues with the project design and implementation phases, classes on subjects like work life and presentation techniques, and ends with project presentations by the “pilots” to their mentors and relevant managers, including The “Art of Sales” has begun! general managers, executive vice presidents and the CEO. The Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products Division has CTD pilots are assisted and provided developed a sales training program for sales teams opportunities to enrich their learning at every that responds specifically to their needs and step of their program in the form of training and expectations and sets out the Division’s sales exclusive one-to-one mentoring. standards and methods for different channels. Implementation of the program will begin in Turkey Those “pilots” that perform well throughout the and at Group operations abroad in the first quarter of program are offered permanent positions in 2018. companies within the Group. The program has six levels and 10 sections, and is Student interest in this unique program is supported by a feedback process and online growing steadily. In 2017, Career Test Drive references. Through the program, which includes received about 15,000 applications from simulations and games as well as classwork, the university students. Division aims to create a shared understanding of its special sales methodology and ensure that it is applied in a sustainable way. 37 Overall, since the program’s launch in 2009, Career Test Drive has received some 50,000 applications and provided internships to 374 university students under the mentorship of 200 managers. One out of every four interns participating in the program have been recruited to career positions in Group companies. Follow-up research has shown that “pilots” who become full-time employees perform better, are more engaged, and have greater potential for leadership positions than other new graduate hires. To date, the program has been awarded with three prestigious awards: “Compete with Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products” campus program • Brandon Hall Excellence Awards: Silver award Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products has developed a in “Best Unique or Innovative Talent Acquisition program for students that give them the opportunity – Program” category, through two competitions – to experience what • Brandon Hall Excellence Awards: Silver award marketing and engineering functions are like in in “Best Sourcing & Assessment Strategy” business life. Student interest in these competitions, category, called Markatlon and Engenius, has increased steadily • Stevie Awards: Silver award in “Achievement in since their launch in 2016, turning them into well-known Recruitment” category. campus brands. Not only has the number of submissions increased, but also their quality. In early 2018, “Compete with Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products” won the “Youth and Campus Relations” award in the Best Practice Awards organized jointly by Istanbul University and Kariyerim Magazine. “Eczacıbaşı: Come Alive” is the message of our new employer brand… For 75 years, the Eczacıbaşı Group has sought to contribute to a more modern, high quality and healthy future as set out in its values and Eczacıbaşı Pharmaceuticals Marketing principles. named “Best Employer” Always aware that “people” are the source of sustainable success, the Eczacıbaşı Group strives Eczacıbaşı Pharmaceuticals Marketing is one of to add value to the lives of both its employees Turkey’s “Best Employers” according to the Great Place and everyone it comes in contact with. This is to Work Institute. Every year the institute carries out the inspiration of our vision for Eczacıbaşı as the surveys of workplaces in 53 countries, evaluating their best employer and a great place to work and the focus on employees and level of employee trust. In its motivation behind our new employer brand. In 2018 survey of companies in Turkey, Eczacıbaşı 2017, we conducted a comprehensive and Pharmaceuticals Marketing was named one of Turkey’s detailed study of what it means to be a member “Best Employers” in the 250-500 employee category. of the Eczacıbaşı Group. We held workshops with white and blue collar employees from every Group business, including subcontracted employees. We surveyed current and former employees, people who turned down job offers, and hundreds of students, to learn from their experiences, their perceptions, and their expectations. From the vast data we collected from this research, we saw that what separates Eczacıbaşı from other employers is our success in living our values. 38 The Group’s new employer brand, “Eczacıbaşı: We publish essays on sustainability issues and Come Alive”, is both an invitation to work with trends and numerous articles on our own us and a promise that people will gain much sustainable development activities and more than a job at Eczacıbaşı. investments in our semi-annual corporate magazine, LIFE. Promoting sustainable lifestyles Our annual Sustainability Meeting, attended by We are committed to responding to the senior Group executives as well as all members expectations of customers who wish to lower of our sustainability working groups, has their impact on the environment by purchasing become a platform for recognizing successful products that use fewer resources during sustainability practices and company production, transportation and use. Additionally, performance. In recent years, we have also we are continually looking for packaging invited prominent members of the business and solutions that reduce our use of material or use NGO community to speak about their recyclable or biodegradable materials. approaches to sustainability issues and practices at this event. The long-term success of our efforts to incorporate sustainability principles into every aspect of our business operations depends on Customers and Business our ability to communicate our commitment throughout our organization, create awareness Partners about the issues, and enlist the support of all our employees in promoting and implementing The Eczacıbaşı Group’s interaction with solutions. customers and business partners is based on sustainable and long-term mutual benefit, “Be Green”, our Group’s online and offline underpinned by ethical business principles. One sustainability communications project, of our principal commitments is finding high encourages all our employees to lead the drive quality solutions that address our customers and towards greener lifestyles by setting excellent business partners needs and values while also examples themselves. In addition to leaflets and meeting key sustainability benchmarks. Honest visuals located in high traffic areas of our office communication, fair competition, and full buildings and plants, “Be Green” has a dedicated compliance with environmental, social and legal portlet in our corporate portal with up-to-date regulations are other fundamental components information on sustainable development issues, of our approach. green consumption and environment friendly lifestyles; interactive tools and games, a Sustainable marketing discussion forum, and links to reliable sources of information on a variety of related issues. “Be Sustainable marketing is the concept that we Green” also organizes social events that are believe best reflects our commitments above. By related to sustainability, such as bicycling tours sustainable marketing, we mean the and day trips to organic markets and farms. sustainability of marketing-related activities, and, more generally, the design and marketing of Employees may learn more about sustainability products and services with strong sustainability issues on our internal sustainability portal, which credentials. To support our ongoing efforts in provides terminology, definitions, reading both areas, we established a working group on material, resource links, and examples of best Sustainable Marketing in 2014 that is developing practices both within the Group and worldwide. expertise and tools for promoting sustainable Through our social media accounts on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn, we share informative and interactive graphics and written content all year round with our stakeholders and the general public and celebrate significant days dedicated to environmental, social and economic sustainability. 39 marketing throughout the Group. One of the first the build-up of grime, thus reducing the need for projects of the working group is the constant cleaning and harsh chemicals. development of guidelines for sustainable One of the Group’s newest bathroom products marketing based on the four marketing “P”s: to help users reduce their water and carbon Product, Price, Place and Promotion. The footprint is Rim-ex, a WC pan without a rim or Eczacıbaşı Group Sustainable Marketing Guide, hidden channels. In addition to making the toilet as the document is called, summarizes the basic bowl easier to clean, the design greatly improves concepts of sustainable marketing, explains how hygiene. VitrA is gradually extending this and why sustainable marketing is gaining technology to all new WC pan series. importance, and provides a checklist for ensuring that sustainable marketing campaigns An even newer product developed in 2016 is a are both effective and add value to the slim WC seat and cover that requires 40% less company’s performance. energy to produce and generates 60% fewer greenhouse gas emissions during its lifecycle. In the longer term, the working group aims to The seat is produced with an eco-friendly establish Eczacıbası Group companies as leaders bio-polymer developed in collaboration with in the area of sustainable marketing. DuPont that contains as much as 37% plant-derived renewable material. Certified eco-friendly products A new control panel for WC pans help users to The Eczacıbaşı Building Products Division and its reduce their water use while providing improved brands have taken the lead in Turkey and Europe hygiene. VitrA’s Smart Connected Panel is a in developing and certifying bathroom and tile concealed system interface that reports cistern products that require fewer natural resources performance and offers a range of flushing throughout their lifecycles. To enable customers modes (Eco, ChildLock, Vacation, Autoflush) to evaluate the sustainability features of its that can be managed on a mobile app to save products, the Division has invested time and water and improve hygiene. resources in obtaining certifications that measure and rate the environmental impact of a VitrA was the first brand worldwide to publish product or service throughout its lifecycle, such an EPD for ceramic sanitary ware, and the first in as environmental product declarations (EPDs) Turkey to receive the EU Ecolabel and and EU Ecolabels, or which measure chemical Greenguard certification for tiles. VitrA is also emissions, such as Greenguard and the new the first in Turkey to publish an EPD for emissions labeling system of the German Quality bathroom furniture. Assurance Association. Artema is the first faucets and fittings brand in Bathrooms and Tiles: New VitrA and Artema Turkey to publish an EPD and register its WC pans, urinals and faucets can save a family products with the European Water Label system, of four over 190 tons of water a year by reducing which asks that manufacturers openly display water consumption for flushing, showering, hand the water consumption performance of their washing and cleaning. Many of these products products on packaging. It is also the first to also have energy-saving features built into their receive the Turkish Standard Institute’s “Double design and some also require fewer resources to Star” certificate for products greatly exceeding produce. Eco-friendly tile solutions include the standard requirements. In 2016, Artema low-maintenance tiles, self-cleaning tiles, and launched PowerBox, an external dynamo extra-slim tiles. VitrAClean and VitrA Hygiene powered by the flow of water that can supply surface technologies both lengthen the lifespan the energy needed by as many as five photocell of ceramic sanitary ware products and reduce mixers. “Powerbox” external dynamo Eco-friendly toilet seat VitrA’s Smart Connected Panel 40 Bathroom Furniture: In 2017, Burgbad increased Eczacıbaşı Building Products Division: Blue Life the share of wood certified by the Programme Blue Life is the name that the Eczacıbaşı for Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC), Building Products Division has given to its the world’s largest forest certification system, sustainability drive, which seeks to reduce the from 80% to 90% of its overall procurement. environmental impact of its products throughout Furniture carrying the PEFC certificate verifies their lifecycles using smart design, thoughtful that the wood used in manufacturing is not procurement policies, efficient production derived from illegal logging. Burgbad has the techniques and eco-sensible packaging. Blue best possible classification –A– in the emissions Life also means contributing to a better society labeling system for furniture launched by through long-term social responsibility projects German Quality Assurance Association (DGM). targeting children, hygiene and education. The world’s first emissions label for furniture, the DGM label provides consumers comprehensive By choosing Blue Life products for their and concise information on emissions of harmful bathroom spaces, a family of four can conserve substances. up to 190 tons of water per year. Many of these products are also designed to reduce material After joining the “climate compact for the use during production, with consequent savings furniture industry“, Burgbad worked on reducing in energy use for production and transport. their carbon emissions and on compensating the rest completely. Based on DGM criteria, they In recent years, the Division has certified a large have calculated the direct and indirect carbon number of its products with European and emissions in the areas of Scope 1, Scope 2 and international organizations measuring the Scope 3 for the year 2016 and neutralized their environmental performance of products over carbon footprint completely buying high-quality their lifecycles. It has also prepared an Gold Standard certified CO2 -emission rights. easy-to-use catalogue of green bathroom solutions for architects and builders aiming for Other Eczacıbaşı Group operations and brands high sustainability ratings from international have also undertaken initiatives to develop “green building” certification systems. The products that contribute to sustainable catalogue provides comprehensive information development goals and to communicate their about all VitrA bathroom products that qualify sustainability features to consumers though for sustainability points from LEED, BREEAM transparent certification programs. and DGNB, the world’s leading assessment systems, including the points they receive in Cleaning products: In 2014, Eczacıbaşı each assessment category and the variety of Consumer Products’ chemical products plant product options and specifications available. launched Maratem Bio, a biological cleaning product series that eliminates bad odors in toilets and bathrooms; helps maintain grease traps, septic and grey water tanks; prevents odors; and reduces manual cleaning frequency without containing any ingredients that are harmful to the environment and living things. Tissue paper: Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products’ tissue paper plant procures 100% of its pulp from suppliers that are certified by either the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or PEFC (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification) as producing their wood pulp from sustainably managed forests. The company also uses elemental chlorine-free or total chlorine-free bleaching processes that pose no risk to human health or the environment. 41 Life Cycle Management in the Eczacıbaşı Building Products Division In its drive to differentiate its brands and products, the Eczacıbaşı Building Products Division relies heavily on VitrA Innovation Center. At VitrA Innovation Center, we design and develop products and manufacturing processes that contribute to the sustainability credentials of both our own operations and the users of our products. To this end, we are increasingly focusing our R&D efforts on the lifecycles of products with the goal of reducing their environmental impact at every stage, from raw material use through to disposal. MANUFACTURING Heat recovery • Recycles waste heat from the stacks and cooling pipes of kilns and furnaces in its ceramic sanitary ware, tiles, and faucets plants for other thermal processes. Energy-efficiency • ISO 50001 certiﬁed energy management systems • LED and natural lighting • Plant insulation • Sensor lighting technology used in all production areas and warehouses • 100% electricity-powered forklift ﬂeet Effective use of water treatment systems • Treats and reuses water used for rinsing chrome plating in faucet production, reducing fresh water consumption for this process by 20%. • Reuses wastewater from ceramic sanitaryware manufacturing processes, for a 40% reduction in fresh water use in this operation. RAW MATERIAL New raw material for toilet seats: • 37% plant-derived biopolymer created by DuPont • Environment friendly and biodegradable • Attractive, ultra glossy surface • Requires 40% less energy to produce • Reduces GHG emissions by as much as 60% New slip formula for large cabinet-top sinks: • Eliminates use of chamotte (calcined clay), which requires very high firing temperatures • Reduces GHG emissions by as much as 60% • Improves product quality by eliminating risk of subsequent cracking • 50% reduction in cost 42 DISTRIBUTION Energy-saving logistics: • Comprehensively examined international transport routes • Discussed alternative supply routes and modes of transport with stakeholders • Developed multi-modal transportation network that reduced carbon emissions by 950 tons and cut transport costs by almost $1 million. PRODUCT USE Eco-labeling • World’s ﬁrst EPD for ceramic sanitary ware • Green Bathroom Solutions catalogue for LEED, BREEAM, DGNB certification Smart water management panel • Multifunctional interface for concealed cisterns • Sensor diagnosis of cistern performance • Easy-to-clean glass surface • Mobile app management of all features • Eco Mode saves water • ChildLock, for restricting access • Vacation Mode for odor prevention • AutoFlush for hybrid use Q-line energy-saving faucet • 90° left-side rotating loop handle prevents unwanted activation of the hot water boiler • Cold water ﬂows at lever’s central forward position, warm to hot water when moved left • Special cartridge for programming maximum temperature and flow • Aesthetic loop-shape design for easy handling and precise control END OF LIFE Rim-ex water-friendly toilet bowl • Rimless toilet bowl with new wash technology From waste to new product • Improved hygiene and easy cleaning • First in Turkey to reuse 100% of wastewater • Reduces need for frequent cleaning and harsh chemicals treatment sludge on-site to produce porcelain • Oﬀers complete removal of all hidden parts for thorough tiles, equivalent to 13 thousand tons in 2016 cleaning • Solid ceramic waste is sold to a local cement manufacturing plant • Reuses all brass shavings from casting Powerbox energy saver processes to produce new ingots in-house. • Small, external dynamo powered by the ﬂow of water • Supplies the energy needed to power as many as ﬁve photocell faucets • Needs no additional battery power or external energy source 43 In 2016, Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products’ tissue paper plant launched two innovative products Encouraging sustainable with improved sustainability features. The Solo choices throughout the value Giant Roll Paper Towel (three times larger than chain the standard size) reduces glue and carton consumption to one-third the amount normally “Eco-Touch” cleaning products for commercial used and polythene packing consumption to establishments three-quarters the usual amount. The Selpak Professional V-folded napkin, designed Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products’ chemical exclusively for the Selpak dispenser, delivers products plant provides complete professional napkins one at a time, improving hygiene and cleaning and hygiene solutions and an reducing consumption by at least 10% compared expanding selection of food products to roughly to traditional dispensers. In 2015, Eczacıbaşı 12,000 B2B customers in Turkey’s fast-growing Consumer Products’ tissue paper plant launched tourism, restaurant-catering, shopping mall, an innovative series of single-dose automated education and health industries. In addition to towel and bathroom tissue dispensers for offering more than 800 products and 10 brands, commercial venues that reduce paper the company provides customized training and consumption by 33% relative to conventional consultancy services to help customers achieve systems and energy use by as much as 60%, high standards of cleanliness and hygiene, thanks to a special sleep mode. employee safety, and resource efficiency. Baby care products: Uni Baby, our baby care In 2012, recognizing the emergent opportunity brand, aims to ensure that all its products for sustainable solutions in the away-from-home contribute to babies’ healthy development. For sector, the company launched “Eco-Touch”, a this reason, Uni Baby wet wipes, diaper rash marketing platform for environment-friendly creams, shampoos and, most recently, laundry hygiene and cleaning products. detergents and softeners do not use alcohol, parabens, dyes, Sodium Lauryl Sulfate, Sodium Working closely with both its suppliers and Laureth Sulfate and other chemicals that could customers, Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products’ irritate or be unhealthy for infant skin. The brand chemical products plant is developing hygiene communicates this information to consumers and cleaning product portfolios that help with a registered icon and statement that professional customers reduce their water focuses users’ attention on the unhealthy consumption, eliminate their use of harmful chemicals that will never be found in Uni Baby chemicals and encourage sustainable forest products. management. This way, the brand aims to differentiate its The Eco-Touch product portfolio includes paper products and raise awareness among new products made by Eczacıbaşı Consumer parents of the chemicals it should look for, and Products’ tissue paper plant, and Green Care, a avoid, in newborn and baby products. Thanks to sub-brand of Tana Professional that is certified the success of this marketing strategy, as meeting the rigorous environmental competitors have launched similar products and performance and reporting standards of the EU communication campaigns, to the benefit of Ecolabel and Nordic Ecolabel. In 2014, Eczacıbaşı consumers. Consumer Products’ chemical products plant launched a catalogue of all Eco-Touch products Smart cards: E-Kart, the largest supplier of and the points they can contribute to customers smart card based digital security solutions in wishing to obtain “green certification” of their Turkey and its region, is the first Turkish businesses. company in its industry to certify that CO2 emissions generated during its daily operations A central component of the Eco-Touch are measured and offset through climate marketing platform is communication of protection projects meeting ISO 14064 customers’ commitment to sustainable hygiene standards. In 2011, the company decided to and cleaning practices. Here, Eczacıbaşı contribute to the battle against global warming Consumer Products’ chemical products plant through systematic efforts to reduce its own offers customized labeling and signage for carbon footprint. It calls these efforts “We rooms, bathrooms, dining halls and other public Promise”. spaces that express customers’ commitment and invite end-users to use resources more sustainably as well. 44 Promoting green architecture, eco-labeling, and circular economies Community The Eczacıbaşı Group is collaborating with the Inspired by our founding values, we continue to Turkish Green Building Council (ÇEDBIK), of prioritize and strengthen our bonds with the which it is a founding and board member, on communities we serve. We do this through enhancing awareness in the building industry employee volunteer efforts, company projects, about “green building” design and certification. social media campaigns, and Group-level sponsorship of organizations and initiatives that In 2013, we published an easy-to-use catalogue enrich society. of green bathroom solutions for architects and builders aiming for high sustainability ratings We conserve, enrich, and promote Eczacıbası from international “green building” assessment Group values not only through our business systems. The catalogue provides comprehensive operations but also through our social initiatives information about all VitrA bathroom products in culture and the arts, science, education and that qualify for sustainability points from LEED, sports. We found or support social initiatives BREEAM and DGNB, the world’s leading that draw on the expertise of our businesses and assessment systems, including the points they create opportunities for our brands and receive in each assessment category and the employees to be part of long-term, sustainable variety of product options and specifications solutions. available. Since its foundation in 1942, the Eczacıbası We are also collaborating in several areas with Group and members of the Eczacıbası family the Turkish Business Council for Sustainable have founded or co-founded numerous NGOs Development (SKD), of which we are a member involved in education; health and hygiene; arts of the Board. We are a co-leader of SKD’s and culture; public policy and scientific research; working group on eco-labeling, which has and sports. Every year, all of our companies are published a catalogue on the different eco-labels expected to contribute to one or more of these recognized internationally and is raising activities. awareness in Turkey’s business community of the growing importance of eco-labeling. Additionally, we lead the SKD’s working group Arts and Culture on the “circular economy”, an emerging concept Istanbul Museum of Modern Art that more businesses are embracing. Although practical examples of circular economies are still The Eczacıbaşı Group is the founder and core infrequent, visionary businesses have begun to collection donor of the Istanbul Museum of find ways to use the principles involved to Modern Art, Turkey’s first private museum of develop new business models and market share. modern and contemporary art. Established in 2004, Istanbul Modern is committed to In addition to the institutions listed above, the advancing the public’s appreciation of modern Eczacıbaşı Group is an active member of the and contemporary art, contributing to the board of Global Compact Turkey. production of new work, and sharing Turkey’s artistic creativity and cultural identity with global audiences. To this end, the museum hosts National Environmental Labeling System In January 2018, the Ministry of the Environment and Urbanization completed a project to establish a national environmental labeling system. It is a voluntary system that aims to provide consumers correct and scientifically verifiable information that helps them distinguish between products that are more harmful to the environment and those that are more sensitive. The labeling system, which has already received the approval of the EU and other international markets, is being introduced first in the textile, ceramics and tissue paper industries. In two of these – tissue paper and ceramics – Eczacıbaşı Group brands were the first to receive an eco-label: Selpak and Selpak Professional Kitchen Towels in the tissue paper industry and VitrA in the ceramics industry. 45 permanent and temporary exhibitions of through awards, the commissioning of works, paintings, sculpture, photography and new and participation in international and local media, as well as educational programs, cinema co-productions; it also carries out studies aimed programs, a research library, cafe, and gift store. at supporting policy decisions involving culture Through a wide variety of events, the museum and the arts. aims to encourage visitors of all ages and segments of society to engage actively with the To mark both its 75 th anniversary and longtime arts. To date, Istanbul Modern has hosted some 7 support of the Istanbul Foundation for Culture million visitors, organized 124 exhibitions and Arts (İKSV) as founding sponsor, the including 17 abroad and introduced more than Eczacıbaşı Group has become the main sponsor 750 thousand children and adults to its of İKSV’s new Culture&Art Card project, which educational programs and events. aims to increase the access of university students age 18 to 25 to culture and art events. Istanbul Modern’s recent efforts to raise awareness and interest in artwork by women VitrA Ceramic Arts Studio artists and acquire more works by women for its collection have gained strength with the Dr. Nejat F. Eczacıbaşı established the VitrA Eczacıbaşı Group’s “Women Artists Fund”, a Ceramic Arts Studio in 1957 with the goal of special project that the Group launched in 2017 encouraging ceramic artists and public on the occasion of its 75 th anniversary. The Fund appreciation of this medium. Over the years, the aims to contribute to the growing volume of VitrA Ceramic Arts Studio has opened its doors work by women artists in Turkey and raise local to a large number of young and talented ceramic and international visibility of their work. New artists, organized public exhibitions of their collaborations focused on women artists, work, and hosted master classes, conferences, publications and public events, and panels and slide shows and workshops on ceramic art. conferences will be part of this effort. In 2012, VitrA signed a protocol with the Division Istanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts (İKSV) of Ceramic and Glass Design at Mimar Sinan University of Fine Arts (MSGSU) that aims to The Eczacıbaşı Group is the founding sponsor of contribute to the artistic development of the Istanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts university students and enrich their perspectives (İKSV), founded in 1973 on the initiative of Dr. by providing them opportunities to work side by Nejat F. Eczacıbaşı. side with internationally acclaimed ceramic artists. İKSV organizes the Istanbul Festivals of Music, Film, Theatre and Jazz, as well as the Istanbul As part of the agreement, MSGSÜ and VitrA Biennial, the Istanbul Design Biennial, Leyla invite several national and international guest Gencer Voice Competition, autumn film week artists every year to work at the studio, run Filmekimi, and one-off events throughout the workshops, and exhibit their work at the end of year. the year. The VitrA Ceramic Arts Studio is a member of the Geneva-based International It also organizes the Pavilion of Turkey at the Academy of Ceramics (IAC). International Art and Architecture Exhibitions of la Biennale di Venezia and coordinates an artist residency program at Cite International des Arts, Education, Health and Hygiene France. Eczacıbaşı Hygiene Project Aside from cultural and artistic events, IKSV The Eczacıbaşı Group launched the Eczacıbaşı promotes artistic and cultural production Hygiene Project in 2007 with the aim of 46 improving the physical and emotional distributed, freeof charge, more than 40 environment of students at regional boarding thousand copies annually of supplementary schools. Participating in the project are several educational material for students in the metal Eczacıbaşı Group brands and companies, technology, infrastructure technology and Eczacıbaşı Volunteers, and the Ministry of shipbuilding departments of vocational high Education. The project aims to complete 60 schools around Turkey, provided consumables schools by 2020. and state-of-the-art welding equipment for free or at very economical prices, and donated After the Ministry of Education has determined special glass to technical high schools to build the target schools and renovated their plumbing more than 380 welding workbenches. infrastructure, the project renews the bathroom and washing areas of dormitories and classroom Askaynak also organizes seminars and daylong buildings with VitrA and Artema products. events on new developments in welding technologies for students and faculty at Selpak, the Group’s tissue paper brand, universities around Turkey. Since 2005, Askaynak organizes personal hygiene classes for boarding has organized 820 seminars of this kind at the school students and provides product support, sites of customers and at its own plant for more as does Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products’ B2B than 15 thousand participants. business. During and after the renovation, Eczacıbaşı Volunteers contribute their time to Dr. Nejat F. Eczacıbaşı Foundation Music organizing educational and recreational activities Scholarships and to creating new classrooms for music, art and hobbies. The Dr. Nejat F. Eczacıbaşı Foundation provides scholarships to outstanding young artists in the Theater, computer classes, painting field of music who are pursuing graduate competitions, and sustainable development musical studies abroad. workshops are just a few of the activities that volunteers have realized to enrich the intellectual Eight young musicians received Dr. Nejat F. and emotional world of students. Eczacıbaşı Music Scholarships in 2017. To date, the Foundation has supported more than 122 Reproductive Health Hotline musicians studying a wide range of instruments as well as orchestration, direction and In 2000, the Eczacıbaşı Group joined forces with composition. the Family Planning Association of Turkey to establish ALO OKEY, a 24-hour reproductive Dancing Notes Musical Training for Pre-School health hotline providing professional and Teachers accurate information about reproductive health. Today, Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products is in Dancing Notes is a musical training program charge of managing and maintaining this hotline. for pre-school teachers that aims to instill the love of music in young children, enhance their Partner in the Turkish Vocational School System sense of rhythm, create experiences that develop their musical skills, and provide Eczacıbaşı-Lincoln Electric Askaynak, the opportunities for discovering talented children at Eczacıbaşı Group's welding consumables and a very early age. Launched in early 2015, the equipment company, is a regular contributor to program is a collaborative effort between the the Turkish vocational school system. Since Ministry of Education and the Dr. Nejat F. 2005, when Askaynak signed a protocol with the Eczacıbaşı Foundation. Ministry of Education's Vocational Education Directorate, Askaynak has published and 47 During the first three years of the project, 150 In addition to its Women’s Volleyball A-team, the teachers from 40 schools in Istanbul, Konya, Club has three junior teams that have Samsun and Hatay received training on the Orff contributed players over the years to the A approach to musical education and were team, other first division teams and the Turkish provided the Orff instruments needed to National Volleyball Team. The Eczacıbaşı Sports implement this educational method in their Club provides full scholarships and room and schools. To date, more than 4,000 students have board for 25-30 talented players who would not benefited from the project. Dancing notes will otherwise have the resources to take part in the continue in 2018 in collaboration with the program and who demonstrate an ability to Ministry of Education. achieve academically while pursuing their career in volleyball. Sports In 2016, the Eczacıbaşı Sports Club launched a major expansion of its early training program. Eczacıbası Sports Club Called “Future Strike”, the project aims to encourage thousands of young girls, ages 6 to13, The Eczacıbaşı Sports Club is the first to take up sports. In addition to training new professional sports club in Turkey dedicated generations of high-caliber volleyball players, the solely to women’s volleyball. It is widely project hopes to contribute to participants’ considered to be the pioneer of this sport in personal development by instilling them with self Turkey as well as one of the top volleyball clubs confidence and a love for sports. In 2017, the in Europe today. Every year, some 8-10 players program hosted 10 campuses around Turkeyand from the Club are invited to play on Turkey’s about 2,000 enrollees. The project goal is to national teams. have 30 schools operating in 11 provinces by 2021 with over 5,000 children training in The Club was established by the Eczacıbaşı Eczacıbaşı uniforms. Group in 1966 to fuel young people’s interest in sports; contribute to the development of The Eczacıbaşı Sports Club also trains over 500 world-class, fair play athletes; and provide young girls every year for its development opportunities for these athletes to demonstrate teams, which represent the next opportunity for their skill in international competitions. Over the talented children in the 12-18 age group. next four decades, the Eczacıbaşı Sports Club single-handedly trained many of Turkey’s best Public Policy and Scientific sportsmen and women in the fields of basketball, volleyball, gymnastics, table tennis and chess Research before focusing its resources exclusively on women’s volleyball in the early 1990s. Dr. Nejat F. Eczacıbası Medical Awards Today, the Eczacıbaşı Sports Club is home to the The Dr. Nejat F. Eczacıbaşı Medical Awards were Eczacıbaşı VitrA Women’s Volleyball Team, the established in 1959 to recognize, support, and record-holder of Turkey’s National reward high-caliber medical research in Turkey. Championships and first-ever back-to-back To date, close to 200 medical research projects Champion of the FIVB Women’s Club World have received grants and awards from the Championship (2015 and 2016). Eczacıbaşı Group, including, since 2002, promising research projects carried out by medical students. 48 The Eczacıbaşı Group presented six medical Since 2008, Eczacıbaşı Volunteers have carried awards in 2017 for outstanding medical research, out close to 175 projects that have directly including a Medical Award of Honor for globally benefited 64,000 children in regional boarding recognized achievements in the world of schools involved in the Eczacıbaşı Hygiene medicine. Project and two pediatric wings at university hospitals in Istanbul. Prof. Dr. Olcay Neyzi, a world-renowned scientist in the field of pediatric health and disease, They have also organized eye exams for 1,500 received the Eczacıbaşı Medical Award of Honor children in a local neighborhood and collected for her tremendous contribution to the field of school and student supplies for 950 primary pediatrics both in Turkey and worldwide. Chair schools around Turkey requiring assistance. In of the Department of Pediatrics at Istanbul 2017 Eczacıbaşı Volunteers focused most of their University’s Faculty of Medicine and Director of efforts on enriching the academic environment the university’s Pediatrics Institute between 1979 of several boarding schools through the and 1994, Neyzi founded the Woman and Child establishment of music rooms, science and Research and Education Unit in the same faculty technology labs, and other projects of this kind. and the inter-disciplinary Family Health Department in the Pediatrics Institute. Additionally, they also sponsored a science team from one of the project schools that wished to Turkish Informatics Foundation (TBV) compete in the nation-wide “Science Heroes Meet” tournament. The team won the award for The Eczacıbaşı Group is a co-founder and its district and a ticket to the national corporate sponsor of the Turkish Informatics competition. Foundation (TBV), which was founded in 1995 to assist in Turkey’s transformation into an information-based society. In 2017, on the occasion of its 75 th anniversary, the Eczacıbaşı Group become the main sponsor of TBV’s new KOD Awards, va competition for creators of digital educational games that promote math and science learning. The competition is the first of its kind in Turkey and is open to anyone who has created a digital game, or an idea for a digital game, that contributes to math and science learning at the primary school, middle school and high school levels. In addition to motivating professionals and amateur game developers to develop these important learning tools, the awards aim to highlight the great contribution that information technologies can make to education and inspire new generations to enter this field. Eczacıbası Volunteers Eczacıbaşı Volunteers is a volunteer initiative established by Group employees to carry out projects that advance the welfare of children, primarily with respect to education, health and the environment. In principle, Eczacıbaşı Volunteers focus on projects that complement the social responsibility projects of Group companies and contribute to children's mental, physical and emotional wellbeing. 49 Eczacıbaşı Group Reporting Guidance This Reporting Guidance (“Guidance”) document Where the Group has on-site generated energy, supports the preparation and reporting of energy the related energy consumption is defined as the consumption, carbon emissions, total share of energy of the generation fuel (e.g. for on-site women professionals, women among new recruits, natural gas fired electricity generator, the energy injury rate, training hours, total waste disposed and consumption will be the natural gas used rather share of recycled waste data by the Eczacıbaşı than the electricity output of the generator). Group (hereafter “Group”). It is the responsibility of the Group management to ensure that appropriate • ‘Total Share of Women Professionals’ means the procedures are in place to prepare the indicators number of white collar woman employees mentioned above in line with, in all material (permanent and full time) divided by the total respects, the Guidance. number of white collar employees (permanent and full time) during the reporting year (1 January to 31 All data up to and including FY17 (financial year December). ending 31 December 2017) only comprises the relevant operations in Turkey (as detailed on page • ‘Women among new recruits’ means the number 52), excluding all international operations. The data of woman employees (permanent and full time) for these years, therefore, do not represent the hired divided by the total number of employees entire Group. (permanent and full time) hired during the reporting year (1 January to 31 December). General Reporting Principles • ‘Injury rate’ is calculated by considering the In preparing this guidance document, consideration number of accidents and working hours during the has been given to following principles: reporting year (1 January to 31 December). Working hours are calculated via HRIS software • Information Preparation – to highlight to users of that keeps data of time of entrance and departure the information the primary principles of relevance of employees: and reliability of information; and Injury rate: Accident number*200 thousand hours/Working hours • Information Reporting the primary principles are comparability / consistency with other data • ‘Training hours per talent’ is calculated by including prior year and understandability / considering the total hours of training that have transparency providing clarity to users. been provided by the Group or any third party training institution to “talents” during the reporting Key definitions year (1 January to 31 December). ‘Talent’ refers to employees in leadership programs. For the purpose of this report, the Group defines: Training hours per talent: Training hours/Number of talents • ‘Energy’ to mean electricity, natural gas, diesel / gasoline, fuel oil, LPG, steam, propane / butane and • ‘Water Consumption’ consists of all kinds of coal. For the purpose of this report, energy does water used at the facilities including municipality not include alternative forms of fuel, such as water and groundwater. The water consumption bio-waste, bio-mass and bio-diesel. value is presented during the reporting year (the period between 1 January and 31 December). The • ‘Energy consumption’ means the energy used water consumption data includes water used for during the reporting year (1 January to 31 product ingredients, heating-cooling steam, water December), being the energy purchased during the purification, plumbing, water cleaning of grounds period. Energy consumption data includes energy and production processes. used in the operation of on-site industrial facility and manufacturing processes, including electrical Water consumption data is obtained from supplier systems, heating, lighting, on-site transportation invoices and meters for the production facilities and air circulation. except for the facilities of Esan. Esan is the Group’s mining and mineral processing company. A general • ‘Carbon emissions’ means the carbon emitted as a formula, which indicates that the amount of water result of the energy consumption during the that would be used in one unit of production at a reporting year (1 January to 31 December). rate of 1/5. This rate is derived from the fact that the floatation process is realized at rate between • ‘Industrial sites’ include plant buildings, treatment 15% and 20% based on applications taking part in works, warehouses, laboratories and industrial site literature. The Group defined the rate of 1/5 as administration buildings. optimum considering the structure of operation. In the scope of assurance, well water consumption m3 (in thousand) is provided. 50 • ‘Total Waste Disposed’ means the amount of o Energy used in the use / consumption and disposal waste during reporting year (1 January to disposal of manufactured products; 31 December). To determine the method of disposal, Group has used the legal categories laid o Energy in respect of outsourced and out in the disposal documentation provided by its contracted operations /manufacturing (i.e. accredited waste contractors. Based on the activities contractually performed by third disposal documentation, disposal operations parties); include landfill, engineered landfill, physico chemical treatment and incineration on land. All of o Energy supplied to third parties; and the waste disposal operations were conducted outside of operation areas of Group. o Carbon equivalent emissions arising from other greenhouse gases on the basis that these • ‘Share of Recycled Waste’ is calculated by are not material. considering recycled or reused waste amount and total waste amount of Group during the reporting Energy consumption and carbon emissions from year (1 January to 31 December). Reused waste acquisitions and disposals are included and means that waste used again for the same or terminated respectively from the date of different purposes without re-processing and contractual completion of the transfer of asset recycled waste refers to waste which is broken ownership / leasehold. This is consistent with the down into raw materials, changed and reprocessed Group’s financial reporting. for use and used for new products. Data preparation When waste amounts are calculated, waste generated by Esan Eczacıbaşı Raw Materials is not Energy consumption included. Energy consumption data are reported for Scope of reporting electricity, steam, and primary fuel sources, which comprise natural gas, diesel, LPG, and fuel oil. For FY17 and comparative periods presented, Electricity, natural gas, and steam consumption energy consumption and carbon emission data data are obtained from supplier meters and relate to the energy consumed in Turkey by the reconciled with internal meters (when available) Group’s: and/or service provider invoices. Diesel, LPG, and fuel oil consumption data are obtained from • Industrial sites in Turkey, comprising production supplier invoices. facilities and mining operations; The Group has used the following published • Administrative buildings located at the industrial conversion factors: sites; and • For electricity, no energy conversion is required • Own transportation of materials and products as the unit of supply is invoiced in kWh; within the industrial plant sites. Energy consumption and carbon emissions at industrial • For steam, the conversion factor (from ton to sites belonging to joint-ventures have been kWh) is calculated by using thermodynamic tables allocated between joint-venture partners for saturated steam (Ozturk, A. & Kilic, A. (1991). according to their shares, in line with the Group’s Thermodynamic Tables and Diagrams. Birsen financial accounting policies. Publications) based on the steam temperature, pressure and condensation factors (ratio of closed The following are omitted from the scope of to open circuit condensation and the relating reporting: temperatures), which are generated internally; Energy used outside of the factory gate. For • For natural gas, the energy conversion factor example, transport from suppliers, to customers, in (from cubic meters to kWh) provided by the between Group locations, or business travel (even Turkish Energy Market Regulatory Authority is if they involve vehicles belonging to the site), and used; and employee commuting; • For fuels other than natural gas (diesel, LPG and Energy consumed in non-industrial operations; fuel oil), energy conversion factors (from litres or kilograms to kWh) are obtained using the related o Energy used by third parties in the ratios of the carbon conversion factors provided manufacture / production of purchased raw by The Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol (July materials, products and other supplies; 2009). 51 Carbon emissions Eczacıbaşı Group’s Carbon emissions are calculated by the Group using published conversion factors. Conversion industrial sites in Turkey factors enable the determination of the amount of carbon released into the atmosphere per unit of All of the Eczacıbaşı Group’s 24 industrial sites in energy consumption. Different types of energy Turkey,listed below by company, are included in sources have different conversion factors reflecting our 2017 Statement of Energy Consumption and their carbon intensity. In future periods, conversion Carbon Emissions. factors may be updated to reflect changes/improvements in published data. Building Products Division The following conversion factors are used: Eczacıbaşı Building Products (ceramic sanitaryware, faucets, bathroom/kitchen furniture, • For fuels (such as natural gas, diesel, LPG, acrylic bathtubs and shower trays) 4 sites residual fuel oil), conversion factors are obtained from the calculation tool provided by the GHG VitrA Tiles (ceramic tiles) 1 site Protocol (July 2009), which uses data provided by the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Healthcare Division Change). Refer to IPCC 2006 Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories Eczacıbaşı-Monrol Nuclear Products (www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/vol2); (radiopharmaceuticals for nuclear medicine) and 7 sites • For electricity and steam, conversion factors are Consumer Products Division obtained from the “2010 Guidelines to Defra / DECC's GHG Conversion Factors for Company Eczacıbaşı Consumer Products (bathroom and Reporting” provided by the UK Government. facial tissue, napkins, kitchen towels, away-from-home products and selected Electricity conversion factors listed within “Annex cosmetics) 4 sites 10 International Electricity Emission Factors” for year 2006 and Turkey are used. Other Products and Services These conversion factors for electricity and steam Esan Eczacıbaşı Industrial Raw Materials have been used instead of the factors detailed (industrial raw materials for ceramic sanitaryware within the GHG Protocol calculation tool because and tiles) 6 sites they include transmission and distribution losses. Eczacıbaşı-Lincoln Electric Askaynak (welding Restatements consumables and electrodes) 1 site The measuring and reporting of carbon emissions E-Kart Electronic Card Systems (magnetic stripe data inevitably involves a degree of estimation. and smart cards) 1 site Restatements are considered where there is a change in the data of greater than 5 percent at a Group level. 52 Limited Assurance Report to the Directors of Eczacıbaşı Holding A.Ş. We have been engaged by the Directors of Eczacıbaşı Holding A.Ş. (the “Company”) to perform an independent assurance engagement in respect of the Selected Information contained in the Eczacıbaşı Group Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 December 2017. The Selected Information subject to limited assurance consist of the data marked with (“Assured”) in relation to the Statement of Energy Consumption, Carbon Emissions, Water Consumption, Total Share of Women Professionals, Women among New Recruits, Injury Rate, Training hours per Talent, Total Waste Disposed and Share of Recycled Waste for the year ended 31 December 2017 set out in page 5 of the Eczacıbaşı Group Sustainability Report. Respective responsibilities The Directors of the Company are responsible for the content of the Sustainability Report and the preparation of the Selected Information in accordance with the criteria set out in the Eczacıbaşı Group’s Reporting Guidance (hereafter “Reporting Guidance”, see pages 50 and 52 of the Eczacıbaşı Group Sustainability Report). This responsibility includes the design, implementation and maintenance of internal control relevant to the preparation of Selected Information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Our responsibility is to form a conclusion, based on limited assurance procedures, on whether anything has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Selected Information has not been properly prepared in all material respects in accordance with the Reporting Guidance. We are in compliance with the applicable independence and competency requirements as articulated by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants. Our team comprised assurance practitioners and relevant subject matter experts. This report, including the conclusion, has been prepared for the Directors of the Company as a body, to assist the Directors in reporting Eczacıbaşı Group’s performance and activities related to the Selected Information. We permit the disclosure of this report within the Group Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 December 2017, to enable the Directors to demonstrate they have discharged their governance responsibilities by commissioning an independent assurance report in connection with the Selected Information. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Directors as a body and the Company for our work or this report save where terms are expressly agreed and with our prior consent in writing. Assurance Work Performed We conducted this limited assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ (“ISAE 3000”) and, in respect of greenhouse gas emissions, International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 ‘Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements’ (“ISAE 3410”) issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. A limited assurance engagement is less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement under ISAE 3000 and ISAE 3410. Consequently, the nature, timing and extent of procedures for gathering sufficient appropriate evidence are deliberately limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement. PwC Bağımsız Denetim ve Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik A.Ş. BJK Plaza, Süleyman Seba Caddesi No:48 B Blok Kat 9 Akaretler Beşiktaş 34357 İstanbul-Turkey T: +90 (212) 326 6060, F: +90 (212) 326 6050 www.pwc.com/tr Mersis Numaramız: 0-1460-0224-0500015 53 Our limited assurance procedures included: • Making enquiries of relevant management of the Eczacıbaşı Group and reviewing a sample of relevant management information. • Evaluating the design and implementation of the key processes and controls for managing and reporting the Selected Information. • Limited testing, on a selective basis, of the preparation and collation of the Selected Information prepared by the Eczacıbaşı Group. • Undertaking analytical procedures over the reported data. Inherent Limitations Non-financial performance information is subject to more inherent limitations than financial information, given the characteristics of the subject matter and the methods used for determining such information. The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw allows for the selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques which can result in materially different measurements and can impact comparability. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. Furthermore, the nature and methods used to determine such information, as well as the measurement criteria and the precision thereof, may change over time. It is important to read the Selected Information in the context of the Reporting Guidance. In particular, the conversion of different energy measures to megawatt-hour (mwh) and energy used to carbon emissions is based upon, inter alia, information and factors generated internally and/or derived by independent third parties as explained in the Reporting Guidance. Our assurance work has not included examination of the derivation of those factors and other third party information. Our Independence and Quality Control We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Limited Assurance Conclusion Based on the results of our procedures, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that, for the year ended 31 December 2017, the Selected Information has not been properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with Eczacıbaşı Group’s Energy and Carbon Reporting Guidance. PwC Bağımsız Denetim ve Serbest Muhasebeci Mali Müşavirlik A.Ş. Ediz Günsel, SMMM Partner Istanbul, 8 June 2018 54 Reference Guide to the UN Global Compact Principles Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and Principle 7: Businesses should support a respect the protection of internationally precautionary approach to environmental proclaimed human rights; (pp. 2-3) and challenges; (pp. 2-3, 21-27) Principle 2: make sure that they are not Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote complicit in human rights abuses. (pp. 2-3) greater environmental responsibility; (pp. 21-27, 42-43) and Labour Principle 9: encourage the development and Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the diffusion of environmentally friendly freedom of association and the effective technologies. (pp. 21-27, 42-43) recognition of the right to collective bargaining; (p. 34) Anti-Corruption Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced Principle 10: Businesses should work against and compulsory labour; (p. 34) corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. (pp. 2-3) Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; (p. 34) and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. (p. 28, p. 34) 55 Eczacıbaşı Holding Co. Büyükdere Caddesi No: 185 Levent 34394, İstanbul-Turkey Phone: +(90 212) 371 70 00 Fax: +(90 212) 371 71 10 www.eczacibasi.com.tr
