CoP 2017 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Yaloak South Wind Farm, Victoria Australia CEO Message I am proud to bring you this communication As well as a rapidly growing customer base, Tango on progress and re-state Pacific Hydro’s and Pacific Hydro secured agreement to supply the commitment to uphold the Ten Principles innovative Melbourne Renewable Energy Project of the United Nations Global Compact. “group-buy” retail power purchase model, the first of its kind in the world. Our flexibility and capability This document describes our actions over enabled a group of city councils, universities, banks, the past year to further integrate the Global and cultural institutions to unite and use their Compact and its principles into our business collective electricity demand to directly support strategy, culture and daily operations. construction of a new renewable energy asset. Pacific Hydro first made a formal commitment Most importantly, throughout this growth we to the UN Global Compact in 2010 which we continue to deliver on our commitment to protect have maintained since. As a leading renewable and enhance the quality of our work; maintain energy business, we seek to meet and exceed the health and safety of our staff, contractors, these principles in our work, guided by our and communities; continue our responsible vision, core values, and culture statements. stewardship of the environment, and perform We work to apply our expertise and resources to best practice asset management. Building on the harness the power of the wind, water, and sun Australian business unit’s sucessful achievement to create economic, social and environmental of ISO 9001 Quality Management, ISO 14001 value. We believe that access to reliable, Environmental Management, and BS OHSAS affordable energy is a fundamental element 18001 OHS Management, we attained ISO of modern life and economic development. 55001 Asset Management and undertook Since Pacific Hydro’s founding in Australia in extensive work throughout 2017, which will enable 1992, our mission has been to commercialise these to be achieved across other business units. renewable energy technologies and advance Our business also moved into new offices the decarbonisation of the energy sector. in Australia and Brazil, introducing agile In the 25 years since, we have achieved this working and spaces that further support through successful development, construction, our flexible approaches to work. and operation of renewable energy projects; Our commitment to supporting and working and through our leading approach to sharing collaboratively with the communities that host us the benefits of our work with our communities. also remains stronger than ever. As mentioned 2017 was our second year as a part of in 2016’s communication, we found new ways State Power Investment Corporation, to work with these important stakeholders and connecting us with a wealth of experience to positively exceed their expectations. We and knowledge from one of the largest introduced a new model for community benefit power generation groups in the world. sharing, continuing our position as an industry leader in this regard and delivering another With unparalleled access to new technology round of our Community Investment Program. and engineering expertise, we successfully completed construction of Yaloak South Wind Our support and promotion of the Ten Principles Farm; commenced work on Punta Sierra (wind), of the United Nations Global Compact will Crowlands (wind), and Haughton (solar); and continue across the business in 2018 as we added several new potential developments to continue to grow, consolidate, and improve our portfolio which now comprises more than 2 our efforts. I am very proud of what we have Gigawatts of new renewable energy projects. accomplished in the past year and it is my pleasure to present these achievements to you. Our growth is not limited to power generation; we also launched a full electricity retail business in Australia. Named Tango Energy, it is now providing competitive and affordable electricity Michael Fuge offerings to customers large and small. Pacific Hydro CEO 5 6 Our Values The way we work begins with our values and culture statements. These inform all aspects of how we do business. Cooperation Action Leadership Innovation Dedication Adaptability Diversity 7 Our Approach Coya Intake on the Cachapoal River, O’Higgins Region, Chile Governance As a leading global renewable energy company, Pacific Hydro is committed to maintaining the highest standards of accountability, transparency, and honesty in our work. We are proud to be a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the ten universal principles. Pacific Hydro is fully owned by State Power Investment Corporation (SPIC) through its subsidiary, State Power Investment Overseas of China (SPIC Overseas). As a State-Owned Enterprise, SPIC is supervised by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China (SASAC). In turn, Pacific Hydro is governed by its Board, which in 2017 comprised seven directors; four representing the shareholder (SPICOI); two independent directors, and our CEO. Our team With a presence in Australia, Chile, and Brazil and an international team of more than 360 staff, we are proud of the diverse, rich experience and knowledge of our people. Diversity is one of our values, and our culture statement to “value strength in difference” ensures we maintain respect for the individual in all we do. With a commitment to excellence in all aspects of our work, we want to ensure that each member of our team is supported and encouraged to achieve their best. Our business supports individual rights; enhances well-being and positive personal growth; supports new ideas and innovation; provides modern tools and facilities; and ensures the needs and concerns of the community are a central consideration. How we work For our partners, contractors, suppliers, and communities, we seek to add value and build relationships that provide mutual benefit across environmental, social, and economic dimensions. Accordingly, the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact are reflected in our management decisions, our strategies, policies and procedures, operations, and our corporate culture. For us, it is not simply enough to meet our basic responsibilities, but also to exceed them wherever possible. This is key to our ongoing success. 9 Human and labour rights Principles 1 and 2– Supporting human rights and preventing abuses Principles 3, 4, 5, and 6– Preserving labour rights and equal employment opportunities 10 A respectful approach Safety Pacific Hydro is committed to respecting the Central to the way we work is our commitment to human rights of our employees, contractors maintaining safety. We do this with a company-wide and the broader community in accordance focus on HSE and comprehensive safety practices, with international, national, and local which are embedded into our working culture. laws, guidelines, and requirements. This is underwritten by a focus on safety at the We do this by: highest level of our leadership, with regular safety walks completed by each senior executive. • Maintaining and enhancing safety, health, and wellbeing; both within and outside our company; Across the business, individual employees are encouraged to live their safety values • Providing a company culture, working through Pacific Hydro’s Safety Conversations conditions, benefits, and facilities that are initiative. Using an enhanced digital tool, competitive, contemporary, and attractive; named Pongo, more than 4,000 safety and uphold and maintain the rights of all; observations were completed in 2017. • Actively involving and empowering staff, Accessible from smartphone or web browser, stakeholders, and the community to the application allows employees to record the help develop solutions and outcomes details of safety conversations and activities to matters that affect them; they undertake, both inside and out of the • Applying compliance mechanisms within our workplace; and to complete short safety checklists risk management framework, to allow us to covering different work tasks with an element identify and comply with all relevant laws, of risk, such as vehicle pre-start checklists and including those relating to human rights; ergonomic assessments for workspaces. • Ensuring our governance, management, Pacific Hydro has also worked extensively policies, and procedures support, uphold, to maintain safety amongst our contractors and enhance human and labour rights. and suppliers by specifying our detailed HSE requirements in our contracts; ensuring these Strategies are defined as deliverables; and engaging Our Code of Conduct, values, and culture Construction, Project, and Contract Management statements provide direction on the ethical staff to ensure these requirements are being behaviours expected of our employees, met by all contractors and sub-contractors. management team, and Directors. Further, we work to maintain safety in the As part of our Human Resources Policies communities where we operate with a and Procedures induction, all new comprehensive complaints management employees receive training in and are process; and by ensuring all of the initiatives required to sign our Code of Conduct. supported by our Community Investment Program are assessed for safety considerations, This outlines our approach and responsibilities and recommendations made as applicable. to stakeholders, and guides employees and contractors on the standards we expect to be upheld and applied in our work. We are also proud of our inclusive and diverse company culture, and have taken steps to strengthen this through a comprehensive Inclusion and Diversity Strategy. Anti-discrimination and equal employment opportunities are also specifically addressed in our Code of Conduct and Equal Opportunity Policy. 11 Human and labour rights Diversity and Inclusion As a global business operating in different • Equal employment opportunity policies, markets, we are proud that our team represents procedures, and staff training; and reflects the communities where we work. • In-house advertisement of vacant positions We value the strength in difference that this and support for staff to undertake professional diversity brings to our business; and have worked development to transition to new skill to create an environment where these unique areas and diversify their experience; traits are valued, celebrated, and engaged. • Accommodations for all religious We achieve and maintain this commitment with: observance and practices. • Our hiring policies and procedures – ensuring The success of these measures is clearly indicated we provide equity of access, and assess by the diverse nationalities, genders, and other applications for employment on a merit basis characteristics represented in our workforce. of qualifications, skills, and experience; In 2017 our Senior Leadership Team comprised • Our culture – ensuring we develop and a 50/50 split between men and women; and over maintain a corporate culture that values 40% of our staff identifying as women in 2017. diversity, builds a climate of tolerance, and provides equal opportunity; Further evidence of the effectiveness of our approach is the significant number of existing staff • Robust grievance resolution and antiadvancing to higher positions within the company. discrimination policies – ensuring we uphold equal employment opportunity In addition, Pacific Hydro’s team and remove discrimination, unconscious includes representation from over 40 bias, and other barriers; countries and ethnic backgrounds. • Cultural intelligence training – providing all staff with knowledge and insights about communicating and negotiating across cultural differences; 12 ISO Certifications Our Policies Building on the Australian business unit’s Our policies are tailored to meet the legal, certifications in ISO 9001 Quality Management, regulatory, and customary requirements of ISO 14001 Environmental Management, and each jurisdiction we operate in, while also BS OHSAS 18001 OHS Management, Pacific upholding our values, culture statements, Hydro’s Australian unit achieved ISO 55001 and objectives. These include: Asset Management and undertook extensive • Employee Code of Conduct work throughout 2017 to enable the Chile and Brazil units to achieve these standards. The • Equal Opportunity Policy successful achievement of these certifications • Health Safety and Environment Policy provides external validation that our processes, procedures, and policies are suitable for our • Sustainability Policy needs and effective in maintaining safety. • Community Charter, Engagement Framework and Investment Guidelines Health and Wellbeing • Flexible Working Guidelines We believe that providing a safe place to work is • Whistleblower Disclosure and about more than just providing an environment Investigation Procedure free from hazards or potential causes of injury. We recognise the importance of maintaining • Enterprise Wide Risk Management Framework the health and wellbeing of our staff both within and outside the office. While our robust safety Contemporary Working practices are in place to prevent physical Flexible Working Guidelines in Australia, Brazil injuries, our additional initiatives include: and Chile allow all employees to achieve a • Free influenza vaccinations each year balance between managing their personal circumstances and ensuring individual, • Free fruit delivered each day team and business objectives are met. • Staff trained in Mental Health first aid Our workplace is family friendly and we encourage • Health resources, seminars, and events employees to balance family commitments with • Our Employee Assistance Program (free, work responsibilities. Our Parental Leave Policy confidential, external counselling for extends beyond statutory requirements relating employees and their immediate families). to parental leave rights in Chile and Australia. We work to raise awareness about these issues and promote a positive and equitable workplace for employees. Pacific Hydro staff participate in an innovation workshop 13 Human and labour rights Training and Development Contractors and Suppliers Pacific Hydro offers a broad selection of internal and Pacific Hydro has clear policies and procedures in external training and development opportunities to place to ensure that our values, culture statements, all staff. Relevant health and safety training is also and ways of working are reflected by our contractors provided to site and office-based employees and and suppliers. This includes monitoring of the supply contractors, to ensure our staff are equipped with chain to ensure that reputable partners are used the knowledge required to perform their job safely. and our requirements are being met; and that local economic benefits are achieved wherever practicable All staff undergo a comprehensive induction (through the use of local labour and suppliers). process that covers the training on nondiscrimination policies and procedures From office catering, to wind turbine manufacturers, contractors wishing to supply to us may also Further Benefits have preselection screening undertaken; which includes our representatives visiting sites and A range of further benefits are provided to Pacific manufacturing facilities; and a requirement to Hydro staff to ensure that the workplace is an disclose detailed information about their supply chain, attractive and enjoyable place to work. This includes procurement practices, policies, and procedures. regular social activities, free fresh fruit each day, and regular events, seminars, and celebrations. Sustainable Communities Fund recipients in Australia 14 In Our Communities In line with its guidance, we develop bespoke Community Engagement We recognise and respect the rights, Strategies that shape how we achieve this local laws, customs and cultures of the and work with all of our stakeholders. people living in the communities where we operate and develop projects. In 2017 we delivered several improvements to our engagement and consultation approach. By applying our policies and procedures through Our Engagement Framework and Investment the entire lifecycle of our projects, we work with Guidelines were reviewed and refreshed in local communities to identify and mitigate any line with contemporary expectations. potential impacts (social, cultural, health, safety, environmental) that may result from our activities. We also believe that our work in this area must Benefit Sharing/Community Support continue to evolve to ensure we are meeting As a leading renewable energy developer, and exceeding community expectations. Pacific Hydro is committed to supporting the communities that host our clean energy projects Pacific Hydro aims to establish and with positive and lasting social, environmental maintain respectful, collaborative and economic benefits. Pacific Hydro shares relationships with our communities. the benefits of its presence in local communities Recognising that community support is as by forming partnerships and bringing local critical to project success as technical and groups together to broaden awareness of financial factors, Pacific Hydro endeavours to how communities can maximise potential to develop, maintain and continually improve our benefit from our sustainable projects. relationships and support for our projects. We aim to develop mutual trust and respect Community Investment Program within our host communities through adopting Our Community Investment Program is the key appropriate levels of transparent, open engagement part of Pacific Hydro’s community investment and and communication at all stages of our projects. support strategy. The Program delivers a portion of We are committed to delivering respectful, revenue back into our local communities each year. positive and lasting social, environmental and economic benefits to our host communities by At its core, the Program aims to empower supporting community initiatives and seeking local communities to identify the initiatives and mutually agreed solutions to potential issues. projects that Pacific Hydro should support. Our Purpose, Vision, Values and Culture A range of methods are used to meet this aim, Statements guide the interactions we have with tailored to the specific needs of each locality. This all stakeholders, including local communities, includes community funds, sponsorships, and direct and we recognise and respect people’s support initiatives in Australia, Chile, and Brazil. rights, local laws, customs and cultures. Economic Benefits We are committed to working with local communities in ways that are inclusive and Pacific Hydro’s development, construction, collaborative to identify and mitigate potential and operation of renewable energy projects impacts resulting from our activities, including bring significant economic and social benefits social, cultural, health, safety or environmental, to regional and rural areas, particularly during responding to the needs of each community. construction. Where practicable we encourage our suppliers and contractors to use local As a member of the community, we also strive capabilities, businesses, and labourers; and for the best possible outcomes in response have partnered with local governments and to enquiries, complaints and feedback. authorities to promote our projects and the Pacific Hydro employs the International associated local economic opportunities. Association of Public Participation (IAP2) Framework to ensure a consistent approach to community engagement across the company. 15 Human and labour rights Empowering local communities In Yaloak South, Australia, an annual community fund was established in a unique Community Partnerships process. Local community members were empowered to decide on their preferred method of support in the local area. Through an independently facilitated process, they decided that a Community Fund was their preferred method. Each year for the permitted life of the project, AUD$28,000 will be made available to local community groups for a range of projects. Sustainable Communities in Brazil Since 2014, the Sustainable Communities Fund Program has supported initiatives that contribute with the development of local economies. One of them is the “More Learning” project, which benefits 25 children from six to 12 years of Barra do Camaratuba, in the municipality of Mataraca (PB), where we operate with the Millennium and Vale dos Ventos wind farms. In addition to hiring and reimbursing teachers for tutoring classes, the company provides study materials and snacks for students through the program, offering them the conditions to achieve better performance. TOP AND MIDDLE: Sustainable Communities Fund recipients in Brazil BOTTOM: Inaugural Yaloak South Community Fund participants 16 Bushfires in Chile In 2017 Chile experienced the worst bushfires in its history. Over 140 fires burned, with more than 3,700 victims, 380,000 acres burned out, and many properties destroyed. Making the firefighting task more complex were the constantly reactivating firefronts, which spread to the seventh and eighth regions of the country. Aid and assistance were provided from other countries and from within Chile. Pacific Hydro was actively involved in supporting our local communities affected by these fires in the Region of O’Higgins. We purchased and donated drums of water, non-perishable food, and medicines for volunteers fighting the fires in Coya; the company also participated in a Regional Coordination meeting with the regional government to support the emergency response. The company also made donations of 3,000 kilograms of sugar to various towns in the affected areas. But why sugar? Due to the fire damage, local bee populations did not have flowers to feed on, which they need to survive. The sugar was used to keep bee populations in good condition; the honey they produce provides an income and economic support to many families in the region. In addition to this practical frontline support, additional aid for those affected was provided through SOFOFA (a Non-Profit Trade Federation, which brings together industrial sector companies and trade unions) and the Desafío Levantemos Chile charity. Pacific Hydro also donated a house to a family from the affected Region of O’Higgins, which was one of more than 29 that SOFOFA gathered for donation to affected families. Pacific Hydro continued to support the emergency response effort and community reconstruction after the blazes. Pacific Hydro’s contribution to the response effort after the Chile fires 17 Environment Principles 7, 8, and 9– Addressing environmental challenges, promoting responsibility, and furthering the use of new technologies 18 Our core mission Several of the recommendations and matters raised in our submission were considered and included Pacific Hydro is proud to be a leader in the clean in the final report; which has evolved into a wider energy industry and a pioneer in the deployment of national policy consultation and development new renewable energy technologies in Australia. process for the National Energy Guarantee (NEG). Our core business activity is the commercialisation and expansion of these In our industry renewable energy technologies to address We regularly participate in industry-wide climate change, which is the most pressing collaborative efforts to share information through environmental challenge of our time. conferences, working groups, directorates, and From our humble beginnings with small peak industry bodies and councils with the aim hydroelectric projects on existing dams, we of furthering development of renewable energy have sought to harness the power of the wind, in Australia. Pacific Hydro is a member of the water, and sun to provide contemporary and Clean Energy Council; and in 2017 we also joined innovative clean energy solutions, helping to the newly convened Smart Energy Council. advance the decarbonisation of the electricity We have also demonstrated technical excellence systems of the countries where we are present. and made informed contributions to the public We have also taken a proactive, leading approach debate about the decarbonisation of the through our membership of key industry bodies; electricity system and the technical integration of and made significant contributions to government renewable energy into existing power systems. reviews, policy consultations, and technical working groups with the aim of building support In our communities for and advancing the development of renewable energy in the countries where we operate. Pacific Hydro provides further support for the environment beyond our core business We have also maintained excellent of renewable energy development and management of the environment through operation, through supporting communityall stages of our projects and business led environmental initiatives. operations, particularly during construction. Many of the projects supported through We are proud to have achieved meaningful our Community Investment Program progress in these areas in 2017. provide direct benefits to the environment, particularly in local areas. For Government Pacific Hydro has established a reputation as a trusted advisor and experienced contributor to the development of energy and environment policy in the markets where it operates. We are regularly invited to contribute by governments at all levels. In 2017 we made a significant submission to the Australian Government’s Finkel Review, identifying a significant technical risk to the National Electricity Market and providing detailed technical expertise to support an increase in the amount of renewable electricity generation in Australia while maintaining system stability. 19 Environment Cape Nelson Landcare Sponsorship Pacific Hydro entered a five year partnership The reserve is home to thriving patches of with the Friends of Cape Nelson Landcaremany species of native flora, including the Coastcare to support their work near unusual Soap Mallee Cape Nelson is the our Cape Nelson South wind farm. only location outside of South Australia to feature a population of this unique tree. The group is a volunteer organisation that cares for the environment, increases This support will enable their important biodiversity, and promotes the sustainable conservation work in this unique coastal management of land in cooperation with landscape over the next five years. government, business, and the community. 20 Caleta Sierra Mini Solar Park Together with the community of Caleta Sierra, Pacific Hydro provided a “mini solar park” as part of the first stage of the community development plan that we promoted together with the neighboring communities of our Punta Sierra wind energy project. Arising from consultation with the local community, this project will help improve the quality of life for residents of the village, allowing them to have electricity for basic consumption during the day in their homes. With an installed capacity of 12kW, it will provide enough power for each house to run a refrigerator, television, radio, and mobile phone charger during the day. The photovoltaic plant will be managed by the neighbours trained for it and will have an estimated generation of 52.18 kWh average day, with a minimum of 38 kWh in June and a maximum of 65.9 kWh in January. The community did not have electricity for years, which made it very difficult to keep refrigerated products or to charge cell phones. This has led to a radical change and will enable each of the residents to do chores during the day, and improve their quality of life. Caleta Sierra mini solar park 21 Anti-corruption Principle 10– Working against all forms of corruption 22 Pacific Hydro has dedicated significant effort to This has included significant work to implement ensure that our operations accord with the highest SAP across all business units and harmonised regulatory and professional standards in every work procedures for procurement. aspect. We are honest, transparent, and clear Further, the Delegation of Authority in our dealings with governments, regulators, policy provides further robustness to our stakeholders, and the community; and take an financial governance arrangements. active role in preventing bribery and corruption. Staff are trained in our policies and procedures Our policies and procedures set out the using a range of innovative training methods, intention of our approach, and how we expect including digital learning tools to ensure they our management, staff, and contractors to are aware of our obligations and objectives. conduct themselves. These are integral to our management of risk and compliance with the Our tendering processes, terms of trade, and laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate. contract management are all designed to accord with the requirements of our multiple relevant With a state-owned parent company and jurisdictions to prevent bribery and corruption. operations in multiple jurisdictions, Pacific Hydro has undertaken extensive work to ensure that Our Whistleblowing Policy and associated we accord with many layers of oversight and procedures also provide a process for staff the regulatory frameworks that apply in each. to report breaches of these policies and procedures confidentially and/or anonymously. As a member company of State Power Investment Corporation, Pacific Hydro is In 2017 Pacific Hydro achieved IS0 9001 subject to the reporting and monitoring certification, which included section 8.4 obligations of the wider group, which includes Control of externally provided processes compliance with the requirements of the Stateproducts, and services which provided owned Assets Supervision and Administration independent verification of our approach. Commission of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China (SASAC). Pacific Hydro has also undertaken extensive work in the area of harmonising our Finance and governance systems and practices across all of our business units, and to ensure simpler reporting to our shareholder. 23 Australia Level 13, 700 Collins Street Docklands Victoria 3008 Australia Telephone +61 3 8621 6000 Facsimile +61 3 8621 6111 Brazil Av. Presidente Juscelino Kubitscheck, 1909 – Torre Norte – 27º andar Vila Nova Conceição, São Paulo – SP CEP 04543-907 Telephone +55 11 3149 4646 Chile Edificio Mapfre, Av. Isidora Goyenechea 3520, Piso 9 Las Condes, Santiago, Chile Telephone +56 2 2519 4200 Facsimile +56 2 2519 4240 www.pacifichydro.com CoP 2017 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress
