Statkraft AS Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 CONTENT 4 Statkraft around the world 5 Letter from the CEO 6 Statkraft’s contribution 7 Management of corporate responsibility 10 Material topics 11 Social disclosures Health, safety and security Human rights Labour practices 19 Environmental disclosures UN Sustainable Development Goals Biodiversity 23 Economic disclosures Water management Climate change Business ethics APPENDIX 32 About the Corporate Responsibility Report 33 Corporate responsibility statement Social disclosures Environmental disclosures Economic disclosures 45 GRI index 49 UN Global Compact index 50 Auditor’s statement Statkraft around the world TOTAL NUMBER OF POWER PLANTS/ STATKRAFT’S CAPACITY (PRO-RATA) SYMBOLS: FACILITIES (PRO-RATA) = Hydropower Power Power generation 353 generation 19 080 MW = Wind power = Gas power District District heating 17 heating 789 MW = Bio power = District heating =Trading and origination NORWAY 13 769 MW SWEDEN 1 977 MW THE NETHERLANDS UK 152 MW GERMANY 2 694 MW FRANCE TURKEY 122 MW USA San Francisco ALBANIA 72 MW NEPAL 34 MW BULGARIA SERBIA INDIA 136 MW PERU 442 MW BRAZIL 257 MW CHILE 213 MW Since the founding of the company in 1895, Statkraft has The Group’s 353 power plants have a total installed capacity of developed from a national company, focused on developing 19 080 MW (Statkraft’s share). Hydropower is still the dominant Norwegian hydro power resources, into an international company technology, followed by natural gas and wind power. Most of the diversifying also into other sources of renewable energy. Today, installed capacity is in Norway. Statkraft also owns shares in with a total consolidated power generation of 63 TWh in 2017, 17 district heating facilities in Norway and Sweden with a total Statkraft is the second largest power generator in the Nordics and installed capacity of 789 MW. Europe’s largest supplier of renewable energy. STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 4 Letter from the CEO Another year with record high global growth within renewable In line with our strategy, we are about to complete the exit energy has passed. Global climate challenges have forced from offshore wind through the divestment of the wind farms technological, economic and political changes that together Sheringham Shoal and Dudgeon and the two projects Dogger contribute to this growth and create great business Bank and Triton Knoll. These transactions significantly improve opportunities. our investment capacity. Founded on Norwegian nature and clean hydropower, After 15 years of cooperation, Statkraft and Norfund have Statkraft is well positioned to take part in this development and agreed to proceed separately. For Statkraft, this means further to significantly contribute to the realisation of the climate development of generation assets in South America and South related UN Sustainable Development Goals. A profitable and Asia within hydro, wind and solar power, well adapted to local eventful 2017 gave further contributions to a solid foundation market conditions and supported by own market operations. for growth. Statkraft’s owner issued a new long-term dividend expectation 2017 was characterised by significant management and which entails that Statkraft will pay a dividend of 85 per cent of employee engagement and proactive attitude towards health realised profit from Norwegian hydropower activities and 25 and safety. Our commitment towards caring for people, which per cent of realised profit from other business activities. This is at the core of Statkraft’s culture, has been reinforced. The change is positive for the strategic development of Statkraft operational performance was good in 2017, but we had too and will improve the predictability and investment capacity in low availability for some of the power plants. the years to come. In 2016 we introduced a performance improvement Based on these developments, Statkraft has started a process programme to reduce costs and improve efficiency. The to revise our strategy and investment plans. Our commitment programme has realised substantial cost savings in 2017 and I to act in a sustainable, ethical and socially responsible manner am confident that we will reach the target of NOK 800 million will continue to be a foundation for our strategy. In the years to in reduced annual costs. The success of the programme is come, I expect Statkraft to play an even stronger role in the based on high involvement of employees. transition to a low-carbon future and increased electrification of societies based on green, smart and profitable energy In the Nordics, we are reinvesting in our hydropower assets to solutions. safeguard the value and flexibility of these plants. At the same time, Statkraft eyes new business opportunities like advanced biofuel, hyperscale data centres and charging infrastructure for electrical vehicles. Another key priority for us is to successfully deliver the construction of the Fosen project, Europe’s largest onshore wind project to date, in a socially responsible manner and on Christian Rynning-Tønnesen time and budget. President and CEO 5 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Statkraft’s contribution Statkraft supports a global transition towards a low-carbon Development and operation of hydropower plants facilitate economy by offering renewable and sustainable energy solutions multiple uses of watercourses and water regulation structures. and the company’s growth will be in renewable energy. Examples include irrigation, drinking water supply, transportation Renewable energy is key to combating climate change and and recreation. In addition, flood control utilising reservoirs is an Statkraft is a part of the solution for a cleaner future. important safety function of many projects and assets in operation. Such use of our installations will in all probability be even more Statkraft operates responsibly and develops its business in a way important in the future as the consequences of the climate that adds value to its shareholder and the countries and local changes become more apparent. communities in which it operates. Statkraft’s activities contribute in different ways to economies, whether global, national and local: Wind power is a renewable technology with few environmental through dividends to our shareholder, taxes paid to governments, impacts and next to no emissions. In 2016, Statkraft, our global and local procurement activities, direct employment in TrønderEnergi and the European investor consortium Nordic Wind 16 countries, R&D and social investments. We also contribute to Power DA joined forces to realise Europe's largest onshore wind the promotion of good business practices through our responsible power project in Central-Norway, comprising six onshore wind business conduct. farms with a combined capacity of 1000 MW. The total investment in these wind farms amounts to approximately EUR 1.1 bn. Becoming one of the most competitive companies in our industry Construction commenced in 2016 and will be completed in 2020. will strengthen our position for further growth and our ability to contribute to sustainable development. The Group’s non-renewable electricity production includes gasfired power generation and a small part of district heating Our business production. Gas power is considered by many as a transitional In 2017, 96.5% of Statkraft’s power generation was based on technology. This technology generates CO2 emissions, but the renewable energy sources, and 91.7%, or 57.4 TWh, came from emissions are substantially lower than for coal-fired power plants. hydropower. The carbon intensity of Statkraft’s power generation Statkraft’s gas power plants in Germany operate mainly as peak was 14 kg CO2/MWh in 2017. As an energy technology, load producers, meaning they are producing in periods with low hydropower has many advantages, including high efficiency, low renewable power generation. Like hydropower, these power operating costs, long lifetime, high flexibility and low carbon plants contribute to flexibility in the European energy markets. intensity. The large, Norwegian water reservoirs enable us to Statkraft’s gas power plants are some of Europe's most modern produce electricity even in periods of reduced inflow. This power plants, with high efficiency, good treatment facilities and flexibility is particularly important to balance the increasing low emission and discharge risks. amounts of unregulated electricity production from wind power and solar PV. Power generation in Statkraft by technology in 2013-2017. STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 6 Management of corporate responsibility STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 7 8 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Management of corporate responsibility Responsible business conduct Statkraft is committed to act in a sustainable, ethical and socially and supporting documents. Corporate responsibility is a key topic responsible manner. To operationalise these fundamental in The Statkraft Way. commitments, Statkraft bases its work on globally supported initiatives and standards. The management system facilitates structured and coordinated handling of a broad range of topics, and the system is regularly As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, Statkraft is reviewed so as to tailor it to new expectations and challenges. committed to complying with its ten principles on human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. Statkraft also takes Corporate responsibility is an individual, managerial and line guidance from the principles contained in the Organisation for responsibility in Statkraft, and systems are in place to provide Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for employees with necessary guidance and advice to uphold desired Multinational Enterprises, which cover major areas of responsible behaviour. At group level, Statkraft has staff units to follow up the business conduct and which refers to the UN Guiding Principles company’s work and performance as regards corporate for Business and Human Rights. responsibility on an overall level. The staff units have an overall responsibility to appropriately embed corporate responsibility into Statkraft assesses and manages its social and environmental the management and reporting systems. impacts in compliance with the principles of the International Finance Corporation’s Performance Standards on Social and Statkraft has implemented a decision model for major Environmental Sustainability, which include specific requirements development projects, mergers and acquisitions that aims at on working conditions, pollution control, community health, safety ensuring a unified approach to corporate responsibility from an and security, involuntary resettlement, biodiversity conservation, early phase and throughout the process. The basic principle of the indigenous people, and cultural heritage. model is to include documented information on a number of critical issues, including corporate responsibility, as part of the foundation Statkraft’s assessment and management of climate change for decision making at each decision gate. Work is ongoing to impacts are based on research, comprehensive analysis and develop one, single project management system for the Statkraft scientific evidence, including assessments by the Group, regardless of technology or geography. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Corporate responsibility performance (UNFCCC). Statkraft has established Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) at the group level covering different aspects of corporate responsibility Statkraft does business globally. As a Norwegian entity, Statkraft which are regularly reviewed by Corporate Management and the complies with applicable Norwegian laws and regulations as well Board of Directors. Challenges and results related to corporate as with applicable laws and regulations of countries where we responsibility topics are also presented and discussed in regular operate. As mentioned above, it is also our policy to act in Business Reviews (meetings between the CEO and each accordance with relevant international conventions and guidelines business and staff area). set by international organisations. Where differences exist between applicable laws, regulations and Statkraft’s governing Corporate responsibility issues are also incorporated into documents, we follow the norm which sets the highest standard of Corporate Audit’s annual audit plan. behavior. Statkraft has implemented a system for registration and follow-up of non-compliances and potential improvements. The system Governance facilitates structured handling of measures, analysis of incidents and improvements, and learning across the organisation. Statkraft’s fundamental principles for sustainable, ethical and socially responsible behaviour are described in Statkraft’s Code of Conduct, which is adopted by the Board of Directors. The Code Supply chain management applies to all companies in the Statkraft Group and to all individuals who work for Statkraft, regardless of location. Statkraft is committed to act in a sustainable, ethical and socially Statkraft’s business partners are expected to adhere to equivalent responsible manner. Our commitment to integrity can only be met standards as Statkraft and Statkraft has corresponding if our suppliers and business partners also act in the same requirements for the Group’s suppliers, described in Statkraft’s manner. We therefore work in collaboration with our suppliers to Supplier Code of Conduct. achieve a responsible supply chain. The Statkraft Way The basis for Statkraft’s supply chain management is Statkraft’s Statkraft’s management system contains both policy documents, Supplier Code of Conduct, which has been developed to clearly describing ambition and direction, and more detailed requirement communicate our requirements to our suppliers. Suppliers are STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 8 expected to meet these requirements throughout their relationship operates. We seek to establish a regular and open dialogue on with Statkraft. Statkraft’s suppliers are informed about the Supplier sustainability issues with host communities and other Code of Conduct and other relevant requirements during the stakeholders. Statkraft communicates in an open and active procurement process and are legally bound to the Supplier Code manner with those impacted by our activities. in contract. Statkraft establishes and maintains relations with a wide range of Statkraft’s supplier base is very diverse, and in total the company stakeholders throughout the life-cycle of our business operations has more than 10 000 suppliers. They stem from widely differing in all the geographies where we are present. business sectors such as consulting, electromechanical industry and civil engineering. Some of the suppliers are small local Important partners in these dialogues include government officials, companies while others are global industrial groups. Our supplier local and regional authorities, local communities, rights holders, base covers many countries, including countries where human employees, customers, suppliers, voluntary organisations and the rights and corruption risks are high. Understanding the risks in our media. Depending on the stakeholder type and the issues to supplier base is critical and in 2013, Statkraft introduced a new discuss we use different communication channels for such supplier risk assessment tool towards that end. The assessments engagement. Channels for stakeholder engagement include: performed are based on several parameters, including country direct contacts, investor relations, customers and suppliers days, and industry risks. web, newsletters, company magazine, releases, social media, forums and dedicated meetings, surveys and intranet. While the risk of delivery is based on an industry risk assessment performed by DNV GL and Statkraft, the country risk level is Given the broad spectrum of stakeholders with which we engage based on the following five international country risk indices: the as part of our business relations Statkraft has a decentralized Yale Environmental Performance Index, the UNDP approach to stakeholder management. Specific units within the Multidimensional Poverty Index, the Transparency International organisation focus and target the engagement with stakeholders Index, the World Bank Ease of Doing Business Index and the that are central for their own activities. International Trade Union Confederation Global Rights Index. Key topics and concerns raised by stakeholders as part of our The risk assessment tool also assess to what degree suppliers engagement include corporate responsibility aspects, in particular are in a position to comply with the Supplier Code of Conduct our material topics. through a supplier self-assessment questionnaire including questions related to e.g. their governance and critical topics such as working and employment conditions and the environment. Reported concerns Based on the results, Statkraft decides on any further actions such as whether or not pre-qualify a supplier, or undertake due Statkraft works to ensure transparency surrounding dilemmas and diligence assessments, training or improvement discussions. ethical issues, and systems are in place to provide all employees Corporate responsibility clauses are standard in Statkraft with guidance and advice with regard to interpretation of contracts. Statkraft’s Code of Conduct and desired behaviour. Statkraft’s Code of Conduct emphasises that employees have both the right In addition to reviewing and monitoring measures undertaken or and duty to report breaches of legal or ethical obligations through commissioned by Statkraft alone, we participate, together with our the line organisation or the Group’s whistleblowing channel. utility industry peers, in a joint audit program, coordinated by Sellihca. These audits consist of a comprehensive review of a supplier’s practices, including site visits. Candidates are Reporting can be made anonymously through the whistle-blowing nominated by Sellihca members and approved by “The Supplier channel which is managed by Corporate Audit. The whistleCompliance & Risk Management Group”. 70 audits were blowing channel is also available for externals via Statkraft’s web conducted in 2017 under this programme and a further 70 are site. In 2017, a total number of 57 (46) concerns were reported. planned for 2018. The concerns were mainly related to the areas of business ethics and human resources. The reported concerns are assessed and Statkraft launched an initiative in the fall 2017 aimed at assessing followed up according to group requirements. Of the reported comprehensively the company’s efforts related to corporate concerns some are closed after an initial evaluation by the line responsibility management of its the supply chain. Results of this management or by Corporate Audit, some are further followed up assessment will be reviewed in 2018 and will guide further efforts. with necessary measures in the relevant line organization, while in some cases a corporate investigation is needed to clarify the Statkraft performs a risk evaluation of its complete supplier base facts. Corporate Audit is responsible for performing such every second year and conducts regularly reviews of the investigations in Statkraft. In 2017, Corporate Audit initiated 5 company’s procurement management. investigations. In 2016, an improved process aimed at proactively and regularly collecting information related to reported concerns in the line Stakeholder dialogue organisation was launched, and the system was implemented in 2017. Statkraft develops its business in a way that adds value to its shareholder and the countries and local communities in which it 9 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Material topics Statkraft has conducted a materiality analysis aiming at identifying the most significant topics within corporate responsibility. The materiality analysis was based on the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines, including an assessment of stakeholders’ expectations. Six material topics were identified as a result of this analysis. In addition, ambitions and goals towards 2020 for these material topics have been adopted by Statkraft’s CEO. In terms of reporting these material topics are given more detailed and comprehensive attention than other topics in this report, where material topics have been grouped according to GRI social, environmental end economic disclosures. Material Ambition topic statement Goals towards 2020 Safety and Statkraft actively  Ensure that managers at all levels provide safety leadership safeguarding prevents harm or  Strengthen the focus on high risk activities and preventative measures of people injuries to people through a systematic  Utilize a balance of leading and lagging indicators to measure and guide performance approach and a  Improve processes and capabilities for security management value-based safety Social disclosures  Ensure that learnings from incidents are applied corporate wide culture Human rights Statkraft acts  Follow developments related to increasing international and national expectations according to the UN related to human rights management (human rights due diligence process) and improve Guiding Principles our practices accordingly, starting by major and international projects on Business and  Ensure adequate implementation of training program on human rights Human Rights  Strengthen and make better known our grievance mechanisms, including at project level  Strengthen stakeholder dialogue and communication, including on our salient human rights issues Biodiversity Statkraft supports a  Enhanced tracking and communication of performance on systematic handling of precautionary biodiversity, e.g. red-list species of flora and fauna, critical habitats and presence in Environmental approach to legally protected areas biodiversity  Increased understanding of our impacts on biodiversity, and adequate handling in disclosures challenges, and project development and operation facilitates ecological resilience in our areas of impact Water Statkraft is  Ensure proactive and adequate handling and systematic follow-up of water levels, flowmanagement recognised as a limits and hydropeaking requirements in our concessions company with a  Demonstrate sustainable water management based on improved understanding of the responsible and effects of climate change on water availability (e.g. scarcity and flood control) in all sustainable water areas of operation management practice Climate Statkraft contributes  Further the understanding of the impact of national and international climate policies on Economic disclosures change to the transition to a our business and, as appropriate, provide Statkraft’s perspectives, including on carbon mitigation, more climate friendly pricing, to relevant stakeholders adaptation and and sustainable  Improve our market and strategic analysis in order to incorporate climate change preparedness energy system and induced changes seeks continuously to maintain a low  Further common understanding how climate change affects all our assets and continue climate footprint to evaluate new business opportunities accordingly, based on company-wide climate assumptions  Contribute to scientific methods for assessing the climate impact of our business Business Statkraft actively  All employees complete trainings in business ethics with focus on anti-corruption ethics and antiprevents corruption  Continue to strengthen the culture of reporting of concerns and breaches corruption and unethical practices in all  Continue to ensure adequate corporate-wide handling of anti-corruption and business business activities ethics risks, with particular focus on high risk processes  Improve the adequacy of how business ethics is reflected in requirements and controls for key business processes according to established training plans STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 10 Social disclosures STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 11 12 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Social disclosures Health, safety and security Caring for people is at the heart of Statkraft’s culture and we work accidents were associated with driving, energised systems, continuously towards the goal of zero injuries. ground works, lifting operations, heavy mobile equipment and work at heights. Risk Health, safety and security risks arise from Statkraft’s activities in The Lost Time Injury rate (LTI rate) was 3.4 among Statkraft’s construction projects, operations and maintenance, our presence employees, while LTI rate among Statkraft’s contractors was 2.2. in various geographical locations, as well as travel and other Correspondingly the total Recordable Injury Rate (TRI rate) business activities. The predominant risk is related to personal among Statkraft’s employees was 6.6 and 3.8 among Statkraft’s injuries from workplace accidents. Activities related to driving, contractors. In total, 124 injuries were recorded for Statkraft’s work at height, lifting operations, energised systems, heavy mobile employees and contractors, whereof 67 were lost-time injuries. equipment, ground works and confined spaces are considered to have highest risk. Accidents There were no fatal accidents in relation to Statkraft’s work activities in 2017. LTI rate and TRI rate in Statkraft’s operations (>20% ownership) in 2013-2017. Sick leave Sick leave in Statkraft is at a stable low level and was 3.5 in 2017, which is within the goal of a sick leave rate not higher than 3.5%. Fatalities in Statkraft’s operations (>20% ownership) in 2013-2017. Statkraft experienced four accidents that led to serious injuries in 2017. A total of 48 accidents and near-accidents were classified as having high risk potential. Most of these accidents and nearThe activities addressed by the life saving rules. STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 12 Corporate Management’s signed statement communicating their strong commitment related to health and safety. Health and safety improvement program Serious incidents are subject to investigation in order to identify In 2015, a step change programme was launched to further causes, and learning from the incidents, including possible improve within health and safety. This improvement program, preventative measures to be adopted, are shared across the named “Powered by Care”, continued in 2017 with focus on the organisation. Life saving rules with the aim of avoiding serious and following elements. fatal injuries have been rolled out and implemented. These rules are based on experience of high risk activities in Statkraft’s Leadership and commitment operations and global knowledge from similar industries. Statkraft’s Corporate Management clearly demonstrates their commitment to a workplace without injury and harm as Engagement KPIs communicated through their Powered by Care commitment Leading indicators are in place to encourage and measure statement. During 2017, management throughout Statkraft has employee and management engagement in HSE. These measure actively driven and participated in the roll out of the new Life activities such as HSE risk observations, HSE improvement Saving Rules. proposals, positive HSE observations, Safe Job Dialogues and other active engagement in HSE. The KPI’s have continued their Serious injury mitigation good, positive development since the introduction in 2016. A Serious Incident KPI is in place, measuring serious injury rate as well as providing attention to near accidents with high potential. 13 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 CEO’s HSE Award and tunnel strengthening works by successfully managing the An HSE Award scheme is in place to encourage activities that safety in design and construction. The design concept and contribute to improved HSE results. This has resulted in great methods were carefully chosen to minimize risks during engagement across the organisation. construction. Numerous measures were taken during construction to create safe work zones and reduce exposure. This included shotcrete application, wire mesh installation, rock bolt installation and filling the collapse zone by conveyor, as well as focus on traffic management. From Statkraft’s office location in France. Statkraft France, part of the Market Operations and IT Business Area, was recognised for addressing the increasing terror threats in relation to their extensive travels in Europe to assure the security for its employees. This has included implementation of a travel monitoring system, emergency contact procedures, use of an alert smartphone app and travel security training. All of which is supported by open dialogue and discussions around the risks with management and the team. Power Generation Sweden was recognised with the CEO's HSE award for 2017. The CEO’s HSE Award for 2017 was awarded to Power Generation Sweden for achieving an impressive HSE performance through a systematic development of HSE culture, from top management to front end technicians, demonstrating that a workplace without injury and harm is possible. They have achieved this through management and employee engagement, a wide range of initiatives and focus on continuous learning. The From the Roan area in Fosen, Norway. Total Recordable Incident Rate has decreased from ten to zero The Fosen Roan access road project, part of the Wind, District over the last two years and there have been no serious near Heating and Projects Business Area, was recognised for their misses since March 2016. safe-by-design approach to the access roads. This has led to steel barriers being installed at hazardous road sections and has Other top nominations competing for the award were also already prevented serious injuries in two traffic incidents. The recognised during the award ceremony. project has also actively engaged contractors and local authorities in traffic safety activities. Being the first of the six projects in the Fosen Programme this approach has set a higher than industry safety standard for wind farm roads and will help improve traffic safety in the entire Fosen programme. Sharing and learning Collaboration takes place within and across Business Areas to share and learn related to incidents, HSSE programs and best practices. Regular network meetings as well as an annual HSSE conference is arranged to help facilitate this. An HSSE portal has been introduced on the intranet to help facilitate improved collaboration and more effective use of resources across the From the Kargi Tunnel repair project in Turkey. organisation. This provides easy access to documents, materials The Kargi Tunnel Repair Project within the International Power and tools, as well as functionality for finding expertise, having Business Area was recognised for overcoming tunnel collapses STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 14 discussions and sharing content independent of organisational or measures will be considered upon changes in the security geographical boundaries. situation, for example reinforced security routines and travel restrictions. HSE training Appropriate competence is a prerequisite for a good HSE culture Statkraft has continued to improve its operational abilities to both and Statkraft employees are provided with HSE training according detect and handle IT security incidents in 2017. 198 security to their individual needs and working situation. Modular e-learning incidents were reported in 2017. 156 of these were IT security to effectively reach out and provide fit for purpose training to incidents, including nine high potential incidents that were various target groups is part of the HSE programme. This includes detected and blocked at an early stage. a “Powered by Care” module providing basic HSE training for all, modules to support the Life Saving Rules roll-out, and project Emergency preparedness specific training such as for the Fosen Wind Project. An HSE Statkraft’s capability to handle serious and unwanted events is a Management module for more in-depth topics will be developed in continuous priority. A new Group requirement on Emergency 2018. Some of the e-learning is mandatory for employees and/or Response Management was introduced in 2017 where the contractors, depending on their roles, risks and working situations. purpose is to secure a common approach to emergency response across Statkraft. The requirement is based on best practice Security principles and recognised methodologies. As a consequence, all Statkraft has a comprehensive approach to security topics and emergency response plans are in the process of being revised follows international good practice for security management. according to a standard template. Uniform training of emergency Security refers to the ability to keep people, operations, response teams has been developed and emergency response information and systems secure from intentional harm or damage. facilities at Lilleaker have been significantly upgraded. Countries with Statkraft presence or interests are followed on security matters (political instability, terrorism, sabotage, Statkraft cooperates with Sjømannskirken (Norwegian Church organised crime etc.) through a risk based approach. Both local, Abroad) and the Norwegian Red Cross to provide realistic and national and international sources are utilised to build situational specialised training within Emergency Response. awareness on security where Statkraft operates. Immediate Material topic: Safety and safeguarding of people Goals towards 2020 Main activities and initiatives in 2017 Ensure that managers at all levels  Continued roll out of the HSE improvement program through line management provide safety leadership Strengthen the focus on high risk  Life-saving rules implemented through a line management led roll-out activities and preventative measures  Lessons learned produced and shared for all high potential incidents Utilise a balance of leading and  Management and Employee Engagement indicators implemented and showing good lagging indicators to measure and development guide performance Ensure that learnings from incidents  Sharing and learning through HSSE network collaboration are applied corporate wide  HSSE portal that include access to lessons learned is in place Improve processes and capabilities  Continued alignment, clarification and simplification of security management across the group for security management 15 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Human rights Statkraft’s work on human rights is based on the internationally recognised United Nation’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Statkraft’s policy commitment on human rights is reflected in Statkraft’s Code of Conduct. This commitment is publicly available and communicated internally and externally to personnel, business partners and other relevant parties. Since its adoption in 2009, Statkraft has worked to reflect this commitment in its governing documents and processes necessary to embed it throughout the company. Continuous work on strengthening the integration of human rights into governing documents and processes relating to social management, procurement and security arrangements are examples. In 2017, Statkraft has continued to embed its policy commitment on human rights in the organisation and has prioritized its efforts around its salient human rights issues. These comprise local community acceptance, including by indigenous peoples, labour rights, health and safety, and security arrangements. As a result, new governing documents and tools were developed this year on indigenous peoples rights, on labour rights in the supply chain, land acquisition or land use as well as on security arrangements. Human rights were also taken into account in major development projects such as Fosen (Norway), Devoll (Albania) and Pilmaiquén (Chile). Human rights training A training programme was rolled out at senior management and In Peru Statkraft works closely with local communities to ensure productive livelihoods in country head levels, as well as for all critical functions or impacted areas. Here the chirimoya harvest is inspected by agriculture specialists close geographies that relate to Statkraft’s salient issues. The training to the Cheves hydropower plant. components included:  a presentation and summary of external expectations, in Networks particular the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Statkraft became member of the Nordic Business Network for Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, Human Rights, a professional network for global companies, who Norwegian National Action Plan, as well as expectations work with human rights impacts in their organisations or supply from business partners chains. The Network has an overall focus on capacity building and makes use of both human rights experts and peer-to-peer  a presentation on internal expectations, including Statkraft’s learning. Network meetings create a space where companies can policy commitment enshrined in the Code of Conduct and obtain the latest knowledge about business and human rights, as mirrored in the Supplier Code of Conduct, governing well as share difficult dilemmas with experts and peers. An documents related to human rights management, and important objective for the network is to develop applications of processes where Statkraft’s policy commitment had been the various human rights frameworks to concrete business embedded contexts.  an introduction to our salient human rights issues  lessons-learned Consultations As a result of consultations, a number of agreements with While the training included the same basic components, all indigenous communities were reached in 2016. In 2017, sessions were tailored made to the audience and the particular consultations and engagement with indigenous people continued potential impact of activities related to respective groups. to take place. Finally, an introduction to business and human rights, an introduction to salient issues as well as the e-learning of the UN Agreement on mitigating measures and compensation for extra High Commissioner for Human Rights on business and human works during the construction phase has been entered into rights were included in the Statkraft Academy in 2017. with the Northern Group in the Fosen wind farm project. There has been a dialogue also with the Southern Group, but an agreement could not be reached. Court hearings are scheduled in May 2018 for determining compensation to both groups with respect to the operational phase of the respective wind farms, as well as for the construction phase with respect to the Southern Group. The Southern Group disputes the validity of the concession for the Storheia wind farm. The case stands before the courts. STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 16 In 2017, Statkraft continued to actively consult and engage in International Finance Corporation Performance Standards on discussions with rights holders and other stakeholders relating to Social & Environmental Sustainability. the planned hydropower projects on the Pilmaiquén River in central Chile (Osorno and Los Lagos). Statkraft continues to aim In 2017, core activities have included the completion of at obtaining a better understanding of the potential impacts, and is resettlement and compensation programs for the Banja undertaking further analysis, alongside continuous stakeholder hydropower project in Albania. This was especially relevant in light engagement. of the filling of the reservoir and commencement of operations of the plant. Work continues regarding livelihood restoration for Banja and resettlement for the Moglicë hydropower project upstream on the Devoll River. At the Kargi hydropower plant in Turkey, a mitigation programme to improve efficiency of irrigation systems downstream of the power plant is being implemented in order to ensure availability of required water for rice growing, while optimising power production. Sharing knowledge Statkraft continues to provide expertise for the International Centre for Hydropower (ICH) which holds courses on project management, dam safety, social and environmental and finance themes for government representatives, investors, companies and Local women leaders gathered in the Pilmaiquén area in Chile. Women leaders were invited to strengthen their negotiation and leadership skills and learn about Statkraft’s other stakeholders from emerging markets. The goal of ICH is to activities. increase competence, share knowledge and promote good international standards in the hydropower industry globally. In Development opportunities 2017, Statkraft provided lecturers for courses and workshops held Statkraft works to enhance direct and indirect benefits and in Trondheim and Oslo, and at regional events in Southeast Asia development opportunities for stakeholders. Interventions are a and South America. result of consultations with all affected stakeholders in accordance with good international practices and standards, based on the Material topic: Human rights Goals towards 2020 Main activities and initiatives in 2017 Follow developments related to  Followed developments and participated in expert consultations related to the Working Group increasing international and national on Business of the UN Human Rights Council expectations related to human rights  Became member of the Nordic Business Network for Human Rights management (human rights due  Governing documents and processes developed or improved, guiding implementation on diligence process) and improve our major or international projects practices accordingly, starting by major and international projects Ensure adequate implementation of  Training provided to senior management training program on human rights  Training provided to key functions in Statkraft relating to the company’s salient human rights issues  Introduction on business and human rights and e-learning from the UN Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights included in the Statkraft Academy Strengthen and make better known  Communication at senior leadership meetings and inclusion in relevant trainings with a view our grievance mechanisms, including to strengthen our grievance mechanisms at project level Strengthen stakeholder dialogue and  Modern Slavery Act Statement available in the homepage of Statkraft’s website communication, including on our  Panelist in a UN regional consultation event related to State Owned Entreprises and the salient human rights issues implementation of the Un Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights  Engaged in discussions, including through bilateral dialogue or when providing presentations, with peers and other institutions 17 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Labour practices Employment development plans for each employee or team. The people Statkraft supports and respects internationally recognised labour performance process is an integral part of how to work in Statkraft rights including freedom of association and the effective and 97% completed the goal and development dialogues in 2017. recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, the effective abolition of Statkraft offers training in core business processes such as child labour, and the elimination of discrimination in respect of operations and maintenance, energy management and project employment and occupation. Statkraft also works towards the management, as well as business ethics, safety, and leadership realisation of these rights as part of our supply chain management through the Statkraft Academy. Workforce restructuring A special effort has been made to support the continuous As part of the ongoing Performance Improvement Programme, strengthening of Statkraft’s emergency preparedness. Mandatory Statkraft conducted a workforce restructuring in 2017, including a training on Personnel Emergency response and next-of-kin material reduction of full-time equivalents and a number of handling was developed and implemented in 2017. changes in the organisational structure. This was carried out according to transparent processes and in close dialogue with Diversity and inclusion employee representatives with the aim of ensuring the right In Statkraft we encourage a culture that capitalises on the diversity competence to deliver on strategy while maintaining fair treatment of our people and the inclusion of ideas and perspectives that of all employees. About 200 leaders were trained in change challenge norms, drives innovation and helps us meet the needs management as part of Statkraft’s effort to provide solid support of our diverse customers and stakeholders. A clear commitment to for our employees during this organisational change. equal treatment and zero tolerance for discrimination, bullying and harassment are core tenets of Statkraft’s people policies. Statkrafts employee engagement survey was conducted in September 2017 with a response rate of 92%. The survey showed At the end of 2017, Statkraft had 3593 employees and 38% are high and stable motivation and satisfaction. The result on total working outside Norway. Statkraft has employees in 16 countries, score for employee engagement was 72% which is at the same representing 51 nationalities. At the end of 2017, 25% of the level as recent years and above the Global Employee and Group’s employees were women, and the percentage of women in Leadership Index for Norway. management positions was 22%. The percentage of women in Statkraft’s Board of Directors is 44%. Average service time in Labour and management relations Statkraft is 12.0 years, while turnover in 2017 was 5.7%. Statkraft has a structured and close collaboration with local employee representatives and trade unions. In addition to In 2017 we focused our efforts on improving our gender balance. cooperation at the national level, Statkraft has established the Statkraft has a recruitment policy that requires diversity among Statkraft European Works Council (SEWC), with employee candidates for all leadership positions, with both men and women representatives from Norway, Sweden, Germany and the UK. represented in final evaluations. Women are also prioritised for participation in leadership and talent development measures. In Wherever it operates, Statkraft supports and respects 2017 32% of employees attending leadership development internationally recognised labour rights. Relevant ILO conventions programs were women. and EU directives have been included in the SEWC agreement with EPSU (European Federation of Public Service Unions), the Continuing our commitment to increasing gender diversity, federation for European unions within the energy industry. In Statkraft has set targets to reach 25% female representation in countries not covered by SEWC, Statkraft respects the management positions and 30% in senior management positions employees’ freedom of association and collaborates with union by 2020. representatives in accordance with collective bargaining agreements, legal requirements, international standards and To broaden our perspective on diversity and inclusion Statkraft prevailing industry best-practice for each location. decided in 2017 to define new pilot initiatives that will be tailored to the challenges of our industry and its geographic locations. We Training and development initiated work on how to identify relevant goals for each respective All employees are offered an individual on-boarding program by area and to define targeted measures. the line manager. In addition to this, it is mandatory for all new employees to complete training in HSE, anti-corruption and Furthermore, we worked to embed diversity into our people information security within the first weeks of employment. development processes in order to reflect and encourage the Statkraft is now aiming to strengthen the on-boarding approach value of individual and unique contributions to our team efforts. To and offer more targeted measures based on organisational build a better understanding of the levers that drive inclusion in affiliation and individual work tasks. Statkraft, monitoring and following up on employee perception over time, as well as offer awareness training on inclusion and In Statkraft’s people performance process, the company’s strategy unconscious bias for managers and management teams, are seen and targets are structured and cascaded into individual target as essential. STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 18 Environmental disclosures STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 19 20 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Environmental disclosures UN Sustainable Development Goals The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the Climate neutrality United Nations in 2015 set an ambition for a safe and sustainable Statkraft contributes to emission reductions and offsets future: they provide a global framework for action to end poverty, unavoidable emissions. Our gas fired power production can combat climate change and fight injustice and inequality. provide flexibility which is required to integrate a continuously Achieving the goals by 2030 requires action, partnership and higher share of intermittent renewables in the system, and also involvement of stakeholders all over the world. The role to be contributes to lowering the carbon intensity of the power system. played by the business sector in the implementation of the goals is This production is compliant under the EU Emission Trading central. The SDGs provide an opportunity for companies to create System (EU ETS), and emissions are compensated with value both for their business and society. auctioned European Emission Allowances (EUAs). For all other emissions – inspite of their low volumes Statkraft has signed the Statkraft’s business contributes to the implementation of the Climate Neutral Now Pledge. In line with this, long term emission SDGs. Among the 17 goals, Statkraft’s identified Goal 7 on reduction targets for fuel consumption related to own operations “Affordable and Clean Energy” and Goal 13 on “Climate Change” and traveling have been established and unavoidable emissions as being the goals to which it contributes most significantly, in light are compensated with UN Certified Emission Reduction Units of Statkraft’s core product, strategy and future growth within (CERs). renewable energy. Statkraft also contributes to the realisation of other SDGs, such as Goal 2 on Health and well-being, Goal 5 on Gender equality, Goal 8 on Decent work and economic growth. Statkraft has decided to join the UN initiative “Climate Neutral Now” (CNN) in order to further strengthen our commitment to tackle and reduce own emissions. This decision is in line with growing focus internationally on corporate policies for climate and The United Nations adopted inn 2015 17 goals to set an ambition for a safe and environmental footprint and sustainability, as well as for handling climate risk. sustainable future, the UN Sustainable Development Goals (the SDGs). The SDGs are interconnected and action taken toward one goal can support or hinder the achievement of others goals. Contributing to the implementation of Goal 13 for instance has strong benefits for other goals, as climate action is a critical pillar to achieving sustainable development. However, climate action related activities might also generate negative impacts on the goals. In such cases, Statkraft’s aim is to manage these impacts in a responsible manner. In 2018, Statkraft will further analyse how its activities impact the SDGs, as well as how SDGs are interconnected in the context of the company’s various activities. STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 20 Biodiversity Both hydropower and wind power technologies are known to have the river stretch and a spawning area has been re-established. low carbon emissions, but as with any form of energy generation The restoration work has resulted in an improved environmental they too leave a footprint on ecosystems and the landscape. condition along this stretch of the river. Other initiatives include the Terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems may be altered by Statkraft’s restoration of aquatic habitats by new fish passages, for example activities, for example bird collisions and habitat degradation due allowing for salmon and sea trout to reach spawning areas in the to wind power development, or low water levels in river stretches Skjoma River. due to hydropower operations. Statkraft is committed to manage in a responsible manner the negative impacts generated by its After extensive actions combating the salmon parasite activities. Our hydropower plants in operation in Norway comply Gyrodactylus Salaris, including the re-establishment of with given concessions and permits. In Norway, long-term populations and monitoring work involving many actors, an concessions are revised every 30 years with the main goal of important milestone for this environmental work was achieved in improving environmental performance. A process for revision of 2017. After nearly 35 years of detecting the parasite, the Vefsna environmental legislation for hydropower in Sweden is ongoing. River and a number of other tributaries were recently reported free from the disease by the Norwegian Food Safety Authority. The EU Water Framework Directive As part of management procedures and practices in handling In Bjurfors Övre power plant in Umeälven in Sweden, we have environmental risks and impacts, Statkraft undertakes a broad managed to recreate critical habitats by in regulated river range of initiatives, either imposed by the authorities or voluntarily, stretches. This initiative aimed at the reconstruction of habitats aimed at preserving biodiversity. Central to Statkraft’s approach to that mostly disappeared due to the power plant operations and the biodiversity and water management in Europe is the EU Water creation of the hydropower reservoirs in the 1960’s. Framework Directive (WFD). The goal of this directive is to achieve good ecological status in all freshwater bodies, taking a Biodiversity in Brazil cost-benefit approach to environmental improvement measures. Statkraft has operations in Brazil which is the country with the Examples of measures include site specific operation of power greatest biodiversity in the world. Statkraft’s assets are located in plants, taking local environmental impacts into account; improving two different biomes; seven in the Atlantic forest region with a spawning and shelter habitat for fish, fish restocking, roe planting, biodiversity similar to the Amazon forest and with several endemic construction of fish passages and improvement of weirs. species, and three in the Caatinga biome, which is a biome that is endemic to Brazil with species only to be found there. Wind power Wind power is a renewable technology with next to no emissions. The trend is for larger, more effective turbines, higher towers and fewer turbines in each windfarm, and these are positive developments in terms of environmental impacts. Establishing wind farms with the associated infrastructure can, however, influence living conditions of plants and animals, particularly during the construction phases. Noise and landscape aesthetics are other topics that are carefully considered when establishing new wind farms. Other initiatives Statkraft supports diverse initiatives focusing on specific issues or concerns, for instance development of planning and operational models and tools. Other initiatives include the mapping of biodiversity values and sensitive areas by registration and mapping of red listed bird species and their habitats in and in the The rehabilitation of Nedre Røssåga powerplant in Norway provided opportunities to reduce negative environmental impacts. Surveys carried out by a freshwater biologist vicinities to the constructions sites for wind power plants in show that the environmental measures have led to a major increase in good living areas Norway. We have also established no-work zones close to “active for young fish in the Røssåga River. territories” during breeding season. Improvement and restoration work In 2017, Statkraft completed a “Threatened Species Conservation Interventions undertaken during the reporting period to promote Plan” for the Bahia Wind Complex in Brazil, and given that two good environmental conditions in the river courses where we additional threatened species were found during the last round of operate include the restoration of a river stretch in Røssåga. monitoring, the plans were adjusted accordingly to include these Røssåga River was affected by reduced water flows from the species. hydropower developments in the 1950's. In connection with the new Nedre Røssåga Hydropower Project, Statkraft has restored 21 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 The aquatic habitat in the Vefsna River and a number of tributaries were declared recovered from a persistent salmon parasite earlier this year. Statkraft has been an important contributor to reestablishing the salmon habitat by providing roe from one of our fish gene banks. Material topic: Biodiversity Goals towards 2020 Main activities and initiatives in 2017 Enhanced tracking and  Attention to environmental assessments as basis for detailed planning in projects (e.g. road communication of performance on tunnel to Eringsdalen in Høyanger (Q3, 2017). systematic handling of biodiversity,  Registration and mapping of specific red listed bird species and their habitats in and in the e.g. red-list species of flora and vicinities to the constructions sites of our wind farms in Norway. Establishing no-work zones fauna, critical habitats and presence close to “active territories” during breeding season. in legally protected areas Increased understanding of our  Conducted R&D projects on how to avoid, minimise or mitigate birds collision risk at our wind impacts on biodiversity, and farms. Experimental testing of deterrent measures, and development of planning and adequate handling in project operational models and tools. (INTACT) development and operation  Two new environmental R&D projects initiated to increase competence on key environmental regulation impacts (water temperature and sedimentation) from hydropower related to biodiversity.  Elaboration of a water course strategy and environmental mapping of three Swedish rivers to enhance knowledge on regulation effects on biodiversity in low head river systems.  Finalised the R&D project “EnviPeak”, studying the environmental impacts of hydro-peaking operations in rivers in Norway and comparing these with similar operations and rivers in Austria, Switzerland and Canada.  Focused on actions to prevent proliferation of blacklisted species and safeguard vulnerable red-listed species under construction work on our hydropower plants. STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 22 Economic disclosures STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 23 24 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Economic disclosures Water management Statkraft’s power plants and power generation capacity implementation of WFD. The new legislation, and the Water represents both considerable value creation and societal Fund, is expected to materialise during 2018. benefits, values which are enhanced in light of climate challenges we are facing. Hydropower is renewable and flexible and has the capability to reduce vulnerability to extreme weather, primarily through flood control. Every day water management of hydropower plants is governed through concessions taking into consideration safety, as well as societal and environmental perspectives. Efficient operation As part of the business strategy, Statkraft works continuously towards improving the efficiency of operations. Increased efficiency in energy generation has a positive impact on the use and management of the water resources. During this reporting period the Ringedalen power plant has been constructed. The plant will improve utilisation of an already regulated water course. At the Kargi hydropower plant in Turkey, a mitigation programme to improve efficiency in irrigation systems downstream of the hydropower dam is being implemented in Changes in run-off and water availability, either due to natural order to optimise power production and reduce releases of water during the ricecauses or to regulation and operational rules, raise certain water growing season that are not required by farmers. management challenges. These challenges not only have Operations in Peru and Turkey potential impacts on our generation capacity and revenue, but In Peru our operations are ruled among others by the Water may also affect our capacity to provide other important socially Resources Law which aims at the integrated management of the valuable benefits, such as flood control, regulation and storage water resources. In Peru, around 80% of the water consumption capacity, and water security. is for agriculture, and the National Water Authority (ANA) is the governmental agency responsible for water allocation among the Revision of Terms in Norway main water users. According to Peruvian law, the agricultural In Norway, long-term concessions are revised every 30 years users have priority over energy users and this represents a with the main goal of improving environmental performance in challenge for our operations. regulated rivers (Revision of Terms). When finalizing new concessional terms, Norwegian authorities strive to balance Most recently, since the end of 2016 a new regulation from ANA environmental improvements with the potential impacts on dictates monthly water discharges from all reservoirs. In order to flexibility of the national power supply and reduced flood control. meet this challenge, Statkraft Peru is engaged in a constructive About 80% of Statkraft’s hydropower fleet in Norway will be dialogue with the authority and was able to reach an agreement subject to Revision of Terms within 2022. Statkraft supports the on optimal water discharges which still allow us to maintain our aim, and emphasises the importance of weighting environmental efficient operation without jeopardizing the interest of agricultural improvements against the potential loss of climate friendly power users. Following this development, Statkraft has implemented an production, flexibility and flood control capacity. During 2017, initiative for automatic and real-time monitoring of water Statkraft has been engaged in 12 ongoing revision processes. discharges in our Surasaca and Cochaquillo reservoirs, both of Another 12 revisions involving Statkraft assets are likely to start which have downstream agricultural users. In this way, up in the period between 2018 and 2021. The national agricultural water users and the water authority can both monitor implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive (WFD) is in real-time the water discharges and hence optimize the water one of the relevant inputs for the authorities’ evaluations. distribution among the multiple users. Revision of Swedish legislation In Turkey, at the Kargi HPP a study to measure the benefits of In Sweden, there is an ongoing process of revision of increased water efficiency downstream on the Kizilirmak River environmental legislation for hydropower. The focus of the new was recently initiated. The overall goal is to utilize surplus water legislation is to remove obstacles to the WFD implementation. not required by irrigation for power generation. The current weak Based on a 2016 cross-parliamentary Energy Agreement, the condition of the existing irrigation structure has made it clear that hydropower industry is expected to finance in total its adaptation there is significant potential for improved water management on to EU WFD requirements. Together with eight other large the Kizilirmak River without adversely affecting its users. This hydropower companies, Statkraft is implementing a project to study will help us to optimize the use of the water while achieve this target by setting up a voluntary Hydro improving predictability and the physical conditions of the Environmental Fund. Over a 20-year period, the fund owners will irrigation structures for the farmers at the same time. contribute in total SEK 10 billion that will be used to facilitate the STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 24 R&D activities In the future, more extreme weather patterns will put water Statkraft is committed to R&D. During 2017, an international resources in general under increased stress. This requires new sediment seminar took place as a joint initiative between coordinated and integrated models for water management. Statkraft, Norwegian University of Science and Technology Water will need to be stored and released in times of excess and (NTNU) and the Norwegian Research Centre for Hydropower scarcity for different purposes, the most urgent being drinking Technology, HydroCen. During the seminar current research and water, irrigation and flood control. Combining the need for water experiences on managing extreme flood events, sediment yields, storage for these purposes with the storage capacities in transport and measurement challenges, deposition in reservoirs hydropower opens new possibilities for multipurpose hydropower and wear and resilience of turbines, including fish stress from plants. The research and analysis required for developing good sediment pulses, were presented. In addition, Statkraft takes water management and business models is similar to operational actively part in hydropower R&D through its participation in models for hydropower plants. HydroCen to strengthen Norway’s position as a leading hydropower nation. Material topic: Water management Goals towards 2020 Main activities and initiatives in 2017 Ensure proactive and adequate  Clear processes in place to follow-up concessions in close dialogue with authorities handling and systematic follow-up of  Integrated activities in daily operation and maintenance processes water levels, flow-limits and  Increased management engagement on the flow-limits and hydropeaking requirements hydropeaking requirements in our  Statkraft takes actively part in Hydropower R&D in HydroCen concessions Demonstrate sustainable water  Proactive water management in selected water courses to reduce floods management based on improved  Kargi downstream water optimisation assessment understanding of the effects of climate change on water availability (e.g. scarcity and flood control) in all areas of operation 25 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Climate change Overview of climate change risk and mitigation Scenario Analysis and Stakeholder Input As a leading renewable energy company with mainly renewable Statkraft continuously follows national, EU and global climate electricity generation (96.5%), the company has a significantly policy developments to assess the possible impact on our lower carbon intensity (14 kg CO2/MWh) than the sector average, business. Likewise, understanding the impacts of cost and and is exposed to lower climate change risks than competitors technological developments within renewable technologies are a with mainly fossil fuel based power generation. core part of our analysis. We provide direct input to policy processes in Norway and the EU, including an annual “Low The majority of Statkraft’s assets have a high longevity, and the Emissions Scenario Report”. company conducts its core activities under a long term perspective. Water and wind are our main input parameters, and as natural resources they are exposed to physical climate change. In addition, climate policies as well as energy policies define the regulatory framework for our operations. Improving hydrological performance Statkraft continuously adapts to climate change in operation and long term planning of our hydro assets. Our day-to-day operation in the Nordics reveals our evolving understanding of ongoing changes in precipitation patterns. Statkraft participates in several international and national projects in order to improve our understanding of climate change effects on the hydrological resource situation for short and long term, both in and outside of Norway. This aims at assessing future water availability to understand implications on balancing water needs for energy production, flood mitigation, ecosystem services and environment. In the future, more extreme weather patterns will put water resources in general under increased stress. This requires new coordinated and integrated models for water management. Water will need to be stored and released in times of excess and scarcity for different purposes, the most urgent being drinking water, irrigation and flood control. Combining the need for water storage for these purposes with the storage capacities in hydropower opens new possibilities for multipurpose hydropower plants. The research and analysis required for developing good water To better capture future uncertainties, Statkraft develops various scenarios where we management and business models is similar to operational analyse global and regional drivers in the energy market. The Low Emissions Scenario models for hydropower plants. In the Nordics, Statkraft is doing 2017 shows a development in which today’s trends of growing renewable energy significant maintenance and upgrading work on dams, among deployment and increased electrifications continue towards 2040, which leads to a world of lower greenhouse gas emissions. others, to prepare for changes in precipitation patterns and more extreme weather. STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 26 Material topic: Climate change mitigation, adaptation and preparedness Goals towards 2020 Main activities and initiatives for Climate change in 2017 Further develop the understanding of  Declared climate neutrality and joined the Climate Neutral Now pledge. the impact of national and  Published the “Low Emissions Scenario Report” to share perspectives on the sector international climate policies on our developments with the public and relevant shareholders. business and, as appropriate,  Elaborated specific recommendations for legislative changes in the ongoing revision of the provide Statkraft’s perspectives, European Emission Trading System and communicated these to relevant stakeholders. including on carbon pricing, to relevant stakeholders  Elaborated specific recommendations to the EU Clean Energy Package and communicated these to relevant stakeholders.  Signed various joint industry letters and calls for action on strengthening European and global climate action.  Participates in the World Bank Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition and had an active role in preparing high level briefing notes on the benefits of carbon pricing as the core approach to decarbonisation on a global level.  Participates in the Norway 203040 coalition, a group of Norwegian companies and organisations, to enhance commercial solutions for realising Norways’ low carbon growth ambitions.  Under the “Statkraft Policy Research Programme” the Grantham Institute on Climate Change and the Environment at the London School of Economics conducts a research project “A Fitfor-purpose EU Climate and Energy Policy”.  As Commissioner in the Global Commission on the Economy and Climate Statkraft actively contributes to new reports and initiatives to showcase global action against climate change. Improve our market and strategic  Statkraft continuously updates assumptions in our market models resulting from changes in analysis in order to incorporate climate and climate policies and regulatory frameworks in order to assess the impact on the climate change induced changes value of our assets, technologies, market structure and development. Promote common understanding of  Statkraft participates in Copernicus Climate Change projects aiming at providing climate how climate change affects all our change products tailored for the energy sector in Europe. assets and continue to evaluate new  Statkraft participates in a number of R&D projects supported by the Norwegian Research business opportunities accordingly, Council. A recent example is the project TWEX-Future. The project is led by CICERO and based on company-wide climate uses a novel approach for assessing the risks created by extreme weather events in Norway. assumptions  For assets outside the Nordics, we are conducting hydrological impact studies. We also assess future water availability in order to understand future implications on balancing water needs for energy production, ecosystem services and the environment. Contribute to scientific methods for  Statkraft assesses and develops tools to evaluate potential net GHG releases from our assessing the climate impact of our hydropower reservoirs, both in combination with leading research institutes, other industries, business the International Energy Agency (IEA) and International Hydropower Association (IHA). 27 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Business ethics Framework for business ethics and anti-corruption work in Training and communication Statkraft Statkraft ensures that all employees are familiar with the principles Statkraft has continued to expand the efforts within the area of set out in the Code of Conduct through orientations given when business ethics and anti-corruption in recent years. One of the joining the company, training conducted regularly for all staff, and important decisions taken in this regard was to establish a new through communication by senior managers. Over the last year Corporate Compliance Unit, as part of Corporate Legal and training sessions were conducted in all major locations. In addition Compliance, in 2016. The Compliance unit is responsible for specialised training sessions were organised for the Board of developing and maintaining a group wide compliance programme Directors, the senior management team, managers, and staff adjusted to risks of the company, and for keeping up to date with members in different functions. Compliance has been included as all relevant developments in external legislation and standards. an important topic in all major leadership and company events The Compliance programme covers the areas of corruption, fraud, conducted through the year. money-laundering, sanctions and export control, as well as personal data protection and competition law. The compliance programme is regularly reviewed and updated to fit the size and risk exposure of the company, with an extensive audit of the programme being initiated in the last part of 2017. The internal rules are defined based on the Norwegian legal standard, and are specific and detailed in what is expected in terms of professional and ethical conduct by employees. The Board of Directors is involved in the compliance work through regular discussions of development of the programme, minimum quarterly. In the last year a new approach was adopted for the Board of Director’s involvement in this work, expanding their involvement further. In 2017, further staff resources were allocated to the compliance Group task during a training session for staff in Brazil. work in the company, including the recruitment of new specialist expertise in several areas. In the second half of the year a new project was initiated to develop new training and communication activities. This will Compliance programme continuously adjusted to the include a new e-learning training course with interactive modules, changes in the company in the different languages used by the group. New material for Statkraft conducts regular risk assessments on anti-corruption for class room session and new guidance material is also being the whole company, annually for all business areas. Risks are developed. The new guidance material will be made available followed up through dedicated mitigation measures. The risk through a new portal currently under development. management process is more extensive for high risk locations and projects, and always involves the combination of local expertise Handling of risk related to third parties and central compliance resources. During 2017 a process was Statkraft has clear and detailed procedures for the handling of initiated to revise and further strengthen the risk assessment risks related to third parties. This includes a policy for how methodology, including incorporating new topics covered by the background checks are conducted, how contract clauses should compliance agenda. The new methodology will be rolled out in all be formulated, and how monitoring should be conducted for high business and staff areas in 2018. risk contracts. The main corruption risks identified for the company relate to M&A All high risk business partners (including all agents) are checked processes and JVs; procurement and payment processes; the use independently by the Compliance unit. The integrity reviews of consultants and intermediaries; government permitting and conducted include an assessment of the ownership structure (incl. licensing processes; and conflict of interest. The risks typically beneficial owners), an assessment of connections to politically vary depending on the geographical location, technology and type exposed persons, and a broad assessment of reputational risks of business activity in question. These nuances are reflected in associated with the counterparty. The level of the analysis is the risk maps of different business units. adjusted to the nature of business partners and agreements. Over the last year additional work was undertaken to further develop The corporate compliance programme is regularly updated to and adjust the procedures for third party checks for locations and reflect risks identified through risk assessments and through follow business activity areas with particular risk exposure. There are up on concrete cases and investigations. This includes also new efforts being made to revise the approaches to development of new procedures and controls, and adjustments to monitoring of third parties during the contracting period. training activities. In the last year work was done to review the standard business ethics clauses included in contracts with third parties, to ensure STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 28 that these reflect the developments of legal requirements and the management, more frequent communication by managers on risk exposure of different types of contracting processes. topics of business ethics, and new KPIs on compliance. New KPIs for compliance include a target of 95% of staff trained Internal controls annually, and an annual target of 85% implementation of Statkraft has invested over recent years in improved controls dedicated compliance prevention plans in high risk locations and related to anti-corruption and fraud prevention. There is an projects. ongoing collaboration between the Compliance unit and the CFO area for the further development of such controls. Over the last Collective action year there was a significant amount of effort invested into Statkraft continues to contribute to collective action on compliance implementation of improved controls in core financial processes, topics. In the last year, this has included participating in dedicated such as for the ‘procure-to-pay’ process and the roll-out of a initiatives organised by industry associations, participating as dedicated new Fraud Prevention System. The latter system is in speakers at industry events in several of the countries where we the process of being rolled out to a prioritised set of locations, operate. followed by a broader roll-out next year. Reporting of concerns Statkraft has an established system for reporting of concerns. Employees have the right and responsibility to report concerns and breaches of legal or ethical commitments through the line organisation or the Group’s whistleblowing channel. Reporting can be made anonymously through the whistleblowing channel which is managed by Corporate Audit. The whistleblowing channel is also available for externals via Statkraft’s web site. In the last year further efforts were made to increase the awareness of the reporting channels throughout the company, and to further improve the process for reporting and handling of reported cases. Statkraft organised a meeting with representatives from other companies, NGOs and public entities in Chile to discuss developments related to business ethics. New initiatives in the compliance area Tax In addition to the continuous development of the key areas of work In light of an increased focus globally on tax governance and tax outlined above, several new initiatives were launched in the last transparency, the Board of Directors decided in April 2017 to year, described below. approve the voluntary disclosure of a global tax strategy detailing the internal tax policies, practices and procedures embedded in Personal Data Protection project Statkraft’s management system. The voluntary publication of a A Personal data protection ‘up-lift’ project was launched. This is a global tax strategy was done in addition to the mandatory project aimed at bringing Statkraft to the necessary level of publication of a specific UK tax strategy, published in accordance maturity of compliance with applicable personal data protection with recent UK legislation. rules. External expectations are changing, with a significantly stricter set of rules coming into force with the new European Statkraft pursues a tax strategy that is principled, transparent and General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) that takes effect from sustainable and aligned with our Code of Conduct. We are May 2018. The project is focused, amongst other things, on committed to ensure full compliance with all statutory obligations clarifying roles and responsibilities, improving policies and and full disclosure to tax authorities and we transact on an arm’s procedures, and increasing awareness and knowledge on length basis. We do not engage in artificial tax arrangements and personal data protection. actively consider all implications of tax planning. Moreover, all tax planning is subject to robust review and approval processes and Tone from the Top initiative shall: Statkraft has made continuous efforts with regards to tone from • Support genuine commercial activity the top initiatives. The CEO and senior managers regularly • Rely on full disclosure of the facts and circumstances to the communicate about business ethics principles during corporate relevant tax authority events, meetings and training events. They participate in giving • Not use tax regimes considered as “harmful” by the OECD or EU training, and communicate around new initiatives in their leadership teams and to staff more broadly. In order to further Statkraft has an established procedure in place for tax risk strengthen the leadership on business ethics, the CEO decided to management that facilitates appropriate identification, measuring, introduce a new Tone from the Top initiative in the last year. The management and reporting of tax risks. initiative includes, amongst other things, increased focus on lesson learning and dilemma training activities at different levels of 29 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Material topic: Business ethics and anti-corruption Goals towards 2020 Main activities and initiatives in 2017 All employees complete training in  Over the last year training sessions were conducted in all major locations. In addition business ethics with focus on antispecialised training sessions were organised for the board, the senior management team, corruption managers in different functions, and staff members in different functions. Compliance was included as an important topic in all major leadership and company events conducted through the year.  In the second half of the year a new project was initiated to develop new training and communication activities, such as a new e-learning training course with interactive modules, new material for class room session and new guidance material. Continue to strengthen the culture of  In the last year further efforts were made to increase the awareness of the reporting channels reporting of concerns and breaches throughout the company, and further improve the process for reporting and handling of reported cases. Continue to ensure adequate  Statkraft conducts regular risk assessments on anti-corruption for the whole company, corporate-wide handling of antiannually for all business areas. Risks are followed up through dedicated mitigation measures. corruption and business ethics risks, The risk management process is more extensive for high risk locations and projects, and with particular focus on high risk always involves the combination of local expertise with central compliance resources. processes  During 2017 a process was initiated to revise and further strengthen the risk assessment methodology, including incorporating new topics covered by the compliance agenda. Improve the adequacy of how  Over the last year there was a significant amount of effort invested into implementation of business ethics is reflected in improved controls in core financial processes, such as for the ‘procure-to-pay’ process and requirements and controls for key the roll-out of a dedicated new Fraud Prevention System. The latter system is in the process business processes of being rolled out to a prioritised set of locations, followed by a broader roll-out next year. STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 30 APPENDIX 32 About the Corporate Responsibility Report 33 Corporate responsibility statement Social disclosures Environmental disclosures Economic disclosures Impact on watercourses 2017 Red list species (within fauna) 2017 45 GRI index 49 UN Global Compact index 50 Auditor’s statement 31 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 About the Corporate Responsibility Report The report is based on the Global Reporting Statkraft’s corporate responsibility Initiative Standards statement Statkraft’s corporate responsibility reporting is based on the Statkraft’s corporate responsibility statement presents the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. The GRI Standards numeric results for the last three years for economic, include both relevant disclosures for a range of topics, as well as environmental and social disclosures. The presented data ten reporting principles related to the reporting process. covers the entire company, unless information provided next to the disclosure indicates otherwise. Statkraft believes that the reported disclosures (indicators) capture the most material topics for Statkraft at corporate level, while also The statement mainly follows the Group’s accounting principles for taking into account expectations from our stakeholders. The CR treatment of subsidiaries, partly-owned power plants and report has been developed in accordance with the GRI Standards, associated companies. Information and data is collected from all Core option. companies where Statkraft is the majority owner, and this is included in the statement in its entirety. Data related to health and Material topics and adhering ambitions and safety is collected from all companies where Statkraft owns 20% or more. goals In 2015, Statkraft conducted a materiality analysis with the aim of The statement covers activities and sites in all phases from identifying the corporate responsibility topics that have most planning to operation. significance for Statkraft. The analysis was conducted according to the principles described in GRI’s Technical Protocol, and Third party verification endorsed by Statkraft’s auditor, Deloitte AS. The materiality analysis included identifying key stakeholders and their most Statkraft has engaged Deloitte AS to conduct a review and important topics related to corporate responsibility and conducting provide a limited level of assurance on Statkraft’s Corporate workshops with representatives from Statkraft’s organisation to Responsibility Report. The review and assurance is carried out in identify the most material topics for the company. accordance with the assurance standard ISAE 3000 “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial All aspects of corporate responsibility are important for Statkraft, Information” established by the International Auditing and but the analysis identified the following six topics to be the most Assurance Standards Board. significant for the company: The auditor’s conclusion and scope of work is presented in the  Safety and safeguarding of people Auditor’s report.  Human rights  Water management Statkraft is a member of the UN Global  Biodiversity Compact  Climate change mitigation, adaptation and preparedness The UN Global Compact comprises ten fundamental corporate  Business ethics and anti-corruption responsibility principles relating to human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Companies that endorse the ten Statkraft has developed ambitions and goals towards 2020 for the principles of the Global Compact commit to supporting and six material topics, and Statkraft’s corporate responsibility report is respecting the principles and reporting their performance annually. structured according to the identified material topics. The report presents an overview of activities and initiatives performed in 2017 Statkraft has been a member of the UN Global Compact since that contribute towards achieving the stated goals for each 2010, and believes that the Global Compact’s ten principles are material topic. integrated into its strategy and daily operations. Members of the UN Global Compact are obliged to annually report its progress to UN Global Compact, and this CR report function as Statkraft’s progress report. STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 32 Corporate responsibility statement Social disclosures Health and safety Fatalities Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Consolidated operations 1) Employees Number 0 0 0 Contractors Number 0 1 0 Third party Number 0 0 0 Associates 2) Employees Number 0 0 0 Contractors Number 0 0 0 Third party Number 0 0 0 1) Activities where Statkraft has > 50% ownership. 2) Activities where Statkraft has 20 50% ownership Serious incidents 1) Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Serious injuries Number 4 5 6 Incidents with, or with potential for, serious consequences Number 48 40 39 1) Includes activities where Statkraft has ≥ 20% ownership. Injuries 1) Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Employees Lost-time injuries (LTI) 2) Number 40 42 41 Lost-time injuries per million hours worked LTI rate 3.4 3.3 3.3 Total recordable injuries (TRI) 3) Number 78 71 70 Total recordable injuries per million hours worked TRI rate 6.6 5.6 5.6 Contractors Lost-time injuries (LTI) 2) Number 27 39 63 Lost-time injuries per million hours worked LTI rate 2.2 2.8 3.6 Total recordable injuries (TRI) 3) Number 46 57 106 Total recordable injuries per million hours worked TRI rate 3.8 4.2 6.0 Third parties Injuries 4) Number 0 0 0 Statkraft, total Lost-time injuries per million hours worked LTI rate 2.8 3.1 3.5 Total recordable injuries per million hours worked TRI rate 5.2 4.9 5.9 1) Includes activities where Statkraft has ≥ 20% ownership. 2) Work-related injuries which have resulted in absence extending beyond the day of the injury. 3) Work-related injuries, with and without absence. Includes injuries which resulted in absence, medical treatment or need for alternative work assignments. 4) Recorded injuries requiring treatment by a doctor. Sick leave 1) Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Sick leave, total % 3.5 3.0 3.0 Of which short-term absence (16 days or less) % 1.5 1.5 1.4 Of which long-term absence (more than 16 days) % 2.0 1.5 1.6 1) Sick leave due to illness or injuries, as percentage of normal working hours. Judicial sanctions and fines, health and safety Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Judicial sanctions for non-compliance with health and safety legislation Number 1 0 0 Judicial fines for non-compliance with health and safety legislation NOK milion 0 0 0 Administrative fines for non-compliance with health and safety legislation NOK milion 0.05 1) 0 0 1) Fine to District Heating related to safety incident. 33 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Labour practices Employees Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Employees 31.12 Number 3 593 3 804 4 119 Of which in Norway Number 2 241 2 297 2 327 Of which in other Nordic countries Number 213 224 222 Of which in other European countries Number 661 732 725 Of which in the rest of the world Number 478 551 845 Full-time employees 31.12 % 96 96 97 Staff turnover rate 1) % 5.7 6.6 4.6 Service time Average service time Years 12.0 11.6 10.8 Average service time for employees resigned or dismissed 1) Years 8.3 9.7 6.6 Apprentices employed 31.12 Number 77 59 61 Trainees employed 31.12 Number 7 15 15 Nationalities represented among Statkraft's employees Number 51 43 44 1) Excluding retirements, and not including ENEX in Brazil (2016). Gender equality Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Percentage of women Total % 25 25 23 In Norway % 27 27 26 In other Nordic countries % 19 20 20 In other European countries % 23 24 25 In the rest of the world % 22 19 14 In management positions % 22 22 23 In Norway % 26 25 26 In other Nordic countries % 9 12 15 In other European countries % 18 19 20 In the rest of the world % 18 18 17 In Corporate Management % 29 29 29 In Statkraft's Board of Directors % 44 44 50 Among employees recruited in the reporting year % 22 24 26 Among managers recruited in the reporting year % 20 19 16 Among full-time employees % 23 23 22 Among part-time employees % 57 70 55 Equal salary Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Salary ratio among employees 1) Ratio 0.93 0.90 0.97 In Norway Ratio 0.97 0.93 0.96 In other Nordic countries Ratio 1.00 0.96 1.05 In other European countries Ratio 0.81 0.76 0.85 In the rest of the world Ratio 0.92 0.94 1.07 Salary ratio among managers 1) Ratio 0.92 0.90 0.91 In Norway Ratio 0.99 0.97 0.96 In other Nordic countries Ratio 0.90 0.84 0.91 In other European countries Ratio 0.74 0.73 0.77 In the rest of the world Ratio 1.04 0.93 0.89 1) Average salary for women in relation to average salary for men. Statkraft as employer Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Organisation and leadership evaluation 1) Result Scale 0-100 72 2) 73 Response rate % 92 2) 88 Employees who have completed the performance and career development review % 97 81 Ranking as preferred employer 3) among Business students Ranking 58 60 53 Engineering students Ranking 6 6 7 Business professionals Ranking 22 31 37 Engineering professionals Ranking 13 6 8 1) From Statkraft’s internal annual organisation and leadership evaluation survey. Statkraft’s score can be compared with the Global Employee and Leadership Index Norway 2017 result of 70. 2) Evaluation postponed to 2017. 3) Ranking among final-year students and professionals, as defined and measured in the annual Universum Graduate Survey for Norway and the Universum Professional Survey for Norway. STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 34 Human rights Training on human rights 1), 2) Unit of measurement 2017 Number of hours in the reporting period devoted to training on human rights Hours 217 Employees that have received training on human rights in the reporting year % 13 Senior management that have received training on human rights in the reporting % 100 year 1) This indicator was introduced in 2017. 2) Human rights training considered here is a “specific” human rights training and awareness. This number does not cover trainings on human rights aspects such as Health and safety, or our report of concern procedures (that are part of our implementation of Pillar 3 of the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights) for which 100% of employees received training. Engagements and consultations with indigenous peoples Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Number of projects with ongoing engagement and consultations involving rights of Number 8 10 9 indigenous peoples 1) 1) Including ongoing consultations in Norway, Sweden and Chile. Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples 1) Unit of measurement 2017 Total number of identified incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous Number 0 peoples during the reporting period 1) This indicator was introduced in 2017. Judicial sanctions and fines, human rights 1) Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Judicial sanctions Number 0 0 0 Judicial fines NOK million 0 0 0 Administrative fines NOK million 0 0 0 1) Material judicial sanctions for discrimination, forced labour, child labour or violations of the freedom of association, indigenous peoples rights or labour rights. 35 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Environmental disclosures Climate Greenhouse gas emissions Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Emissions of CO2 eqivalents, consolidated activities 1) Tonnes 818 000 773 400 258 600 Of which from gas power plants (scope 1) Tonnes 763 900 722 700 188 800 Of which from district heating plants 2) (scope 1) Tonnes 23 500 24 900 13 000 Of which from SF6 emissions (scope 1) Tonnes 900 2 700 2 300 Of which halon emissions (scope 1) Tonnes 0 1 000 0 Of which from fuel consumption 3) (scope 1) Tonnes 26 900 19 100 50 900 Of which from electricity consumption 4) (scope 2) Tonnes 0 Of which from business travel 5) (scope 3) Tonnes 2 800 3 000 3 600 Emissions of CO2 equivalents from affiliated gas power plants 6) Tonnes 94 500 85 600 26 000 Emissions of CO2 equivalents from Heimdal incineration plant 2) Tonnes 79 800 79 000 82 000 Emissions of biogenic CO2 from district heating plants Tonnes 153 200 SF6 emissions kg 40 120 101 Halon emissions kg 0 140 0 1) Statkraft’s ownership is >50%. 2) Emissions of CO2 from Heimdal incineration plant is not included in Statkraft's total CO2 statement, in alignment with the reporting practice to SSB (Statistics Norway). 3) CO from fuel consumption from the Group’s machinery and vehicles. 2 4) 100% of Statkraft'selectricity consumption is certified renewable. 5) Comprises travel by air and car in the Norwegian operations. 6) Statkraft’s share. Greenhouse gas emissions per scope 1) Unit of measurement 2017 Scope 1: Direct emissions Tonnes 815 200 Scope 2: Indirect emissions, related to electricity consumption Tonnes 0 Scope 3: Other indirect emissions Tonnes 2 800 1) Reporting of greenhouse gas emissions per scope was introduced in 2017. Relative greenhouse gas emissions 1) Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 CO2-equivalent emissions per MWh power generation, total kg/MWh 14 12 5 CO2-equivalent emissions per MWh power generation, gas power kg/MWh 390 367 408 CO2-equivalent emissions per MWh district heating production 2) kg/MWh 19 23 12 1) Includes Statkraft’s share of production and direct fossil CO2 emissions from the production process. Includes also Statkraft’s share of production and emissions of CO2 in the jointly controlled power plant Herdecke (Germany). 2) Emissions of CO from Heimdal incineration plant is not included in Statkraft's total CO statement, in alignment with the reporting practice to SSB (Statistics Norway). 2 2 Biodiversity and impact on nature Impacts on watercourses 1), 2) Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Impacted river courses with: Anadromous fish Number 46 46 46 Catadromous fish Number 5 5 5 Impacted national salmon rivers Number 13 13 13 Impacted protected rivers Number 8 8 8 1) Impact entails change of waterflow, water levels or other living conditions for fish. 2) More detailed information related to impact on watercourses is presented on page 42 in Statkraft's CR report. Fish cultivation Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Restocking of fish and smolt 1) Number 2 188 400 916 700 523 000 Of which in Norway Number 1 614 700 485 400 139 600 Of which in other Nordic countries Number 543 700 403 300 376 400 Of which in other European countries Number 30 000 28 000 7 000 Of which in the rest of the world Number 0 0 0 Stocking of fish roe 2) Number 568 200 471 800 1 080 000 1) Includes salmon, inland trout, sea trout, grayling and eel. 2) Includes salmon in Norway and eel in Sweden. Red list species (fauna) 1), 2) Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Red list species with habitat in areas impacted by Statkraft's operations in: Norway Number 32 33 2 3) Other Nordic countries Number 6 6 6 Other European countries Number 13 2 0 Rest of the world Number 83 4) 23 61 1) More detailed information on red list species is presented on page 43 in Statkraft's CR report. 2) Includes species defines as red list species by either International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) or national authorities. 3) Includes red list species with habitat areas impacted by Skagerak Energi's operations. 4) The increase in red list species is mainly due to the inclusion of Brazil in the statement. STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 36 Operational sites in, or adjacent to, protected areas 1) Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Operational sites in, or adjacent to, protected areas Number 27 21 19 Of which in Norway Number 16 16 14 Of which in other Nordic countries Number 6 4 4 Of which in other European countries Number 5 1 1 Of which in the rest of the world Number 0 0 0 1) Limited to natural parks and nature or wildelife reserves. Consumption Electricity consumption Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Electricity consumption GWh 944 918 1 031 Of which pumped-storage power GWh 633 566 858 Of which electric boilers for district heating GWh 65 63 35 Of which other operations GWh 246 289 138 Fuel consumption Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Fossil fuel consumption Natural gas, gas power plants Mill. Nm3 354 349 91 Fuel gas, district heating plants Tonnes 5 750 6 722 3 506 Fuel oil, district heating plants Tonnes 1 813 1 556 3 438 Engine fuel 1) Tonnes 8 493 6 039 14 502 Other fuel consumption Waste for district heating plants Tonnes 221 800 219 400 227 700 Waste for bio power plants Tonnes 265 400 279 200 110 000 Bio fuel Tonnes 183 900 207 700 154 200 1) Includes consumption of fuel for vehicles and machinery (for example generators). Use of water 1) Unit of measurement 2017 Cooling water, gas power plants m3 1 900 000 Process water 2) m3 251 000 Of which used in gas power plants m3 185 000 Of which used in district heating plants m3 66 000 District heating pipe leakages m3 24 600 1) This indicator was introduced in 2017. 2) Used for treatment of gas emissions. Waste Waste Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Hazardous waste Tonnes 15 400 17 000 18 900 Of which from waste incineration plants 1) Tonnes 6 900 6 800 6 600 Of which from bio power plants Tonnes 7 900 9 400 8 300 Of which other hazardous waste Tonnes 600 850 3 980 Non-hazardous waste Tonnes 51 400 50 000 54 500 Of which non-hazardous waste separated at source Tonnes 49 800 48 600 52 500 Of which residual non-hazardous waste Tonnes 1 600 1 300 2 000 1) Consists of filter dust and filter cake. 37 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Environmental incidents and assessments Environmental incidents Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Serious environmental incidents 1) Number 0 0 0 Less serious environmental incidents 2) Number 187 233 228 1) An incident that results in permanent or severe environmental damage (restitution time>1 year). 2) An incident that causes a negative environmental impact, but without permanent or severe environmental damage (restitution time<1 year). Most of the less serious envoronmental incidents in 2017 were related to minor breaches of emission regulations for biomass plants and minor oil spills to water and ground with little or no impact on the environment. Environmental assessment 1) Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Environmental assessment result, total Rating B B+ B+ Environmental management Rating C+ B B Products and services Rating BB B Eco-efficiency Rating A+ A A 1) Environmental assessement from the rating company Oekom Research AG. Rating from Eto A+ (highest), where rating Band above is considered as leading by Oekom Research. Judicial sanctions and fines, environment Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Judicial sanctions Number 1 0 0 Judicial fines NOK million 0 0 0 Administrative fines NOK million 0,2 1) 0 0 1) Breach of the concessional terms at Alta hydropower plant. STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 38 Economic disclosures Power generation and district heating production Installed capacity per technology and geography 1) Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Installed capacity power generation MW 17 478 17 418 16 778 Of which hydropower MW 14 099 14 075 13 464 Of which wind power MW 947 703 647 Of which gas power 2) MW 2 390 2 600 2 600 Of which bio power MW 43 40 67 Installed capacity, district heating MW 835 820 838 Installed capacity per geography, power generation Norway MW 11 857 12 041 11 711 Other Nordic countries MW 1 813 1 606 1 587 Other European countries MW 2 974 2 971 2 863 Rest of the world MW 834 800 617 Installed effect per geography, district heating Norway MW 671 657 675 Other Nordic countries MW 164 164 164 Installed capacity per technology and geography 1) Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Installed capacity per technology, power generation Hydropower % 80.7 80.8 80.2 Wind power % 5.4 4.0 3.9 Gas power 2) % 13.7 14.9 15.5 Bio power % 0.2 0.2 0.4 Installed capacity per geography, power generation Norway % 67.8 69.1 69.8 Other Nordic countries % 10.4 9.2 9.5 Other European countries % 17.0 17.1 17.1 Rest of the world % 4.8 4.6 3.7 Installed capacity per geography, district heating Norway % 80.4 80.1 80.5 Other Nordic countries % 19.6 19.9 19.5 Capacity under development per technology and geography 1), 3) Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Capacity under development, power generation MW 718 729 909 Of which hydropower MW 184 207 4) 873 Of which wind power MW 520 522 36 Of which solar power MW 14 0 0 Capacity under development, district heating MW 0 0 21 Capacity under development per geography, power generation Norway MW 520 545 100 Other Nordic countries MW 0 0 0 Other European countries MW 198 184 4) 809 Rest of the world MW 0 0 0 Capacity under development per geography, district heating Norway MW 0 0 21 Capacity under development per technology and geography 1), 3) Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Capacity under development per technology, power generation Hydropower % 25.6 28,4 4) 96.0 Wind power % 72.4 71.6 4.0 Solar power % 1.9 0 0 Capacity under development per geography, power generation Norway % 72.4 74.8 11.0 Other Nordic countries % 0 0 0 Other European countries % 27.6 25,2 4) 89.0 Rest of the world % 0 0 0 Capacity under development per geography, district heating Norway % 100.0 39 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Power generation and district heating production per technology and geography 1) Enhet 2017 2016 2015 Power generation, total TWh 62.6 66.0 56.3 Of which hydropower TWh 57.4 61.2 53.1 Of which wind power TWh 2.7 2.3 2.5 Of which gas power 2) TWh 2.2 2.2 0.5 Of which bio power TWh 0.3 0.3 0.3 District heating TWh 1.1 1.1 1.1 Renewable power generation 5) % 96.5 96.7 99.1 Renewable district heating 5) % 91.6 91.8 94.7 Power generation per geography Norway TWh 48.6 52.8 44.4 Other Nordic countries TWh 6.6 6.1 7.2 Other European countries TWh 3.2 3.2 1.3 Rest of the world TWh 4.2 3.9 3.4 District heating per geography Norway TWh 0.9 0.9 0.8 Other Nordic countries TWh 0.2 0.2 0.2 Power generation and district heating production per technology and geography 1) Enhet 2017 2016 2015 Power generation per technology Hydropower % 91.7 92.7 94.3 Wind power % 4.3 3.5 4.4 Gas power 2) % 3.6 3.3 0.9 Bio power % 0.4 0.5 0.5 Power generation per geography Norway % 77.6 80 78.9 Other Nordic countries % 10.5 9.2 12.9 Other European countries % 5.1 4.8 2.3 Rest of the world % 6.8 5.9 6.0 District heating per geography Norway % 79.5 81.8 80.1 Other Nordic countries % 20.5 18.2 19.9 1) Includes Statkraft's shareholdings in subsidiaries where Statkraft has a majority interest. 2) Includes the jointly controlled Herdecke (Germany) power plant. 3) Includes projects with an investment decision. 4) The Cetin project is no longer included in the figures, as it was sold in 2017. 5) Non-renewable production consists of gas power and share of district heating based on fossil fuel. Production at Heimdal, the incineration plant in Trondheim, is counted as 100% renewable district heating production (alligned with SSB, Statistics Norway, reporting practice). Contribution to society Value creation Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Gross operating revenues NOK million 68 968 50 987 53 094 Paid to suppliers for goods and services 1) NOK million 42 717 34 261 37 655 Gross value added NOK million 26 251 16 727 15 439 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment NOK million 4 162 8 260 6 401 Net value added NOK million 22 089 8 467 9 038 Financial income NOK million 456 380 421 Share of profit from associates NOK million 0 0 683 Minority interests NOK million -94 -62 -598 Values for distibution NOK million 22 639 8 909 10 740 1) Includes energy purchases, transmission costs and operating expenses. Distribution of value created Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Employees Gross salaries and benefits NOK million 3 262 3 202 3 107 Lenders/owners Interest NOK million 1 804 -1 757 5 740 Dividend 1) NOK million 2 052 0 1 604 Taxes 2) NOK million 5 747 7 581 3 665 The company Change in equity NOK million 9 774 -117 -3 376 Total wealth distributed NOK million 22 639 8 909 10 740 1) Includes dividend and Group contribution from Statkraft AS to Statkraft SF. 2) Includes taxes, property tax, licence fees and employers’ contribution. STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 40 Taxes 1) Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Total NOK million 4 010 4 764 2 825 Of which in Norway NOK million 3 603 4 366 2 390 Of which in other Nordic countries NOK million 50 8 100 Of which in other European countries NOK million 333 293 279 Of which in the rest of the world NOK million 23 97 56 1) Taxes payable in the balance sheet. Business ethics and anti-corruption Training on anti-corruption 1) Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Employees that have received training on anti-corruption in the last three years Percentage 100 100 92 Employees in senior management positions that have received training on antiPercentage 100 100 90 corruption in the last two years Statkraft's Board members that have received training on anti-corruption in the last Yes/No Yes Yes two years 2) 1) This indicator was covers the Group, excluding Skagerak Energi and Fjordkraft. 2) This indicator was introduced in 2016. Judicial sanctions and fines, business ethics and anti-corruption 1) Unit of measurement 2017 2016 2015 Judicial sanctions Number 0 0 0 Judicial fines NOK million 0 0 0 Administrative fines NOK million 0 0 0 1) Material judicial sanctions for accounting fraud, corruption, anti-competetive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices. Reported concerns covering the scope of the Code of Conduct Reported concerns (whistleblowing) 1) Unit of measurement 2017 2016 Total number of reported concerns 2) Number 57 46 Of which related to business ethics and anti-corruption Number 40 23 Investigations initiated by Corporate Audit in the reporting year Number 5 4 1) The scope of the whistleblowing procedures relates to the full scope of Statkraft's Code of Conduct, e.g. human rights, environment, health and safety, business ethics and anti-corruption. 2) The format for this indicator was changed in 2016, but historical data related to whistleblowing is available and has been published in Statkraft's annual reports since 2008. When a reported concern is received, a risk assessment is done in order to decide how to follow up the concern. Most of the reported concerns are handled by the respective business areas according to Statkraft’s procedures for handling of reported concerns. Concerns with potentially high consequences for the Statkraft Group are handled by Corporate Audit. In cases where a formal investigation is required, this is the responsibility of the Head of Corporate Audit. 41 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Impact on watercourses 2017 Protected rivers and rivers with migrating fish impacted by Statkraft's activities River with eel River with population Country River system anadromous fish (catadromous fish) National salmon river Protected river Region North Norway & South America Altaelva X X Beiarelva X X Bjerkaelva X Engabrevassdraget X Kobbelvvassdraget X Målselvvassdraget X X X Ranaelva X X Røssåga X Skjoma X Vefsna X X Glomdalselva X Region Mid Norway Auravassdraget X Bævra X Daleelva X Dalselva X Hopra X Indredalselva X Isa/Glutra X Jostedalselva X Litledalselva X Nærøydalselva X X Rauma X X X Surna X X Vikja X X Ytredalselva X Nea X Nidelva X X Region South Norway Austdøla/Norddøla X Austrepollelva X Norway Bondhuselva X Førreåna X Jondalselva X Sima X Suldalslågen X X X Ulla X Øyreselva X Årdalselva X Dalåi Klebastølåi X Gaularvassdraget X Rukkeåi Bituåi Tokkeåi Kjelaåi Bora Songaelva Mosåi Eidselva X Mårelva Gjøystelva Røbergelva Borgåi Lågen (fra Tunhovd) Sleipa Numedalsågen X X X Austbygdåi X Dagali X Skagerak Energi AS Siljanvassdraget X Skienselva X Skellefteåälven X Gideälven X Moälven X Nätraälven X Lagan X X Sweden Nissan X X Ångermanälven Umeälven Indalsälven Ljungan X Germany Weser X X UK Rheidol X STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 42 Red list species (within fauna) 2017 Red list species (within fauna) with habitat in areas affected by Statkraft’s activitities 2017 Level of vulnerability: A) Critically endangered, B) Endangered, C) Vulnerable, D) Near threatened, E) Least concern Vulnerability Level of vulnerability: Level of vulnerability: Country Red list species not known IUCN list National list A B C D E A B C D E Eagle Owl X X Goshawk X X Red-throated Diver X X Black-throated Diver X X Willow Grouse X X Eel X X Pearl mussel X X Osprey X X Mycetochara obscura (beetle) X Arctic Warbler X X Stagetus borealis (beetle) X Dolichocis laricinus (beetle) X Mycetophagus multipunctatus (beetle) X Acerbia alpina (moth) X Exodontha dubia (fly) X Norway Trypophloeus alni (beetle) X Phiaris heinrichana (butterfly) X Dune tiger beetle X Hypnoidus consobrinus (beetle) X Denticollis borealis (beetle) X Fleutiauxellus maritimus (beetle) X Bledius denticollis (beetle) X Hare X X Little bunting X X Great snipe X X Common reed bunting X X Northern lapwing X X Northern shoveler X X Black-headed gull X X Sand martin X X Gyrfalcon X X Crayfish X Sea lamprey X X Crayfish X X Otter X X Sweden Golden eagle X X Eel X X Pearl mussel X X Eel X Germany Pearl mussel X UK Red kite X Dalmatian pelican X Wild Goat X Lesser horseshoe bat X Mediterranean Horseshoe Bat X Egyptian vulture X Turkey Greek tortoise X Euphrates softshell turtle X Central Anatolian Spined Loach X Orontes Spotted Bleak X European sea or Atlantic sturgeon X Albania Dalmatian pelican X Chinese pangolin X Asian small-clawed otter X Nepal East Himalayan Yew X Himalayan Musk Deer X Western Tragopan X Peru Sechuran fox or zorro X Puma, Mountain Lion X Brazil Araucaria Tit-spinetail X Azure Jay X 43 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Red list species (within fauna) with habitat in areas affected by Statkraft’s activitities 2017 (continued) Level of vulnerability: A) Critically endangered, B) Endangered, C) Vulnerable, D) Near threatened, E) Least concern Vulnerability Level of vulnerability: Level of vulnerability: Country Red list species not known IUCN list National list Black Spiny-necked Swamp Turtle X Brazilian Dwarf Brocket X Brazilian Three-banded Armadillo X Canebrake Groundcreeper X Green-throated Euphonia X Helmeted Woodpecker X Black-fronted Piping-guan or Jacutinga X Jaguar X Margay X Neotropical Otter X Ochre-breasted Pipit X Northern Tiger Cat or Oncilla X Pampas Deer X Red Myotis X Sharp-tailed Tyrant X Southern Bristle-tyrant X Southern Long-Nosed Armadillo X Southern Tiger Cat X Straight-billed Reedhaunter X Swallow-tailed Cotinga X Vinaceous-breasted Parrot X Brazil White-browed Guan X Wild Common Carp X William’s South-American Side-necked Turtle X Yellow-browed Woodpecker X Yellow-legged Timanou X Mottled Piculet X Black-capped Piprites X Pinheiro-bravo X Creamy-bellied Gnatcatcher X Argintine Horned Frog (Sapo-de-chifres) X Bare-throated Bellbird X Mantled Hawk X Saffron Toucanet X Black-horned Capuchin X Coypu or Rato-do-banhado X Marsh Tapaculo X Ornate Hawk-eagle X Sporophila melanogaster X Rusty Barred Owl (Strix hylophila) X Solitary Tinamou X Saffron-cowled Blackbird X Black-and-white Monjita X Puye Chico / Inanga X Pejerrey Cauque X Bagre Pintado X Tollo de Agua Dulce X Puye X Pocha del Sur X Pouched Lamprey X Carmelita Común X Peladilla X Perca Trucha X Brown Trout X Atlantic Salmon X Chiloe Island Ground Frog X Rosy Ground Frog X Grey Wood Frog X Chile Four-eyed Frog X Chile Yellow-billed Pintail X Chiloé wigeon X Great White Egret X Cocoi Heron X Churrete X Chacoan Peccary or Tagua X Amazon Kingfisher or Martin Pescador X Neotropic Cormorant or Pato Yeco X Great Grebe or Huala X Pied-billed Grebe or Picurio X White-tufted Grebe or Pimpollo /Hualita X Tollo, Bagre, Tollo de Agua Dulce X Torrent Duck X Andean condor X Guanaco X Puma, Mountain Lion X STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 44 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index Statkraft’s GRI index The GRI Standards represent the global best practice for sustainability reporting. The Standards comprise both general disclosures, as well as economic, environmental and social disclosures. Companies can report according to two reporting levels Core or Comprehensive. Statkraft’s corporate responsibility reporting is based on the GRI Standards, at reporting level Core. Statkraft has engaged Deloitte AS to conduct a review to provide a limited level of assurance on Statkraft’s Corporate Responsibility Report. The review is based on the assurance standard ISAE 3000, and the auditor’s conclusion is presented in the Auditor’s report. Explanations for the GRI index Reported = The disclosure is reported according to the GRI Standards. Partly = The disclosure is partly reported according to the GRI Standards. GRI alignment in process = A reporting process aligned with the GRI Standards is under development. EU = Specific disclosure for the energy utilities sector. GENERAL DISCLOSURES: ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS 102-1 Name of the organisation Statkraft AS Reported Statkraft in fact and figures 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Reported Report from the Board of Directors 102-3 Location of headquarters Oslo, Norway Reported 102-4 Location of operations Statkraft in fact and figures Reported 102-5 Ownership and legal form State-owned limited company Reported Statkraft in fact and figures 102-6 Markets served Reported Report from the Board of Directors Financial key figures 102-7 Scale of the organisation Non-financial key figures Reported Statkraft in fact and figures 102-8 Information on employees and other workers CR statement: Labour practices Reported 102-9 Supply chain Management of corporate responsibility Reported Report from the Board of Directors 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain Note 5: Business combinations and Reported other transactions Management of corporate responsibility Economic disclosures: Water 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Reported management Economic disclosures: Climate change Corporate governance 102-12 External initiatives Reported Management of corporate responsibility 102-13 Membership of associations Management of corporate responsibility Reported GENERAL DISCLOSURES: STRATEGY REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Letter from the CEO 102-14 Status from senior decision-maker Reported Report from the Board of Directors GENERAL DISCLOSURES: ETHICS AND INTEGRITY REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Report from the Board of Directors Corporate governance 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour Reported Management of corporate responsibility Economic disclosures: Business ethics GENERAL DISCLOSURES: GOVERNANCE REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS 102-18 Governance structure Corporate governance Reported GENERAL DISCLOSURES: STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Report from the Board of Directors 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Reported Management of corporate responsibility 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Social disclosures: Labour practices Reported 45 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Report from the Board of Directors 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Reported Management of corporate responsibility Report from the Board of Directors 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Reported Management of corporate responsibility Report from the Board of Directors 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Management of corporate responsibility Reported Social disclosures: Human rights GENERAL DISCLOSURES: REPORTING PRACTICE REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Note 39: Consolidated companies Reported 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries About the corporate responsibility report Reported 102-47 List of material topics Material topics Reported 102-48 Restatements of information Corporate responsibility statement Reported 102-49 Changes in reporting Corporate responsibility statement Reported 102-50 Reporting period 2017 Reported Statkraft’s corporate responsibility 102-51 Date of most recent report Reported report 2016 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual Reported 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report info@statkraft.com Reported This report has been prepared in 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards accordance with the GRI Standards: Reported Core option 102-55 GRI content index Global Reporting Initiative index Reported About the corporate responsibility report 102-56 External assurance Reported Auditor’s statement GRI G4 GUIDELINES: UTILITIES SECTOR REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS CR statement: Power generation and G4-EU1 Installed capacity Reported district heating production CR statement: Power generation and G4-EU2 Net energy output Reported district heating production See customer related information under: www.statkraft.com G4-EU3 Number of different customer accounts www.skagerakenergi.no Partly www.fjordkraft.no www.statkraftvarme.no G4-EU25 Injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets CR statement: Health and safety Reported ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Report from the Board of Directors 103: 1-3 Management approach for economic disclosures Corporate governance Reported Management of corporate responsibility 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed CR statement: Contribution to society Reported Report from the Board of Directors Economic disclosures: Climate change 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change Reported Economic disclosures: Water management 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Note 16: Pensions Reported ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Social disclosures: Human rights Partly Economic disclosures: Water 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Partly management ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES: ANTI-CORRUPTION REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Economic disclosures: Business ethics Reported Economic disclosures: Business ethics 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures CR statement: Business ethics and antiReported corruption Economic disclosures: Business ethics 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken CR statement: Business ethics and antiReported corruption STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 46 ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: ENERGY REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Report from the Board of Directors 103: 1-3 Management approach for environmental disclosures Reported Management of corporate responsibility 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation CR statement: Consumption Reported ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS 303-1 Water withdrawal by source CR statement: Consumption Partly Economic disclosures: Water management CR statement: Biodiversity and impact 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Reported on nature CR statement: Impact on watercourses 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: BIODIVERSITY REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas CR statement: Biodiversity and impact 304-1 Reported and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas on nature Environmental disclosures: Biodiversity Economic disclosures: Water 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity management Reported CR statement: Biodiversity and impact on nature CR statement: Biodiversity and impact IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in on nature 304-4 Reported areas affected by operations CR statement: Red list species (within fauna) 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: EMISSIONS REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS 305-1 Direct (scope 1) GHG emissions CR statement: Climate Reported 305-2 Energy indirect (scope 2) GHG emissions CR statement: Climate Reported 305-3 Other indirect (scope 3) GHG emissions CR statement: Climate Reported 305-4 GHG emissions intensity CR statement: Climate Reported ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method CR statement: Waste Reported CR statement: Environmental incidents 306-3 Significant spills Reported and assessments ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: COMPLIANCE REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS CR statement: Environmental incidents 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Reported and assessments ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Management of corporate responsibility Reported SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: EMPLOYMENT REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Report from the Boars of Directors Management of corporate responsibility Social disclosures: Health, safety and 103: 1-3 Management approach on social disclosures Reported security Social disclosures: Human rights Social disclosures: Labour practices 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover CR statement: Labour practices Reported SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Social disclosures: Health, safety and Workers representation in formal joint management-worker heath and safety 403-1 security Partly committees Social disclosures: Labour practices Social disclosures: Health, safety and Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 403-2 security Reported absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities CR statement: Health and safety SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: TRAINING AND EDUCATION REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Social disclosures: Labour practices Partly Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Social disclosures: Labour practices 404-3 Reported development reviews CR statement: Labour practices SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees CR statement: Labour practices Reported 47 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men CR statement: Labour practices Reported SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: NON-DISCRIMINATION REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Management of corporate responsibility CR statement: Reported concerns GRI alignment 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken covering the scope of the Code of in process Conduct SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: FREEDOM OF ASSICIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and Management of corporate responsibility GRI alignment 407-1 collective bargaining may be at risk Social disclosures: Labour practices in process SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: CHILD LABOUR REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS GRI alignment 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour Management of corporate responsibility in process SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or Management of corporate responsibility GRI alignment 409-1 compulsory labour Social disclosures: Labour practices in process SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Social disclosures: Human rights 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Reported CR statement: Human rights SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact Management of corporate responsibility 412-1 Partly assessments Social disclosures: Human rights Social disclosures: Human rights 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies and procedures Reported CR statement: Human rights Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights Management of corporate responsibility 412-3 Partly clauses or that underwent human rights screening Social disclosures: Human rights SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: LOCAL COMMUNITIES REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS Social disclosures: Human rights Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments and 413-1 Economic disclosures: Water Partly development programs management Social disclosures: Human rights Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local 413-2 Economic disclosures: Water Partly communities management SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Management of corporate responsibility Reported SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS CR statement: Business ethics and anti419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the socioeconomic area corruption Reported CR statement: Human rights STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 48 UN Global Compact index Statkraft’s Global Compact index Global Compact comprises ten fundamental principles relating to human rights, labour rights, protection of the environment and combating corruption. Companies that endorse Global Compact commit to support and respect the principles and report their performance in the various areas annually. In 2011, Global Compact introduced a scheme where all members are classified in three categories; Learning Platform, Active Level and Advanced Level. Statkraft has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2010. We believe that the Global Compact’s principles are integrated into Statkraft’s strategy and daily operations, and that the company’s corporate responsibility reporting satisfies the requirements to the category Active Level. In the table below, references are given to Statkraft’s reporting on Global Compact’s principles. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE Report from the Board of Directors Business should support and respect the protection of 1 Management of corporate responsibility internationally proclaimed human rights, and Social disclosures, Human rights Management of corporate responsibility 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Social disclosures, Human rights LABOUR PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE Business should uphold the freedom association and the Management of corporate responsibility 3 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, Social disclosures, Labour practices Management of corporate responsibility 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, Social disclosures, Labour practices Management of corporate responsibility 5 the effective abolition of child labour, and Social disclosures, Labour practices the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Management of corporate responsibility 6 occupation. Social disclosures, Labour practices ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE Report from the Board of Directors Management of corporate responsibility Business should support a precautionary approach to 7 Environmental disclosures, Biodiversity environmental challenges, Economic disclosures, Water management Economic disclosures, Climate change Environmental disclosures, Biodiversity undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 8 Economic disclosures, Water management responsibility, and Economic disclosures, Climate change Statkraft’s contribution encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Environmental disclosures, Biodiversity 9 friendly technologies. Economic disclosures, Water management Economic disclosures, Climate change ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE Report from the Board of Directors Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including 10 Management of corporate responsibility extortion and bribery. Economic disclosures, Business ethics 49 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Auditor’s statement STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 50 Photos: Statkraft, Johnér Paper: 300 gr Scandia + 115 gr Profi Matt Print: CopyCat N SWA ECO C NOR LA DI BEL Printed matter 2041 0952 Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Statkraft AS Statkraft AS PO Box 200 Lilleaker NO-0216 Oslo Tel: +47 24 06 70 00 Fax: +47 24 06 70 01 Visiting address: Lilleakerveien 6 Organisation no: Statkraft AS: 987 059 699 www.statkraft.com
