FY16/17 Sustainable Business Report NIKE, Inc. MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE MINIMUM IMPACT Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix INTRODUCTION 4 Letter from Our CEO 5 Performance and Disclosure Committee 6 Business Overview OUR APPROACH 9 Sustainable Innovation 11 Our Environmental Moonshot 14 Target Performance Summary 16 Issue Prioritization MINIMIZE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 19 The World Around Us 20 FY16/17 Highlights 21 Product 23 Materials 25 Energy and Emissions 29 Waste 32 Water 34 Chemistry 37 Minimize Environmental Impact: by the Numbers TRANSFORM MANUFACTURING 39 The World Around Us 40 FY16/17 Highlights 41 Sustainable Sourcing 45 Engaged Workforce 47 Partnerships to Accelerate Industry Change 49 Additional Priority Issues Child Labor Freedom of Association 51 Transform Manufacturing: by the Numbers UNLEASH HUMAN POTENTIAL 53 The World Around Us 54 FY16/17 Highlights 55 Employees 58 Community Impact 61 Additional Priority Issues Occupational Health & Safety 63 Unleash Human Potential: by the Numbers APPENDIX 65 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 1 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix ABOUT THIS REPORT This report covers NIKE’s fiscal years 2016 and DATA INTEGRITY REFERENCE 2017 (June 1, 2015 through May 31, 2017). Sustainability data is shaped by a landscape We will cross-reference the following frameworks We will refer to these as FY16 and FY17 for the of evolving methodologies, advancing standards throughout the report: rest of the report. and expansions in data accessibility over time. Adapting to these changes while maintaining PRIORITY ISSUE – An issue deemed to be material The content found in this report is focused comparability in our data is critical to instilling to the company through our sustainability issue on progress toward our 2020 targets and key integrity and confidence in the validity of the prioritization process. priority issues.1 Targets and measures represent insights the data provides. We understand that the full suite of NIKE’s public corporate we must adapt and be nimble to keep pace with GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) – The GRI sustainability commitments, and are an broadening data sets and emerging standards. Sustainability Reporting Standards are the first aggregated view of functionally set long-term To that end, we’ve been focused on designing and most widely adopted global standards for goals and additional corporate commitments to more flexibility with tighter controls into our sustainability reporting. meet stakeholder expectations. Unless otherwise sustainability data processes and systems. stated, the baseline for the majority of our SUSTAINABILITY ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD targets is fiscal year 2015. Based upon a thorough review by NIKE’s (SASB) – SASB is an independent, private sector internal audit function, considerable progress standards-setting organization dedicated to NIKE’s 2020 targets encompass a broader has been made to NIKE’s sustainability data enhancing the efficiency of the capital scope than NIKE’s previous targets in many processes over the past several fiscal years, markets by fostering high-quality disclosure areas of the value chain. For example, while including but not limited to: a performance of material sustainability information that 2015 targets for corporate offices included management data system overhaul, development meets investor needs. NIKE’s World Headquarters, 2020 targets of standard operating procedures, and an also include Converse HQ, Hurley HQ, improved data governance model. The review UN GLOBAL COMPACT (UNGC) – The UNGC is a European HQ, and Greater China HQ. Other also identified opportunities to further improve voluntary initiative based on CEO commitments targets go deeper into our supply chain, like systems and controls around sustainability to implement universal sustainability principles expanding energy and emissions commitments reporting. NIKE will continue to evolve and and to undertake partnerships in support of to material dyeing and finishing for the first address information systems in light of this goal. UN goals. time, and broadening logistics goals to include outbound transportation. As a result of the In cases where shifts in scope, methodology, SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) – The expanded scope, certain 2015 performance and/or data quality have led to changes in SDGs are a universal call to action to end metrics originally reported in NIKE’s FY14/15 previously reported performance results, poverty, protect the planet, and ensure that Sustainable Business Report are restated in we’ve restated historically reported results all people enjoy peace and prosperity. this report to reflect the expansion and and provided context on the changes. enable comparability. The data presented in this report has been This report reflects an evolution in our collected, reviewed, and internally validated approach to reporting, allowing us to focus on to ensure completeness and accuracy and performance. To enable this change, we have represents the most complete and accurate enhanced our website to share additional stories information at the time of publication. NIKE and provide additional context to our work. For will continue to be transparent on revisions more detail about our efforts and progress over to reported data in the future. more than 20 years of work in sustainability as well as our more current initiatives, please see our updated website at sustainability.nike.com. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI STANDARDS: CORE option. 1 Priority issues are defined in the Issue Prioritization. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 2 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix I NT RO D U C TI ON Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 3 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix LETTER FROM OUR CEO Throughout the process of pulling this report As NIKE’s place in the world became larger And now, with more determination than ever, together, I’ve been thinking a great deal about and more important, we learned that it wasn’t we’re creating a company culture where what it means to lead in a time of such dramatic enough to just create great product for the everyone has an opportunity to play an change. It’s moments like these that offer the athlete. By the 1990s we were hit with important role and be successful. We’re opportunity to hit the pause button and ask the allegations of poor working conditions in our measuring ourselves against three areas: big questions. Is it possible to grow the NIKE supply chain. We vowed we’d disrupt ourselves, diverse representation and an inclusive brand into new markets while leaving a smaller and the industry, and invent new ways to run community that embraces it; comprehensive, footprint? As we transform our business model supply chains, new ways to create products. equitable pay and benefits; and employee to move faster and be more consumer-centric, We also heeded the science of climate change, development and wellbeing. how does that affect a sophisticated value seeing the threat it could pose to our athletes – chain that employs over a million workers and without clean air, how do we run or play? With This report is filled with detail on how far NIKE delivers over a billion units a year? And how can extreme weather, how do we compete? So, we has come on all of these goals, and how far we we challenge ourselves to cultivate a company set a moonshot – to double our business while have yet to go. Our focus will continue to be culture that is more inclusive and empowering? halving our environmental impact. That sense on the areas where we can use sport and our What policies and practices will accelerate the of mission has taken us on a journey of unique strengths to drive the highest impact. pace of change within our own teams? innovation, revolutionizing factory floors, We’ll stay open to unexpected partnerships that business models, materials, and processes. will move us closer to our goals, faster. And This report covers many of these complex It’s driven us to partner in unusual ways, we’ll continue to disrupt ourselves to evolve and challenges. It reveals our flaws and shines and to lobby for change across the industry. reaffirm NIKE’s greater purpose in the world. a light on our victories. Most importantly, it tells us where we need to work harder. So what is NIKE’s greater purpose in the world today – in an age of extreme polarization; of What keeps us going is this simple belief: when vanishing resources; of hyper-speed and NIKE creates meaningful change within our digital disruption? own company and within the communities that we serve, we make a positive difference in the Mark Parker world. We expand our purpose as a company. “O UR PURPOSE IS TO Chairman, President and CEO Next year will be my 40th with NIKE and I’ve USE THE POWER OF seen our company’s purpose evolve over the decades. When I started as a designer in our SPORT TO MOVE THE Exeter, New Hampshire research lab, that purpose was simple: innovate for the athlete. WORLD FORWARD.” As we grew, we learned our purpose was greater. We realized we should serve all athletes, even Our purpose is to use the power of sport to those that don’t consider themselves one and move the world forward. We believe in a fair, just want to move. We celebrated the benefits sustainable future – one where everyone thrives of sport, of fitness, of the joy of a run, the thrill on a healthy planet and a level playing field. of a goal, or the emotion of a gold. And we took We’re advocating and investing in bringing a stand against discrimination because we sport back into kids’ lives. We’re innovating believe everyone should have a right to sport a new business model for the 21st century, and to a level playing field. After NIKE fought in which supply chains are lean, green, for Title IX and lobbied for the first Olympic equitable, and fair, and our materials and women’s marathon event in 1984, one of my products are sustainable. proudest personal sport moments was hearing the roar of the crowd when Joan Benoit Samuelson emerged from the dark tunnel into the LA Colosseum to cross the finish line first. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 4 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix PERFORMANCE AND DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE SUSTAINABILITY IS A TEAM SPORT. GOVERNANCE IS VITAL TO industry stakeholders. The FY16/17 Sustainable Business Report, with its increased focus on We aim to be a brand with purpose that moves ACCOUNTABILITY. progress toward our 2020 sustainability targets the world forward. To achieve that, we need all The Performance and Disclosure Committee and priority issues, is one example of that shift. parts of the business to understand and deliver provides direction for NIKE’s sustainability The revamping of our website, with greater on our goals – from our leaders to product work. We challenge our business to understand emphasis on storytelling, is another. designers, to the employees in our stores, to our sustainability impacts, set ambitious targets the workers in the contract factories who make LEARN MORE: Governance to address them, and overcome obstacles our products. A strong governance structure, in meeting them. Established in 2012, the coupled with a sustainability-focused mindset, Committee provides oversight to our 2020 THERE IS NO FINISH LINE. provides an essential foundation for driving sustainability targets and guidance on efforts We support an integrated and unified approach collective decision-making and accountability to improve data, transparency, and disclosure. to sustainability across NIKE. We encourage across the company. strong attention to measuring sustainability, As a committee, we played a key role in and champion efforts that allow cross-functional NIKE is embedding sustainability across all evolving NIKE’s approach to transparency and teams to collaborate on new solutions. Our aspects of the organization. From our core disclosure. We recognize that today’s economic, Sustainable Business Report uses the lens of our Sustainable Business & Innovation (SB&I) political, environmental, and social context 2020 targets as one way to view progress toward team to our partners across the business, and has shifted and corporations are playing larger our vision. We have seen successes and we have from performance reviews that incorporate roles in addressing major global challenges. identified areas where more work is needed. sustainability to indices that encourage To be nimbler, NIKE has updated our approach As NIKE’s leadership, we commit to pushing more sustainable material and supplier to communicating our sustainability efforts the boundaries to unlock creative solutions for choices, we are working to achieve our 2020 with different audiences, offering targeted athletes, our business, and the world. sustainability targets. communication and engagement approaches to consumers, employees, investors, and PERFORMANCE AND DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE NIKE has a Performance and Disclosure Committee that meets regularly to review sustainability targets, performance, and disclosures. This committee includes: • Chief  Administrative Officer & General Counsel Hilary Krane • Chief Communications Officer Nigel Powell • Chief Financial Officer Andy Campion • Chief Operating Officer Eric Sprunk • Chief Sustainability Officer & VP Innovation Accelerator Hannah Jones Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 5 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix BUSINESS OVERVIEW NIKE, INC. DESIGNS, DEVELOPS, COMPANY PORTFOLIO REVENUE (IN MILLIONS) MARKETS AND SELLS ATHLETIC NIKE, Inc. portfolio brands include the NIKE FOOTWEAR, APPAREL, EQUIPMENT, Brand, Jordan Brand, Hurley, and Converse, FY13 $25,313 ACCESSORIES, AND SERVICES each with a powerful connection to consumers: FY14 $27,799 WORLDWIDE. FY15 $30,601 We are the largest seller of athletic footwear and apparel in the world. We sell our products NIKE Brand is focused on performance athletic FY16 $32,376 to retail accounts, through NIKE-owned retail footwear, apparel, equipment, accessories and stores, factory stores, community stores, services across a wide range of sport categories, FY17 $34,350 websites, and mobile applications (which amplified with sport-inspired sportswear 0 10 20 30 we refer to collectively as our “NIKE Direct” products carrying the Swoosh trademark, operations), and through a mix of independent as well as other NIKE Brand trademarks. distributors, licensees, and sales representatives DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE in virtually all countries around the world. FY13 $1.34 Announced at the beginning of FY18, NIKE’s Consumer Direct Offense aims to serve athletes Jordan Brand designs, distributes, and licenses FY14 $1.49 faster and more personally at scale. Core to our athletic and casual footwear, apparel, and strategy is the “Triple Double”: 2x Innovation, accessories predominantly focused on FY15 $1.85 2x Speed, and 2x Direct. basketball, using the Jumpman trademark. FY16 $2.16 2x Innovation FY17 $2.51 We are moving from seeding to scaling faster. We will give consumers better choices to 0 1 2 3 match their preferences. And we will set a new Hurley designs and distributes a line of expectation for style, creating a new aesthetic action sports and youth lifestyle apparel and to wear in all moments of consumers’ lives. accessories under the Hurley trademark. RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL 2x Speed FY13 23.8% We are investing in digital end-to-end to serve FY14 24.5% an insatiable consumer demand for new and fresh products. We are building new capabilities Converse designs, distributes, and licenses FY15 28.1% and analytics to deliver personalized products casual sneakers, apparel, and accessories under in real time, and we are engaging with more the Converse, Chuck Taylor, All Star, One Star, FY16 29.7% partners, companywide, to move faster against Star Chevron, and Jack Purcell trademarks. our goals. FY17 34.7% 0 10 20 30 2x Direct We want as many NIKE touch points as possible to live up to consumer expectations. We are investing in our own channels and leading with digital. OUR MISSION: BRING INSPIRATION AND INNOVATION TO EVERY ATHLETE* IN THE WORLD. * If you have a body, you are an athlete. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 6 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix BUSINESS OVERVIEW NIKE, INC. VALUE CHAIN CORPORATE RAW MATERIALS FINISHED GOODS LOGISTICS RETAIL CONSUMERS END OF LIFE SERVICES MATERIALS MANUFACTURING MANUFACTURING & FINISHING LEARN MORE: NIKE’s Value Chain CORPORATE SERVICES MANUFACTURING LOGISTICS Activities and infrastructure that support the From the cultivation and extraction of raw The transportation and distribution running and maintenance of our global business, materials, to the production and finishing of of materials and products throughout including our people, offices, and brand. materials, to the finished assembly resulting our value chain. in a product ready for public consumption. Approximately NIKE product is manufactured at 67.5K EMPLOYEES* (as of end of FY17) 500+ CONTRACT FACTORIES* 75 DISTRIBUTION CENTERS *Excludes temporary workers. that employ across 1M+ WORKERS 42 COUNTRIES *Finished goods manufacturers. RETAIL CONSUMERS END OF LIFE The marketing and selling of products to Consumers’ use, care, and maintenance Activities associated with products at the end of consumers around the world through our retail of our products. their useful lives, which may include discarding, stores, online, and through mobile applications, recycling, or reusing products or product parts. and through our wholesale partners. International business is now 55% OF REVENUE 75% 30K+ 190+ #1 Some recycled materials were used in 75% of NIKE brand footwear and apparel products RETAIL LOCATIONS 2 COUNTRIES MARKET SHARE in all markets and all major categories for footwear 2 This number includes non-NIKE stores. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 7 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix OO UU RR APPR APP R O A C H O AC H Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 8 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION Sustainability must be the new normal to protect the environment where athletes live and play. So we’re doing more than ever to tackle climate change and reduce our impact on the world around us – disrupting the status quo and innovating through the lens of sustainability to deliver for the athlete. We also believe in a playing field where everyone can unleash their potential – one in which each person is treated with respect and equality, and where diversity is celebrated. We don’t compromise our values to achieve our goals. We use the power of our brand to stand up for what’s right. AT NIKE, WE EXIST TO SERVE ATHLETES*. THIS PUSHES US TO DELIVER PERFORMANCE, PRODUCTS, AND SERVICES FOR ATHLETES WITH ZERO COMPROMISE. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 9 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION FUTURE WE’RE CREATING THE FUTURE WE WANT TO SEE THROUGH SUSTAINABLE HALF INNOVATION. DOUBLE THE THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ZERO 100% FOOTWEAR SUSTAINABLE MANUFACTURING CONTRACT WASTE FACTORIES ZERO 100% COMPROMISE RENEWABLE ENERGY PRESENT WE FOCUS ON MATERIALS BECAUSE THEY COLORDRY HAVE THE GREATEST FLYLEATHER A game-changing ENVIRONMENTAL A durable, premium, technology that dyes IMPACT IN THE engineered leather. fabric without water ENTIRE PRODUCT It uses significantly LIFECYCLE. less water and has SUSTAINABLE a lower carbon FLYKNIT COTTON footprint, is 5 times A method of making More sustainable more durable, and shoes that enables cotton is organic, is 40 percent more our designers to Better Cotton lightweight than full microengineer every Initiative-certified, stitch of an upper, GRIND or recycled grain leather while reducing waste RECYCLED Nike Grind is a POLYESTER palette of premium NIKE is the recycled materials world’s top user of recycled PAST polyester in the apparel industry NIKE HAS A LONG-STANDING HISTORY WITH SUSTAINABILITY. 2001 2009 Published our Released Girl first Corporate Effect film, Responsibility “The Clock is Report and Ticking” 1993 Restricted 2012 Introduced ReuseSubstance List Introduced A-Shoe to retail (RSL) SMSI, measuring stores sustainability alongside traditional 1992 manufacturing 2016 Released first Code sourcing metrics Released ambitious of Conduct 2020 sustainability targets 2005 2006 First in industry Eliminated all to publish the GHGs in Air Bags names and locations of contract factories Sustainable SustainableBusiness BusinessReport ReportFY16/17 FY16/17 10 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix OUR ENVIRONMENTAL MOONSHOT THE FUTURE OF SPORT the future of sport. But if you can’t run because business model isn’t just a “nice-to-have” – of air pollution, or if it’s too hot to play outside, it’s a non-negotiable. In 2016, we announced Sport brings us together, gives us the thrill or if your field is underwater, it becomes our intention to put NIKE on a much steeper of competition, and teaches us that we can impossible for us to live out our mission. trajectory than in the past. We set an ambitious always improve. But with the world shifting in goal: double our business while halving our dramatic ways, so is sport. Science has exposed that environmental degradation is occurring OUR MOONSHOT environmental impact – an environmental “moonshot.” Drawing parallels to JFK’s famous at a rapid pace. Carbon emissions, chemical That’s why we’re not sitting on the sidelines – ambition, we set this goal not knowing if or how usage, and water scarcity threaten our global we’re taking action. For years, we’ve held this it could be achieved. What we did know was population. Human activity is contributing to unshakeable belief that there is no opportunity that the answers lay outside our four walls, in an array of challenges – from rising seas to with more possibility than sustainable the creative minds yet to be tapped across our intensifying droughts – that impact billions. innovation. And for the companies of the future, industry, supply chain, and adjacent sectors. At NIKE, we exist to serve athletes, to create embedding sustainability in all aspects of a GETTING TO HALF A moonshot is nothing but words on paper OPPORTUNITY AREAS if you can’t bring it to life. Thus, our Percentage of NIKE Footprint1 teams embarked on a robust scientific and 19% 19% analytic journey, studying our sourcing, manufacturing, and distribution channels 15% and tracing products back through our value chain. Through this, we charted an actionable roadmap to radically reduce carbon, water, and controversial chemistry. 7% 7% 7% 7% We set milestones for ourselves, agreeing to check our progress bi-annually. Then, 4% 4% we got to work. We set out to fundamentally 3% 3% 2% 2% reinvent every part of our business with 1% a zero-compromise, all-encompassing approach, maximizing the performance NIKE END OF CORPORATE SYNTHETIC OTHER PACKAGING OTHER PRODUCT COTTON LOGISTICS COLOR & LEATHER POLYESTER FINISHING FOAM & and minimizing the environmental impact RETAIL LIFE SERVICES LEATHER TEXTILES PLASTICS ASSEMBLY RUBBER of every product we create. 0% 0% 0% 0% 1% “O UR TEAMS 2% 2% 3% 4% 5% 5% 7% EMBARKED ON A CARBON ROBUST SCIENTIFIC WATER AND ANALYTIC 18% JOURNEY, STUDYING OUR SOURCING, MANUFACTURING, 52% AND DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS AND TRACING PRODUCTS BACK THROUGH OUR VALUE CHAIN.” 1 Chemistry is acknowledged as important but because there was no agreed upon method of assessing impact at the time of publication, its impact across the value chain is not modeled in this report. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 11 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix OUR ENVIRONMENTAL MOONSHOT DEFINING OUR MOONSHOT to setting targets for water and chemistry are Since the scope of this undertaking is vast, less mature. In conjunction with the broader the potential ripple effects are massive. Achieving our goal required a long-term, scientific community, we’re working to move If NIKE were to hit its moonshot goal of half predictive understanding of our business inside a those areas forward with a focus on reducing the impact, the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions rapidly changing world. The science-based target water consumption in water-stressed geographies saved would be equivalent to taking 1.7 million we set for carbon reduction is aligned with the and designing controversial chemistries out of our passenger vehicles off the road for one year and Paris Agreement’s goal of stabilizing rising global production process entirely. the water saved annually would be equivalent to temperatures to within 2°C during this century. 103,000 Olympic-sized swimming pools. We found that by cutting our carbon emissions To track progress against our environmental in half, on a per unit basis, we would comply moonshot, we are aiming to cut our with the Agreement’s temperature stabilization environmental impact in half on a per unit basis. objectives. However, science-based approaches PROGRESS 1 CARBON WATER CHEMISTRY 1/2 THE CARBON = 3.9 KG CO2E PER UNIT2 1/2 THE WATER = 112 L PER UNIT 1/2 THE “CONTROVERSIAL CHEMISTRY” = 0.11 KG PER UNIT3 1% end of FY17 3% end of FY17 3% end of FY17 2015 BASELINE 2015 BASELINE 2015 BASELINE 7.9 KG 3.9 KG 224 L 112 L 0.22 KG 0.11 KG • W e saw a positive impact linked to two main drivers: • We saw an overall increase in water impact because •  The 3 percent progress is linked to increased use of (1) the reduction in the amount of leather used in the reductions achieved through water efficiency and perfluorinated compound (PFC)-free water repellents. NIKE Brand footwear, with a move toward textile recycling in our supply chain were more than offset •  The innovation pipeline consists of initiatives and (with a lower carbon footprint) in our shoe uppers, and by an increase in the average weight of cotton in our innovations to phase out priority chemicals in (2) energy efficiency initiatives in our supply chain. apparel products. This increase is driven by a higher our supply chain, as well as to shift toward • This progress was partially offset by an increase in the proportion of fleece product in our sales, with cotton recycled material inputs to drive reduction in average weight of our apparel products, driven mainly being a water-intensive crop. our chemistry footprint. by an increased proportion of fleece products. • As with carbon, the innovation pipeline consists • The innovation pipeline includes initiatives and of initiatives and innovations in our supply chain innovations we have identified and hope to scale in that can reduce our water footprint, such as water the near future to reduce our carbon footprint. These efficiency measures, closed-loop water recycling, can be material, operational, and process innovations and scaling use of recycled cotton. in our supply chain, product design innovations, as well as renewable energy proliferation. 1 These performance indicators represent the best information and data at the time of publication. 2 A unit is a single packaged product. It could be a pair of shoes, a T-shirt, or an athletic bag. 3 The chemistry impact score is calculated by evaluating chemicals used throughout the entire manufacturing process of our materials and finished products. The score does not indicate the presence of controversial chemicals in the finished product. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 12 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix OUR ENVIRONMENTAL MOONSHOT THE INNOVATION GAP Taking an unprecedented step for our company need to develop new open-source initiatives and our industry, we’ve moved from wondering that will disrupt and change the game. And Nevertheless, simply hitting these targets or “if” disruptive change is possible to “how” we’ll as storytellers, we need to re-brand sustainable scaling proven technologies and best practices take tangible action toward a better future. We innovation as a cause that anyone, anywhere, will not be enough to halve our environmental can no longer just invent – we must invent with can take part in. This is our call to action, impact. Achieving our moonshot will require new sustainability as our design constraint. our rally cry. We need the brightest minds technologies yet to be invented and partnerships of today to rise up and join us to create a yet to be forged. better tomorrow. WHAT WINNING LOOKS LIKE Our focus on closing this innovation gap means Today’s dream is bold – we see a path forward Don’t sit on the sidelines. It’s time to get in we’re doubling down on invention, design, to hitting our goal while igniting sustainable, the game. and collaboration unlike ever before. We’re challenging ourselves to imagine a different global growth. But tomorrow’s dream is even more ambitious: to catalyze our entire industry future, using our position at the forefront of manufacturing engineering and science to join us. Even if we hit our most ambitious “A CHIEVING OUR MOONSHOT WILL to reimagine technologies and catalyze new targets, we are doing so in isolation – it won’t processes. We’re asking questions such as: be enough to solve the world’s most pressing • How can cotton be grown without irrigation? problems. To accelerate progress, it will take all of us – businesses, workers, civil society, and REQUIRE NEW • How can the next generation of polyester be carbon-negative? governments – working in collaboration. No one has all the answers, but all of us have a role TECHNOLOGIES • How can water and oil be repelled without using harmful chemicals? to play. YET TO BE INVENTED • How can newly developed textile recycling solutions be scaled? If we dare to design the future, we must do it together. No matter our background, AND PARTNERSHIPS • How can the carbon footprint of shipping be reduced? sustainability is the new frame through which to view any innovation. As engineers, we need YET TO BE FORGED.” • How can the availability of better chemistry to build better supply chains that minimize our information be accelerated? footprint. As scientists, we need to create a new palette of low-impact materials. As coders, we INNOVATION GAP – WHERE TO ACCELERATE Using carbon as an example, we explore the actions necessary to achieve our moonshot ambition. 50% 1/2 THE CARBON PER UNIT REDUCTION OF CARBON FOOTPRINT (% OF KG CO 2 e/unit) 45% 40% INNOVATION GAP Additional reduction necessary to hit our 35% 26% moonshot target. 30% 25% PIPELINE Reduction based on projects we are 20% currently reviewing/evaluating that 11% leverage existing or known technologies. 15% 10% COMMITTED 13% Reduction based on projects to which we 5% have already committed. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 13 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix 2020 TARGET PERFORMANCE SUMMARY KEY Favorable Increase Decrease Unfavorable MINIMIZE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Unit of FY17 Change Metric FY15 FY16 FY17 FY20 Target Measurement vs. Baseline PRODUCT kg CO2e/ Average Product Carbon Footprint1 unit 7.33 7.19 7.15 2.5% 10% Product Scored on Sustainability Performance % 27% 68% 71% 44 p.p. 2 80% MATERIALS Sustainable Materials3 – Apparel (AP) % 19.0% 20.2% 29.6% 10.6 p.p. Sustainable Materials3 – Footwear (FW) % 30.6% 31.3% 32.5% 1.9 p.p. Cotton Sourced More Sustainably4 % 24.1% 33.3% 54.1% 30 p.p. 100% ENERGY & EMISSIONS Renewable Energy – Owned or Operated5,6,7 % 14% 20% 22% 8 p.p. 100% Energy Consumption Per Unit – Key Operations8 kWhe/unit 4.70 4.25 4.70 0% 25% kg CO2e/ Carbon Emissions Per Unit – Key Operations8 unit 1.74 1.61 1.74 0% 25% Energy Consumption Per Kg – Textile Dyeing and Finishing9 kWhe/kg 15.86 15.46 14.95 5.8% 35% kg CO2e/ Carbon Emissions Per Kg – Textile Dyeing and Finishing9 kg 4.78 4.68 4.55 4.8% 35% WASTE Waste to Landfill10 –­ Footwear Manufacturing % N/A 6.6% 4.0% 2.6 p.p. 0% (FY16 BL) Waste Index11 – Footwear Manufacturing, Distribution Centers (DCs), and Headquarters (HQs) N/A 100 12 98.2 100.8 0.8% 10% Landfill Diversion – DCs and HQs % 88.4% 87.1% 87.9% 0.5 p.p. WATER Freshwater Use Per Kg – Textile Dyeing and Finishing9 L/kg N/A 126.5 117.2 7.4% 20% (FY16 BL) CHEMISTRY Tested Material in Compliance with NIKE Restricted Substance List (RSL)13 % 95% 99% 98% N/A 14 100% Suppliers Meeting NIKE’s Wastewater Quality Requirements % N/A 57.8% 72.6% 14.9 p.p. 100% – Textile Dyeing and Finishing9 (FY16 BL) Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 14 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix 2020 TARGET PERFORMANCE SUMMARY TRANSFORM MANUFACTURING Unit of FY17 Change Metric FY15 FY16 FY17 FY20 Target Measurement vs. Baseline MANUFACTURING 15 Factories Rated Bronze or Better % 86.0% 86.6% 90.9% 42.1 p.p. 100% (vs. FY11 BL) Factories with Excessive Overtime (EOT) % 3.3% 16 3.2% 3.9% 0.6 p.p. 0% UNLEASH HUMAN POTENTIAL Unit of FY17 Change Metric FY15 FY16 FY17 FY20 Target Measurement vs. Baseline COMMUNITY IMPACT Annual Investments as % of Pre-Tax Income (PTI) % 1.9% 1.8% 1.9% N/A 17 1.5% FOOTNOTES 1 This target includes NIKE-designed/developed Nike Branded, Brand Jordan, and NIKE Golf Global apparel styles, and Nike Branded, Brand Jordan, and NIKE Golf Global footwear styles. We are using CO2e emissions as a proxy for other environmental impacts (e.g. energy, other air emissions). 2 p.p. = percentage points. 3 We define more sustainable materials as those that reduce the environmental impact of a product through better chemistry, lower resource intensity, less waste, and/or recyclability. 4 Certified organic, Better Cotton (cotton grown according to the Better Cotton Standard System), or recycled. 5 The target scope includes electricity only. 6 Where we make energy purchase decisions on strategic assets. 7 Equivalent to absolute reductions in Scope 1&2 CO2e emissions of at least 50 percent by FY25. 8 Key Operations = Finished goods manufacturing, inbound and outbound logistics, distribution centers, headquarter locations, and NIKE-owned retail. 9 Measure includes focus suppliers only. Focus suppliers represent key suppliers involved in the dyeing and/or finishing of materials which directly support finished product assembly. 10 Target covers waste to both landfill and incineration. Incineration does not include waste to energy recovery unless otherwise noted. 11 Our waste index replaces our previously stated waste measure, in order to better reflect our actual performance against our waste reduction goals, and avoid misleading trends due to shifts in the relative volumes of our apparel and equipment businesses. The waste index is a weighted average of our footwear manufacturing waste per unit, distribution centers waste per unit, and headquarters waste per occupant. 12 Baseline is FY15 except for Tier 1 FW Manufacturing and Converse HQ, which are FY16 and are included in INC-wide baseline for comparability across years. 13 Measurement of supplier adherence to NIKE’s wastewater quality standards between FY16 and FY17 is based on a prior standard; progress from FY18 onward will be based on the higher standards of the ZDHC guideline. 14 As we add new chemicals and tighten the limits, we may see a small number of failures as the supply chain adapts to the more stringent requirements. Due to these changes, we do not recognize a baseline or change vs. the baseline. 15 Scope includes all finished goods manufacturing. 16 FY15 value previously reported in 14/15 SBR (96 percent of factories had no excessive overtime [EOT]) is restated due to data quality improvements. 17 This is an annual target. Baseline and change vs. baseline are not relevant to this target. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 15 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix ISSUE PRIORITIZATION At NIKE, we look at sustainability throughout Our survey was designed to identify the most ALIGNING WITH STAKEHOLDER our value chain. This view is vital because most relevant issues at each value chain stage and of our environmental and social impacts – as the impacts most directly linked to those issues. EXPECTATIONS well as our opportunities – occur within our The FY17 survey results showed us that we have influence, but outside of our direct control. By surveying our key stakeholders, we deepened an opportunity to better align the way we talk our understanding of the most relevant issues about CR&S issues with the expectations For more than 20 years, we’ve been deepening in the value chain and then layered this new of stakeholders. our understanding of sustainability and the most information into our quantitative analysis significant issues that impact our people and from FY14/15. For example, in FY14/15 we embedded “Waste our planet. We conduct regular assessments Generated” into the Water, Energy, and Chemical to add to this understanding and to keep our By combining the qualitative survey results with issues. This decision was made based on our perspective fresh in an ever-evolving landscape. the quantitative analysis, we have been able to analysis which showed that the real “impact” update our set of priority Corporate Responsibility of waste is embodied in these areas. The & Sustainability (CR&S) issues. The quantitative unintended consequence was that stakeholders ADDING DEPTH TO OUR UNDERSTANDING may have assumed that waste was a lower priority data gave us a deep insight into what matters In FY14/15, we conducted an in-depth most, while the survey helped us to develop a for NIKE, despite significant efforts made and the quantitative analysis to review and prioritize more nuanced understanding of these issues. waste-related 2020 targets we had in place. As it our key sustainability issues. First, we reviewed is actually a top-rated issue for our stakeholders, multiple ESG standards, frameworks, and rating LEARN MORE: Stakeholder Engagement this year we have reintroduced waste into our systems. Next, we added current megatrends, list of priority issues in an effort to align with our stakeholder feedback, and the priorities of stakeholder understanding of these issues. our key coalitions and partnerships to develop a complete universe of issues that would be FY16/17 PRIORITY ISSUES relevant to NIKE’s business model. This netted us upwards of approximately 400 potential ACTIVE KIDS (Previously Community Impact) topics. Then, we filtered for relevance by CHEMISTRY looking at location, risk, and other measures to determine 12 priority issues and mapped these CHILD LABOR (Previously Labor Compliance) against each stage in our value chain. EMPLOYMENT These results were key to internal strategy ENERGY conversations and have supported our EXCESSIVE OVERTIME understanding that the two leading drivers of our environmental and social impacts are: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION (Previously Labor Compliance) GHG EMISSIONS 1. The materials we use in our products, and NON-RENEWABLE RESOURCE DEPLETION 2. The outsourced manufacturing of those products. MATERIAL WASTE (New Issue) OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY In FY17, we brought the voices of internal and external stakeholders into this analysis. We TOTAL COMPENSATION reached out to a wide range of stakeholders, WATER USE including employees, NGOs, academics, investors, suppliers, and corporate peers. WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT KEY High IC ES AL S ING RING IC S AIL RS IFE Low V RI ISH U IST R ET ME OF L ER TE FIN AC T G S U TE S MA UF LO CO N EN D EXPLORE: NIKE’s Not applicable RA R AW IN G& AN O M Value Chain Impacts RP UR DS CO CT OO U FA G MA N ED LS N ISH IA F I R TE MA FOOTNOTES – The results are based on a combination of the FY14/15 quantitative assessment with our new FY17 qualitative analysis. We only changed an issue score if the qualitative results were higher than the previous quantitative score. – Material Waste is listed as a new issue (see discussion above). As such, the scoring is based solely on the qualitative findings from our FY16/17 survey. – Labor Compliance used to combine two separate issues: Child Labor and Freedom of Association. This year, we divided the two issues and gave them separate scores. – Community Impact previously combined two issues: Access to Sport and Obesity. Based on qualitative results, we separated these issues and focus only on Access to Sport, which was highly rated by our stakeholders. In comparison, Obesity was a much lower priority for stakeholders. We are also renaming the issue “Active Kids” to better reflect the current and future focus of our efforts. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 16 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix ISSUE PRIORITIZATION The chart below defines each priority issue and details where each issue can be found in the report. MINIMIZE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Priority Issue Definition Location Chemicals used in making materials and products and substances CHEMISTRY released to the environment (air and water) that are toxic to humans Chemistry and ecosystems Energy used for electricity, use of fossil fuels, and other energy Energy and ENERGY sources Emissions Greenhouse gas emissions from energy, transportation, and NIKE’s Energy and GHG EMISSIONS other business activities Emissions Non-renewable resources depleted, through materials and fuels used NON-RENEWABLE RESOURCE DEPLETION Materials Waste generated throughout NIKE’s value chain and activities to MATERIAL WASTE reduce, reuse, or recycle Waste Water consumed throughout our value chain, and monitoring our WATER USE impacts in water-scarce regions Water TRANSFORM MANUFACTURING Priority Issue Definition Location Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for CHILD LABOR incidents of child labor Child Labor Workers in the value chain found to be working excessive hours Sustainable EXCESSIVE OVERTIME Sourcing Right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining for Freedom of FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION workers throughout the value chain Association UNLEASH HUMAN POTENTIAL Priority Issue Definition Location Helping kids reach their full potential through play and sport and Community ACTIVE KIDS creating more equal playing fields for all Impact Attracting and retaining talent, and ensuring a positive workplace EMPLOYMENT culture, including healthy lifestyle opportunities and engagement Employees initiatives Occupational OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY Worker health and safety practices throughout the value chain Health & Safety Economic value generated for employees through wages and benefits TOTAL COMPENSATION Employees Training and development for workers to build capability and career WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT opportunities Employees GOING FORWARD Our issue prioritization informs our approach to sustainability. We plan to review our priority issues on an annual basis, including conducting quantitative analysis every couple of years and regular stakeholder surveys in the interim years. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 17 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix M I N I M I ZE ENVI RO N M E N TA L FOOTP R I N T Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 18 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix THE WORLD AROUND US Hurricanes battered the Caribbean and North America in 2017. We saw record ice loss at the poles, and heatwaves hit Europe and Australia. The effects of climate change were more apparent than ever, in part caused by record levels of carbon emissions. To help reduce emissions, organizations – from the business community to local and state governments to NGOs – are aligning with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Climate Agreement. Hundreds of corporations and cities have set science-based emission reduction targets to help keep the rise in global temperature below 2˚C. And they’re more committed than ever to using renewable energy. Another major battleground is the global war on waste. With concerns about plastic in our oceans and microfibers in our drinking water, combatting waste has never seemed so urgent an issue. But a move away from built-in obsolescence, toward circular design for recycling or reuse, is a challenge that the apparel and footwear industry is taking the lead on. OUR APPROACH In 2016, we set an ambition to double our business while cutting our environmental impact in half on a per unit basis. We deliver performance products while obsessing about our impact on the environment – focusing on what we make, how we make it, and how we operate our business. We are investing in disruptive innovations and enterprise-wide strategies to cut our carbon emissions, water use, and controversial chemistries in half, while moving toward a circular future. “I F YOU CAN’T GO OUTSIDE TO RUN BECAUSE OF AIR POLLUTION, IF YOU DON’T HAVE CLEAN WATER TO DRINK, AND IF YOU DON’T HAVE A PLACE TO PLAY… YOU DON’T HAVE SPORT.” Mark Parker, Chairman, President and CEO of NIKE Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 19 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix MINIMIZE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT: FY16/17 HIGHLIGHTS PRODUCT ENERGY AND EMISSIONS WATER • NIKE Free RN Flyknit shoe reduces waste • NIKE signed power purchase agreements that •4 0 percent of the suppliers making by 60 percent compared to a traditional will allow us to source 100 percent renewable our primary materials are recycling running shoe. energy in North America in 2019, a major treated wastewater back into their step on our path to reach 100 percent manufacturing processes. • Product teams now track the sustainability renewable energy in our owned or operated performance of 97 percent of our facilities globally by 2025. • All finished goods factories and material Nike-branded footwear and 96 percent suppliers in regions with high risk of water of Nike-branded apparel. • A majority of our footwear finished goods scarcity or flooding are evaluating their risks factories have eliminated outdated steam boiler and preparing to develop mitigation and • Footwear and apparel has seen a 2.5 percent systems, creating an average energy savings of management plans. decrease in average carbon footprint per unit between 15 to 20 percent at each location. since FY15. MATERIALS WASTE CHEMISTRY •N IKE has been recognized as using the most • In FY17, 96 percent of NIKE footwear •N IKE formally adopted the AFIRM Group recycled polyester in the industry for the finished goods manufacturing waste was Restricted Substance List (RSL), which fourth straight year by Textile Exchange’s recycled or converted to energy. includes chemical limits based on legislation, Annual Preferred Materials Market Report. best practices in industry, and voluntary • Our European Logistics Campus, Japan reductions in hazardous chemicals. •W e saved over 24 billion liters of water Distribution Center (DC), and Converse and 85,000 kg of pesticides by sourcing Ontario (California) DC hit 100 percent •G lobal deployment of the ZDHC Wastewater 54 percent cotton more sustainably. landfill diversion. Guideline has allowed NIKE to measure progress against our Manufacturing RSL • 75  percent of Nike-branded footwear and • NIKE diverted over 12.5M pounds of factory (MRSL) compliance target by using a common apparel products used some recycled and postconsumer waste from landfills industry tool. materials in FY17. through Nike Grind in FY17 and revenues from the sale of Nike Grind sports and play •O ur active collaboration within the ZDHC surfaces funded sustainable innovations. and the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) supported the development of the Higg FEM 3.0 Chemical Module, a tool for assessing chemicals management capability across the global supply chain. KEY Numbered icons above indicate relevant Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 20 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix PRODUCT TARGET DELIVER PRODUCTS FOR MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE WITH MINIMUM IMPACT, WITH A 10 PERCENT REDUCTION IN THE AVERAGE ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT PER UNIT PERFORMANCE NIKE Aeroloft Vest Average Product Carbon Footprint for Footwear and Apparel (kg CO2e/unit)1 Sustainability Index (ASI), and our Footwear We improved our products’ sustainability Sustainability Index (FSI). These indices allow through a series of innovations in FY16. In 7.5 7.19 7.15 our product creation teams to measure the footwear we drastically reduced waste with 7.33 environmental profile of each product and styles like the NIKE Free RN Flyknit shoe. 7.0 make better choices in planning, designing, This features an upper made with our low-waste and development. While our Product target Flyknit technology, and a Free midsole made tracks the carbon footprint of the product, our with another low-waste technology where the 6.5 FY20 target efforts to integrate sustainability impact a wide midsole is made with pellets that are injected 10% range of environmental factors such as water, chemicals, and waste. into a mold. The result is a shoe that reduces waste by an average of 60 percent compared to FY15 FY16 FY17 LEARN MORE: Product & Materials a traditional running shoe. In apparel, the fabric Sustainability Indices in the top-volume Women’s Tempo Running 1 NIKE’s FY20 product carbon footprint target differs in scope compared to Short was replaced with recycled polyester. our moonshot carbon ambition. While both commitments baseline in FY15, the FY20 product target is inclusive of NIKE brand footwear and apparel, from raw materials through finished goods manufacturing. The moonshot In FY16, we developed a Sustainability carbon ambition is broader in terms of product represented and emissions Performance Dashboard to give our product By the end of FY17, footwear and apparel teams generated from corporate services to end of life (excluding consumer use). teams timely sustainability metrics. Combining had improved their internal index scores (FSI the ASI, FSI, and MSI with additional product and ASI) resulting in a 2.5 percent decrease in and material data, the dashboard has helped average carbon footprint per unit compared to Sustainability at NIKE is more than a singleour product category teams focus on the the baseline, or approximately 165M kg CO2e. product philosophy. It’s a principle embedded sustainability of their highest volume styles. We’re proud of the progress we’ve made on this, in our product creation teams that we are and we know there’s more to be done. scaling across our company to include every These additions have already produced brand, every category, and every product. improvements in apparel and footwear Apparel scores continue to improve every year, sustainability scores. For example, footwear has but we’re still behind on our overall 2020 During FY16 and FY17, we continued our effort improved by using more water-based solvents product target. We’ve identified two areas for to integrate sustainability into the product (resulting in approximately 96 percent less focus: decreasing waste and increasing our use creation process, from the initial design brief to petroleum-derived solvents since 1995) and of recycled materials. Footwear is on track to product reviews, ensuring product teams have the better pattern efficiency, while apparel has meet its 2020 product goals by focusing on information they need to make informed decisions. improved by sourcing from better performing more sustainable materials, improved pattern material suppliers and increased efficiency. The efficiency, and reduced solvent use. Overall, To define the environmental impact of a improvement in materials supplier performance both apparel and footwear are proactively product, we look at the average carbon footprint can be attributed to, in part, engagement with working toward their sustainability targets while of a unit of product and track this through our our suppliers to improve sustainable practices meeting other key business metrics. Material Sustainability Index (MSI), Apparel at their facilities. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 21 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix PRODUCT CARBON FOOTPRINT BY FOOTWEAR STYLE (KG CO 2 E/PAIR) NIKE has measured the carbon footprint of all our shoes. 10.2 Equivalent to the GHG emissions from 25 miles driven in an average FREE RN FLYKNIT AIR MAX 90 passenger vehicle AIR FORCE 1 5.3 8.3 13.4 5 10 15 AIR VAPORMAX FLYKNIT PEGASUS 33 AIR JORDAN 31 6.2 9.8 12.4 MEASURE To connect our product creation process By the end of FY17, we were scoring most of decisions to their impact on the environment, our season-to-season basics, equipment, socks, GREATER THAN 80 PERCENT OF we’ve developed a system of scoring our headwear, and Converse products. In addition, ALL NIKE, INC. PRODUCTS WILL products on sustainability performance. This we automated scoring for several outstanding BE SCORED ON SUSTAINABILITY allows us to increase awareness and establish high-volume product areas (including most PERFORMANCE a foundation for future improvement. T-shirts and versions with region-specific sizing) to improve accuracy and reduce workload. These Creating such a foundation is no easy task. efforts have helped us track toward our overall We face challenges with installing scoring target of 80 percent product scored by the end PERFORMANCE systems across our diverse product ranges and of 2020. % Product Scored on Sustainability Performance IT systems, affiliate companies, and licensees. We also struggle to score products that are late additions, meaning they fall out of the normal FURTHER READING production process. FY15 / 27% Approach to Sustainable Despite this, we made progress on this measure Products FY16 / 68% in FY16 and FY17. Product teams are now scoring 97 percent of our Nike-branded footwear SASB and 96 percent of Nike-branded apparel.3 For CN0501-03: Discussion of environmental and social FY17 / 71% previously unscored product (i.e. equipment, risks associated with sourcing priority raw materials socks, and Converse), product creation teams FY20 target have created scoring processes and tools. 80% 3 These numbers pertain to Nike-branded footwear and apparel. The measure is more inclusive: all NIKE, Inc. products are in scope (footwear, apparel, equipment, promo/team, licensee, Converse, and Hurley). Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 22 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix MATERIALS TARGET INCREASE USE OF MORE SUSTAINABLE MATERIALS IN FOOTWEAR AND APPAREL PERFORMANCE % More Sustainable Materials APPAREL Nike Air VaporMax Flyknit FY15 / 19% BETTER CHOICES MATERIALS IN SCOPE: Footwear Apparel FY16 / 20.2% FY17 / 29.6% POLYESTER COTTON LEATHER SYNTHETIC EVA RUBBER THERMOPLASTIC FY20 target Recycled Organic Leather working LEATHER Recycled Environmentally POLYURETHANE INCREASE Recycled group certified Recycled preferred rubber formulations (TPU) BCI Better Environmentally Recycled Cotton preferred leather Grind FOOTWEAR Our materials teams incorporated the MSI into preferred rubber. By FY17, 98 percent of their standard tools. This allows them to make our products used environmentally preferred FY15 / 31% better decisions around which materials to use rubber. The increase is due to NIKE’s and which suppliers to work with to drive our use continued proliferation of environmentally FY16 / 31.7% of sustainable materials. preferred compounds while slowly phasing out/retiring the less preferred compounds. In FY16 and FY17, apparel and footwear FY17 / 32.5% used more sustainable materials in the 3. Recycled polyester. All core Flyknit yarns are following ways: 100% recycled polyester. We use recycled FY20 target polyester in some of our most advanced INCREASE 1. Sustainable cotton. Apparel moved from apparel, such as global football team kits and conventional cotton to more sustainable elite track & field uniforms, classic items like cotton.4 See our Measure for more information. our Tempo running shorts, as well as other The materials we use – from the crops grown key components used in the construction to the finished fabrics and trims – have the 2. Recycled rubber. We are closing the loop on of a shoe. As of FY17, NIKE has transformed greatest environmental impact in the entire our rubber by using our own scraps as inputs more than 4.6 billion plastic bottles into product lifecycle. Reducing this impact is into new shoes. NIKE has a long history of recycled polyester footwear and apparel. the strongest way we can improve our overall reducing the impact of rubber, including As a result, NIKE has been recognized as environmental performance. developing two environmentally preferred using the most recycled polyester in the rubber base formulations suitable for industry for the fourth straight year by The NIKE Materials Sustainability Index (MSI) performance footwear in the 1990s. Textile Exchange’s “2017 Preferred Fiber encourages our teams to choose better materials In 2004, just 3 percent of Nike brand & Materials Market Report.” from better vendors by comparing 57,000 footwear designs used environmentally different materials from more than 700 vendors. 4 Sustainable cotton is defined as cotton that is either certified organic, BCI Better Cotton, or is recycled. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 23 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix MATERIALS We are working with our supply chain to move toward 100 percent sustainable cotton – certified organic, Better Cotton (BCI), or recycled cotton. In FY16, we sourced one-third of our cotton more sustainably, which reduced our environmental footprint by more than 17 billion liters of water and more than 51,000 kilograms of pesticides. In FY17, we increased this to Nike Air Force One 54 percent, which reduced our impact by more than 24 billion liters of water and 85,000 kilograms of pesticides. In FY17, Nike-branded TOP FIVE MATERIALS BY VOLUME 1, 2, 3 MEASURE apparel continued to lead the company by FY15 FY16 FY17 SOURCE 100 PERCENT OF OUR sustainably sourcing 73 percent of its cotton. COTTON kg 4,123,000 4,613,000 5,304,000 COTTON MORE SUSTAINABLY We blend a minimum of 10 percent organic Organic % 7% 7% 8% (CERTIFIED ORGANIC, BCI BETTER cotton into nearly every Nike-branded apparel Recycled kg 68,000 75,000 90,000 COTTON, OR RECYCLED COTTON) cotton fabric, a strategy that has made us one % <1% <1% <1% ACROSS NIKE, INC. BY THE END of the top four buyers of certified organic cotton kg 9,879,000 17,629,000 32,487,000 OF FY20 5 globally according to Textile Exchange’s (TE) BCI % 17% 26% 46% 2017 Preferred Fibers and Materials Report. Total kg 58,348,0004 67,102,000 70,065,000 We also ranked fourth in volume of recycled POLYESTER cotton (TE), and fourth in Better Cotton sourced kg 31,220,000 32,374,000 33,265,000 PERFORMANCE (per BCI’s report on 2016 calendar year). Recycled % 14% 14% 14% % Cotton Sourced More Sustainably Total kg 218,149,000 228,056,000 237,830,000 (Organic, BCI, or Recycled) Looking ahead, we believe that converting the CORRUGATE/PAPER final 20 percent of our cotton supply chain will kg 95,424,000 103,977,000 107,052,000 be the most difficult. We also need to further Recycled % 84% 84% 84% FY15 / 24.1% address water risk by collaborating beyond Total kg 113,568,000 123,622,000 127,236,000 the standards and our 2020 target. We strive RUBBER to continuously innovate so we can scale our Environmentally kg 63,414,0005 59,460,000 65,808,000 FY16 / 33.3% cotton recycling and close the loop. Preferred % 89% 91% 98% We aim to be a leader by using our influence Total kg 71,380,000 65,382,000 67,382,000 FY17 / 54.1% and reach to drive the cotton industry ETHYLENE-VINYL ACETATE (EVA) FOAM kg 185,000 151,000 66,000 FY20 target toward sustainability and helping others Recycled 100% % <1% <1% <1% on their journeys. Total kg 81,221,000 97,214,000 103,182,000 1 The materials and scopes reported comprise about 60 percent of NIKE’s total material usage. FURTHER READING 2 Cotton and polyester volumes represent NIKE brand footwear, apparel, NIKE is a leader in advancing better Approach to Sustainable and equipment, and Converse footwear and apparel. Cotton also includes Hurley apparel. approaches to cotton. Since 1998, we’ve been Materials 3 Reported volumes have been rounded. 4 Total reported usage has increased due to business growth and data blending organic into our cotton products and collection and quality improvements. in 2002 we co-founded Organic Exchange Sustainable Materials 5 FY15 value has been restated due to data quality and calculation methodology improvements; previously reported as 76 percent in NIKE’s FY14/15 SBR. (now Textile Exchange). Principles In FY17, some recycled materials were used in As one of our top-volume materials, cotton PRIORITY ISSUE 75 percent of Nike brand footwear and apparel represents more than one-half of our water Non-Renewable Resource Depletion products. These materials include recycled PET footprint, mostly during the agricultural phase. GRI bottles in our apparel textiles and Flyknit shoe We believe we can create the most positive GRI 301: Materials uppers, apparel trims made from recycled Nike impact on our overall environmental footprint by Disclosure 301-1: Materials used by weight Airbag waste, and rubber outsole scraps recycled developing more sustainable cotton options that back into our footwear outsoles. Examples SASB promote not only better water stewardship, but include the Nike Flyknit Free, Nike Air VaporMax pesticide reduction and fairer labor practices. CN0501-03: Discussion of environmental and social risks associated with sourcing priority raw materials Flyknit, Nike Air Zoom Wildhorse. CN0501-04: Percentage of raw materials third-party certified to an environmental or social sustainability standard, by standard 5 We updated this measure from calendar year to fiscal year to be consistent with the rest of the 2020 targets. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 24 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix ENERGY AND EMISSIONS TARGET REACH 100 PERCENT RENEWABLE ENERGY IN OWNED OR OPERATED FACILITIES BY THE END OF FY25 AND ENCOURAGE European Logistics Center, Laakdal, Belgium BROADER ADOPTION, 4. Collaborating with other organizations (i.e. 35 percent renewable energy at our China AS PART OF OUR corporate peers, government, NGOs) to scale impact and create better market conditions Logistics Center in Taicang, China through a rooftop solar array. EFFORT TO CONTROL for clean energy. PROCUREMENT ABSOLUTE EMISSIONS Renewable Energy in NIKE Owned and Operated Facilities Procuring renewable energy for a diverse global operation is complex. So, like any team looking In September 2015, we joined RE100, a to win, we began by creating a game plan. First, coalition of businesses that have pledged to we outlined our preferred sources of renewable source 100 percent renewable energy in their energy, and then we developed principles to PERFORMANCE operations. As a Fortune 100 company, we have guide our procurement strategy. % Renewable Energy an opportunity to drive increased production and accessibility of renewable energy globally. We prefer to source electricity from wind, solar, geothermal, run-of-river hydro sources, and FY15 / 14% Our strategy for achieving our RE100 biomass, as we believe they pose the least commitment is to prioritize mature renewable harm for the environment. energy markets with large NIKE-owned or FY16 / 20% operated consumption and strategically engage Guided by the needs of our business, in projects that catalyze momentum toward we developed these principles to assess FY17 / 22% broader adoption of renewable energy in our opportunities. We look to optimize across these supply chain. guiding principles when evaluating projects. FY20 target 100% In the U.S., we have executed two projects which will produce roughly 460,000 mWh/year • F INANCIAL IMPACT. We seek cost-effective solutions, because we believe that in the long of wind energy. In Oregon, our off-site power term, renewable energy is more cost effective purchase agreement (PPA) went live in January than fossil fuel generation. NIKE exists to serve athletes. And climate issues, 2017. Today, it supplies our World Headquarters • R ISK DIVERSIFICATION. Energy procurement and like pollution and extreme weather conditions, and other NIKE-owned or operated facilities in markets are dynamic and complex. Therefore, have a huge impact on how athletes perform. Oregon with 100 percent renewable energy. We we look for solutions that won’t result in also have a broader U.S. PPA which will support unacceptable risk to our company. As a global business, we’re building resilience the development of a wind farm that will start • ADDITIONALITY. We strive for solutions that to climate uncertainty into our operations by operating commercially in mid-2019. Together, increase the amount and availability of reducing costs, innovating new operating models, these contracts will cover our owned and renewable energy and benefit both the and strengthening our supply chain. operated consumption in the U.S. and Canada, environment and the local communities and deliver on more than one-half of our global where projects are located. While this target focuses specifically on commitment for RE100. • P ROXIMITY. Where feasible, we aim to procure renewable energy, we’re reducing our carbon renewable electricity close to our facilities so footprint in a variety of ways: Additionally, NIKE has reached 100 percent that the communities we are a part of share renewable energy at our European Logistics in the environmental, health, and economic 1. Innovating low-impact materials Campus in Laakdal, Belgium through benefits of renewable energy. 2. Driving energy efficiency within our five sources of energy (onsite wind, solar, supply chain geothermal, and locally produced biomass We look at different sourcing options in each 3. Increasing renewable energy throughout our and hydro). We have also reached more than geographic area we operate in and choose a operations and supply chain, and solution that best optimizes these considerations. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 25 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix ENERGY AND EMISSIONS CHALLENGES TOTAL RENEWABLE ENERGY (MWH) In FY17, our energy and carbon intensity in key We’ve already made significant progress, but FY15 FY16 FY17 operations was flat compared to baseline, as the the complexity of our operations and the nature FW MANUFACTURING AND reductions achieved in footwear manufacturing of global renewable energy markets continue to TEXTILE DYEING & FINISHING1 were offset by increased inbound air freight. present challenges for us. Total 550,000 571,000 602,000 Additional details on the root causes of these % of total 14% 13% 13% trends are provided below. Outside the U.S., we do not have sufficient OWNED OR OPERATED owned or operated demand at any facility or Total 66,798 108,761 125,527 Inbound Logistics in any individual country to enable utility-scale % of total 14% 20% 22% The most significant driver of carbon emissions procurement. Utility-scale procurement options EMISSIONS AVOIDED FROM RENEWABLE from logistics is shipping product from origin to ENERGY IN OWNED AND OPERATED destination by air. On the inbound leg (i.e. origin optimize our guiding principles, and without (Metric tonnes CO2e) 22,634 40,215 49,347 them we are limited to the less-preferred option to destination geography), air freight is 25 times of purchasing unbundled renewable energy 1 FW Manufacturing scope represents the majority of finished goods more carbon intensive than ocean freight. Air credits from a market exchange. production for NIKE and Converse footwear. Textile dyeing and finishing freight, however, allows us to deliver products scope includes focus suppliers only. Focus suppliers represent key suppliers involved in the dyeing and/or finishing of materials, which directly more quickly to our consumers. The supply support footwear and apparel finished product assembly. To overcome this limitation, we will aggregate chain is complex and there are many reasons air demand that aligns against our four geographies, freight is used, including manufacturing delays with embedded sub-regions, and focus on and responding to consumer demand. projects in countries with attractive opportunities. MEASURE To address air freight, going forward, we are We’ve built a team of experts in renewable and DECREASE ENERGY AND CO 2 E working with key stakeholders to develop a global energy procurement. As we work toward EMISSIONS 25 PERCENT PER UNIT cross-functional, internal strategy to optimize the commitments we’ve made, our efforts can IN KEY OPERATIONS (INBOUND AND our use of air freight and ensure that we only help accelerate a cleaner future for all. OUTBOUND LOGISTICS, DISTRIBUTION use it when necessary. CENTERS, HEADQUARTER LOCATIONS, Factory Adoption of Renewables in the Supply Chain In FY17, we introduced our Supply Chain In addition to our efforts in NIKE-owned and FINISHED GOODS MANUFACTURING, Sustainability Index (SCSI) with our inbound operated facilities, we are convening supplier AND NIKE-OWNED RETAIL) ocean freight and air freight providers. The working groups to accelerate our manufacturing SCSI establishes clear minimum sustainability factories’ adoption of renewable energy in requirements for all logistics service providers multiple countries. PERFORMANCE and drives innovation discussions. Energy Consumption per unit – key operations Our approach to accelerating renewable energy (kWhe/unit) We are leveraging the SCSI to manage our has three components: providers to improve their sustainability 6.0 performance through recognition, collaboration 1. Supporting factories in installing solar opportunities, and volume allocation. In FY18, photovoltaic (solar PV) systems on factory we have begun implementing the SCSI for all rooftops to provide up to 45 percent of the 5.0 other logistics services. electricity use of factory operations. 2. Engaging with governments and policymakers 4.70 4.70 Outbound Logistics to advocate for policy that lets our 4.0 4.25 FY20 target Outbound logistics (i.e. transportation from manufacturing factories directly source renewable electricity from local power 25% a NIKE distribution center to point of sale or consumer) was challenged in FY16 and utilities. FY15 FY16 FY17 FY17 and will continue to be challenged as 3. Expanding our responsibly sourced biomass e-commerce sales continue to grow. E-commerce renewable energy program with a focus on our shipments are more carbon intensive than full materials manufacturers. Carbon Emissions per unit – key operations truckload shipments to a wholesale partner, so (kg CO2e/unit) we are working on minimizing their footprint by At scale, this approach will eventually allow our identifying less carbon-intensive delivery options manufacturing factories to use renewable energy 1.8 (e.g. delivery by bike courier) and exploring to power their operations. regional fulfillment nodes. 1.74 1.74 1.6 1.61 FY20 target 1.4 25% FY15 FY16 FY17 Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 26 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix ENERGY AND EMISSIONS Distribution Centers We do this by building a management Energy use in our distribution centers is trending foundation geared at achieving energy savings higher than our target. One key reason is more through the NIKE Energy Minimum Program. extreme temperatures across seasons have This program brings organizational capabilities, required an increased use of air conditioning data analytics, and energy activities to our and heating. We have continued to implement contract manufacturers by concentrating on: energy efficiency measures like LED lighting and upgraded heating, ventilation, and air •D  ata-driven decision-making and performance conditioning systems. We have also implemented management with energy and carbon baselines energy, waste, water, and cross-metric and ongoing data analysis requirements that all new and existing distribution • Organization structure assessments to centers must meet. For our facilities that do not enable energy working teams to drive energy currently meet minimum requirements, we are efficiency initiatives European Logistics Center, Laakdal, Belgium working on implementation plans and roadmaps. • Sharing best practices for machine maintenance to reduce energy used in steam ENERGY USE BY BUSINESS DIVISION (MWhe) At the end of FY16, our European Logistics and compressed air systems Campus opened its newest building, WINGS FY151 FY16 FY17 (approximately 1.74M sq ft), which applied for Additionally, we work with factories to scale FUEL CONSUMPTION LEED Gold certification for new construction. key energy efficiency opportunities that Retail2 7,559 6,055 7,135 WINGS uses a racking structure (which reduces have the greatest impact on their energy Distribution Centers 39,853 45,396 58,230 waste and materials used in construction), an HQs 22,171 28,257 33,738 and carbon footprint; these opportunities Other Office Facilities & abundance of natural light, and automated LED include eliminating steam boiler systems and WHQ Building Construction 3,136 4,480 14,9833 lighting. The facility is also designed to support implementing electric motor management Air Manufacturing Innovation 63 75 18 biodiversity, with measures like sheep that initiatives to improve efficiency in motor use. (Air MI)4 naturally maintain the landscape and on-site Corporate Jets 6 12,411 16,972 13,105 beehives to pollinate flowers in the local area. In FY17, our biggest achievement was TOTAL FUEL CONSUMPTION 85,193 101,167 127,209 eliminating outdated steam boiler systems at ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION Headquarters a majority of footwear finished good factories, Retail 185,281 199,352 209,300 Energy use at World Headquarters (WHQ) in which has given us energy savings between 15 Distribution Centers 130,047 155,138 168,533 Beaverton, Oregon, was up 10 percent over to 20 percent at each location. Since the carbon HQs 77,519 86,007 89,127 the FY15 baseline, due in part to severe winter emissions from manufacturing are a result of Other Office Facilities & 52,113 54,557 56,703 WHQ Building Construction weather during FY17 and in part due to growth energy use, the effect on carbon emissions Air MI 39,121 40,647 50,210 in site occupancy outpacing retrofits and mirrors that of energy, decreasing carbon TOTAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION 484,081 535,701 573,873 efficiency improvements. emissions per pair of footwear by 1.1 percent ENERGY CONSUMPTION from the FY15 baseline. OUTSIDE OF THE ORGANIZATION Our WHQ has developed a Roadmap to Smart Inbound Logistics 2,355,055 1,878,244 2,521,478 Buildings, which includes a guide to equipment As the energy program continues to mature, and Outbound Logistics 250,606 273,722 275,661 upgrades (where most of the reduction in energy efficiency opportunities are implemented, FW Manufacturing7 2,154,045 2,209,104 2,226,619 energy comes from) and standardizes our focus is shifting to drive further adoption of AP Manufacturing8 283,000 292,000 311,000 specifications for energy-efficient building renewable energy by our contract manufacturers. (Estimated) systems. For example, daylight harvesting EQ Manufacturing8 205,000 206,000 176,000 (Estimated) and flexible air conditioning add to the NIKE Direct Stores (NDS) Textile Dyeing & Finishing 9 1,800,730 2,100,084 2,313,869 modular capabilities of NIKE’s Freestyle work In FY16 and FY17, we established a global TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION environment. Upgrading existing equipment electric energy baseline for over 1,000 retail 7,048,436 6,959,154 7,824,627 OUTSIDE OF THE ORGANIZATION makes up most of the energy reduction. locations. We also worked out a method to 1 FY15 values have been restated in alignment with expanded scope of estimate energy use in areas where data is FY20 targets. Contract Manufacturer 6 : Footwear difficult to access. 2 Due to global variance in patterns of energy consumption from direct fuel use, Retail fuel consumption represents North America actual data only, In FY08, we launched our Energy and Carbon absent of global extrapolations. program, which reduces the energy use, cost, Overall, we reduced energy used in retail 3 The big increase in FY17 is due to construction at World Headquarters. Sites under construction will be incorporated into HQs data set once and carbon footprint of footwear manufacturing. locations per square foot due to our investments operational. 4 Air Manufacturing Innovation manufactures Air-Sole cushioning In nearly 10 years, we’ve made good progress, in LEED stores and energy efficiency projects, components at NIKE-owned facilities and one leased facility. Air reducing energy use per pair by 60 percent including HVAC and lighting upgrades. In our Manufacturing Innovation also manufactures and sells small amounts of various other plastic products to other manufacturers. with our Nike brand footwear finished goods North America stores, we installed Energy 5 The drop in energy is due to a small leak in a natural gas meter that was addressed. manufacturing factories. Management Systems to provide centralized 6 Corporate jets aren’t in scope of NIKE’s targets but are part of NIKE’s footprint. control and automation of HVAC and electrical 7 Scope represents the majority of finished goods production for NIKE We work with our manufacturing partner systems, helping us spot opportunities for and Converse footwear. 8 FY15 values have been restated due to improvements to data quality and locations to develop better energy efficiency. energy savings. We are now planning to bring estimation methodology. 9 Measure includes focus suppliers only. Focus suppliers represent key these systems to new markets around the world. suppliers involved in the dyeing and/or finishing of materials, which directly 6 Finished goods manufacturer. support footwear and apparel finished product assembly. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 27 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix ENERGY AND EMISSIONS GHG EMISSIONS BY BUSINESS DIVISION MEASURE We’re currently on track to achieve our target, (METRIC TONNES CO 2 E) and a number of suppliers are ahead of FY151 FY16 FY17 DECREASE ENERGY AND CO2E EMISSIONS schedule, including: SCOPE 1 35 PERCENT PER KG IN TEXTILE Retail2 1,531 1,226 1,445 DYEING AND FINISHING PROCESSES 7 •A  pparel suppliers in Taiwan, who have reduced Distribution Centers 7,801 9,116 11,699 energy by 12 percent from baseline HQs 4,419 5,649 6,765 • Footwear suppliers in China, who have Other Office Facilities & reduced energy by 24 percent from baseline WHQ Building Construction 635 908 3,0353 PERFORMANCE Air MI 13 24 4 Energy Consumption per kg – Textile Dyeing The primary focus of our work with dyeing and Corporate Jets5 3,576 4,392 3,391 and Finishing (kWh/kg) finishing suppliers is boiler system optimization TOTAL SCOPE 1 17,975 21,293 26,339 projects. As an essential part of the dyeing SCOPE 26 16 and finishing process, boilers operate almost Retail 98,154 99,959 103,393 15.86 15.46 continuously and use 80 percent of the energy Distribution Centers 58,152 67,752 61,084 14.95 in a dyeing and finishing factory. Focusing HQs 27,038 15,935 14,799 13 efforts on these systems allows material Other Office Facilities & WHQ Building Construction 27,238 27,254 27,035 suppliers to realize cost-effective, significant, Air MI 18,099 14,873 18,135 10 FY20 target shortand long-term gains in energy efficiency. TOTAL SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 228,681 225,773 224,446 35% Washington State University is a key partner for NIKE’s manufacturing global energy and carbon Inbound Logistics 599,788 478,475 642,287 FY15 FY16 FY17 Outbound Logistics 66,379 72,465 73,080 team. Through this collaboration, we’re building FW Manufacturing7 962,300 986,749 1,041,646 capabilities, energy toolsets, and best practice AP Manufacturing guidelines to help our supply chain become 176,000 181,000 193,000 Carbon Emissions per kg – Textile Dyeing (Estimated)8 more energy efficient in finished goods as well Equipment (EQ) and Finishing (kg CO2e/kg) 114,000 114,000 98,000 as dyeing and finishing. Manufacturing (Estimated)8 Textile Dyeing & Finishing9 542,089 635,676 703,731 5.5 TOTAL SCOPE 3 2,460,556 2,468,365 2,751,744 1 FY15 values have been restated in alignment with expanded scope of 4.78 FURTHER READING FY20 targets. 2 Due to global variance in patterns of energy consumption from direct fuel 4.5 4.68 4.55 Approach to Energy use, Retail Scope 1 emissions represent North America actual data only, absent of global extrapolations. & Emissions 3 The big increase in FY17 is due to construction at World Headquarters. FY20 target Sites under construction will be incorporated into HQs data set once 3.5 35% operational. 4 The drop in emissions is due to a small leak in a natural gas meter that PRIORITY ISSUE PRIORITY ISSUE was addressed. Energy GHG Emissions 5 Emissions from corporate jets aren’t in scope of NIKE’s targets but are included in NIKE’s Scope 1 emissions footprint. FY15 FY16 FY17 GRI GRI 6 Market-based Scope 2 emissions are reported in this table. Total NIKE, Inc. location-based Scope 2 emissions are reported in table below. 7 Scope represents the majority of finished goods production for NIKE and GRI 302: Energy GRI 305: Emissions Converse footwear. Disclosure 302-1: Energy Disclosure 305-1: Direct 8 FY15 values have been restated due to improvements to data quality and The dyeing and finishing of textiles is one of the estimation methodology. consumption within (Scope 1) GHG Emissions 9 Measure includes focus suppliers only. Focus suppliers represent key most energy-intensive processes in our supply organization supplier involved in the dyeing and/or finishing of materials, which directly support footwear and apparel finished product assembly. chain. To reduce this impact, we extended our Energy and Carbon Program to dyeing and finishing suppliers. Similar to our program in BIOMASS EMISSIONS (METRIC TONNES CO 2 E) 1 finished goods manufacturing, it’s designed to FY15 FY16 FY17 drive energy efficiency by enabling organization Emissions from Biomass RECs 4,785 4,335 3,109 capabilities, improving steam boiler systems, 1 Biomass emissions reported separately from scopes as per GHG Protocol. and implementing best practices for steam system maintenance. SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS (METRIC TONNES CO 2 E) FY15 FY16 FY17 Location-Based 250,493 262,354 289,556 Market-Based1 228,681 225,773 224,446 1 As per the new GHG Protocol Scope 2 Emissions guidance, marketbased emissions are reported alongside location-based emissions. Market-based emissions show the impact of NIKE’s energy purchase decisions on emissions. 7 Measure includes focus suppliers only. Focus suppliers represent key suppliers involved in the dyeing and/or finishing of materials, which directly support footwear and apparel finished product assembly. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 28 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix WASTE TARGET ELIMINATE FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING WASTE TO LANDFILL OR INCINERATION, WHILE CONTINUING TO REDUCE OVERALL WASTE PERFORMANCE % Waste to Landfill1 – FW Manufacturing2 FY16 / 6.6% FY17 / 4.0% FY20 target 0% 1 FY16 is the baseline for this target. 2 Scope represents the majority of finished goods production for NIKE and Converse footwear. Nike Grind material from recycled footwear Our priority is zero waste. We aim to eliminate process, and market this material. The program FOOTWEAR WASTE VOLUMES (LBS) 1 waste wherever we can, beginning by designing increases the recycling demand for some BY NIKE GRIND PROGRAM waste out of our products and optimizing materials through carefully targeted initiatives. FY16 FY17 manufacturing processes. Eliminating waste Factory Waste 9,336,826 11,257,883 reduces material consumption and cost, and the Nike Grind Post-consumer2 587,810 1,356,021 upstream environmental impacts associated with Nike Grind is a suite of premium, recycled, and 1 Measured in pounds of Nike Grind for use in sports and other making materials. regenerated materials we use to reduce waste flooring surfaces. and deliver performance products ranging from 2 Post-consumer includes waste from distribution centers, Reuse-A-Shoe program, defective samples, and returns. We’re focused particularly on footwear, new NIKE footwear and apparel to sports and which accounts for nearly two-thirds of NIKE play surfaces made by our industry-leading LEARN MORE: Nike Grind; Nike Grind Surfaces manufacturing waste. For us, manufacturing partners. There are over 10,000 surfaces around scraps and manufacturing byproducts are the world made from our surplus manufacturing valuable resources. Every gram of materials materials such as rubber, foam, fiber, leather, sourced to make NIKE products should be put and textile blends. to good use, maximizing economic value and minimizing environmental impact. NIKE has been supplying Nike Grind to premium surface manufacturers since 1992. In We’re strengthening our recycling capabilities FY16 and FY17, revenues from the sale of Nike and making it easier to responsibly convert Grind sports and play surfaces funded additional unrecyclable waste into energy. In FY17, more sustainable innovations at NIKE. than one-half of NIKE footwear finished goods manufacturing waste was recycled. We do this by segregating waste for recycling and using waste management centers that consolidate, Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 29 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix WASTE MEASURE REDUCE WASTE INDEX BY 10 PERCENT, COVERING FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING, DISTRIBUTION CENTERS, AND HEADQUARTER LOCATIONS PERFORMANCE Waste Index1 – Footwear Manufacturing, DCs, HQs 105 100.8 100 100 98.2 95 FY20 target FY15 2 FY16 FY17 10% 1 Our waste index replaces our previously stated waste measure, in order to Thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU) material from NIKE Air Bag manufacturing better reflect our actual performance against our waste reduction goals, and avoid misleading trends due to shifts in the relative volumes of our apparel and equipment businesses. The waste index is a weighted average of our footwear manufacturing waste per unit, distribution centers waste per unit, Footwear factories are implementing NIKE’s In Vietnam, we’ve identified and completed due and headquarters waste per occupant. 2 Baseline is FY15 except for Tier 1 FW Manufacturing and Converse HQ, Waste Minimum Program, which sets diligence on additional waste-to-energy and which are FY16 and are included in INC-wide baseline for comparability expectations for: logistics providers. This enables our contract across years. manufacturers who are still sending waste to 1. Management commitment landfill or incineration to send it for responsible 2. A hierarchy of waste where disposal energy recovery instead. In FY17, our waste index was up 0.8 percent is a last resort over baseline. Early indicators based on FY18 3. Separation and handling waste for The final push to zero waste in footwear first half data show a continued rise of our waste recycling, and manufacturing will be developing recycling and index, to ~2.5 percent over baseline. This rise in 4. Data collection and reporting energy recovery channels for two remaining our waste index is due to: for accountability. factories in Europe that landfill a small quantity of waste. A possible challenge in doing this is 1. Increasing waste per unit in footwear We’re also making good progress on our plan to the current restrictions on shipping of waste manufacturing, which represents 69 percent eliminate waste to landfill or incineration.8 At materials between countries. of the index (reflecting its contribution to our the beginning of FY16, 6.6 percent of footwear total waste) manufacturing waste was sent to landfill or 2. Increasing waste per unit in our distribution incineration. By the end of FY17, this was centers, which represents 27 percent of FW MANUFACTURING WASTE, METRIC TONNES 1 down to 4.0 percent, with only six contract our index FY16 FY17 3. Finally, headquarter locations’ waste per manufacturers still sending waste to landfill or Reused & Recycled Waste 49,020 47,579 incineration. Factories in China, Indonesia, and occupant is decreasing, but represents only Energy Recovery Waste 30,091 38,200 India no longer landfill manufacturing waste. 4 percent of our index. Landfilled & Incinerated Waste 5,567 3,550 TOTAL WASTE 84,678 89,329 We are evaluating options for how to reverse 1 Scope represents the majority of finished goods production for NIKE and this trend but recognize our waste may continue Converse footwear. to rise until we implement new functional strategies to curb this index back toward our target. Additional details on these trends are provided on the next page. 8 Incineration without energy recovery. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 30 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix WASTE Distribution Centers Distribution Centers Corrugated cardboard cartons are the biggest Over the past few years, we have seen a steady source of waste at our distribution centers, 92 percent of our distribution centers’ waste and there was an increase in cardboard waste diverted from landfill. Our European Logistics generation over FY16/17 because of changing Campus performed best in the NIKE network customer order profiles. Today, our customers with 100 percent landfill diversion. Our Japan want more variety of product and/or smaller and Converse Ontario (California) distribution orders at any given time. This, in turn, means centers also hit 100 percent landfill diversion that our distribution centers must debox cartons by the end of FY17. Meanwhile, landfill delivered from our factories and repackage diversion decreased slightly at two key North product into more customized orders, a process America distribution centers due to challenges that inherently creates more waste. As a result, experienced while expanding capacity. Nike Grind material from recycled footwear uppers we have turned our focus to a long-standing initiative: our Re-Use-A-Box program, which We are focusing on retraining our employees reuses the corrugated cardboard carton waste and working with local recycling providers Contract Manufacturers : Footwear9 on outbound shipments. We are analyzing the to increase landfill diversion at each of our In FY16, we made progress to meet our footwear potential of increasing the reuse rate to get distribution centers. finished goods manufacturing reduction target the most out of the program, and we are also by focusing on data, analytics, and crosspiloting and evaluating alternative packaging Corporate Headquarters functional coordination. such as reusable shipping totes. Waste diversion at WHQ took a dip in FY17 when a food-only compost regulation was Reducing manufacturing waste depends on introduced by the municipality. As a result, how products are designed and how they are DISTRIBUTION CENTERS AND HQs (metric tonnes) items previously composted were sent to landfill. made. So, to achieve our target, we created a cross-functional material efficiency team. FY15 FY16 FY17 In our European Headquarters, we’ve been The team identifies key initiatives, from design DISTRIBUTION CENTERS evaluating waste streams to understand through manufacturing, that address underlying Landfilled Waste 2,719 3,117 3,270 current volumes and behavioral trends with drivers of waste generation. This includes Recycled Waste 29,391 29,593 32,687 an eye to educating employees on their reducing and standardizing the materials pallet, Composted Waste 247 274 197 environmental impact. designing more efficient cutting patterns, Waste to Energy Incineration 560 715 1,022 replacing disposable materials packaging with TOTAL WASTE 32,917 33,699 37,178 At Converse’s headquarters in Boston, we’ve more durable packaging that can be reused, HQs been demonstrating the benefits of singleimproving cutting technologies to enable smaller Landfilled Waste 1,626 1,816 1,807 stream recycling, and we also began a compost gaps between cut parts, and designing more Recycled Waste 2,063 1,708 1,927 program for catering leftovers and coffee grinds. efficient tooling for making molded parts. Composted Waste 707 1,042 1,157 TOTAL WASTE 4,396 4,566 4,891 We are also improving waste data quality and the capacity of NIKE and our manufacturing factories FURTHER READING to identify root causes of waste generation. In China, the factories decreased waste generation MEASURE Approach to Waste in four of the last eight quarters, ending 5.5 INCREASE LANDFILL DIVERSION percent lower than the FY16 baseline. Globally, IN DISTRIBUTION CENTERS AND in FY17 waste generation in footwear factories was up 2.3 percent over the FY16 baseline, and HEADQUARTER LOCATIONS PRIORITY ISSUE Materials Waste up 3.7 percent as of the second quarter of FY18. GRI While we aren’t satisfied with these results to date, we are confident that our efforts are laying PERFORMANCE GRI 306: Effluents and Waste the foundation for better understanding and Disclosure 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method % Landfill Diversion management of what drives waste generation. Corporate Headquarters FY15 / 88.4% By the end of FY17, our World Headquarters (WHQ) reduced one-time-use containers like bottles and cups by about 16,000 pounds FY16 / 87.1% per quarter through a reusable dishware program. Overall, average waste per occupant at our five headquarter locations was down 11.9 percent FY17 / 87.9% from baseline. FY20 target 9 Finished goods manufacturer. INCREASE Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 31 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix WATER TARGET INNOVATE AND ADOPT NEW APPROACHES TO REDUCE WATER USE IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN, WITH 20 PERCENT REDUCTION IN FRESHWATER USE IN TEXTILE DYEING AND FINISHING PER UNIT OF PRODUCTION PERFORMANCE Freshwater Use Per Unit of Production1 (L/kg) – Textile Dyeing and Finishing2, 3 130 126.5 Factory water program check. Jakarta, Indonesia 120 117.2 At NIKE, we recognize the increasing risk of to make meaningful improvements in water water availability to our business, and we’ve use, wastewater treatment, and recycling. In FY20 target 110 been working to reduce our water footprint for FY16, our team of water consultants set up 20% years. We are focused on reducing our water use through innovation, and improving wastewater the NIKE Water Minimum Program. Designed to spot opportunities for better efficiency, the FY16 FY17 quality to enable cost-effective water recycling. program sets expectations for water stewardship, wastewater treatment data collection, and 1 FY16 is the baseline year for this target. 2 Target includes focus suppliers only. Focus suppliers represent key We surpassed our water conservation target in managers’ understanding the risks of water suppliers involved in the dyeing and/or finishing of materials, which directly FY15,10 so we set a new target for 2020: reduce scarcity and flooding. It also helps factories support footwear and apparel finished product assembly. 3 NIKE’s FY20 water target differs in scope compared to our moonshot water by 20 percent the amount of fresh water used develop structured approaches to maintaining ambition. The moonshot water ambition is broader, inclusive of water consumed across the value chain, from corporate services to end of life by dyeing and finishing suppliers per unit of their water and wastewater treatment (excluding consumer use). production in our supply chain. Taken together, equipment. The intent of the Water Minimum the freshwater withdrawn by these vendors Program is to prepare our suppliers for closedtotaled 16 billion liters of water in FY16, which loop water recycling. was about 126 liters of freshwater for every kilogram of fabric produced. Our focus is on This resulted in a 7.4 percent drop in freshwater dyeing and finishing facilities because they not use from the previous year, a reduction to 117 only use the most industrial water, but they liters of freshwater for every kilogram of fabric. generate the most industrial wastewater in our By the end of FY17, 40 percent of the suppliers manufacturing supply chain. making our primary materials were recycling some treated wastewater back into their To achieve our target, we’re teaching our manufacturing processes. suppliers to be aware, to be committed, and 10 FY15 Water Target: Improve water efficiency by 15 percent per unit in apparel materials dyeing and finishing, and in footwear manufacturing, from FY11 through FY15. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 32 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix WATER We are making progress but there are challenges MEASURE To assist our suppliers with understanding, to reaching our 2020 target. Because our validating, and mitigating their water risk, we supply chain is diverse, the level of awareness, BUILD RESILIENCE THROUGH developed a Water Risk Mitigation Guideline, commitment, and capability varies between SUPPLIER WATER RISK MITIGATION which provides a structured approach for our suppliers. We must build consistency across our PLANS WITH MATERIALS PROCESSORS suppliers to better understand and manage supply chain to achieve our ambition of closedrisks from flooding and drought. We provided loop water use to enable NIKE to achieve our this guideline to finished goods factories and moonshot of doubling our business while halving Water scarcity is real. To understand the risk of material suppliers in regions with high risk our environmental impact. water scarcity – and in some regions, flooding – of water scarcity or flooding. At the end of to our manufacturing factories and material FY17, all of these suppliers were evaluating We also believe that to be successful, presence suppliers we leveraged the Aqueduct Water their risks and preparing to develop mitigation is influence. We are taking a proactive, leanRisk Atlas developed by the World Resources and management plans. We are now planning forward approach to assisting our material Institute (WRI) to assign a baseline water risk to share the Water Risk Mitigation Guideline vendors in resolving their water and wastewater score at the facility level. with our contract manufacturers and material challenges. In addition, we have taken a suppliers in our supply chain. leadership role in the development of the Through this exercise, we identified that 22 Sustainable Apparel Coalition’s Higg 3.0 Facility percent of footwear fabric and about 21 percent Environment Module and the development of apparel fabric from focus suppliers11 is made WATER (MILLION LITERS) and proliferation of the ZDHC Foundation’s in facilities classified by WRI as being at high FY16 FY17 Wastewater Guidelines. These efforts aim to risk of water scarcity. In China, India, Indonesia, DISTRIBUTION CENTERS drive systemic change to water efficiency and and Taiwan, 12 finished goods factory locations TOTAL FRESHWATER USE1 159.0 266.7 wastewater treatment across our industry. are in regions with high risk of water scarcity HQs or flooding. TOTAL FRESHWATER USE 597.8 604.2 AIR MI TOTAL FRESHWATER USE 31.9 41.9 OTHER OFFICES TOTAL FRESHWATER USE2 28.0 30.3 TEXTILE DYEING AND FINISHING3 Municipal / City 8,480. 2 9,269.7 Water to Facility Ground Water 4,810.0 5,272.3 Surface Water 2,175.0 2,159.1 Rain Water Collection 44.2 13.0 Condensate Use 367.1 389.5 TOTAL FRESHWATER USE 15,876.4 17,103.6 1 Scope reflects 45 percent of shipped units reported. 2 Scope includes U.S. only. 3 Includes focus suppliers only. Focus suppliers represent key suppliers involved in the dyeing and/or finishing of materials, which directly support footwear and apparel finished product assembly. FURTHER READING Approach to Water PRIORITY ISSUE Water Use GRI GRI 303: Water Disclosure 303-1: Water withdrawal by source Cotton crop irrigation 11 Focus suppliers represent key suppliers involved in the dyeing and/or finishing of materials, which directly support finished product assembly. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 33 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix CHEMISTRY MEASURE 100 PERCENT COMPLIANCE WITH NIKE RESTRICTED SUBSTANCE LIST (RSL) PERFORMANCE % of Tested Material in Compliance with NIKE RSL1 FY15 / 95% FY16 / 99% Nike Shield Jacket FY17 / 98% FY20 target TARGET 1. Elevating Chemicals Management Capability: We baselined performance at 121 strategic 100% ENABLE ZERO 1 All failures are resolved prior to product creation. suppliers to help prioritize improvements and guide development of shared DISCHARGE OF assessment tools. 2. Assessing New Chemicals: Going beyond In 2001, we shared our first RSL, a set of HAZARDOUS compliance by strengthening our review of new chemicals through a robust toxicological chemical requirements for materials that met or exceeded legal restrictions from around the CHEMICALS (ZDHC) screening process. 3. Prioritizing Chemicals: Ahead of compliance, world, including substances that we voluntarily restricted from products. identifying priority chemicals for phase-out Our RSL has evolved since then, and other based on an intensive review of the brands have created their own lists. This has led Chemistry plays an essential role in product chemicals used throughout our supply to confusion in the supply chain, where contract innovation and manufacturing at NIKE. It chain’s manufacturing processes. factories are stuck trying to deal with different can deeply influence and elevate product performance and design; yet the choice of requirements from different companies. So, to Demonstrating our leadership and commitment advance our RSL program and elevate supply chemistry can also affect sustainability of our to driving industry change through collective chain performance, NIKE recognized the need overall product creation process. action, NIKE co-created and formally adopted for a common approach to RSL management. the ZDHC Wastewater Guideline in FY17. The We invested significant effort co-creating With every chemistry choice our innovation new guideline allows global suppliers and a unified list of chemical restrictions with teams make, we can unlock potential for the brands to align wastewater testing and reporting other key global brands through the Apparel athlete. NIKE’s Chemistry Center of Excellence expectations to a testing schedule, laboratory & Footwear International RSL Management works with teams across the business and methods, and reporting limits for hazardous (AFIRM) Group. supply chain to ensure we are simultaneously chemicals. NIKE is deploying this robust tool increasing the performance of our products across our supply chain to track progress toward In January 2017, NIKE formally adopted the while reducing our chemical footprint. our ZDHC target by measuring the performance AFIRM Group RSL, directly replacing the NIKE of suppliers’ ZDHC MRSL compliance and RSL list of chemical limits for all materials used Achieving our goal of zero discharge of adherence to wastewater quality standards.12 in production of goods for NIKE. Just as the hazardous chemicals requires more than the implementation of our internal programs. previous NIKE RSL was based on both By strengthening foundational programs, legislated and voluntary commitments to It demands our continued commitment to promoting responsible use of better chemistry, creating safe products, the AFIRM RSL applies collaborate with industry peers, aligning on and advancing global alignment of chemical chemical limits based on legislation, best how we manage chemicals across a shared requirements, NIKE continues to make strong practices in industry, and voluntary reductions supply chain. progress toward achieving the aspirational goal in hazardous chemicals. of the ZDHC. Beyond our chemical compliance programs, further work is being advanced across three core areas to move us closer to our goal: 12 Measurement of supplier adherence to NIKE’s wastewater quality standards between FY16 and FY17 is based on a prior standard; progress from FY18 onward will be based on the higher standards of the ZDHC guideline. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 34 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix CHEMISTRY We built on this industry success by focusing stakeholders in FY16 to expand the scope of MEASURE on implementation. Investing to strengthen the MRSL. Successful collaboration led to our internal management of the program the publication of an updated ZDHC MRSL in 100 PERCENT OF FOCUS SUPPLIERS and improving capability across the supply December 2015, which now includes additional MEETING NIKE’S WASTEWATER chain is essential for reaching 100 percent guidance for controlling priority chemicals from QUALITY REQUIREMENTS FOR TEXTILE compliance. For example, our RSL training possible use in natural leather production. DYEING AND FINISHING PROCESSES 13 program, launched in FY16, is a requirement for all suppliers. We have already trained 82 Though a robust MRSL is essential for defining percent of our finished goods manufacturers and the quality of input chemistry, this must be 72 percent of our raw material suppliers in our coupled with effective tools and training to help PERFORMANCE supply chain. suppliers implement the MRSL and procure % of Focus Suppliers Meeting NIKE’s compliant chemicals. Recognizing this need, Wastewater Quality Requirements1 – Textile Right now, 98 percent of the materials we we actively supported the creation of the ZDHC Dyeing and Finishing2 tested are compliant with the RSL. Though nonGateway “Chemical Module” – a database compliances are resolved before the creation of that supports procurement of MRSL compliant final product, it is important to recognize that chemical formulations – and deployed a global FY16 / 57.8% the RSL is not static. training program to elevate understanding of MRSL implementation to our supply base. To further scale the use of MRSL compliant FY17 / 72.6% chemicals, we also continue to incentivize use MEASURE FY20 target of bluesign® approved chemistry within our 100 PERCENT COMPLIANCE WITH THE ZDHC MANUFACTURING RESTRICTED textile supply chain by supporting access to the bluefinder database. The bluesign® system 100% SUBSTANCES LIST (MRSL) supports sustainable textile production by 1 FY16 is the baseline for this measure. Measurement of supplier adherence to NIKE’s wastewater quality standards between FY16 and FY17 is based providing raw material suppliers with the tools on a prior standard; progress from FY18 onward will be based on the higher standards of the ZDHC guideline. and capability needed to successfully restrict 2 Includes focus suppliers only. Focus suppliers represent key suppliers and manage harmful substances. involved in the dyeing and/or finishing of materials, which directly support PERFORMANCE footwear and apparel finished product assembly. Official performance monitoring began in FY18. Measuring progress against this target began in late FY17, when we rolled out the ZDHC Wastewater Guideline to dyeing and finishing As we use less and less freshwater in our suppliers. This enabled them to measure their manufacturing supply chain, we need to ensure We believe that certain chemicals shouldn’t compliance by testing wastewater for presence that the water we do use can be cleaned be used in manufacturing, and we’re always of MRSL chemistries. During the rollout, we and returned into the environment. Testing working to improve how suppliers in our supply trained facilities on the new guidelines and gave wastewater from our textile dyeing and finishing chain select and use chemicals that meet our guidance on how to test wastewater for MRSL processes is a key measure to ensure we are expectations. Our input management program chemistries. Official performance monitoring on target for our zero discharge commitments. supports this approach in two key areas: to these new guidelines begins in FY18. In For wastewater, legal compliance is the bare addition, we captured electronic chemical minimum required of our suppliers. But legal 1. Collaborating with the ZDHC Foundation to inventory data from 10 material vendors to compliance differs from country to country, strengthen industry-wide MRSL compliance quantify the use of compliant formulations; and what’s acceptable in some places does not requirements for input chemistry, and having contracted with a provider to expand this necessarily match up to our expectations. That’s 2. Advancing tools to enable our suppliers to effort across the supply base, we plan to report why we, through collective action, developed scale procurement and use of chemicals on this progress when industry tools become and adopted tighter wastewater quality that meet those requirements. sufficiently robust. standards – the ZDHC Wastewater Guideline. Having launched the first industry-aligned MRSL We also set up a global wastewater disclosure in 2014, we knew that this industry milestone database to help suppliers optimize testing and was not the end of the journey; further work disclosure of wastewater quality. Through the was needed to increase its applicability to our power of collective action, one wastewater test broader supply chain. In response, we worked per the ZDHC Wastewater Guideline is valid for extensively with other global brands and industry all member brands of the ZDHC. By treating wastewater to ever-higher standards, suppliers can use less freshwater and reduce their risk of water scarcity by pursuing costeffective water recycling and closed-loop 13 The target has not changed from our FY14/15 Sustainable Business Report, but the wording has changed to provide brevity and clarity to the original goal. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 35 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix CHEMISTRY water. Our vision is a supply chain with zero industrial wastewater discharge. We want to be so successful with closed-loop water that we make the need for wastewater quality guidelines obsolete. We’re currently transitioning to the ZDHC Wastewater Guidelines, a more comprehensive set of guidelines designed specifically for our industry. Our progress between FY16 and FY17 is based on a prior standard, while our progress from FY18 onward will be based on the more comprehensive standards of the ZDHC guidelines. By the end of FY17, 72.6 percent of suppliers met NIKE’s wastewater quality requirements. We have been working with the remaining 27.4 percent to understand the opportunities that exist to allow them to discharge wastewater at a quality better than legal compliance. In Lunar Epic Flyknit Shield many cases, the suppliers were challenged with conventional wastewater parameters such as This toxicology review process is also utilized in • A FIRM Group: Extensive collaboration resulted in chemical oxygen demand, biological oxygen our Validation of a Greening Effort program, the release of an industry-aligned RSL, which demand, color, coliform, antimony, and total where we work with material vendors to review was adopted by NIKE in January 2017. nitrogen. To help our suppliers master these the chemical formulations of specific materials. • ZDHC Foundation: In addition to NIKE’s seat on fundamentals of wastewater treatment, we’re This review helps vendors choose better chemical the Board of Directors, our active leadership encouraging them to incorporate the NIKE inputs to create more sustainable materials, and across a number of areas continues to Minimum Water Program into their operations those materials qualify for a higher score within strengthen the creation and implementation of and examine the wastewater treatment the NIKE Materials Sustainability Index program. MRSL & Wastewater guidance, improving use of equipment they’re using and how they are chemicals throughout the global supply chain. operating, and requiring them to comply with The NIKE chemistry program routinely advises • Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC): Recognizing the ZDHC Wastewater Guidelines. on which chemicals to eliminate from the supply the value of measuring and elevating chain well ahead of any enacted regulation and chemical management capability within a utilizes this information in our collaborative manufacturing facility, we actively engaged MEASURE efforts across the industry. in the development of a converged chemical management assessment tool (integrated into ACHIEVE BETTER CHEMICAL INPUT the Higg Facility Environment Module 3.0). MANAGEMENT THROUGH SCALING MORE SUSTAINABLE CHEMISTRIES MEASURE LEAD INDUSTRY CHANGE THROUGH COLLECTIVE ACTION FURTHER READING NIKE has created tools – for both in-house Approach to Chemistry and supplier innovations – to make it easier Chemistry Playbook & RSL to evaluate chemistry choices early in the We share an extensive and complex global development process. Utilizing these tools, supply base, so we need to be aligned with PRIORITY ISSUE which include a toxicological screening, we other brands when using tools and guidelines Chemistry review new chemicals and formulations for to significantly influence chemical compliance. SASB human health and environmental hazards. These shared guidelines, built on sound science and an understanding of their technical validity, CN0501-01: Description of processes to maintain compliance with This approach allows us to work directly with restricted substances regulation chemical suppliers to better understand which help us shape a better industry for everybody. CN0501-02: Description of processes to assess and manage risks substances should be replaced to meet our Our commitment to collaborate across the associated with chemicals in products sustainability goals. Our focus goes well beyond industry continues to shape our chemicals CN0501-08: Percentage of (1) tier 1 supplier facilities and (2) management program and influences how we supplier facilities beyond tier 1 with wastewater discharge any regulated chemistries, seeking to identify meeting or exceeding legal requirements those that are considered controversial by engage with our supply chain. Recent alignment NIKE standards and reducing their use in the on approaches to good chemical management manufacturing of our products. highlight the critical importance of collaboration within our industry. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 36 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix MINIMIZE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT: BY THE NUMBERS >96% of Nike brand global 24B+ LITERS OF WATER SAVED 100% RENEWABLE ENERGY apparel and footwear is by sourcing cotton in North America by 2019 SCORED ON SUSTAINABILITY more sustainably in FY17 PERFORMANCE 98% of materials tested are 100% IN COMPLIANCE with NIKE’s restricted 60% substance list LANDFILL DIVERSION at NIKE’s European LESS WASTE GENERATED Logistics Campus, Japan in the Nike Free Run Flyknit compared Distribution Center (DC), and to a traditional running shoe Converse Ontario (California) DC 75% of Nike brand global footwear and apparel PRODUCTS USED SOME RECYCLED MATERIAL in FY17 Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 37 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix T RAN SF O R M MA NUFA C TU R I NG Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 38 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix THE WORLD AROUND US Consumers increasingly demand ethical production and sustainable sourcing from business. The UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights makes human rights an integral part of how business is done and reported. Companies are expected to act responsibly, understand their human rights risks, report on them more consistently, and create positive change in the supply chain. In the apparel sector, consumers are looking for brands to be more transparent. They want to see more eco-friendly fabrics used as fast fashion falls out of favor. Brands are focusing on the wellbeing of the contract factory worker and responding to public requests for more accountability. Retailers and manufacturers can only expect more pressure to be transparent about their production processes and their supply chains. OUR APPROACH We are transforming manufacturing with world-class standards that ensure our products are made responsibly and sustainably. Everything we do puts workers at the center. We are respecting the environment and using cutting-edge technologies to create better, more personalized products for our customers. “I F WE ARE GOING TO CREATE THE FUTURE AND GROW NIKE, IT IS GOING TO BE IN A WORLD OF REDUCED RESOURCES. THAT MEANS WE HAVE TO THINK LONG AND HARD ABOUT WHAT OUR PRODUCTS ARE MADE OF AND HOW THEY ARE MADE.” Tom Clarke, President, NIKE Advanced Innovation Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 39 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix TRANSFORM MANUFACTURING: FY16/17 HIGHLIGHTS SUSTAINABLE SOURCING ENGAGED WORKFORCE • The number of factories achieving compliance • In FY16, we launched a refined Engagement with our Code of Conduct (Bronze status) and Wellbeing (EWB) approach, including increased from 50 percent in FY11 to a survey that is statistically validated and 91 percent in FY17. correlated with key business metrics. • We developed and rolled out a more detailed • In FY17, we completed a multi-year and robust audit protocol as part of our new compensation and benefits pilot. Factory Compliance Ownership (FCO) program. • We invested in human resource capability • We integrated a “Culture of Safety” program at supplier factories. into our NIKE Lean management framework to ensure that health and safety strategies are embedded into business priorities. PARTNERSHIPS TO ACCELERATE INDUSTRY CHANGE • We continued to scale up the use of mobile platforms to support worker wellbeing. • We strengthened external partnerships to find collaborative solutions. KEY Numbered icons above indicate relevant Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 40 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix SUSTAINABLE SOURCING Footwear on production line – Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam TARGET A fundamental element of our relationship with Group) and the Fair Labor Association (FLA). factories is that that they provide fair and safe Results of audits done by these third-party SOURCE 100% FROM working conditions for employees, and share our commitment to protecting the environment. organizations are shared transparently through their sites. FACTORIES THAT MEET As a baseline for working with us, factories must comply with our Code of Conduct and Compliance management OUR DEFINITION OF Code Leadership Standards which are aligned with International Labour Organization (ILO) When sourcing products, we incentivize suppliers that go beyond simple compliance SUSTAINABLE 14, 15 standards. Those standards are designed to protect the rights of workers, create a safe and aim to make a real difference in terms of corporate responsibility and sustainability. working environment, and safeguard the Our Sustainable Manufacturing & Sourcing communities and areas where they operate. Index (SMSI) has become an important tool in PERFORMANCE factory engagement, encouraging improvements LEARN MORE: Sourcing and Manufacturing % Factories Rated Bronze or Better and eliminating underperformance by driving Standards business to those that perform best. The In 2011, we established a 2020 target to source SMSI is a critical piece of our overarching FY15 / 86.0% (FY11 BL: 48.8%) only from factories that meet our definition of Manufacturing Index (MI), which also evaluates sustainable, or rate Bronze on our Sustainable our suppliers’ quality, cost, and delivery Manufacturing & Sourcing Index (SMSI). To performance for sourcing decisions. FY16 / 86.6% assess progress, we regularly audit contract LEARN MORE: Product & Materials factories against our Code of Conduct and Code Sustainability Indices FY17 / 90.9% Leadership Standards, often with the support of independent third-party organizations such FY20 target as Better Work (a joint program of the United 100% Nations ILO and the International Finance Corporation, a member of the World Bank 14 NIKE removed the measure “Achieve 100% bronze or better on the Sustainable Manufacturing and Sourcing Index” because it was redundant with the sourcing target. 15 We define sustainable factories as those that rate bronze or better on the SMSI, demonstrating a beyond-compliance approach that includes having effective management systems in place to meet and exceed baseline requirements in health, safety, and environmental management; and labor best practices that create a safe, empowered workplace that engages and values workers. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 41 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix SUSTAINABLE SOURCING SUSTAINABLE MANUFACTURING & SOURCING INDEX (SMSI) While 91 percent of our factories now achieving bronze status or higher represents real progress, 10 percent of our contract manufacturers did COMPLY INNOVATE not meet our required standards for compliance with NIKE Code of by investing in and at the end of FY17. When factories fall below Conduct and Code engaging workers to compliance, they are given time to correct the Leadership Standards support business growth issues. Those failing to remediate issues prior to their next audit are placed on probation and re-audited six months later. Failure to meet NIKE’s bronze standard at that point will prompt consideration of a potential responsible RED YELLOW BRONZE SILVER GOLD exit. If critical issues are found, immediate remediation is required. We continue to review UNSUCCESSFUL INCONSISTENT MEETS EXCEEDS GLOBAL LEADER the most frequent areas of non-compliance, Under review Remediation plans Compliance with our Industry-leading World-leading such as hours, wages, and benefits to identify for exit in place to meet Code of Conduct and manufacturing manufacturing ways we can work with our contract factories to compliance shows a commitment standards standards strengthen compliance. to lean manufacturing and innovation and innovation In addition to tracking non-compliance events, we continue to evolve our compliance FACTORY RATINGS expectations and monitoring program. This Year / Number of Factories included transitioning in FY16 to a new system FY16 FY17 for managing factory compliance known as the Factory Compliance Ownership program, which <1% <1% 86% has a more detailed and robust audit protocol. 9% 5% FY16 4% 4% In early FY18, we updated our Code of Conduct and Code Leadership Standards to elevate <1% <1% key expectations around the environment, NIKE INC. building and machine safety, women’s rights, and chemical management, amongst others. FY16 / 663 FY17 / 591 The updated Code is a better representation 0 0 of the breadth of our work with factories 4 5 Gold in sustainability and our requirements for 570 532 Silver continued partnership. 60 28 Bronze LEARN MORE: Building Supplier Capabilities 27 2 23 3 FY17 91% Yellow Red No rating AUDITS, NON-COMPLIANCE 1 FY16 FY17 Working Hours 39% 43% Wages & Benefits 35% 36% Harassment & Abuse 4% 4% Voluntary Labor 0% 6% Regular Employment 11% 2% Discrimination 2% 2% FOOTWEAR APPAREL EQUIPMENT Age Standards 0% 1% Freedom of Association & 0% 0% Collective Bargaining FY16 / 142 FY17 / 127 FY16 / 394 FY17 / 363 FY16 / 127 FY17 / 101 Other 8% 5% 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 The top issues of non-compliance identified during audits in FY16 and 4 5 0 0 0 0 FY17 remained similar with working hours and wages and benefits as the most common types of findings. For all findings, the factories were required 123 111 335 331 112 90 to remediate the identified issues and the corrective actions were verified through another on-site audit. 10 4 42 18 8 6 5 6 15 14 7 3 LEARN MORE: Sourcing and 0 1 2 0 0 2 Manufacturing Standards Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 42 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix SUSTAINABLE SOURCING AUDIT COUNTS 1 TIER 1 SUPPLIERS AUDITED 1 MEASURE NIKE FY16 538 FY17 390 % of Tier 1 Suppliers FY16 FY17 ELEVATE A CULTURE OF HEALTH Fair Labor Association (FLA) 7 1 Audited to Code of Conduct 100% 100% AND SAFETY Better Work (BW) 31 15 1 All audits and self-assessments conducted are done so based on TOTAL 576 406 the NIKE Code of Conduct. For detail please see footnote for the “Audit Counts” table. At NIKE, we believe that protection of life 1 Audit counts were lower in FY17 primarily due to NIKE’s introduction of the Factory Compliance Ownership (FCO) program. As the next step in and health in the workplace is a fundamental evolving sustainability and compliance management, NIKE introduced the FCO program in early 2016. The program provides incentive opportunities right. For us, safety is a core value, and we are for factories that maintain NIKE’s compliance standards and move Collaboration to drive industry changes dedicated to providing a safe, hygienic, and beyond minimum compliance. Included in the incentives is reduced audit frequency with self-assessments when a factory has met thresholds for We also understand that certain systemic issues healthy workplace in all settings. Health and maintaining compliance over a number of years. require an informed and collaborative approach. safety must be a strategic capability for our In our last report, we issued a call to action contract manufacturers. In FY17, we launched WORKER COUNT RESULTS 1 to increase the robustness of the compliance our “Culture of Safety” initiative which focuses FY16 FY17 ecosystem in our industry by aligning codes on developing safety leadership behaviors Americas 71,904 77,833 of conduct, compliance protocols, and and enabling workers to engage in their safety EMEA 18,674 18,396 transparency around remediation. Implementing programs. To help achieve this objective, we N Asia 233,561 198,877 an industry-wide assessment will mean factories integrated Culture of Safety into our NIKE S Asia 304,932 296,984 which supply to multiple brands can complete Lean management framework, to ensure that SE Asia 436,970 444,907 a single audit and have more time to invest in health and safety strategies are embedded into TOTAL 1,066,041 1,036,997 building strategic human resource management business priorities. (HRM) and safety programs. 1 Count of workers in NIKE source base at fiscal year-end for period shown. LEARN MORE: NIKE Lean Management Framework LEARN MORE: Collaboration with stakeholders As part of our holistic approach to a Culture of Safety, we took the following actions in LONG-TERM RELATIONSHIPS WITH FEWER FACTORIES FY16/17: • Introduced a Culture of Safety Maturity PERCENTAGE CHANGE OVERALL CHANGE Assessment (CoSMA), which defines the foundational elements of a culture of safety NIKE REVENUE and identifies steps for growth 12.3% 15 •H  eld Culture of Safety trainings in English and local languages (Mandarin, Bahasa, 10 CONTRACT FACTORY and Vietnamese). There were six separate PERFORMANCE RATINGS training sessions with an average of 12 5 4.9% •E factories participating  volved machine safety standards to address CONTRACT risks associated with new modernized 0 FACTORY WORKERS manufacturing equipment 2.2% • Improved quality of factory self-reported safety data. -5 We have faced challenges with the overall CONTRACT FACTORIES scalability of our program due to the depth of 14.6% -10 training and assessment necessary to effectively elevate a culture of safety. Subsequently, we -15 FY15 FY16 FY17 are looking into additional scaling models, e-learning opportunities, and reliable thirdparty support to assist in accelerating strategic CONTRACT FACTORIES CONTRACT FACTORY WORKERS capability across our supply chain. LEARN MORE: Occupational Health & Safety NIKE REVENUE CONTRACT FACTORY PERFORMANCE RATINGS (USD) (percentage of contract factories achieving bronze rating or above on the SMSI) LEARN MORE: NIKE Manufacturing Map Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 43 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix SUSTAINABLE SOURCING EOT is a persistent challenge across industries in many of the countries where our suppliers operate. The biggest problems are underdeveloped management systems and a failure to enforce local laws on working hours. While the number of factories with incidents of EOT remains steady, this doesn’t mean that the same factories are always responsible. In fact, a low rate of repeat findings is what makes it so challenging to predict and anticipate where EOT will occur. For example, of all factories with an EOT finding at the end of FY17, only three were repeat offenders. In fact, 11 of the 23 factories with EOT incidents during FY17 resolved the issues and went on to return a bronze rating by the end of the year. We will continue to make this issue a priority in our compliance programs, as well as work to improve enforcement of shared standards throughout the industry. FURTHER READING Making Product Responsibly Learning from Our Past PRIORITY ISSUE Excessive Overtime SASB CN0501-05: Percentage of (1) tier 1 suppliers and (2) suppliers beyond tier 1 that have been audited to a labor code of conduct, percentage conducted by a third-party auditor Global football jersey in production CN0501-06: Priority non-conformance rate and associated corrective action rate for suppliers’ labor code of conduct audits CN0501-07: Discussion of greatest (1) labor and (2) environmental, MEASURE Excessive Overtime (EOT) is a cross-sector issue health, and safety risks in the supply chain which can have an impact on the health and ELIMINATE EXCESSIVE OVERTIME quality of life of workers. It also can result in CN0501-09: Percentage of (1) tier 1 suppliers and (2) suppliers beyond tier 1 who have completed the Sustainable Apparel errors and rework, often making the additional Coalition’s Higg Index Facility Module assessment or equivalent environmental data collection hours unproductive. One of the requirements PERFORMANCE of the NIKE Code Leadership Standards is to % of Excessive Overtime Incidents in eliminate excessive working hours and ensure NIKE Factories that workers at our supplier factories do not FY15 / 3.3% work more than 60 hours a week, and have at least one full day off in every seven. FY16 / 3.2% As we work toward our target of 100 percent of factories being bronze-rated, increased monitoring has shown that the facilities where FY17 / 3.9% EOT is most likely to occur tend to be factories that are multi-brand, where NIKE represents a small percent of their overall production. FY20 target 0% Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 44 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix ENGAGED WORKFORCE TARGET ENSURE FACTORY WORKERS SHARE IN PRODUCTIVITY GAINS As manufacturing processes become more sophisticated, the role of the contract factory worker is changing. We want to work with contract manufacturers that invest in the skills and capabilities of their employees and who promote collaboration among workers and between workers and managers. We know this is good for the businesses and the right thing for the people. A firm’s workforce is a key business asset that can perform to the best of its ability when supported, valued, and enabled correctly. We know that factories in our source base that use the tools of strategic compensation, safety, worker engagement, and overall human resource management will perform well from a business perspective, reduce risk, and ensure people are valued and treated properly. Fair compensation, meaningful benefits Every contract factory worker in our supply chain has the right to a standard of living that’s adequate to support them and their families. We, like many other brands, have committed to work with our suppliers to progressively Factory workers packaging NIKE product for shipment – Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam meet employees’ basic needs, including some discretionary income. We believe that the wages Our pilot tested three different approaches, each The results show that worker agency – their can increase as overall factory operational focusing on productivity improvements, shared ability to voice their views and opinions – was efficiency improves. value creation, and employee engagement. important to good business performance. Collaborative problem solving between workers A better run factory should be more profitable After collecting baseline data, we spent a and supervisors increased, while self-reported and should then be able to pay higher wages, full year building the foundation of a better levels of stress fell. Key business metrics, like in exchange for benefits such as lower turnover, running factory, which included all key areas turnover, productivity, and profitability, all higher productivity, and better quality product. within our Lean 2.0 approach. These covered improved. And, importantly, take-home pay Workers are key to delivering on the promise of line operations, supervisory skills, leader went up. high quality and high productivity, and need to standard work, relief teams, engagement and be compensated accordingly. communication processes, social dialogue, Building tools to measure and increase stress resilience activities, and management worker engagement Since FY15, we have partnered with a leading skills. During the second year, we tested We have set out to demonstrate to contract academic, factory management, workers, and different ways to align compensation with factories the importance of a valued and third-party experts to see if we could increase Lean principles, make pay more transparent engaged workforce. Our future growth will the value created in a factory and see it shared to workers, and empower workers to participate increasingly rely on well-trained people learning between management and workers. in decision-making and problem-solving. new skills and using new technologies. LEARN MORE: NIKE Lean Management Framework Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 45 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix ENGAGED WORKFORCE WORKER ENGAGEMENT Other developments include: Developing human resources Engaged workers are at the heart of our business As we continue to learn and evolve our model. However, most factories do not have a • Introducing people-based Lean activities to approach, we have recognized having strong way of measuring that engagement. In 2014, further engage with workers HRM is essential for contract factories to we started developing an Engagement and •E  nsuring supervisors have the skills they need maintain compliance with our standards Wellbeing Survey as a tool for managers to to manage lines and to build an engaged workforce. We have understand key impacts on workers’ experience •H  aving a skilled relief team who can step in teams in each of our regions with individuals in the factory and to identify ways to make when people are absent dedicated to working with our partner factories improvements. It enables workers to provide •E  nsuring workers have the right skills relative to measure and develop their HRM capabilities. factory management with confidential, to the products they are making In FY16 and FY17, these engagements were anonymous feedback on their experiences. • Introducing ways in which workers can suggest part of an integrated approach to NIKE’s Lean ideas for changing or improving things management framework and through that To refine the tool and methodology we program the NIKE teams worked intensively conducted pilots from 2014 to 2017. The The pioneering work we have carried out in this with 16 factories. Those activities included: pilots involved more than 28,000 workers at 17 area has also given us the opportunity to partner factories in Indonesia, Vietnam, Thailand, and with other brands around developing an industry •D eveloping systems and processes to capture China, and helped us design a standard protocol approach that drives worker engagement as a accurate data and conduct data analysis on for measuring engagement, and reporting on and factory management-led model. HRM-related metrics, both qualitative and analyzing the data. The survey was deployed via quantitative technology-based solutions (mobile, tablets, and Using data to improve worker experience and •A ssessing supplier management strengths interactive voice recognition) focusing on key business outcomes and weaknesses and identifying opportunities business metrics such as turnover, absenteeism, Unplanned absenteeism and turnover don’t for development cost, and quality. Factory managers found the just disrupt a business – they can often be •P roviding coaching and consultation to tool helpful in identifying tangible ways they signs of other problems within a factory. By strengthen supplier HRM systems with a could improve worker engagement, and factory collecting data from targeted suppliers around particular focus on how to attract, develop, workers reported positive feedback in having a these issues, we have started to build human and engage their workers mechanism to provide anonymous, confidential resources capabilities at factories to help bring feedback to which factory management about improvements in management, worker As part of that work, we developed a tool could respond. experience, and business outcomes. to assess a factory’s HRM capability and maturity. The tool evaluates aspects such as In FY18, we are rolling out the revised survey In FY16, the team partnered closely with workforce planning, performance management, to strategic manufacturing factories in nine factory managers to clarify NIKE’s expectations, recruiting and hiring, employee development, countries, with the key aim of supplying improve data quality, and refine the reporting and communication, as well as broader HR managers with a reporting tool that they can process. Every month, participating suppliers organizational structure and business integration use to take actions and invest in systems submit self-reported data on turnover and issues. In FY16 and FY17, 30 factories were that deliver meaningful improvement in the unplanned absenteeism. We set baselines evaluated using the tool, which helped to workplace. We will continue to expand this specific to turnover and unplanned absenteeism identify areas of weakness as opportunities deployment in FY19 and beyond. against which we can now measure future for potential investment. performance and work with suppliers to uncover WHAT WE LEARNED root causes. We realized that there was a real need to FURTHER READING understand how to engage workers on issues Our internal team reviewed the data in FY17 to We Make Product such as stress, compensation, safety, and establish baselines and spot outliers – factories Responsibly management communication, and that there that have higher rates of unplanned absenteeism was great value both for us and factory line or turnover than their local peers. Supply Chain Case Studies managers in the data that we are developing. WHAT WE LEARNED We found that factories participating in the program perform better than their peers at a regional level. Going forward, our approach is to work with outliers to identify opportunities for improvement rather than create uniform improvement targets for all facilities. In FY18 and FY19, we’ll continue work with those selected outlier suppliers to strengthen HR management systems aimed at improving rates for these key metrics at their facilities. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 46 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix PARTNERSHIPS TO ACCELERATE INDUSTRY CHANGE TARGET directly with our contract manufacturers on of communication between workers and improving the workplace experience as well management. In Indonesia, Workplace Options ESTABLISH as service providers who are seeking to improve the broader ecosystem for sustainable provided a mobile platform with a large suite of wellness coaching programs and provided PARTNERSHIPS THAT supply chains. workers with direct access to the factory HR department, allowing them to confidentially SUPPORT THE NEEDS Harnessing technology to support wellbeing Workers face many challenges to delivering ask questions, or report problems or concerns. OF WORKERS BOTH their best at work. Some are non-work-related, WHAT WE LEARNED INSIDE AND OUTSIDE like transportation, health, and financial Analysis showed that the pilots have led to management, while others are work-related, reduced turnover, less absenteeism, and better THE FACTORIES such as information gaps on regulation and worker wellbeing and engagement, as well as processes, pay slip accuracy, or understanding cost savings for factory management. However, the business direction of the factory. they also showed that in order for these types of solutions to create impact in the long term, MEASURE To address many of these challenges, NIKE is they need to be driven by factory management. working to identify companies and organizations For that reason, in 2016 we developed a scaling SCALE SERVICES TO SUPPORT that can provide technology-based tools and strategy whereby we broker introductions MANAGEMENT AND WORKERS FOR services to meet the needs of our contract between these technology providers and factory IMPROVED ENGAGEMENT AND WELLBEING manufacturers and their workers. management, enabling factory management to determine the value. In 2015, we completed factory pilots with Many of the challenges we are seeking to technology providers, including MicroBenefits By the end of FY17, six NIKE supplier address are complex and beyond the scope and Workplace Options, that provided facilities were using one of the two platforms of one brand or company. We therefore need engagement and wellbeing services to workers (i.e. MicroBenefits or Workplace Options) to work collaboratively with a wide range of and managers using mobile technology. These for services to workers and a further two stakeholders, to think creatively, and pool our included a pilot in China, where we worked with were using it to deploy the revised version skills in order to address risks and improve MicroBenefits to offer workers a smartphoneof NIKE’s Engagement and Wellbeing survey. outcomes for our manufacturing factories, based platform for services ranging from factory In FY18, additional suppliers are working with workers, and their communities. That includes communication tools to skills development. MicroBenefits and Workplace Options to scale identifying service providers who can work It also provided a new and direct channel that survey. The next step is to introduce the technology to more factories and we are also looking at ways of working with others in the industry to make it easier for suppliers to adopt these technologies. The importance of collaboration NIKE believes that we must raise the bar as an industry on standards, monitoring of working conditions, and sustained remediation, which cannot be achieved without increased collaboration with a wide range of stakeholders. That is why, in our last report, we issued a call to action to increase the robustness of the compliance ecosystem in our industry by aligning codes of conduct, compliance protocols, and transparency around remediation. LEARN MORE: Collaboration with stakeholders Daycare for children of factory workers. Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 47 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix PARTNERSHIPS TO ACCELERATE INDUSTRY CHANGE Beyond compliance and our work with other brands and retailers, we are seeking opportunities for collaboration to develop management capabilities, measure social performance, and invest in working conditions across the industry. This includes work on joint standards, tools, programs, and advocacy. For instance, our collaboration with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) offers financing on better terms to reflect lower risks of factories that comply with our Code of Conduct. Twenty-three factories are currently taking advantage of this due to their continued sustainable performance. We also work with organizations such as the FLA and the ILO, through their Better Work Program, to find collaborative solutions to creating sustainable improvements in labor conditions. In FY17, we joined 20 other apparel and footwear brands and organizations in a letter to the Turkish Government to adjust the work permit program to improve conditions for Syrians who are seeking work in Turkey. No one organization can solve all the societal and environmental challenges we face, and solutions require input and collaboration between government, business, consumers, and civil society. To this end, NIKE will continue to work with other businesses through trade associations and coalitions to help drive and shape sustainability policies. FURTHER READING Partnerships and Collaborations Footwear factory, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 48 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix ADDITIONAL PRIORITY ISSUES Our issue prioritization process identified a set of priority sustainability issues for NIKE and formed the baseline of required topics for this FY16/17 Sustainable Business Report. Most of these issues overlapped with our existing 2020 sustainability targets. For issues not specifically covered by a 2020 target, we have provided space in this report for a description of the issue and details of our progress against it. Both Child Labor and Freedom of Association fall into this category. LEARN MORE: Issue Prioritization ADVANCING RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS At NIKE, we have a responsibility to respect human rights in our operations and extended value chain, and to conduct business ethically and sustainably. We evaluate the impact of our business and set public targets to drive holistic, continuous improvements. We are continuously working to do better. Factory worker – Jakarta, Indonesia Our commitment to serving athletes everywhere implemented. They also include specification on situation where the supplier violates NIKE’s has taught us that equality on the field is a the development of robust management systems standards, with the focus on protecting the powerful catalyst to driving equality off the field. which are essential to consistently maintaining rights and wellbeing of the worker. Those NIKE supports human rights as defined by the compliance with local law and our standards. requirements include: Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which LEARN MORE: Code of Conduct recognizes that “all human beings are born free •R emoving the underage employee from the and equal in dignity and rights.” We work to LEARN MORE: Code Leadership Standards workplace elevate human potential through our products, •P roviding support to enable the underage partnerships, and operations, something that employee to attend and remain in school cannot be accomplished without a fundamental CHILD LABOR or vocational training until the age of 16 or respect for human rights throughout NIKE’s NIKE specifically and directly forbids the use of the minimum legal working age, whichever operations and our supplier’s operations. child labor in facilities contracted to make NIKE is higher LEARN MORE: Human Rights products. The NIKE Code of Conduct requires •A greement to rehire the underage employee LEARN MORE: NIKE Manufacturing Map that workers must be at least 16 years of age, when they reach the age of 16 or legal working or past the national legal age of compulsory age if the worker wishes Respect for Human Rights in NIKE’s Supply Chain schooling and minimum working age, whichever NIKE does not own or operate the facilities is higher. The requirements also specify Collaboration that produce our products. However, we that workers between the ages of 16 and 18 NIKE participates in multi-stakeholder are prioritizing and growing relationships cannot be employed in positions which may be initiatives, including the FLA, Better Work, with suppliers who share our commitment hazardous, such as working with chemicals or and the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), which to respect human rights and are investing heavy machinery,16 nor can they work at night. are each focused on addressing critical human in their workforces. NIKE’s expectations for Our Code of Conduct age requirements exceed rights risks across different levels of the suppliers start with our Code of Conduct and those of the ILO (15 years of age, and 14 years supply chain. For example, we joined a project Code Leadership Standards. NIKE’s Code of of age in some developing countries). facilitated by the FLA in partnership with Conduct is aligned with international standards İyi Pamuk Uygulamalari Derneği, as well as and contains the foundational requirements NIKE’s Code Leadership Standards include several other international brands, on improving all suppliers must meet in producing Nikespecific requirements on how suppliers must employment practices in the Turkish cotton branded products. The Code Leadership verify workers’ age prior to starting employment. sector. The project focuses on preventing and Standards contain more detailed requirements They also contain specific requirements for addressing child labor risks and improving labor on how the NIKE Code of Conduct must be actions the facility must take to remediate a recruitment practices at the farm level. 16 Hazardous conditions are those defined as working with hazardous chemicals, working with dangerous machinery, night work, or as otherwise identified by country law. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 49 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix ADDITIONAL PRIORITY ISSUES we joined the FLA, as well as other brands and retailers in advocating for legislative reforms in Mexico. The details of the most recent letter to the Secretary of Labor and Social Welfare of Mexico can be found here. Monitoring and Remediation NIKE monitors our suppliers’ compliance with our Code of Conduct and Code Leadership Standards through regular announced and unannounced audits conducted by internal and external parties. This includes audits by the FLA and assessments by the Better Work Program, a partnership of the ILO and the International Finance Corporation. Our monitoring activities are conducted on a schedule determined based on each supplier’s facility’s prior performance. When a supplier’s facility is found to have serious violations of NIKE’s standards, it is required to remediate all issues identified and have on-site verification of the remediation. If a concern is raised by a third party, NIKE Training class for factory workers. Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam promptly investigates and requires corrective actions for any issues identified. Should a supplier fail to remediate issues identified by FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION Collaboration an audit or allegation investigation according NIKE was an original signatory in 2011 to the to NIKE’s requirements it would be subject We believe all workers have the right to freely Freedom of Association Protocol in Indonesia to review and sanctions, including potential associate and collectively bargain. Where which was signed by unions, suppliers, and termination of the relationship. freedom of association and collective bargaining leading brands manufacturing in the country. are restricted under law, NIKE requires suppliers LEARN MORE: Sourcing and The Protocol provides an implementation to allow for parallel means for independent and Manufacturing Standards framework for suppliers to support union free association and bargaining. activities to fully respect the rights of workers to join unions of their choosing and to bargain Our Code Leadership Standards contain detailed requirements on how suppliers must collectively. We meet regularly with the National FURTHER READING Committee to review progress and discuss respect the rights of workers to freely associate. Human Rights further opportunities for improvement. Those requirements include prohibitions on interference with workers seeking to organize or Beyond our own standards and programs, NIKE carry out union activities, as well as on any sort also advocates publicly for strengthening local PRIORITY ISSUE PRIORITY ISSUE of activity which seeks to intimidate, harass, or laws protecting the rights of workers to fully Child Labor Freedom of Association retaliate against workers for participation in a realize their right to freedom of association and GRI GRI union or other representative organization or for collective bargaining. For example, in 2017 attempting to organize or form a union. GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 GRI 407: Freedom of Association Disclosure 408-1: Operations and and Collective Bargaining supplier at significant risk for Disclosure 407-1: Operations and incidents of child labor supplier in which the right to CHILD LABOR AND FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION FINDINGS 1 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be FY16 FY17 at risk Number of Child Labor Findings/Events2 0 0 Number of Other Age Standard Findings/ Events3 0 14 Number of FOA Findings/Events 0 0 1 Based on factory audit findings during the period. 2 Includes events found where workers were under NIKE’s minimum age requirement (age standard CLS). 3 Includes management policy/procedures for CLSs for proof of age; hazardous conditions and remedying underage employment. 4 The violation of NIKE’s age standard related to one worker who was at least age 16, but under age 18, hired in a position which was deemed hazardous under local law. When a finding happens, the factory is required to remediate the issues and employ corrective actions. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 50 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix TRANSFORM MANUFACTURING: BY THE NUMBERS 91% of our factories were rated 28K WORKERS at 0 the number of BRONZE OR B ETTER, CHILD LABOR our definition of sustainable findings in FY17 17 FACTORIES took part in our Engagement and Approximately 100% Wellbeing Survey pilot 1M between 2014–2017 of our Tier 1 CONTRACT FACTORY 0 Suppliers were workers in NIKE’s AUDITED TO NIKE’S source base CODE OF CONDUCT the number of FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION FINDINGS in FY17 Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 51 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix UNL EA SH HU M A N POT EN TI AL Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 52 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix THE WORLD AROUND US Equality is a global issue. Perhaps more than ever, people are using their voice to call for change and to demand action, not just for them but for the intersectional cultures they represent. More countries are likely to follow the U.K.’s lead in requiring mandatory disclosure of gender pay gap statistics. Radically changing expectations around the use of personal data, the neutrality of the internet, and freedom of information are putting greater pressure on companies. Organizations that embrace diversity, transparency and accountability will thrive as a new model for the 21st century organization emerges. OUR APPROACH We believe in harnessing the power of sport to unify and inspire the world toward action. We use the power of our brand to stand up for our values and create a level playing field. This starts with people: the people who make our products, the people who work in our offices, and the people in the communities where we live, work, and play. “NIKE IS ABOUT INNOVATION, ABOUT HONESTY AND INTEGRITY, AND ABOUT COMPETITIVENESS. THOSE ARE THE THINGS THAT WE STAND FOR AND WE WANT OUR PEOPLE TO BELIEVE IN.” Phil Knight, Co-Founder, NIKE, Inc. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 53 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix UNLEASH HUMAN POTENTIAL: FY16/17 HIGHLIGHTS EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY IMPACT • Over 1,100 employees trained in Unconscious • Together with our community partners and Bias Awareness in FY16/17. employees, NIKE is getting millions of kids moving through Made to Play. Through FY17, • NIKE increased our resources within the we supported community partners around Global Diversity & Inclusion team to provide the world to get more than 14.5 million strategic leadership for the function, and kids moving. drive consistency for our eight Employee Networks. • Kids who move are the ones who move the needle – in the classroom, their careers, and • Over 1,800 employees utitlized the Family in the community. NIKE works with partners Care Benefit in FY17. around the world, including in Brazil, China, Europe, Russia, and the U.S., to get kids moving before, during, and after school. • NIKE celebrated 45 Years of Giving in Oregon. In the six years from FY12 to FY17, we supported communities with more than $54 million in donations and nearly $5 million in product. And over 2,000 NIKE employees donated time and money in Oregon to support kids and their communities. • NIKE and non-profit partner Marathon Kids are getting more than 350,000 kids running in the U.S. across all 50 states and in the U.K. KEY Numbered icons above indicate relevant Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 54 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix EMPLOYEES TARGET ATTRACT AND DEVELOP AN INCREASINGLY DIVERSE, ENGAGED AND HEALTHY WORKFORCE NIKE’s mission is to bring inspiration and innovation to every athlete* in the world. We believe that sport has the power to unify and Employees at Nike World Headquarters, Beaverton, Oregon inspire the world toward action – and that starts with people.17 From the people who make our products, to members of the NIKE team around Specifically, we announced an overall review of MEASURE the world and people in the communities our HR systems and practices, while elevating where we live, work, and play, we’re focused on our confidential complaint process. We created PROVIDE COMPREHENSIVE, helping everybody achieve their potential. a mandatory manager training that reinforces COMPETITIVE AND EQUITABLE PAY the role of respect, inclusion, and accountability AND BENEFITS To attract and develop an increasingly diverse, that will roll out to people managers globally in engaged, and healthy workforce, we are 2018. We also increased our investment measuring ourselves against three areas: diverse in leadership training and accountability, our At NIKE, we strive to have a safe and inclusive representation and a culture of inclusion; diversity and inclusion teams and programs, and workplace and continue to build diverse, highcomprehensive, competitive, equitable pay all-employee focused programming and training performing teams. We engage and inspire our and benefits; and employee growth, on our culture. workforce by offering opportunities for career development, and wellbeing. growth and development, in addition to providing We also know that since our last report, our equitable and competitive pay and benefits. numbers around leadership representation for TOTAL EMPLOYEES 1 women globally and underrepresented minorities In FY16, we formally launched our U.S. Family (URM)18 in the U.S. have not evolved as fast Care benefit program, which provides up to eight FY15 FY16 FY17 as we would have liked. We are committed to weeks of paid time off for all eligible employees % Change 10.4% 11.7% 6.8% making progress to increase URM globally, but to care for a spouse, partner, or dependents. EE Count 56,595 63,177 67,449 can only track the U.S. at this point. While By the end of FY17, over 1,800 employees 1 Excludes temporary workers. we are focused on increasing representation had already benefited from the program – from of women and URM in the near term, we will parents bonding with a newborn or adopted continue to expand representation across other child, to those with a sick family member. dimensions over the long term. MEASURE This new benefit was also an opportunity for us to challenge gender norms where women PROVIDE VISIBILITY TO OUR We remain deeply committed to not only typically assumed the role of primary caregiver. INCLUSION PROGRESS AND improving diversity across NIKE, particularly at Of those who used the benefit over the past DIVERSITY REPRESENTATION the leadership level, but also evolving our culture year, 57 percent (1,073) were men, compared and making NIKE an environment focused on to 43 percent (816) women. respect, equality, inclusion, and empowerment. We want NIKE to be a place where everyone has In early 2018, we became aware of reports of the opportunity to be successful. behavior within our organization that did not FAMILY CARE BENEFIT reflect our core values of inclusivity, respect, and FY17 empowerment. We took swift action, committing Female 816 to a wide-ranging approach to evolving our Male 1,073 culture, transforming how we approach No gender reported 0 leadership, and investing in programs to unlock and accelerate us toward an environment that is more inclusive and empowering. 17 The targets in this section focus on NIKE, Inc. employees. For a discussion of our efforts to ensure that contract factory workers are treated equitably, please see the “Transform Manufacturing” section. 18 At NIKE, our working definition of an underrepresented minority (URM) is someone whose racial or ethnic makeup is from one of the following: American Indian or Alaskan Native, Asian, Black or African American, Hispanic/Latino, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, or Two or More Races. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 55 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix EMPLOYEES We continue to provide reward programs tailored NIKE, INC. TOTALS BY GENDER (GLOBAL) to the needs of our workforce, including: ALL EMPLOYEES DIRECTORS+ VPs BOD FY15 FY16 FY17 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY15 FY16 FY17 •C  ompetitive health care benefits, with multiple Female 48% 48% 48% 36% 36% 38% 26% 28% 29% 21% 25% 25% plan design options to suit various family types Male 51% 52% 52% 64% 64% 62% 74% 72% 71% 79% 75% 75% •R  etirement benefits No gender reported1 <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% • Incentives based on company and individual 1 On initial hire date, chose not to self-identify. performance for eligible employees •O  pportunity to enroll in the Employee Stock Purchase Plan in most locations NIKE, INC EMPLOYEE TOTALS 1 BY ETHNICITY (U.S.) •E  mployee discounts on NIKE products ALL EMPLOYEES DIRECTORS+ VPs BOD RACE/ETHNICITY FY15 FY16 FY17 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY15 FY16 FY17 In August 2016, NIKE signed the White American Indian 134 142 129 9 12 12 – – – – – – or Alaskan Native <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% – – – – – – House Equal Pay Pledge, publicly declaring 2,379 2,751 2,955 272 361 409 7 12 16 1 1 1 our commitment to review pay and promotion Asian 7% 8% 8% 8% 9% 10% 2% 4% 5% 7% 8% 8% practices annually, and to ensure that women Black or African 6,733 7,634 8,561 167 191 188 28 29 29 2 2 2 and men who undertake the same work at the American 21% 22% 23% 5% 5% 5% 9% 9% 8% 14% 17% 17% same level are equitably compensated. At NIKE, 5,732 6,210 6,961 149 190 209 10 9 9 – – – Hispanic/Latino 18% 18% 19% 4% 5% 5% 3% 3% 3% – – – we define pay equity as equal compensation Native Hawaiian or 251 250 277 2 5 5 – – – – – – for women, men, and all races/ethnicities Other Pacific Islander <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% – – – – – – who undertake the same work at the same Two or More Races 1,307 1,606 1,812 72 92 106 3 5 4 – – – level, experience, and performance – and 4% 5% 5% 2% 2% 3% 1% 2% 1% – – – 115 17 71 10 2 22 2 – 2 – – – this methodology aligns with top tier global Unknown <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% – <1% – – – companies. NIKE’s FY17 data show that for 15,326 16,355 16,374 2,657 2,993 3,159 253 271 293 11 9 9 White2 every $1 earned by men, women globally earned 48% 47% 44% 80% 78% 77% 84% 83% 83% 79% 75% 75% 99.9 cents, and for every $1 earned by white TOTAL 31,977 34,965 37,140 3,338 3,846 4,110 303 326 353 14 12 12 employees in the U.S., URM also earned $1. 1 Numbers may not add up to 100% due to rounding. Not included in the data above are U.S. NIKE employees working outside the U.S. We will maintain focus, driving with 100 percent URM represented 27% (FY15), 22% (FY16) and 27% (FY17) of this population. 2 Please see the GRI Index for a breakdown between White and underrepresented minorities (URM). as our goal for both ratios every year, and will continue to monitor this data. Goals, Resources, and Accountability •F  Y18/19: Promotion-Pay-Performance Evaluation: In FY16/17, we increased our resources within Continue to evaluate our promotion, pay, and FY17 GLOBAL PAY EQUITY the Global Diversity & Inclusion team to provide performance results to assess the impact on strategic leadership for the function, and drive all employees with a specific focus on diverse 99.9¢ TO $1 $1 TO $1 consistency for our eight Employee Networks. talent and representation. We will be studying WOMEN VS. MEN URM vs. WHITE These resources strengthened our impact, time-in-job and the pace of promotions across (GLOBAL) (U.S.) but were insufficient. Now we are focused on our employee base – with a strong focus on creating a systemic approach to our diversity women and URM – to understand how this LEARN MORE: Global Pay Equity efforts in service of our business, people impacts representation. strategy, and employee experience in order •F  Y18/19: Dedicated Talent Sourcing: We will to transform our culture. invest in a dedicated diversity sourcing team FY17 GENDER PAY AND BONUS GAP (U.K.) to be immersed in the marketplace; increase In 2018, we elevated the Diversity team to visibility and accountability to ensure slates DIFFERENCE BETWEEN MEN/WOMEN MEAN MEDIAN sit at the heart of NIKE’s People and Culture of diverse candidates when hiring; and WHOLESALE (ALL OF NIKE U.K. MINUS RETAIL) Strategy. We also created a new, elevated role of remove bias from critical moments of the Hourly Pay Gap 10% 8% Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer who reports hiring process by creating more inclusive job Bonus Pay Gap1 37% 52% directly to our Chief Human Resources Officer, descriptions, enabling blind resume reviews, RETAIL and allocated additional funding into all of our eliminating the collection of candidate Hourly Pay Gap 3% 3% employee networks for mentoring, training, salary history, and using data to inform Bonus Pay Gap1 15% 18% and development. hiring decisions. 1 Bonus includes bonus received, stock options exercised and/or ESPP values during the one-year time frame. •F  Y19: Global Pay Equity: Our aim is a 1:1 pay We also have a set of initiatives designed to ratio for both women (globally) and URM LEARN MORE: U.K. Gender Pay Gap Report further accelerate our culture and prioritize (U.S.). We will monitor our results annually our people that will roll out in the remainder and make adjustments where necessary. of FY18 and FY19. They include: Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 56 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix EMPLOYEES • FY19: New Bonus Structure: We will move to a •F Y19: Immersive Executive Development: A program •C  ontinued expansion around the globe with new team-based PSP (Performance Sharing for our most senior leaders where they’ll translated materials, allowing every employee Plan) bonus award to accelerate our culture to re-connect to leadership expectations, receive to access development where they live reward behaviors that reinforce teamwork and direct feedback, and take accountability for and work collaboration. their role in evolving NIKE’s culture. This will •T  argeted development tools aimed at building • FY19: Representation Accountability: We will hold become a core part of how we invest in, and world-class managers and enhancing the senior executives accountable to increasing develop, future leaders. manager-employee relationship representation, specifically within Leadership •A  reimagined onboarding experience for and Management. There are three ways to Our Commitment new employees to drive inspiration and increase representation – promotion, retention, For NIKE to grow and evolve, we need to create empowerment from day one, to successfully and hiring – and we’re working through meaningful change and put a sharper focus on integrate into NIKE’s culture strategic initiatives and action plans to enable how we lead our teams and work together. We each of them. know we need to do more and accelerate our Encouraging people to live a healthy, active • FY19: Diverse Talent Investment: We are creating a pace of change. We will hold ourselves and our lifestyle is also core to who we are. It’s reflected multi-faceted approach to investing in our leaders more accountable for driving measurable in the products we design and in the resources diverse talent. This includes evolving our progress against representation and pay equity. we offer. As a brand committed to sports and current development offerings, creating new fitness, we encourage our workforce to engage programs that accelerate emerging diverse As a growth company, we’re committed to in a healthy lifestyle to the best of their ability. leaders, and expanding our employee networks employing the best and brightest to serve In fact, we see health as imperative to a high– showcasing our commitment to engaging the consumers globally. Employees with the performing workplace. diverse talent of the future. We will be necessary skillsets, expertise, and diversity are investing in targeted leadership training – critical to drive our business forward. Diversity To help our employees live healthy, active through best-in-class business schools and allows for a breadth of perspectives and lifestyles, we provide fitness facility discounts, executive education institutions – for our experiences to develop thoughtful and original wellness services, and competitive healthcare diverse employees. And while NIKE holds a ideas; it’s a key component of innovation. benefits. We also offer an Employee Assistance broad definition of diversity, we are beginning Program that provides confidential, professional with women and URM. This new program will For NIKE to deliver for every athlete completely, counselling, education, and referral services. begin in June 2018. we need teams that truly reflect the diversity of •F Y19: New Mentoring Programs: We will create our consumers, and a culture of inclusivity that new mentoring programs that will help reflects the communities we serve. This requires FURTHER READING accelerate career growth and development representation of diversity at all levels, and an inclusive community that embraces it. Standing up for Equality for women and URM. We plan to begin these programs with our employee networks and Approach to Diversity evaluate and scale where appropriate. & Inclusion •F Y19: Unconscious Bias Awareness Training: We MEASURE will roll out Unconscious Bias Awareness PRIORITY ISSUE PRIORITY ISSUE training to the entire NIKE organization BUILD STRONGER BODIES AND Employment Workforce Development aimed at creating a stronger, more inclusive MINDS THROUGH DEVELOPMENT GRI GRI culture. Unconscious Bias Awareness training AND WELLNESS EFFORTS GRI 401: Employment 2016 GRI 404: Training and Education will launch to employees located in the U.S. Disclosure 401-3: Parental Leave Disclosure 404-3: Percentage of and Canada in August of 2018, with a global employees receiving regular PRIORITY ISSUE performance and career launch to all 67,500 employees in mid-FY19. We unleash human potential by creating Total Compensation development reviews NIKE’s Senior Executives went through this growth and wellbeing opportunities for training in FY18. NIKE employees. GRI •F Y19: Manager Training: Manager Expectations: GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Living a culture of respect, inclusion, and Our employees have access to more than Opportunity accountability is a mandatory manager Disclosure 405-2: Ratio of basic 5,600 courses19 taught by industry experts. salary and remuneration of training for all people managers. It begins We’ve worked to enhance our development women to men in May 2018 and ensures all managers are tools, enabling employees to create personalized clear on expectations – when and how they playlists of courses and resources that align to are compelled to act – and that they have their development interests and areas of growth. resources to lead in a manner consistent We also made updates to our learning with our values and behaviors. management system to make training more relevant, including: 19 These courses are offered to employees as part of a free membership to an online learning platform that helps anyone learn business, software, technology, and creative skills to achieve personal and professional goals. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 57 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix COMMUNITY IMPACT Kids who move, move the needle – in the classroom, in their future careers, and in their communities. But never have kids been less active than they are today, a trend NIKE is committed to reversing. In FY16, we launched initiatives with partners around the world to transform the lives of kids through play and sport. We focused on where they spend most of their time – schools and their community centers – and worked with local leaders, community organizations, governments, and other partners to get kids active. Our efforts used early, fun, positive experiences with play and sport, inspiring a lifelong love of movement. In FY17, we announced a partnership with China’s Ministry of Education to get 2 million kids moving over three years, building on a successful pilot. This collaboration is helping to transform the culture and quality of the delivery of sport and physical activity in schools across China. The partnership is creating a forum to showcase innovation in physical education through establishing the Active Schools Innovation Awards. Also, as part of the partnership, NIKE is training up to 7,000 NIKE Greater China: Active Schools running launch teachers to deliver engaging sports lessons, provide best-in-class coaching, and offer PE resources to more than 300 schools across TARGET Community isn’t something we do, it’s who China. We are also working with city school we are. NIKE believes in the power of sport to leagues to elevate locally relevant priority sports, INVEST A MINIMUM move the world forward and unleash human potential for all athletes* and their communities such as basketball and soccer. OF 1.5 PERCENT everywhere. But, the world is moving less and less and today’s kids are part of the least active We support Active Schools in the U.S., an OF PTI TO DRIVE generation ever. This is why NIKE is committed to Made to Play, its unifying brand and rallying initiative supporting schools to get millions of kids active across the country. We also POSITIVE IMPACT IN call to bring sport and play to kids across the world, together with NIKE employees and completed our Clinton Global Initiative Commitment, a three-year Active Schools and OUR COMMUNITIES partners. Through Made to Play, we’ve helped more than 14.5 million kids get moving, giving Active Communities pilot in Brazil that reached more than 60,000 kids and equipped schools and communities with ways to give young them an opportunity to live healthier, happier, people early positive experiences with sport and more successful lives. In FY16/17, we PERFORMANCE and physical activity. supported this work in communities around the Annual Investment as % of PTI world by investing more than 1.5 percent of preThe Rio 2016 Olympic Games were a huge tax income (PTI) – meeting our target. opportunity to inspire Rio’s youth and kids FY15 / 1.9% around the world to get active. Brazil’s kids are the least active in Latin America. To help MEASURE change this, we worked with the City of Rio, FY16 / 1.8% THROUGH THE POWER OF OUR BRANDS community leaders, and others on a five-year commitment to revitalize youth programming AND PARTNERSHIPS, GET KIDS (AGES in the city’s 22 Olympic Villages – local FY17 / 1.9% 7–12) MOVING THROUGH PLAY community sport and recreation hubs. Our FY20 target AND SPORT20 goal is to increase access to sport and physical AT LEAST activity 25,000 kids to 50,000 kids at the Villages and to train 600 PE teachers and staff. 1.5% 20 The measure has not changed from our FY14/15 Sustainable Business Report, but the wording has changed to provide brevity and clarity to the original goal. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 58 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix COMMUNITY IMPACT In FY17, NIKE employees engaged in this work We know that sport has the power to bring MEASURE with approximately 1,000 volunteer hours at people together and build stronger communities. the Villages and NIKE provided over 40,000 As part of its EQUALITY initiative in FY17, INSPIRE A MAJORITY OF NIKE pieces of product and equipment. Four Villages NIKE announced new partnerships with EMPLOYEES TO ENGAGE WITH (Encantado, Caju, Clara Nunes, and Mato Alto) MENTOR and PeacePlayers International – THEIR COMMUNITIES AND SUPPORT have also been redesigned for play and sport two leading organizations who share NIKE’s commitment to building more equal playing THEIR GIVING OF EXPERTISE, with new, updated equipment and local art that honors each Village’s unique culture. fields for all, on the field and in life. As part TIME AND MONEY of EQUALITY’s inspiration to take action in Running is the foundation for play and our local communities, these partnerships will empower youth leaders with mentorship and Our employees are talented, generous, movement: It’s a gateway to other sports and through sport experiences so they are equipped passionate about sport, and enthusiastic a lifetime of physical activity. Each stride is to be a force for change in their own lives and about giving back to their communities. We a step toward improved health and wellbeing, in their communities. want to fuel their efforts. So, in FY16 we and benefits that can last a lifetime. That’s launched “Give Your Best” (GYB) – an initiative why NIKE teamed up with non-profit partner The Nike Foundation became a founding donor inspired by Olympic runner Steve Prefontaine’s Marathon Kids to inspire half a million young of the Smithsonian’s National Museum of challenge: “To give anything less than your best people to start running with the program by African American History & Culture. The is to sacrifice the gift.” 2020. By the end of FY17, the partnership had grown from three to all 50 states with more than foundation's $2 million donation supports the museum’s sports gallery which celebrates the With the GYB giving platform, our employees 350,000 kids running in the program with their contributions of athletes on and off the field, can give their time and money to the causes schools, families, or local community-based focusing on the role sports have had in they care about. The NIKE Foundation matches organizations. We’ve now begun to bring the empowering African Americans and the role of personal donations to charitable causes, dollarMarathon Kids program to U.K. primary schools, African American athletes in American culture. for-dollar, up to $10,000 per year per employee. through local partner Kids Run Free, helping to For causes supporting sport and play in the spread the joy of running even further. community, we give $2 for every $1 donated by employees. In FY17, our employees, supported by NIKE Foundation’s match-giving, contributed $5.3 million to more than 1,400 charitable causes around the world. We also give employees who volunteer $10 per hour to donate to the cause of their choice. In FY17, over 6,000 NIKE employees in 46 countries tracked more than 100,000 volunteer hours and generated nearly $1 million for charitable causes. The NIKE Community Ambassador (NCA) program gives NIKE employees the opportunity to pass their love of sport on to the next generation. Through a train-the-trainer curriculum, local employees learn quality coaching skills and volunteer in schools and communities around the world. NCAs aren’t just getting kids playing and moving today, they’re inspiring them to be active for life. In FY17, over 3,200 of our employees regularly coached kids in their local community as part of the program. NCA Kings Cross in London, U.K. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 59 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix COMMUNITY IMPACT MEASURE DRIVE SUSTAINED COMMUNITY IMPACT IN ALL OF OUR PRIMARY MARKETS AND SOURCING BACKYARDS Together with our employees and organizational partners, we’re excited about the future we’re creating for kids and the communities where we live and work. In FY17, we celebrated 45 years of community in Oregon, where NIKE was founded. Since the beginning, we’ve been working with our employees and community organizations to impact local communities across the state. From FY12 to FY17, we supported communities with more than $54 million in cash and nearly $5 million in product. And over 2,000 NIKE employees donated time and money in Oregon to support kids and their communities. NIKE and Special Olympics Oregon (SOOR) marked the 10th anniversary of the SOOR Youth Games in FY17. This annual event brings more than 500 youth athletes with intellectual disabilities and over 400 volunteer employees to our World Headquarters for a day of play and sport – a first-time experience for many of the athletes. Since the Youth Games started in 2007, more than 3,400 of our employees have volunteered to inspire over 4,500 kids across the state, giving more than 17,000 hours (as of FY17). Reflecting our belief in the potential of every single kid, we’ve also contributed Special Olympics Oregon (SOOR) $400,000 to SOOR to develop Unified Champion Schools (UCS) in Oregon high schools across FY16–17, combining sports, education, leverages employees’ local knowledge to fund improved the quality of physical education in and leadership training to equip young people grassroots organizations in their communities. 10 schools in Ho Chi Minh City, helping with experiences and tools to create school In FY16, we expanded NCIF from our World teachers to get 4,800 students moving more cultures of acceptance and inclusion. Headquarters to all of NIKE’s U.S. Community each week. In China, we’re bringing the benefits Stores, to our European Headquarters in the of sport to two schools serving 300 families In FY16, we partnered with the City of Portland Netherlands, and to our Logistics facilities and migrant children in Guangzhou through the to bring the bike-share program BIKETOWN to in Laakdal, Belgium. Since its launch, NCIF Unlock School Gates after-school program. Portland, which introduced 1,000 bikes and has awarded more than $4 million in grants 100 bike stations across the city. Over five to local community organizations and schools. years, we’re providing $10 million, contributing During NCIF’s inaugural year in Laakdal, NIKE FURTHER READING designs for BIKETOWN’s stations and bicycles, employees helped power over 30 organizations and increasing accessibility through adaptable Inspiring Communities through more than $220,000 in grants awarded bikes for all people. We’ve also made an Through Sport to local non-profit organizations and schools additional 400 BIKETOWN WHQ bikes available creating more active communities through sport Community Impact at our World Headquarters. and play. PRIORITY ISSUE We bring the spirit of community that began in We’re also doing work in our sourcing Active Kids Oregon to all the places where we do business. communities. For example, in FY16–17, For example, the NIKE Community Impact Fund we supported Active with Sports in Vietnam. (NCIF) is an innovative employee-led effort that Through our collaboration, Active with Sports Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 60 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix ADDITIONAL PRIORITY ISSUES of safety is a continual journey and individual factories and facilities are at different levels of maturity. Gaps in implementation are treated as opportunities to develop management skills and tools to close gaps and improve performance. Additionally, we work closely with Better Work – a joint initiative of the United Nations’ ILO and the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member of the World Bank Group – including its program in Cambodia, Better Factories Cambodia, to advance issues of health and safety in our factories. Our local team, along with Better Work, continue to work closely with our contract manufacturers to build management capabilities and to enhance the health and wellbeing of their workers. Contract Manufacturing: Areas of Focus Fire safety, building safety, and occupational health issues are the highest risk issues in the footwear and apparel manufacturing industry. We require our suppliers to adopt fire prevention and emergency action plans to protect workers during normal working operations and emergency situations. To accelerate management capability, worker involvement, and understanding of fire safety issues and preventative measures, NIKE collaborated with the FLA and Institution of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH) on a Safety training – Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam global initiative to develop and implement a portfolio of fire prevention and fire safety tools Our issue prioritization process identified a set Approach for factories. As of the end of FY17, the program of priority sustainability issues for NIKE and At NIKE, we believe that although there is has been implemented in over 16 factory formed the baseline of required topics for this no finish line, there is a clear starting line for locations, and more than 1,200 workers have FY16/17 Sustainable Business Report. Most of Occupational Health & Safety (OH&S). We been trained as safety leaders. these issues overlapped with our existing 2020 have developed a Code of Conduct and Code sustainability targets. For issues not specifically Leadership Standards that lay out the minimum Buildings must be constructed or retrofitted covered by a 2020 target, we have provided OH&S standards we expect each of NIKE’s according to the laws of the manufacturing space in this report for a description of the issue own facilities, our suppliers’ factories, and our country, international standards if local laws and details of our progress against it. Occupational supply chain partners to meet. These minimum do not exist, or certified structural engineering Health & Safety falls into this category. standards are the foundation for the OH&S construction standards. LEARN MORE: Issue Prioritization Management System we apply to our owned and operated facilities. We also factor these Additionally, we require our suppliers to standards into our sourcing strategies in how we anticipate, recognize, evaluate, and control evaluate baseline factory performance, and how occupational health and hygiene hazards in OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY we determine the contract manufacturers and the workplace, use routine monitoring and material suppliers with whom we will engage analytical methods to determine the potential NIKE believes that the protection of life and and grow our business. health effects of hazards that are present in health in the workplace is a fundamental right. the workplace, and control worker exposure to Our vision is to provide a safe, hygienic, and The foundation of our safety management these health hazards. healthy workplace, develop safety management systems, and foster a strong culture of safety system is based on facility-appropriate implementation of the Code of Conduct, Code As we continue our journey to elevate a culture in NIKE facilities as well as the factories Leadership Standards, and local law. We of safety, we actively seek opportunities to and facilities within NIKE’s supply chain. monitor compliance to OH&S standards at NIKE collaborate with others to resolve common Achieving this vision requires an active and owned and operated facilities and contract occupational health and safety issues. Safe engaged workforce that is properly informed and manufacturers through external audits and operation of boilers and pressure vessels adequately trained on the hazards of their job internal assessments. Establishing a culture is an emerging issue in our industry. NIKE and how to perform their work safely. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 61 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix ADDITIONAL PRIORITY ISSUES benchmarked Better Work’s approach to boiler OH&S DATA FOR NIKE EMPLOYEES AND FURTHER READING safety, and we have strengthened our program TIER 1 FOCUS FACTORIES Health and Safety through our new Code Leadership Standard. CY16 CY171 NIKE EMPLOYEES 2, 3 When we find issues of non-compliance in these DISTRIBUTION (INDUSTRY CODE: 493110) high-risk areas, we respond immediately and NIKE 1.93 1.81 PRIORITY ISSUE TCIR4 work with factories to remediate. We divest from Industry5 5.1 5.1 Occupational Health & Safety those factories that fail to elevate performance. NIKE 1.08 1.24 LTIR6 GRI Industry 1.7 1.7 In FY17, we changed our compliance audit AIR MI (INDUSTRY CODE: 326100) GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety tool and methodology by including additional NIKE 2.8 3.7 Disclosure 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational TCIR diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related rating criteria and sophisticated risk and Industry 4.3 4.3 fatalities impact analysis. Based on the new tool, nonNIKE 0.82 0.72 LTIR compliances were identified based on rating Industry 1.1 1.1 analysis, compared to the old tool provided OFFICES (INDUSTRY CODE: 561400) rankings based on general performance of each NIKE 0.24 0.27 TCIR category. The new tool allows audit teams to Industry 0.8 0.8 better identify non-compliances. NIKE 0.08 0.07 LTIR LEARN MORE: NIKE’s audit process Industry 0.3 0.3 TIER 1 FOCUS FACTORIES7 NIKE Facilities: Areas of Focus FOOTWEAR (INDUSTRY CODE: 3162) General OH&S compliance is a constant focus NIKE 0.49 0.42 TCIR for NIKE owned and operated facilities, with Industry 6.7 6.7 individual business operations concentrating NIKE 0.30 0.25 LTIR on the biggest risks to their operation. NIKE’s Industry 2.1 2.1 global OH&S program is focused on developing APPAREL (INDUSTRY CODE: 3152) and implementing a consistent management NIKE 0.94 0.60 TCIR system to enable risk-based prioritization of Industry 2.1 2.1 OH&S concerns. Controlling hazardous energy NIKE 0.45 0.40 LTIR and implementing comprehensive injury Industry 0.6 0.6 reporting requirements are examples of two such EQUIPMENT ongoing initiatives. NIKE 1.68 0.78 TCIR Industry N/A N/A We believe that responsibility for OH&S issues NIKE 1.05 0.78 must be shared by all stakeholders to create LTIR Industry N/A N/A systemwide change. It is a collective effort that requires all companies contracting with factories 1 Using CY16 BLS rates as BLS Rates for CY17 have not been published yet. 2 The reported injury fates reflect a combination of NIKE full-time and as well as the factories themselves to share certain external temporary workers. 3 Data is collected based on U.S. legal reporting requirements, reporting equally in raising the standards. One company on all NIKE operations except retail which is excluded from OSHA cannot alone raise standards for an industry. recordkeeping requirements. Retail will be included in future reports. 4 Total Case Incident Rate (TCIR). 5 The industry average comes from the United States Department of Labor; Bureau of Labor Statistics. Each industry classification (such as DC, Air MI, Offices, Footwear Manufacturing, Apparel Manufacturing) reports a separate average for recordable injuries and lost time rates (which are captured). 6 Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR). 7 For Tier 1 focus factories by Product Engine for calendar year 2016. Self-reported by factories. The BLS does not calculate manufacturing rates for equipment. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 62 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix UNLEASH HUMAN POTENTIAL: BY THE NUMBERS $5.3M DONATED BY EMPLOYEES, 14.5M KIDS MOVING 57 PERCENTAGE OF MEN supported by NIKE Foundation’s through Made to Play used our Family match-giving in FY17 Care Benefit 350KKIDS RUNNING $54MDONATED BY NIKE 8 EMPLOYEE NETWORKS through partnership with to support communities to support diversity Marathon Kids from FY12–FY17 Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 63 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix APPE N D I X Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 64 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX This report is aligned with the GRI Standards at the Core level. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Principles are also referenced below. GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI UNGC STANDARD NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE LOCATION AND NOTES OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG ORGANIZATION PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization NIKE, Inc. Business Overview: page 6 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services FY17 10-K: Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations: page 73 102-3 Location of headquarters One Bowerman Dr, Beaverton, OR 97005 Business Overview: page 7 102-4 Location of operations FY17 10-K: Item 1. Business: pages 55–59 and Item 2. Properties: page 68 NIKE Manufacturing Map FY17 Proxy Statement 102-5 Ownership and legal form Company Bylaws FY17 10-K: Item 1. Business: page 55 102-6 Markets served FY17 10-K: Item 1. Business: pages 55–59 Business Overview: pages 6–7 102-7 Scale of the organization FY17 10-K: Item 1. Business: pages 55–59 Business Overview: pages 6–7 Unleash Human Potential: Employees: pages 55–57 102-8a, b: We FY17 10-K: Item 1. Business: page 57 and 59 currently do not have 102-8 Information on employees and other workers d. We do not have a significant portion of the organization’s activities temporary workers in performed by people who are not employees. our data sources. e. No significant variations Additional Information TOTAL EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND GENDER 1 (102-8C) FY17 FY16 Male Female N/A Male Female N/A Regular Full-Time 23,983 21,755 3 22,606 20,561 2 Regular Part-Time 11,017 10,691 0 10,090 9,918 0 TOTAL REGULAR 35,000 32,446 3 32,696 30,479 2 FULL-TIME 69% 67% 100% 69% 67% 100% 1 Temporary employees excluded. NIKE, INC EMPLOYEE TOTALS 1 BY ETHNICITY (U.S.) ALL EMPLOYEES DIRECTORS+ VPs BOD FY15 FY16 FY17 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY15 FY16 FY17 White 48% 47% 44% 80% 78% 77% 79% 83% 83% 79% 75% 75% Underrepresented Minority (URM) 52% 53% 56% 20% 22% 23% 16% 16% 16% 21% 25% 25% No ethnicity reported <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% <1% – – – 1 Numbers may not add up to 100% due to rounding. Not included in the data above are U.S. NIKE employees working outside the U.S. URM represented 27% (FY15), 22% (FY16) and 27% (FY17) of this population. Business Overview: page 7 Transform Manufacturing: Sustainable Sourcing: pages 41–44 102-9 Supply chain FY17 10-K: Item 1. Business: pages 57–58 Stages of our Value Chain Value Chain Footprint FY17 10-K: Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Significant changes to the organization 102-10 and its supply chain Condition and Results of Operations: page 73 FY17 10-K: Item 2. Properties: page 68 Our Approach: Sustainable Innovation: pages 9–10 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our Approach: Our Environmental Moonshot: page 11 Minimize Environmental Footprint: Our Approach: page 19 Sustainability Commitments 102-12 External initiatives Industry Standards & Assessment Tools We also mention external initiatives throughout the report. Transform Manufacturing: Partnerships to Accelerate Industry Change: pages 47–48 ORGANIZATION PROFILE 102-13 Membership of associations Partnerships and Collaborations We also mention memberships throughout the report. Letter from Our CEO: page 4 STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Performance and Disclosure Committee: page 5 Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 65 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI UNGC STANDARD NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE LOCATION AND NOTES OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG Our Approach: Sustainable Innovation: pages 9–10 NIKE Code of Conduct Values, principles, standards, and norms ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 of behavior NIKE Code Leadership Standards NIKE Code of Ethics Sustainability Policies Performance and Disclosure Statement Executives FY17 Proxy Statement: page 7, 12 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure Performance and Disclosure Committee: page 5 Governance Additional Information NIKE aims to be a brand with purpose that moves the world forward. To achieve that, we need all parts of our value chain to understand and deliver on our goals – from our leaders to product designers, to the employees in our stores, and workers in contracted factories who make our products. A strong governance structure, coupled with a sustainability mindset, provides the foundation for driving collective decision-making and accountability across the company. Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability and Governance Committee Our ability to succeed starts with leadership commitment at the highest level. The Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability and Governance (CRS&G) Committee of our Board of Directors is responsible for reviewing NIKE’s significant strategies, activities, among other duties, and policies regarding sustainability, contract manufacturer labor practices, community impact, and charitable activities and make recommendations to the Board. The committee sets the tone and pace for sustainability within NIKE’s business strategy. Learn more. Responsibilities include: • Review and provide guidance to management on sustainability issues and impacts, and the integration of sustainability into NIKE’s business, including innovation, product design, manufacturing and sourcing, and operations. • Review, provide guidance to management, and report to the Board on sustainability (including labor practices) within NIKE’s supply chain, and review reports of NIKE’s sustainability audits. • Review and provide guidance to management regarding NIKE’s work with industry organizations and non-governmental organizations concerning corporate responsibility. • Annually review the activities of the NIKE Foundation and NIKE community impact initiatives. • Review and make recommendations to management on reporting to shareholders and other communities regarding corporate responsibility activities. • Review, provide guidance to management, and report to the Board regarding the involvement of significant corporate responsibility issues in major business decisions, to protect NIKE’s valuable goodwill, and human and intellectual capital. • Review and make recommendations to the Board with respect to any shareholder proposal that relates to the matters overseen by the Committee. • Annually evaluate the performance of the Committee and report the results of the evaluation to the Board. • Review and assess annually the adequacy of the Committee’s charter. • Perform such other duties and functions as may, from time to time, be assigned to the Committee by the Board. Performance and Disclosure Committee We established a Performance and Disclosure Committee – composed of NIKE’s Chief Administrative Officer and General Counsel, Executive VP of Global Communications, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, and Chief Sustainability Officer – in 2012 to provide oversight and direction on NIKE public sustainability targets, reporting, and disclosures. This body provides executive oversight of strategy, approach, and release of company reports, and the filters we use to participate in ratings, rankings, indices, and key public-facing agreements. The committee also provides executive oversight of development and performance of relevant sustainability targets and corporate sustainability policies. This oversight includes providing enterprise leadership for integrating sustainability into corporate and functional strategy to ensure that the efforts are resourced and supported to be successful. NIKE Teams Focused on Sustainability NIKE’s core Sustainable Business & Innovation (SB&I) team is part of NIKE’s Advanced Innovation function. The SB&I team links sustainability and leadership across our value chain, including innovation and product creation, sourcing and manufacturing, facilities, logistics, and retail. We have also connected teams across NIKE with a common sustainability vision. Specifically, we have sustainability-focused teams within Product Creation, NIKE Direct, Global Sourcing & Manufacturing, Supply Chain, and Brand. These teams report to the leaders of those areas and coordinate directly with SB&I through our Business Integration team. LEARN MORE: Governance STAKEHOLDER Our Approach: Issue Prioritization: page 16 102-40 List of stakeholder groups ENGAGEMENT Partnerships & Collaborations 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements FY17 10-K: Item 1. Business: page 59 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Partnerships & Collaborations 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement See below 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Our Approach: Issue Prioritization: page 16 Additional Information On our journey to be a brand with purpose that moves the world forward, we have benefited from constructive counsel from a variety of external stakeholders – civil society organizations, industry, government, investors, consumers, and others. Engaging stakeholders challenges us to better understand emerging issues and helps us identify opportunities for innovation. For this year’s report, we fundamentally altered our approach to sustainability disclosure, resulting in a Sustainable Business Report (SBR) that is more streamlined and focused on progress to our 2020 targets; and a website focused on topics important to our consumers, that also allows for deep dives on material issues. To make sure our approach was sound, we worked with Ceres to convene an external stakeholder panel and conduct multiple dialogues to guide the development of NIKE’s approach to reporting and communication. Ceres is a sustainability non-profit organization working with investors and companies to tackle the world’s biggest sustainability challenges, including climate change, water scarcity and pollution, and human rights abuses. NIKE has worked with Ceres on many different sustainability projects since the late 90s. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 66 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI UNGC STANDARD NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE LOCATION AND NOTES OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG Over the course of a year, we hosted three webinars with the stakeholder team to discuss our plans for the next SBR and updated sustainability website. Stakeholder team: • BSR, Tara Norton, Managing Director • Calvert Investments, Mike Lombardo, Vice President • Ceres, Amy Augustine, Senior Director • Clean Production Action, Mark Rossi, Executive Director • General Motors, Sharon Basel, Senior Manager Sustainability • MIT Sloan School of Management, Jason Jay, Senior Lecturer and Director, Sustainability Initiative at MIT Sloan • Solidaridad, Madhyama Subramanian, Program Manager • WWF, Lindsay Bass, Manager, Water Stewardship • WWF, Nicole Tanner, Senior Specialist, Water Stewardship • NYC Comptroller’s Office, Millicent Budhai Robinson, Director of Corporate Governance Engagement themes Over the course of three engagements, the stakeholder team provided useful and relevant feedback for our disclosure strategy and planning. Here are just a few high-level themes we heard in those conversations. • Integration: Communicate NIKE’s commitment to sustainability as an important component of business strategy and decision-making. Examples: Letter from Our CEO, Our Environmental Moonshot, Governance, Innovating Sustainably. • External World: Acknowledge the external events and changing business context that are influencing and evolving expectations for companies. Examples: Minimize Environmental Footprint: The World Around Us, Transform Manufacturing: The World Around Us, Unleash Human Potential: The World Around Us, Our Environmental Moonshot. • Priority Issues: Clearly outline NIKE’s approach to issue prioritization and strategic direction. Examples: Letter from Our CEO, Issue Prioritization. • B alance: Diversify the ways in which NIKE delivers relevant sustainability information to its interested stakeholders, ensuring the SBR, website and other supplementary communications present a consistent message and serve to complement one another. Examples: Sustainable Business Report, Sustainability Website, Investor Relations. Incorporating feedback The feedback that resulted from these engagements provided NIKE’s leadership with direct insights and perspectives about our approach to reporting and disclosure. It also allowed NIKE leadership to hear directly from stakeholders and understand the topics that are top of mind for them. NIKE derives value from the stakeholder dialogue process, and we are committed to the integration of external feedback into our strategic planning and disclosure. We sincerely appreciate the time, expertise, and extensive input of the stakeholders for this report and our work more broadly. We believe that the net result of this stakeholder consultation is a stronger and more credible report. About this Report: page 2 Entities included in the consolidated financial REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 statements Business Overview: pages 6–7 FY17 10-K: Item 1. Business: page 55 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Our Approach: Issue Prioritization: page 16 102-47 List of material topics Our Approach: Issue Prioritization: page 16 102-48 Restatements of information All restatements are noted in this report. Our Approach: Issue Prioritization: page 16 102-49 Changes in reporting About this Report: page 2 Additional Information In FY14/15 we embedded “Waste Generated” into the Water, Energy, and Chemical issues. This decision was made based on our analysis which showed that the real “impact” of waste is embodied in these areas. The unintended consequence was that stakeholders may have assumed that waste was a lower priority for NIKE, despite significant efforts made and the waste-related 2020 target we had in place. As it is actually a top-rated issue for our stakeholders, this year we have reintroduced waste into our list of priority issues in an effort to align with our stakeholder understanding of these issues. NIKE’s FY14/15 SBR included reporting on FY11–15 performance targets. FY15 served as the target year for NIKE’s previous targets and also is the baseline year for most of NIKE’s FY20 targets. FY20 targets encompass a significantly expanded scope compared to FY11–15 targets. For example, previous targets only included WHQ for in scope office facilities. FY20 targets include five NIKE, Inc. global HQs. FY20 targets also include outbound logistics and get deeper into NIKE’s supply chain. As a result, FY15 values have been restated where necessary to enable comparability considering this expanded scope. 102-50 Reporting period About this Report: page 2 102-51 Date of most recent report We published the FY14–15 Sustainable Business Report in May 2016. 102-52 Reporting cycle NIKE reports on a biannual reporting cycle. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report sustainability@nike.com Claims of reporting in accordance with the 102-54 GRI Standards About this Report: page 2 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index: pages 65–73 We do not externally assure any data in this report. 102-56 External assurance About this Report: page 2 Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 67 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX ENVIRONMENT GRI UNGC STANDARD NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE LOCATION AND NOTES OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG MATERIALS MATERIAL ASPECTS: Non-Renewable Resource Depletion Explanation of the material topic and its Our Approach: Issue Prioritization: page 16 103-1 Boundaries Minimize Environmental Footprint: Materials: pages 23–24 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT Minimize Environmental Footprint: Materials: pages 23–24 APPROACH 103-2 The management approach and its components Materials 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Minimize Environmental Footprint: Materials: pages 23–24 GRI 301: MATERIALS 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Minimize Environmental Footprint: Materials: pages 23–24 8 Additional Information The top five material volumes reported include renewable materials: cotton and corrugate/paper; and non-renewable materials: polyester, rubber, and EVA foam. All material types reported are purchased from external suppliers except for EVA foam, which is sourced internally. Data reported consists of both direct measurements and estimates. While many materials are measured directly for a wide variety of products, total corrugate volumes are estimated using averaging packaging material used for each product group. While the majority of cotton and polyester volume data is sourced using direct measurements, product creation data is used to estimate material volumes for certain parts of the business. ENERGY MATERIAL ASPECTS: Energy Our Approach: Issue Prioritization: page 16 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 Boundaries Minimize Environmental Footprint: Energy and Emissions: pages 25–28 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT Energy & Emissions APPROACH Minimize Environmental Footprint: Energy and Emissions: pages 25–28 103-2 The management approach and its components Energy & Emissions 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Minimize Environmental Footprint: Energy and Emissions: pages 25–28 GRI 302: ENERGY 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Minimize Environmental Footprint: Energy and Emissions: pages 25–28 8 Additional Information FY15 FY16 FY17 Fuel consumption represents natural gas and recycled oil. OWNED OR OPERATED1 Heat Consumed 0 0 0 Steam Consumed 1,007 MWh 614 MWh 865 MWh Cooling Consumed 0 0 0 1 N  IKE converts all energy consumed to kWhe using net calorific value of the fuels consumed, including transportation fuels. Electricity data doesn’t require conversion. WATER MATERIAL ASPECTS: Water use Our Approach: Issue Prioritization: page 16 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 Boundaries Minimize Environmental Footprint: Water: pages 32–33 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT Water APPROACH Minimize Environmental Footprint: Water: pages 32–33 103-2 The management approach and its components Water 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Minimize Environmental Footprint: Water: pages 32–33 GRI 303: WATER 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Minimize Environmental Footprint: Water: pages 32–33 8 Additional Information Contract manufacturers report their freshwater withdrawal volumes and source to NIKE in accordance with NIKE’s Water Program, which outlines measurement practices and defines freshwater sources. The facility boundary is equivalent to the property boundary, and freshwater is inclusive of domestic and manufacturing uses. EMISSIONS MATERIAL ASPECTS: GHG Emissions Our Approach: Issue Prioritization: page 16 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 Boundaries Minimize Environmental Footprint: Energy and Emissions: pages 25–28 Energy & Emissions GRI 103: MANAGEMENT Minimize Environmental Footprint: Energy and Emissions: pages 25–28 103-2 The management approach and its components Energy & Emissions APPROACH GRI 305: EMISSIONS 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Minimize Environmental Footprint: Energy and Emissions: pages 25–28 305-1 8 305-2 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Minimize Environmental Footprint: Energy and Emissions: pages 25–28 305-3 Additional Information Scope 1 and 2 emissions have been calculated and reported in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (Revised Edition); Scope 3 emissions in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3), Accounting and Reporting Standard. Emissions are reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent and include CO2, CH4, N20. Other GHGs have been assessed yet are not reported due to low materiality in NIKE’s GHG emissions footprint. Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) are sourced from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Fifth Assessment Report (AR5 – 100 year). The operational control consolidation approach is used for emissions reporting. FY15 is used as the base year in alignment with FY20 energy and carbon targets. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 68 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX ENVIRONMENT GRI UNGC STANDARD NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE LOCATION AND NOTES OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG Additional Information SCOPE 1 AND 2 METHODOLOGY CARBON SCOPE MATRIX 1 25% ENERGY & CARBON 35% ENERGY & CARBON Emissions data is calculated using primary activity data and extrapolations. Primary data is collected across the business via IN SCOPE OUT OF SCOPE PER UNIT REDUCTION PER UNIT REDUCTION several internal processes and systems; extrapolation methodologies employ conservative assumptions to avoid understating NIKE’s footprint. Emissions factors are updated according to a set cadence. FULL VALUE SCOPE 1 AND 2 OPERATIONAL BOUNDARIES RE100 MOONSHOT CHAIN IMPACTS Distribution Centers NIKE VALUE CHAIN TERMINOLOGY Top 21 DCs globally as of the end of FY17, which represent more than 90% of shipped units and 90% of square footage. CORPORATE SERVICES Retail HQs Nike Brand, Converse, and Hurley stores globally. Other Office Facilities & WHQ Building Construction HQs World Headquarters, European HQ, Greater China HQ, Converse HQ, and Hurley HQ. New construction at HQ locations Air MI become in scope once buildings become operational. Corporate Jets Other Office Facilities & WHQ Building Construction Commercial Air Business Travel Includes non-HQ office facilities and new building construction at WHQ prior to newly constructed sites becoming operational. RAW MATERIALS PRODUCTION Air MI Raw Materials Production NIKE-owned manufacturing facilities that are the primary producers of NIKE air units. MATERIALS MANUFACTURING EMISSIONS FACTORS Materials Manufacturing MATERIALS FINISHING EMISSIONS EMISSIONS FACTOR SOURCE Textile Dyeing & Finishing SCOPE 1 GHG Protocol Emissions Factors from Cross-Sector Tools March 2017 FINISHED GOODS MANUFACTURING SCOPE 2 U.S. – Contractual instruments (Power purchase agreement) FW, AP, & EQ Manufacturing U.S. & Canada – Supplier-specific emission factors LOGISTICS U.S. – Green-e Energy US Residual Mix Emissions Rates Inbound Logistics U.S. – U.S. EPA Climate Leadership Emission Factors for GHG Inventories November 2015 Outbound Logistics Distribution Centers U.S. – eGRID (location-based) RETAIL E.U. – AIB European Residual Mixes NIKE Direct Global – IEA World Electricity CO2 Emissions Factors CONSUMER USE 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories Consumer Use U.K. Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) and the Department of Energy and END OF LIFE Climate Change (DECC) End of Life SCOPE 3 IEA World Electricity CO2 Emissions Factors 1 Only NIKE-owned Retail (NIKE Direct) and Logistics (Distribution Centers, Inbound & Network for Transport Measurement (NTM) Outbound Logistics) are in scope for all of NIKE’s commitments (RE100, FY20 targets, and the moonshot). Non-NIKE-owned Retail and Logistics are included in the Full Value Chain Impacts. Clean Cargo Working Group (CCWG) Nominal Trade Lane Average Port – Port U.K. Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) and the Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC) SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS BY CATEGORY & OPERATIONAL BOUNDARIES SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS IN SCOPE OF MOONSHOT AMBITION FY17 METRIC TONNES EMISSIONS SOURCES CO2E AND/OR SCOPE OF REPORTED EMISSIONS EMISSIONS CALCULATION METHODOLOGY EVALUATION STATUS UPSTREAM Emissions data is calculated using primary activity data and extrapolations. CO2e emissions include CO2, CH4, and N2O. Nike Brand and Converse footwear finished goods manufacturing emissions data is derived from 100% primary data and represents nearly 90% of the emissions in finished goods manufacturing. For this subset, vendors provide monthly energy consumption: from the local utility grid, onsite Includes emissions across NIKE brands and product engines, including from 1 PURCHASED raw materials production, materials manufacturing, materials finishing, and generators, other fuels and purchased steam. For electricity: kWh values are multiplied GOODS & SERVICES 9,179,754 finished goods manufacturing. by CO2e emissions factors for electricity purchased from the local utility grid by the country the factory resides in. For onsite generation and other fuels: CO2e emissions are calculated using the IPCC bottoms up calculation methodology. Extrapolation methodologies are used for emissions estimates outside of footwear finished goods manufacturing based on lifecycle analysis data and employ conservative assumptions to avoid understating NIKE’s footprint. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 69 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX ENVIRONMENT SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS IN SCOPE OF MOONSHOT AMBITION FY17 METRIC TONNES EMISSIONS SOURCES CO2E AND/OR SCOPE OF REPORTED EMISSIONS EMISSIONS CALCULATION METHODOLOGY EVALUATION STATUS UPSTREAM Transactional data is applied to a third-party transportation carbon calculator against 4 TRANSPORTATION Includes ~95% of global inbound transportation via the following modes of industry standard emissions factors. For Air: Distance traveled (km) x cargo weight (kg) & DISTRIBUTION 642,287 transportation: air, ocean, truck, and rail. x emission factor [g of CO2/ (TEU x km)]. For all other modes: Distance traveled (km) x (UPSTREAM) cargo volume (TEU) x emission factor [g of CO2/ (TEU x km)]. Air CO2 emissions are estimated based on number and distance of trips. Short-haul 6 BUSINESS TRAVEL 81,913 Includes emissions from commercial air travel. trips are less fuel efficient per mile flown. Longer haul flights become less efficient due to the need to carry more fuel. DOWNSTREAM Transactional data is applied to a third-party transportation carbon calculator against 9 TRANSPORTATION Includes ~90% of global outbound transportation via the following modes of industry standard emissions factors. For Air: Distance traveled (km) x cargo weight (kg) & DISTRIBUTION 73,080 transportation: air, ocean, truck, and rail. Excludes non-NIKE paid freight. x emission factor [g of CO2/ (TEU x km)]. For all other modes: Distance traveled (km) x (DOWNSTREAM) cargo volume (TEU) x emission factor [g of CO2/ (TEU x km)]. There is no primary emissions data available for end-of-life treatment of NIKE’s products. To evaluate NIKE’s value chain footprint, we identified and quantified CO2e emissions created at each stage of the value chain. The impact of each individual product differs considerably, based on its profile, materials used, size and weight, 12 END-OF-LIFE These emissions are associated with the disposal of products including landfill, method of manufacture, and location of production, use, and disposal. Several TREATMENT OF SOLD 368,542 recycling, and incineration. internal and external tools were used to develop this estimation, including NIKE’s PRODUCTS Business and Environmental Scenario Tool (BEST), Enablon database, NIKE’s Apparel Sustainability Index, NIKE’s Footwear Sustainability Index, and NIKE’s Materials Sustainability Index. End-of-life Stage: at the disposal stage we assumed the finished good is disposed of at the end of one year. SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS OUT SCOPE OF MOONSHOT AMBITION FY17 METRIC TONNES EMISSIONS SOURCES CO2E AND/OR SCOPE OF REPORTED EMISSIONS EMISSIONS CALCULATION METHODOLOGY EVALUATION STATUS DOWNSTREAM 5 WASTE GENERATED 2,030 Emissions relative to the fate of the waste generated in our own operations Total HQ and DC waste not diverted from landfill multiplied by a lifecycle IN OPERATIONS including HQs and DCs. assessment-based emission factor for municipal waste sent to landfill. There is no primary emissions data available from use of NIKE’s products. To evaluate NIKE’s value chain footprint, we identified and quantified CO2e emissions created at each stage of the value chain. The impact of each individual product differs considerably, based on its profile, materials used, size and weight, method These emissions are associated with washing and drying NIKE’s sold apparel of manufacture, and location of production, use, and disposal. Several internal and and socks. We assumed for the value chain footprint exercise that footwear and external tools were used to develop this estimation, including NIKE’s Business and 11 USE OF SOLD 6,284,727 equipment were not washed. Based on our footprinting work, we estimate that Environmental Scenario Tool (BEST), Enablon database, NIKE’s Apparel Sustainability PRODUCTS about 36% of the emissions throughout our value chain are emitted during the Index, NIKE’s Footwear Sustainability Index, and NIKE’s Materials Sustainability use phase of NIKE products. These emissions are out of scope of NIKE’s Index. Consumer Usage: Water and Energy Usage was estimated based on the following moonshot ambition. assumptions – Only apparel units and socks were considered. Each item was assumed washed 52 times in one year. The washing assumptions were based on regional consumer washing practices and estimates of washing machine types by region. CO2e was based on regional conversion factors applied to the estimated energy usage. SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS NOT RELEVANT/NOT YET CALCULATED FY17 METRIC TONNES EMISSIONS SOURCES CO2E AND/OR SCOPE OF REPORTED EMISSIONS EMISSIONS CALCULATION METHODOLOGY EVALUATION STATUS UPSTREAM NIKE does not have significant investment in capital goods as most manufacturing 2 CAPITAL GOODS Not relevant equipment is owned and operated by contracted factories. N/A 3 FUEL & ENERGYRELATED ACTIVITIES Not relevant NIKE does not have significant use of fuel and energy-related activities as our N/A NOT INCLUDED IN manufacturing is completed by contract factories. SCOPE 1 OR 2 Employee commuting is a relevant metric for NIKE, Inc. as we had approximately 7 EMPLOYEE Relevant, not yet 10,700 employees commuting just to our World Headquarters daily in FY17. We N/A COMMUTING calculated have not yet calculated the corresponding CO2 emissions for employee commuting. 8 UPSTREAM LEASED Not relevant NIKE does not have significant emissions from upstream leased assets. N/A ASSETS Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 70 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX ENVIRONMENT SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS NOT RELEVANT/NOT YET CALCULATED FY17 METRIC TONNES EMISSIONS SOURCES CO2E AND/OR SCOPE OF REPORTED EMISSIONS EMISSIONS CALCULATION METHODOLOGY EVALUATION STATUS DOWNSTREAM 10 PROCESSING OF Not relevant NIKE’s products are finished consumer goods and do not undergo any additional N/A SOLD PRODUCTS processing once sold. 13 DOWNSTREAM Not relevant NIKE does not have significant emissions from downstream leased assets. N/A LEASED ASSETS 14 FRANCHISES Not relevant NIKE does not have significant emissions from franchises. N/A 15 INVESTMENTS Not relevant NIKE does not have significant emissions from investments. N/A 8 UPSTREAM Not relevant NIKE does not have significant emissions from upstream leased assets. N/A LEASED ASSETS GRI UNGC STANDARD NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE LOCATION AND NOTES OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG EFFLUENTS AND WASTE MATERIAL ASPECTS: Material Waste Explanation of the material topic and its Our Approach: Issue Prioritization: page 16 103-1 Boundaries Minimize Environmental Footprint: Waste: pages 29–31 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT Minimize Environmental Footprint: Waste: pages 29–31 APPROACH 103-2 The management approach and its components Waste 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Minimize Environmental Footprint: Waste: pages 29–31 GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND Minimize Environmental Footprint: Waste: pages 29–31 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 8, 9 WASTE Additional Information Distribution center and office waste disposal method has been determined by information provided by waste disposal contractors. In some facilities, NIKE directly contracts with disposal providers for material-specific streams or specific containers. In other facilities, NIKE uses one provider for all waste streams. Contract manufacturers report their solid waste generation and disposal method to NIKE in accordance with NIKE’s Waste Program, which outlines separation and handling practices for non-hazardous waste and defines waste items and management methods. For hazardous waste, annual compliance audits verify that our partners are meeting the requirements in the NIKE Code Leadership Standards (CLS) for suppliers. Auditors confirm that partners have obtained all required permits and that hazardous waste vendors selected by the partners are properly qualified and licensed. The CLS also outlines storage requirements for any location that generates or stores 100 kg or more of hazardous waste each month. TOTAL WEIGHT OF HAZARDOUS WASTE (TONNES) GENERATED IN FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING 1, 2 FY16 FY17 Total Weight 6,858 7,370 1 Best available data reported to NIKE by manufacturing partners of finished goods. Excluded from scope is any hazardous waste generated from non-manufacturing activities. 2 Annual compliance audits verify that our partners are meeting the requirements in the NIKE Code Leadership Standards (CLS) for suppliers. Auditors confirm that partners have obtained all required permits and that hazardous waste vendors selected by the partners are properly qualified and licensed. The CLS also outlines storage requirements for any location that generates or stores 100 kg or more of hazardous waste each month. EMPLOYMENT MATERIAL ASPECTS: Employment Total Compensation Explanation of the material topic and its Our Approach: Issue Prioritization: page 16 103-1 Boundaries Unleash Human Potential: Employees: pages 55–57 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-2 The management approach and its components Unleash Human Potential: Employees: pages 55–57 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Unleash Human Potential: Employees: pages 55–57 We report on the total number of employees that took parental GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT 401-3 Parental leave Unleash Human Potential: Employees: page 56 leave, by gender. We currently are not able to track return to work and retention rates. Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 71 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX ENVIRONMENT GRI UNGC STANDARD NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE LOCATION AND NOTES OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY MATERIAL ASPECTS: Occupational Health & Safety Our Approach: Issue Prioritization: page 16 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 Boundaries Transform Manufacturing: Sustainable Sourcing: page 41 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT Unleash Human Potential: Additional Priority Issues: pages 61–62 APPROACH Unleash Human Potential: Additional Priority Issues: pages 61–62 103-2 The management approach and its components Culture of Health and Safety 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Unleash Human Potential: Additional Priority Issues: pages 61–62 We disclose Total Case Incident Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL Rate (TCIR) and Lost Time 403-2 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Unleash Human Potential: Additional Priority Issues: pages 61–62 HEALTH AND SAFETY number of work-related fatalities Injury Rate (LTIR), which is considered industry standard. TRAINING AND EDUCATION MATERIAL ASPECTS: Workforce Development Explanation of the material topic and its Our Approach: Issue Prioritization: page 16 103-1 Boundaries Unleash Human Potential: Employees: pages 55–57 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT Unleash Human Potential: Employees: pages 55–57 APPROACH 103-2 The management approach and its components People at Nike 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Unleash Human Potential: Employees: pages 55–57 GRI 404: TRAINING AND Percentage of employees receiving regular 404-3 Unleash Human Potential: Employees: page 55 EDUCATION performance and career development reviews Additional Information EMPLOYEES WHO RECEIVE PERFORMANCE REVIEW (CFE RATING) 1 FY16 FY17 FY16 FY17 GENDER % % EMPLOYMENT TYPE % % CFE Rating 66% 63% CFE Rating 76% 73% Female Full-time No Rating 34% 37% No Rating 24% 27% CFE Rating 65% 62% CFE Rating 42% 39% Male Part-time No Rating 35% 38% No Rating 58% 61% CFE Rating 65% 62% GRAND TOTAL 1 Excludes temporary workers. No Rating 35% 38% DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY MATERIAL ASPECTS: Total Compensation Explanation of the material topic and its Our Approach: Issue Prioritization: page 16 103-1 Boundaries Unleash Human Potential: Employees: pages 55–57 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT Unleash Human Potential: Employees: pages 55–57 APPROACH 103-2 The management approach and its components People at Nike 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Unleash Human Potential: Employees: pages 55–57 GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 405-2 Unleash Human Potential: Employees: pages 55–57 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY women to men Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 72 Introduction Our Approach Minimize Environmental Footprint Transform Manufacturing Unleash Human Potential Appendix GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) INDEX SOCIAL GRI UNGC STANDARD NUMBER GRI DISCLOSURE LOCATION AND NOTES OMISSION PRINCIPLE SDG FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING MATERIAL ASPECTS: Freedom of Association Explanation of the material topic and its Our Approach: Issue Prioritization: page 16 103-1 Boundaries Transform Manufacturing: Additional Priority Issues: pages 49–50 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT Transform Manufacturing: Additional Priority Issues: pages 49–50 APPROACH 103-2 The management approach and its components Human Rights 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Transform Manufacturing: Additional Priority Issues: pages 49–50 GRI 407: FREEDOM Operations and suppliers in which the right OF ASSOCIATION AND 407-1 to freedom of association and collective Transform Manufacturing: Additional Priority Issues: pages 49–50 1, 3 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING bargaining may be at risk CHILD LABOR MATERIAL ASPECTS: Child Labor Our Approach: Issue Prioritization: page 16 Explanation of the material topic and its Transform Manufacturing: Additional Priority Issues: pages 49–50 103-1 Boundaries Code of Conduct GRI 103: MANAGEMENT Code Leadership Standards (CLS) APPROACH Unleash Human Potential: Additional Priority Issues: pages 49–50 103-2 The management approach and its components Human Rights 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Transform Manufacturing: Additional Priority Issues: pages 49–50 Operations and suppliers at significant risk GRI 408: CHILD LABOR 408-1 for incidents of child labor Transform Manufacturing: Additional Priority Issues: pages 49–50 1, 5 CHEMISTRY MATERIAL ASPECTS: Chemistry Explanation of the material topic and its Our Approach: Issue Prioritization: page 16 103-1 Boundaries Minimize Environmental Footprint: Chemistry: pages 34–36 Minimize Environmental Footprint: Chemistry: pages 34–36 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT 103-2 The management approach and its components Approach to Chemistry APPROACH Chemistry Playbook Performance and Disclosure Committee: page 5 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Minimize Environmental Footprint: Chemistry: pages 34–36 CHEMISTRY N/A Minimize Environmental Footprint: Chemistry: pages 34–36 EXCESSIVE OVERTIME MATERIAL ASPECTS: Excessive Overtime Explanation of the material topic and its Our Approach: Issue Prioritization: page 16 103-1 Boundaries Transform Manufacturing: Sustainable Sourcing: pages 41–44 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-2 The management approach and its components Transform Manufacturing: Sustainable Sourcing: pages 41–44 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Transform Manufacturing: Sustainable Sourcing: pages 41–44 EXCESSIVE OVERTIME N/A Transform Manufacturing: Sustainable Sourcing: pages 41–44 ACTIVE KIDS MATERIAL ASPECTS: Active Kids Explanation of the material topic and its Our Approach: Issue Prioritization: page 16 103-1 Boundaries Unleash Human Potential: Community Investment: pages 58–60 GRI 103: MANAGEMENT APPROACH Unleash Human Potential: Community Investment: pages 58–60 103-2 The management approach and its components Community Impact Performance and Disclosure Committee: page 5 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Unleash Human Potential: Community Investment: pages 58–60 ACTIVE KIDS N/A Unleash Human Potential: Community Investment: pages 58–60 Sustainable Business Report FY16/17 73
