COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Grand Guardian Insurance Public Co., Ltd. September 2017/ September 2018 Contents 01 22 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT ENVIRONMENT Assessment, Policy and Goals 02 Implementation ABOUT THE REPORT Measurement of the Outcomes 03 26 GRI G4 INDICES ANTI-CORRUPTION Assessment, Policy and Goals 04 Implementation SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS Measurement of the Outcomes 05 31 GGI OVERVIEW GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX 11 HUMAN RIGHTS Assessment, Policy and Goals Implementation 16 LABOUR RIGHTS Assessment, Policy and Goals Implementation Measurement of the Outcomes Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 1 Chairman's Statement Dear Stakeholders, It is my honor to present the second COP report of Grand Guardian Insurance Public Co., Ltd (“GGI”). Since joining the UN Global Compact on 8 November 2016, GGI has incorporated The Ten Principles of The UN Global Compact into our business practices. At the same time, we have focused our efforts on implementing strategic corporate social responsibility projects in line with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. GGI made significant progress in our operational performance since our report last year. To set the tone for the importance we place to the Ten Principles, members of GGI’s management board are placed directly responsible for social, economic and environmental sustainability efforts under their charge. Under their leadership, each of GGIs’ employees has worked towards achieving the common goal of integrating the UN. We firmly believe that the only way to achieve sustainable development in Myanmar is for each of us to play our part. As a relatively new member of the UN Global Compact, we seek to continually improve the integration of the UN Global Compact principles into our business. At the same time, we strive to support social stability, advance economic progress and achieve sustainable development in Myanmar. As an insurance company, our business complies with the Myanmar Insurance Law and the directives of Insurance Business Regulatory Board (IBRB). Through our collective effort and commitment, we hope to be a constructive member of our society. We are proud to support the UN Global Compact in 2018 and look forward to operating in ways that further meet our responsibilities in human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The adoption of a responsible business culture will go a long way towards building a sustainable future for our country. Sincerely, Aik Htun Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 2 About the Report Grand Guardian Insurance Public Co., Ltd. (“GGI”) is committed to be a good corporate citizen and to contribute to society. This report provides an overview of our economic, social and environment impact and performance. We aim to contribute towards sustainable development by offering insurance an avenue to built an efficient and sustainable presence in the Myanmar insurance market. We provide high quality service and build long term relationships with our customers and clients. GGI as a public company is always transparent about our business and we provide the public with information about our functions, statistical reports and other data through various channels. The company also gives priority to corporate governance. As a service provider, competency is a vital requirement. In this regard, GGI annually plans a comprehensive training programme and conducts courses on key topics such as market and industrial knowledge, skills and efficiency training, and capacity building. This second report contains more details on our sustainability practices as we deepen our commitment and improve on our CSR expertise. This report is prepared with the ultimate aim of reaching the Core Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) context to create and disseminate a global framework for sustainability. GGI will continue to report annually. Data Collection The data collection for this report was overseen by our Sustainability Working Group who hold permanent positions within GGI. This allows for a holistic approach to gathering the relevant documents and ensures each company has a voice with the COP report. GGI is in the process of implementing an external audit in order to allow for an objective assessment on ways to implement an enhanced sustainable development strategy in future. Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 3 GRI G4 INDICES: The head office of GGI is at 18 Junction Square Compound, Pyay Road, Kamayut Township, Yangon. GGI’s head office has a Ongoing Projects Company's Vision total 262 employees of which 141 are females and 121 are males. GGI maintains a wide portfolio of To build an ideal environment work with 132 operations currentG4-5 & 6 for the growth and protection of ly in business across the country wealth and lives. G4-3 SDG 8 G4-56 GGI has operated businesses across different locations in Myanmar since its establishment in 2013. Its activities are dedicated to the Myanmar market, continually driving economic growth in the country. G4-3 SDG 8 541 Employees Our supply chain is composed of GGI currently employs 541 peosuppliers, government, business ple across all companies. partners and tenants these differ across various sectors of our work. G4-9 G4-13 GGI has been a member of the UNGC since November 2016. This year, we align our COP report to the fiscal year 2018, and future COP reports will follow future fiscal years G4-15 Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 4 Sustainability Progress With a total of 18 ongoing operations across Myanmar, we continue to work towards increasing the number of social and environmental impact assessments undertaken across our operations. 18 18 ongoing operations social impact across Myanmar assessments (SIA) 18 1 work councils and occupationenvironmental impact al health and safety assessments (EIA) and committees were established ongoing monitoring to deal with impacts 1 1 stakeholder engagement formal local community plans based on grievance process stakeholder mapping Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 5 GGI OVERVIEW Grand Guardian Insurance Public Co., Ltd. was permitted to do insurance business under license No.002 of the IBRB on 25-05-2013. GGI officially launched its operations as a public company on 12 June 2013. Established as a public company, GGI has 93 shareholders. The Board of Directors (BOD) comprises of 15 elected members. The BOD’s functions include the adoption of policies for the sustainable development of the company’s operations within the scope of entrusted rights and powers, and the regulation of the company’s affairs. GGI has formed the following committees to implement its responsibilities in compliance with the Myanmar Insurance Law, rules, regulation and directives and in ensuring check and balance in our system: 1. Audit, Compliance and Corporate Governance Committee 2. Compensation and Benefit Committee 3. Investment and Risk Management Committee 4. Remuneration Committee GGI Branches GGI has 17 branches as at November 2018. Currently, GGI provides 16 insurance products in compliance with the requirements of the Insurance Business Regulatory Board (IBRB). 2017 2018 15 Products 16 Products General Insurance Life Insurance Life Insurance Endowment Life Farmer Life Insurance Insurance Short Term EndowGroup Life Insurance ment Life Insurance Travel Sportmen Insurance Insurance Snake Bite Health Insurance Insurance Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 6 General Insurance Fire Marine Cargo Insurance Insurance Comprehesive motor Marine Hull Insurance Insurance Cash in Safe Fidelity Insurance Insurance Personal Accident Cash in Transit Insurance Insurance Grand Guardian Insurance Public Co., Ltd. Head Office at Yangon, Myanmar The head office of GGI is at Junction Square Compound, Pyay Road, Kamayut Township, Yangon. GGI has 17 branches as at November 2018. Currently, GGI provides 16 insurance products in compliance with the requirements of the Insurance Business Regulatory Board (IBRB). GGI’s head office has a total 262 employees of which 141 are females and 121 are males. Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 7 Mandalay Branch Mandalay Branch opened on 20 January 2014. It has a total 52 employees of which 29 are females and 23 are males. Monywa Branch Monywa Branch opened on 11 March 2015. It has a total 15 employees of which 6 are females and 9 are males. Nay Pyi Taw Branch Nay Pyi Taw Branch opened on 1 July 2015. It has a total of 10 employees of which 5 are females and 5 are males. Lashio Branch Lashio Branch opened on 20 October 2015. It has a total of 13 employees of which 6 are females and 7 are males. Pakokku Branch Pakokku Branch opened on 16 January 2016. It has a total of 17 employees of which 7 are females and 10 are males. Mawlamyine Branch Mawlamyine Branch opened on 25 February 2016. It has a total of 15 employees of which 6 are females and 9 are males. Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 8 Malikha Branch Malikha Branch Yangon opened on 29 October 2016. It has a total of 19 employees of which 8 are females and 11 are males. Pyay Branch Pyay Branch opened on 4 November 2016. It has a total of 15 employees of which 9 are females and 6 are males. UFC Branch UFC Branch opened on 31 January 2017. It has a total of 25 employees of which 13 are females and 12 are males. Junction City Branch Junction City Branch opened on 31 March 2017. It has a total of 9 employees of which 3 are females and 6 are males. Mandalay Branch (Kywe Se Kan) Kywe Se Kan Branch opened on 5 April 2017. It has a total of 15 employees of which 8 are females and 7 are males. Junction 8 Branch Junciton 8 Branch opened on 28 June 2017. It has a total of 14 employees of which 5 are females and 9 are males. Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 9 Aungmingalar Branch Aung Mingalar Branch opened on 1 December 2017. It has a total of 15 employees of which 5 are females and 10 are males. Magway Branch Magway Branch opened on 21 February 2018. It has a total of 11 employees of which 3 are females and 8 are males. Kyaukme Branch Kyaukme Branch opened on 28 February 2018. It has a total of 11 employees of which 6 are females and 5 are males. Myeik Branch Myeik Branch opened on 12th May 2018. It has a total of 12 employees of which 7 are females and 5 are males. Pathein Branch Pathein Branch opened on 21 July 2018. It has a total of 11 employees of which 5 are females and 6 are males. Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 10 Vision To build an ideal environment for the growth and protection of wealth and lives. Mission To deliver better products, value-added services and raise the professionalism in the industry. Core Values Integrity Customer Care Progressiveness Simplicity To gain the trust of We want to build Our willingness to learn, We believe in being our customers, we are sustainable relationships improve, and invest in simple and straightcommitted to fulfill all by treating our customers people development helps forward; making it easy to our responsibilities and like our friends, always us to move forward as a understand, to access and promises to them in the providing a plan that best team and company. to claim for our customers. most professional manner. suits their needs. Customer care also means responding to them in a timely manner, always taking the initiative to keep our customers up-to-date, and take them through every step of insurance purchase and claim Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 11 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Ensure GGI are not complicit in human rights abuses Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 12 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS GGI is fully committed to observing, supporting and respecting the protection of globally recognised Human Rights as embodied under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We realise that the common understanding and acknowledgement to these rights and freedoms are most important to every human being. The 30 Articles mentioned in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights are recognized within GGI in order to strengthen the fundamentals of our business operations. These principles include equal chance, right to life, liberty, security of person, freedom of thought, consciousness, religion, opinion, speech, and expression. We continue in our endeavor to achieve international standards in policy implementation. As our goal is to be a good corporate citizen – caring about the community at large – we will always operate so that our corporate actions comply with and encourage the respect of Human Rights. As a good corporate citizen, we hope to set an example for others in the Myanmar business community and we expect all our stakeholders to respect and comply with the core principles inscribed in the Universal Declaration. Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 13 IMPLEMENTATION Blood Donation GGI organises an annual blood donation campaign to encourage our employees to donate blood. The event, coordinated by our working group, involves all our employees. We facilitate travel for employees to and from the blood donation facility and each donor is entitled to take a paid rest day after donating blood. Road Safely Week The road safety awareness programme, organised by GGI for members of the public, is an annual commitment as we have a duty of care to ensure that pedestrians and car users are aware of road hazards. Our programme in November 2017 was held in cooperation with the Myanmar Organization for Road Safety Team. Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 14 International White Cane Day Families of Grand Guardian Insurance Public Co., Ltd. are the ardent help-providers of the Yangon Mayor’s Cup walking contest marking the International White Cane Day which falls on 15 October every year. GGI families provided both physical and mental help for students from all over the country, who took part in the contest in 2017. GGI has been providing assistance and encouragements for the persons who are blind or visually impaired at the International White Cane Day activity for three years in a row. Fire Relief Program In doing business, the Grand Guardian Insurance Public Co., Ltd always care for and provide necessary assistance for the people inside and outside its business circle, aside from making efforts for its economic growth. The company provided rehabilitation assistance for fire victims of 171 households who lost homes and property in a fire that broke out in Thittawgyi Model Village, Yesagyo Township, Pakokku District, Magway Region, on 19-3-2018. Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 15 Bicycle Match Cycling contest or bike contest is one of the interesting sport events which is helpful for both mental and physical fitness. Myanmar held the public cycling contest in Monywa on December 2017. GGI staffs are among the cheering spectators of the bike contest. Sustainable Developments 1 Percentage of total profits dedicated to sustainable developments and activities. GGI’s total contribution amounts are 50,339,526 MMK in this year. Religious 12% 2% Education Social Health 55% Sport 29% 2% Education Religious Social Health Sport 1,196,300 6,080,106 14,573,500 889,000 27,600,620 Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 16 LABOUR RIGHTS Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 17 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS GGI recognises our employees’ rights to freedom of association, collective bargaining, and the importance of a well-balanced team through our policies that support diversity and non-discrimination. Our policies and practices comply with national labour laws and regulations. We endeavor to implement labour policies within our organization in accordance with international standards. GGI opposes all forms of forced labour and child labour, and calls for the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation in Myanmar. GGI demonstrates our commitment to supporting the ILO's (International Labour Organization) principles by helping our business partners, clients, suppliers, contractors and stakeholders to uphold an equal standard of labour rights and principles. These principles also apply to our own efforts to attract, develop and retain the right people. We strive to achieve an international standard on labour policies and will continue to develop tools to measure the outcomes of our policies and practices for greater advancement in this area. We will make sure every employee does not suffer from any kind of discrimination, feels integrated and happy within the company. We are also committed to do our utmost to be an active participant for each of our employee and their families. Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 18 IMPLEMETATION Comply with universal principles GGI agrees with the universal standard of strictly condemning forced labour in all circumstances. We do not employ staff aged less than 18 years old. Equal opportunity employer We are an equal opportunity employer. The recruitment of our employees is based on merit, skills, experience and ability, regardless of age, race, gender, physical condition, religion or family status. A policy of non-discrimination prevails throughout all aspects of the employment relationship including recruitment, selection, placement, transfer, promotion, layoff, termination, and training, working conditions, benefits and compensation. We follow an equal salary for equal job policy as well as an equal opportunity of evolvement within the company policy. Leave Our employees’ comprehensive welfare plan includes entitlement to casual leave, earned leave, medical leave, maternity leave, paternity leave, leave without pay, wedding leave, and compassionate leave. This year, 13 people were entitled to parental leave and 13 of them (8 men and 5 women) took this parental leave. Among them, 100% of men and women returned from their parental leave. All parents are still employed by GGI 12 months after their return to work. Collective Bargaining In compliance with the national laws, GGI upholds the right of their employees to practice collective bargaining. At GGI, collective bargaining is encouraged as we believe employees should understand their value to the company and be compensated fairly. Health Policies for employees prioritises equitable access to health care for all of its employees based in the Yangon headquarters and across the country. Health care is a fundamental human right, which is why we make access to adequate healthcare a standard feature of working for GGI. GGI conducted Aerial Mosquito Fogging Programme in all Branches compound. Aerial control helps to reduce mosquito population in the area that are hard to reach. During the entire process we focus an areas where mosquitoes populate. Training & Development GGI was opened on June 2013, and now it is running business with 541 staffs at the head office and 17 branches in major towns all over the country. It is conducting staff efficiency trainings continuously for ensuring the most excellent and swiftest insurance services for the public. The courses have increased the sale of policies by turning the trainees into skilled staff who can provide best services and can stand shoulder to shoulder with their international counterparts. Up to now, 996 staffs have participated in 889-hour courses. Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 19 Team Building GGI, we believe a healthy work-life balance for employees is imperative to any successful business and the mental and physical well-being of our employees is of the upmost importance to us. In order to balance the work load with sufficient recreational activities, GGI facilitates the formation of company sports teams and group activities/functions outside of work hours in a relaxed environment. We also prioritise family inclusivity and ensure that all of our recreational groups include employees’ family members. GGI encourages team building and a healthy work-life balance through the implementation of recreational events within the workplace. We also celebrate our employees’ birthdays by taking time out during the work day to present them with a cake. This is one of the many ways we show our gratitude to the valued employees of GGI. Safety & Health We are continuously sending staffs to various occupational safety trainings and awareness seminars. Personnel of the relevant departments are also taking part in the courses that are necessary for work-site safety. Additionally, the company has adopted necessary programs for occupational management and medical counseling services. We have facilitated the participation of all our staff at different levels from all the branches in the Fire Safety Manager Training-FSMT conducted monthly by the Fire Department, with the aim of arousing awareness of fire prevention at office buildings and other related structures and mobilizing an internal firefighting force in case such a peril occurs. Employees who have completed the FSMT will act as instructors in conducting in-house fire prevention courses in which they will share with their counterparts the knowledge about taking precaution to prevent potential fires, firefighting and, survival methods. We are also planning to conduct Emergency Fire Drill Program with the involvement of Fire Department. Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 20 MEASUREMENT OF THE OUTCOME Number of Employees With 541 employees, GGI is able to provide better customer service to our clients. We added 180 new jobs compared to the previous year. GGI ensures gender equality in our employment programme. We have 269 male employees and 272 female employees. Of the 17 members of GGI’s top management, 41% are women. This year, 104 employee are promoted and 60 of them are women. Female Male 272 269 Insurance Being one of the leading insurance companies in the country, and understanding the importance of insurance, GGI provides insurance for all its permanent staff. The table below shows the number of employees who have benefitted from our company. 381 Total number of endowment life insurance 206 175 Female Male 48 Total number of group life insurance 15 33 Female Male GRI G4 Highlights Currently, GGI monitors wage market values depending on project location in order to remain competitive with local salaries for a private company. Our senior management employees are locally hired with Myanmar nationals filling all management positions. We use public advertising through newspapers, internet and word of mouth to attract new talent. Our management positions are all staffed by people from local communities and at the time of reporting there are 18 management positions held within the company. Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 21 Training & Development Course We provide orientation to all new employees to ensure every employee fully understands GGI’s vision of “To build an ideal environment for the growth and protection of wealth and lives.” In addition to educating employees on details of the company’s policies and practices, the orientation programme also gives further skills training for employees in the area of work they are entering. This enables them to enhance their skill set for growth within the company and beyond. Type Training 1. Insurance Business Training 2. Life Insurance Seminar 3. Motor Insurance Training Product & Service Knowledge 4. Marine Cargo Insurance Training 5. Overseas Marine Cargo Insurance Training 6. Certificate of Malaysia Insurance Training 7. Excellence in Insurance Technical Training 8. Customer Service Training Customer Service 9. Personal Grooming Course 10. Orientation Training 11. English Language Four Skills Course 12. Exploring Shared Value In Myanmar : Case Studies Personal Development From Myanmar Companies Panel Discussion and Training 13. Professional Selling Training 14. Sales & Marketing Training Language 15. Customized English Proficiency Program 16. Computer office 2010 Application Course Under Window 10 Operating System Computing and IT 17. Advanced Computer Proficiency in Microsoft Office Application Course 18. Advanced Excel Training 19. Managing Yourself Workshop Post Training 20. Branch In-Charge Training Programme Management 21. Basic Personal Selling & Management Training 22. From Good to great : Effective Management Skills and Tools 101 Workshop CSR 23. CSR & UNGC Awareness Training Code Of Conduct 24. Code of Conduct Training 25. Security Training Programme 26. Fire safety Manager Training Safety 27. Understanding Myanmar HES Legal Requirements for HSE Practitioners Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 22 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 23 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS We recognise the need to save the environment and are concerned about environmental issues. We are fully committed to tacking the challenges brought about by climate change and are actively working towards reducing our environmental impact. We are committed to continually improving our environmental performance as an integral and fundamental part of our business strategy and operation. We continue to develop tools to measure the outcomes of our progress in the direction of being more environmentally sustainable. We will implement an environmental management system to ensure high environmental standards and to continuously improve our processes .We continually improve our environmental performance with appropriate use of resources. As part of an annual management assessment, our management checks the suitability of our environmental policies, our adherence to as well as the effectiveness of our management system. We take environmental protection into account by advertising our goals as well as working out and implementing suitable measures. We base our actions not only on our policies but also on legal and official guidelines. We believe it is imperative that we all treat the environment in a responsible manner. Our commitment makes particular sense in a resource-rich country like Myanmar. Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 24 IMPLEMENTATION Reduce Energy Consumption Energy efficient LED light bulbs are a company standard. Office bulbs are gradually replaced with LED bulbs which have lower voltage to reduce energy consumption. We have created systematic office plan to go green through our energy management system. And then energy efficient air conditioners installed in all buildings. Tree Plantation Program Every year a tree plantation programme is implemented as part of GGI's sustainability activities. By doing this we are helping to conserve the environments in which we operate in. Branch offices across the country are built to be more frees by planting trees around the office buildings to provided clean air and reduce global warning. Cleanup Campaign We need to make our community, town and country green and clean where weather is favourable. The weather will turn bad and the environment will become hazardous to health if our air is polluted and land and water contaminated with garbage or any other unwanted wastes. Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 25 MEASUREMENT OF THE OUTCOME The measurement of the outcomes in terms of our environmental strategy is one of the main areas we would like to expand in the years to come. With the development of relevant measurement tools, we are committed to strengthen our evaluation techniques. Reduce energy consumption On this year’s Head Office bulbs are gradually replaced with LED bulbs. Cleanup Campaign On this year’s World Cleanup Day staffs of GGI head office and branches actively cleared garbage and waste away. This kind of activity will create a clean and green environment which is healthy for all living things. Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 26 A NTI CORRUPTION Principle 10: Work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 27 ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS GGI is firmly opposed to corruption in all its forms. Our objective is to compete in the marketplace on the basis of competitive insurance services. Our commitment to fight corruption starts at the highest level. We believe that transparency and accountability are necessary to ensure our company maintains a high standard of corporate governance and remains a sustainable business model. We publicly communicate our commitment to combating corruption and make sure that our employees at all levels are aware of this commitment. We have in place an effective system in place to identify signs of corruption. We observe a high standard of corporate conduct in line with local policies, as well as applicable regional laws, regulations and standards. We aim to respect the ISO 26000 standards to guide us in our efforts to operate in a socially responsible manner that society increasingly demands. GGI sends a strong message to our stakeholders that the private sector shares in the responsibility of removing corruption from Myanmar. We only work with partners who share the same view towards ethical, transparent and account. Transparency and accountability are core features of our approach and we remain focused on the highest standards of governance and ethics in all our business practices and dealings. As a successful Myanmar business, we aim to positively contribute to policy development at the national level in this area. We also aim to contribute positively to public policy making process by raising awareness amongst our teams and our stakeholders. We ensure business partnerships are built on trust and that both parties operate with equal respect for ethics, transparency and accountability. Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 28 IMPLEMENTATION Corporate Governance Our business is all about risk management. To ensure the protection our clients paid for, we have to carefully manage our own assets and comply with the laws regulating our sector. As a result, it is essential for GGI to have a sound corporate governance framework, especially to oversee how we manage our risks. Our Board has set up 4 committees to monitor how GGI conducts our business 97 shareholders Annual General Meeting Board of Direcotrs Board of Committees • Chariman Remuneration • Directors Compensation and Benefit Investment and Risk Management Audit, Compliance and Corporate Governance Managing Director Code of Conduct GGI adopted its code of conduct in October 2017. The code of conduct complies with the law, rules and principles. All directors, managers and staff have to comply with the code of conduct. GGI conducts training and knowledge-sharing sessions for newly appointed employees and distributes handbooks for them. Additionally, we adopt a zero tolerance approach regarding corruption. We continuously issue directives on dos and don’ts for our employees. If you know of any wrong doing or possible misconduct by our staffs, please inform GGI through hr-ho@ggipinsurance. com Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 29 Transparency GGI has been selected by Pwint Thit Sa (Transparency in Myanmar Enterprises) as one of the top ten performers in 2018. We are committed to further improving our business management and transparency in the coming years. Internal Control Every insurance company needs a robust internal check and internal control system that examines whether its underwriting, claim and expense procedures comply within the framework of the law, rules and procedures. Since our formation, GGI has given priority to the continuous strengthening of our internal check and internal control system. The task involves the setting up of an Internal Audit division. Due to the gradual extension of our operation network, GGI has opened branches in eleven cities outside Yangon where it has five branches apart from the head office. The broadening network calls for an effective internal control system. We set up a separate Internal Audit division that is responsible for inspecting the head office and the branches to check that there is no misuse of funds or underwriting or claim service or expenditure that go against the rules and legal procedures, or disorganized bookkeeping and accounting system. GGI has never seen any major misconduct or faults because of our effective internal control. Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 30 MEASUREMENT OF THE OUTCOME Transparency GGI was ranked seventh in the 2018 Transparency report by MCRB (Myanmar Centre for Responsible Business. 0 Case of Bribe Through GGI’s effective internal and external reporting system, Zero cases of bribery in this year. Regular Taxpayer GGI and its employees have a clean record of paying tax to the Government. To date there has been no record of any breach in payment. TOP 500 Myanmar Largest Tax Payers For 2015-2016 91st 429th Income Tax Commercial Payer Tax Payer TOP 500 TOP 500 Myanmar Myanmar Largest Tax Payers Largest Tax Payers For 2013-2014 For 2014-2015 196th 591st 150th 479th Income Tax Commercial Income Tax Commercial Tax Tax Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 31 GRI G4 Indices G4-1 Provide a statement from the most Chairman’s Statement 1 senior decision-maker of the organisation (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, About the report 2 risks, and opportunities Organisational Profile G4-3 Report the number of countries where GRI G4 Indices 3 the organisation operates, and names of countries where either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-4 Report the nature of ownership and Sustainability Progress, 4 legal form G4-5 Report the markets served (including GGI Overview 5 geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). G4-6 Report the scale of the organisation Sustainability Progress 4 G4-7 Report the total number of employees Labour Rights (Measurement 20 by employment contract and gender of Outcomes) G4-8 Report whether and how the All sections precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 32 GRI G4 Indices G4-9 List externally developed economic, Sustainability Progress 4 environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses G4-10 List memberships of associations (such as See Human Rights, Labour Rights, industry associations) and national or Environment and Anti-corruption international advocacy organisations in sections which the organisation: holds a position on the governance body / Participates in projects or committees / Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership duties / Views membership as strategic Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-11 Explain the process for defining the About the Report 2 report content and the Aspect Boundaries. Explain how the organisation has implemented the reporting principles Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-12 Reporting period (such as fiscal or About the Report 2 calendar year) for information provided G4-13 Date of most recent previous report About the Report 2 G4-14 Reporting cycle About the Report 2-3 G4-15 Describe the organisation’s values, Mission and Vision 10 principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 33 GRI G4 Indices G4-16 Report the internal and external Anti-Corruption 26 mechanisms for seeking advice on (Implementation) ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organisational integrity, such as helplines or advicelines. G4-17 Report the internal and external Anti-Corruption 28-30 mechanisms for reporting concerns (Implementation), about unethical or unlawful Measurement of the outcome behavior, and matters related to organisational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistle blowing mechanisms or hotlines. For other specific sustainability indicators, please refer to GRI specific standard disclosure (HR, LA, SO, EN and PR) Communication on Progress GGI 2017/2018 34 To build an ideal environment for the growth and protection of wealth and lives. To deliver better products, value-added services and raise the professionalism in the industry. This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Globals Compact and supporting broader UN goals COMMUNICATION ON We welcome feedback on its contents. PROGRESS
