COMMU NI C AT I O N O N PRO G RES S HU M A N RIG HT S L A BO U R STA N DA RD S E NVI RO N ME NT A NTI -C O RRU P T IO N 2017 2 Communication on Progress 2017 2017 Communication on Progress 3 TABLE OF CONT E N T S THE DOVISTA GROUP DOVISTA AT A GLANCE 4 REPORTING STRUCTURE 5 THE MANAGEMENT’S STATEMENT OF SUPPORT 7 OUR APPROACH 9 Firmly anchored in the business Model Company THE GROUP’S INITIATIVES AND RESULTS HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR STANDARDS 10 Responsible organizational behaviour Employee Foundation Code of Conduct, suppliers ENVIRONMENT 22 The environment and climate change Innovative development and experiments ANTI-CORRUPTION 30 DOVISTA : Distinctive brands shared excellence 4 Communication on Progress 2017 THE DOV I STA GROU P The DOVISTA Group is a group of companies that develop, sell and manufacture vertical windows and exterior doors. DOVISTA itself is part of the VKR Group. DOVISTA has its main activities on the Scandinavian and North European markets and carries out its operations through its member companies. DOVISTA joined the UN Global Compact in 2016, making this report its second Communication On Progress (COP). The report has been drafted at DOVISTA Group level on the basis of systematic reporting from the companies and units of the DOVISTA Group. The report covers the period 1 January 2017 – 31 December 2017. The Group’s main activities in Europa Norway Sweden Great Britain Ireland Denmark Poland 2017 Communication on Progress 5 Number of employees 5,000 4,706 4,500 4,221 4,000 3,807 3,630 3,453 3,500 3,112 3,000 2,500 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 REPORTING STRUCTURE The members of the DOVISTA Group all have their separate product portfolios, organizational structure and market strategy, but they are united in operating under the DOVISTA business strategy: ”Distinctive Brands – Shared Excellence”. The units in the DOVISTA Group also share a cohesive set of values, summed up in the “Model Company Objective”, which has a strong focus on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), and all member companies have a proven track record of operating on the basis of these values. The overall responsibility for CSR within the DOVISTA Group lies with the board of directors of DOVISTA A/S, but it is carried out by the DOVISTA board of management through the active ownership of the companies in the Group. This report has been drafted by the DOVISTA board of management and covers the entire DOVISTA Group. The content of the report was compiled on the basis of systematic reports from all units in the Group on specific quantifiable facts, supplemented by individual descriptions of initiatives and activities demonstrating how CSR works in practice. This systematic reporting on CSR has been the norm for a number of years and is now also used as follow-up mechanism in relation to the UN Global Compact. The DOVISTA Group DOVISTA : Distinctive brands shared excellence 6 Communication on Progress 2017 UN GLOBAL COMPACT The UN Global Compact is the world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative. More than 12,000 companies and organisations worldwide have joined the initiative, thus committing themselves to aligning their operations and strategies with universally accepted principles of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. The Ten principles of the UN Global Compact Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2017 Communication on Progress 7 THE MANAGEMENT’S STATEMENT OF SUPPORT DOVISTA joined the UN Global Compact in 2016, making this Communication On Progress (COP) the second COP for the DOVISTA Group. Corporate social responsibility and sustainability form an integrated part of our way of working, and through our membership of the VKR Group these values form the basis of all functions and activities in the member companies. All units in the DOVISTA Group have worked systematically with corporate social responsibility for many years, which made joining the UN Global Compact a natural next step for us. We see the UN Global Compact as a way to systematize and structure our efforts within corporate social responsibility even more, as well as a chance to share our initiatives and results with the outside world. The products of the DOVISTA Group are useful to society and have a positive impact on the development in the construction industry and on people’s lives. Our products help reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and the need for fossil energy. We are aware of the increasing need to custom-design our products to homes, work places and institutions to optimize people’s access to daylight and fresh air, thus helping to provide inspiring and healthy settings for human activities. We do our best to get even better at offering guidance and taking part in cross-disciplinary collaboration with architects, engineers and construction companies in order to create buildings that use sustainable passive heating and cooling to a greater extent and at the same time improve energy efficiency, in new construction and renovation as well as in maintenance of the existing building stock. The products of the DOVISTA Group are produced by human beings. Everywhere in our companies, units and departments, we keep a constant and vigilant eye on the health and safety of these people and on their opportunities for personal and professional development at work. It gives me great pleasure and pride to present this year’s Communication On Progress. On the following pages, we will describe some of our efforts and initiatives in 2017 in the areas of corporate social responsibility and sustainability within the framework defined in the UN Global Compact. Allan Lindhard Jørgensen CEO DOVISTA Group DOVISTA : Distinctive brands shared excellence 8 Communication on Progress 2017 1. mod|el com|pa|ny (noun; plural companies) A company that others would look up to 2017 Communication on Progress 9 OUR APPROACH Firmly anchored in the business Corporate social responsibility, CSR, comes naturally to us and is an integral part of who we are and the way we work. And it always has been. Back in 1965, it was our founder, Villum Kann Rasmussen, who first formulated the objective of being a “Model Company”, a company that other companies would look up to. From the very start, DOVISTA’s objective has been to develop and manufacture products that are useful to society, and to always strive to treat our employees, customers, communities and shareholders better than most other companies. Model Company The objective of being a Model Company is the foundation that all companies in the DOVISTA Group rest on, and it is the very core of our values. The objective reflects an ambition to behave with integrity, and it is the essence and overall ambition of our approach to corporate social responsibility: A Model Company works with products useful to society and treats its customers, suppliers, employees of all categories and shareholders better than most other companies. A Model Company makes a profit which can finance growth and maintain financial independence. Villum Kann Rasmussen Since it was formulated, the Model Company Objective has been followed up by a number of principles and guidelines on corporate social responsibility that, taken together, form the framework for the CSR policies of all the companies in the DOVISTA Group. Ownership The DOVISTA Group is 100% owned by VKR Holding A/S, which is owned by foundations and family. The vast majority of the profits made by the companies in the VKR Group are channelled back to society via THE VELUX FOUNDATIONS (VELUX FONDEN and VILLUM FONDEN), which support science, the environment and social and cultural projects in and outside Denmark. The activities of the foundations are independent of VKR Holding A/S and the companies in the VKR Group. In 2017 the total grants awarded by the THE VELUX FOUNDATIONS amounted to EUR 168 million. DOVISTA : Distinctive brands shared excellence 10 Communication on Progress 2017 THE GROUP ’S I N I T I AT I VE S AN D R E S U LTS HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR STANDARDS We strive to treat our customers, suppliers, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders in an exemplary manner The companies in the DOVISTA Group are anchored in partnerships and networks including local as well as international stakeholders, and engaged in continuous dialogue with their customers, suppliers and public authorities. As a Group, we are present in many local communities, and all companies in the Group have a duty to behave with integrity and make a positive contribution to the communities and contexts they are part of. Our behaviour and approach must always reflect our objective of being a Model Company. We set high standards for our relationships with customers and stakeholders, and we demand and promote socially responsible behaviour in all our relationships. It is an explicit expectation from the DOVISTA Group that its member companies and their suppliers never tolerate child labour or other human rights abuses. Respect for the individual human being is a central element in our corporate culture. We behave with integrity at all levels of the organization and expect all employees to be treated with respect, regardless of gender, age, race or religion. 12 Communication on Progress 2017 DOVISTA EXPECTS ALL THE GROUP’S COMPANIES TO: never tolerate child labour or any other human rights abuses always treat all their employees with respect, regardless of gender, age, race or religion. 2017 Communication on Progress 13 Responsible organizational behaviour It is our objective to create a motivating, healthy and safe working environment and to promote responsible behaviour at all levels in the organization. The DOVISTA Group has more than 4,500 employees, and it is an inherent part of DOVISTA’s way of working and culture to ensure that all the Group’s employees develop their potential through continuous education and dialogue. Internally, we wish to facilitate a motivating and learning working environment. All executives in the DOVISTA Group have a responsibility to take into account and integrate important social and environmental challenges. We seek to constantly develop and motivate our employees and to make sure that they have the necessary tools to navigate in a changeable environment, internally as well as externally. Across the companies in the DOVISTA Group, we take active steps to provide a safe and healthy work environment. We comply with all current rules and regulations and strive to eliminate work-related incidents through preventive action. In addition, we are committed to offering our employees opportunities for social activities. The individual companies in the Group are to a large extent free to decide which welfare, physical or social activity opportunities they wish to offer. DOVISTA : Distinctive brands shared excellence 14 Communication on Progress 2017 DOVISTA EXPECTS ALL THE GROUP’S COMPANIES TO: make a targeted effort to continuously improve health and safety at their workplaces set up a framework offering opportunities for their employees’ personal and professional development work actively to increase the share of the underrepresented gender in the top management and in the companies in general. 2017 Communication on Progress 15 Continued reduction in work-related accidents Using our Model Company Objective as a starting point, we are working – systematically and determinedly – to develop and maintain a safe and healthy working environment, and to promote a strong safety culture in all business units in the DOVISTA Group. This work is based on the fundamental principle that ultimately and unequivocally the management is responsible for preventing accidents and injuries; but at the same time it is the responsibility of all employees to ensure their own and their colleagues’ safety at work by complying with the rules and regulations on safety that apply to working in our workplaces. We want to make sure that all employees are involved in and committed to health and safety, and it is the responsibility of the operational management in the individual units to ensure that they have the required training and competences to do so. In addition, the Group has drafted and implemented a common policy on ”Work Health and Safety” that applies to all the companies in the DOVISTA Group. The overall tool to follow up on health and safety is a monthly meeting reviewing all incidents in the workplace, one by one, small and serious incidents alike. Both the management of individual business units and representatives of the senior management of the DOVISTA Group participate in these meetings. The seriousness and causes of all incidents are reviewed and corrective actions discussed, to make sure that a similar incident does not occur again. Business units that show a negative trend compared to the year before and/or the overall objective will be subjected to a detailed follow-up review. 14.9 15 13.2 11.3 11 11.2 10.1 10 8.5 6.6 502010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 WORK-RELATED ACCIDENTS PER MILLION HOURS WORKED (PRODUCTION) In 2017 we have continued our unrelenting efforts to live up to our approach to health and safety: that one work-related accident is one too many. In addition to actual accidents leading to absence from work, we also register minor incidents which, under critical circumstances, might have led to a real accident. In 2017 all units in the Group have increased their focus on registering such ”near-miss incidents”, because they offer important lessons on how to reduce the risk of real accidents. DOVISTA : Distinctive brands shared excellence 16 Communication on Progress 2017 The continuous systematic reporting and follow-up on both accidents and ”near-miss incidents” throughout the year have led to a number of specific improvements and preventive initiatives – and it has helped generate an improved understanding and increased focus on which conditions and circumstances involve a potential risk. Objectives and targets for health and safety We are fundamentally of the conviction that work-related accidents are unacceptable, and our long-term objective is to have no work-related accidents at all. While working towards that ultimate objective, we intend to work on the basis of an operational target of reducing the number of work-related by 25% year on year. We must admit that our efforts in 2017 fall short of our ambitious expectations and targets. Nevertheless, we intend to maintain our long-term ambition of eliminating work-related accidents altogether. Training and learning to make the workplace safer At our factories in Poland, which employ 60% of our production workforce, we continue our systematic efforts to create optimal and safe working conditions. We do so, among other things, by turning the processes involved in the daily production into learning opportunities. To make this possible, we established specially dedicated demonstration and training facilities at our factories in May 2017. Here it is possible to visually demonstrate specific safety risks, and why and how such risk can and should be avoided, through physical set-ups and demonstration models. This helps catch the employees’ attention and teach them safer working processes in relation to the specific potential risks involved in their own production environment. The objective is to raise the awareness of risks and risk behaviour, and to improve safety everywhere in the organization. Positive results from a targeted effort in Sweden Throughout 2017 our largest Swedish factories have continued their targeted efforts to reduce the number of work-related accident through a wide range of initiatives, organised as a systematic safety programme followed up by an extensive information campaign. The initiatives include daily reviews of near-miss incidents to identify risks and investigation of any accidents, leading to corrective measures and a clear assigning of the responsibility for eliminating the cause identified. Health and safety is always Item No. 1 on the agenda at all meetings in the management group. The increased health and safety efforts have paid off and led to a reduction in work-related incidents, so that 2017 has seen a 39% fall in the number of reported accidents compared to the previous year. Health and safety at work and outside work As an example of our efforts to promote the health and safety of our employees at work as well as outside work, all Danish employees in DOVISTA, Rationel and VELFAC have been offered courses in First Aid and CPR/AED. A total of 113 participants have completed the 9 courses held in 2017. At our premises in Horsens and Herning, there are defibrillators placed outside the buildings so that they can also be used by the general public. The increased health and safety focus has led to a reduction in work-related accidents in the DOVISTA Group: the total number of work-related accidents per million hours worked amounted to 6.6 in 2017, compared to 8.5 in 2016. 2017 Communication on Progress 17 DOVISTA : Distinctive brands shared excellence 18 Communication on Progress 2017 Diversity It is the objective of the DOVISTA Group that the underrepresented gender should be better represented in the DOVISTA Group’s senior management and at all other management levels. It is also the DOVISTA Group’s objective that we should strive to increase the share of female employees at all levels, as a more equal gender distribution contributes to a better working environment, just as it often encourages economic development in the local community. At the end of 2017 there were 17% female executives in the DOVISTA Group management. The share of female managing directors in the DOVISTA Group amounted to 8% at the end of 2017. At the executive level reporting to the managing directors of the DOVISTA Group companies, the share of female executives amounted to 24% at the end of 2017. Female employees in the DOVISTA Group made up 32% of the workforce at the end of 2017. It is the overall policy and objective of the DOVISTA Group to increase the share of women in executive and key positions in the Group’s units. Efforts have been made in 2017 to find qualified female candidates for executive and key vacancies in the DOVISTA Group. However, the decisive factor in recruitment has, as always, been finding the person with the best qualifications required for the specific position in question. GENDER DISTRIBUTION Men 68% Women 32% In recent years the DOVISTA Group has taken initiatives to increase the share of female employees. Our Polish factories have for example launched a number of initiatives to adjust work stations so that they comply with specific health and safety requirements for female employees, for instance in connection with heavy lifts, in order to remove physical barriers preventing female employees from carrying out some job functions in the company, thus enabling women to perform the vast majority of the functions in the factory on an equal footing with men. The Polish factories have also arranged transport opportunities to the factory, to accommodate employees who have no means of transport of their own. As a result, the share of female employees at these factories has grown from 28% in 2014 to 39% in 2017. 2017 Communication on Progress 19 Targets for diversity DOVISTA A/S and the companies in the Group always select employees and board members on merit and qualifications. At the end of 2016 there were no female board members elected at the AGM serving on the Board of Directors of DOVISTA A/S or in any of the other Danish companies in the DOVISTA Group. The target was to have one female board member in DOVISTA A/S and in the Group’s Danish companies before the end of 2017. This target has been achieved as there was one female board member of DOVISTA A/S elected at the AGM at the end of 2017. There have not been any changes to the composition of the boards elected at the AGM in any of the other Danish units. The objective is that the share of female board members elected at the AGM in DOVISTA A/S and in the Group’s Danish companies will have increased by the end of 2020. Election of a female board member can happen by replacing a board member or by expanding the number of members on the board. Such a replacement/expansion will take place when and if the best qualified candidate for a seat on the board is a woman, and if and when such a replacement or expansion is considered useful and appropriate. Board members are elected for one year at a time. Development of our employees and executives In recent years, a large number of the employees and executives in the Group’s largest units have completed an extensive internal educational programme. The objective of this programme has been to promote a systematic improvement culture dedicated to reducing waste and improving efficiency broadly defined across the entire organization, including the consumption of materials and energy, while at the same time reducing our negative impact on the environment. As a result of this programme, we have been able to identify and reduce waste and energy consumption every year. In addition, executives in the largest units of the Group are offered systematic continuous education, just as employees in production are offered systematic training activities in health and safety at the workplace. Health and well-being In the units of the DOVISTA Group, various local and company-specific surveys on the social working environment are carried out. These surveys have resulted in a number of good initiatives in the individual business units and in the DOVISTA Group as a whole. For example there is a summer outing in Poland every year for all employees and their families. In 2017 more than 4,000 took part in the event, including retired employees and children from a local children’s home. In DOVISTA’s Danish units, there is extensive support for a variety of sports and physical activities, including sponsoring of employees who take part in major sports events. DOVISTA : Distinctive brands shared excellence 20 Communication on Progress 2017 The Employee Foundation Via the Employee Foundation, which is common to all companies in the VKR Group, we strive to make a difference for each individual employee. The Foundation offers support to employees in a number of areas, primarily in connection with unfortunate events, support for children’s education and community projects in the vicinity of the companies. Code of Conduct, suppliers Sourcing of raw materials and cooperation with sub-suppliers account for an important part of the business activities in the DOVISTA Group. For several years, DOVISTA has had a Code of Conduct that suppliers to the largest units in the Group have had to comply with. This Code of Conduct has been implemented for all suppliers outside Europe, and the process of including European suppliers is well under way. The Code of Conduct for suppliers among other things demands that they respect human rights and the right to collective bargaining, and it includes a ban on ever using forced or compulsory labour, child labour as well as a ban on any form of discrimination and corruption. The plan is to roll out the Code of Conduct for suppliers to all units in the Group to secure a uniform approach to corporate social responsibility and sustainability for vital suppliers across all units in the Group. The status at the end of 2017 is that all suppliers outside Europe and 90% of all European suppliers of direct materials to our largest factories have signed the Code of Conduct in the course of 2017. Whistle-blower scheme The management of DOVISTA has decided to establish a whistle-blower scheme to establish a structured procedure for employees and other stakeholders to report illegal behaviour and activities etc. The scheme will be established in compliance with the relevant rules and regulations and is expected to take effect in the first half of 2018. 22 Communication on Progress 2017 THE ENVIRONMENT The environment and climate change To reduce our CO2 footprint and other negative environmental impact, the companies in the DOVISTA Group make a point of always taking into account the environmental impact of their products throughout their life cycle. • The total number of units produced increased by approx. 40% in the period 2010 to 2017, and from 2016 to 2017 by 6%. • The amount of CO2 emitted per unit produced has been reduced by about 16% since 2010. • 38% of the total energy consumption of the DOVISTA Group in 2017 was covered by wood waste from our own production. • In the last 5 years, on average more than 94% of our total amount of waste has been reused or recycled. Buildings account for a major share of energy and resource consumption. The trend towards more and more energy-friendly housing continues, and DOVISTA feels a strong obligation to offer solutions that reduce energy consumption in buildings. We do so by prioritizing development of energy-efficient solutions and by participating in relevant forums that aim to develop new standards for eco-friendly building and construction. Windows and doors from companies in the DOVISTA Group have all the energy and indoor environment certificates required on the markets where they are sold. However, having the required certificates is not enough for us. To achieve a positive impact on the environment and climate change, it is essential that we develop and manufacture windows of high quality with a high utility value and a long service life, while at the same time focusing on energy and resource consumption during production, product use and on recycling or disposal. And that is why we continue to develop our products, never forgetting this overall objective. We observe and endorse both national and European environmental legislation, and we allocate the resources necessary in the form of continuous education and dialogue to make sure that our employees constantly strive to reduce waste in the broadest sense of the word. Our R&D departments continuously strive to improve the functionality, design, insulation and other properties of our products. Development always takes its starting point in existing legal requirements, but with an ambition to meet even the strictest insulation performance requirements. The products of the DOVISTA Group are manufactured in up-to-date factories that continuously assess and optimize their processes to identify and reduce any unnecessary waste and energy consumption. The share of the waste that cannot be recycled directly in our own production is sorted and sold for reuse or recycling elsewhere. The few remains that cannot be used at all are disposed of in an environmentally safe and responsible way. 2017 Communication on Progress 23 DOVISTA EXPECTS ALL THE GROUP’S COMPANIES TO work systematically with environmental issues adopt standards and environmental certifications when doing so adds value. DOVISTA : Distinctive brands shared excellence 24 Communication on Progress 2017 In recent years, DOVISTA has prioritized efficiency improvements in our distribution system, having identified this as an area where we are able to make a substantial contribution towards reducing energy consumption and CO2 emissions. Consequently, optimal logistics solutions remain high on our agenda, and we strive to continuously optimize our entire transport and distribution chain. This is exactly what VELFAC has done in 2017 by establishing a structure that makes it possible to compact and consolidate products from different factories before making a delivery to the customer. This reduces both internal transport to the distribution centres and the final distribution to the customers, thus reducing transport volume as well as fuel consumption. For 2018 the planned saving is estimated at 7%. The companies of the DOVISTA Group constantly strive to further develop our products and production processes to reduce the negative environmental impact throughout the products’ life cycle. Climate change is one of the most serious problems of our time and in the process towards a more sustainable development, using the world’s resources as efficiently as possible plays a central role. Concepts like sustainable building, environmental product data, waste reduction, reuse and recycling are bound to become the new environmental performance targets in socially responsible business operations. At O. H. Industri they have installed vats at several places in the factory to evaporate waste water from cleaning. What is left after evaporation is a small amount of dry waste that is easy to dispose of. Previously, all the waste water had to be handled as chemical waste. O. H. Industri has also focused on finding ways to utilize waste products from their production by further cutting up panel cuttings and sorting them into various basic materials to be sold on for reuse or recycling. Previously, they had to pay to dispose of these cuttings as waste. Environmental declaration As more and more acknowledge that the threats to the environment and climate change are real, the market has seen an explosion in the marketing of products and services claiming to have particularly positive impacts on the environment. However, such claims are often unfounded, and hence dismissed as greenwashing. This adds to the pressure on the construction industry to provide well-documented proof of environmental properties, preferably verified by independent watchdogs. In 2016 DOVISTA therefore took the initiative to have a number of environmental declarations complying with European standards and norms drawn up for Danish windows producers (disregarding the fact that they are also competitors), in cooperation with an independent engineering company. In 2017, the initiative resulted in a number of Environmental Product Declarations for typical Danish windows. This means that buyers of windows have access to environmental product data for Danish windows certified by a third party in accordance with European norms and standards. Sustainability and indoor climate are product strategic focus areas VELFAC and Rationel, two of the largest companies in the Group, have been working together with DOVISTA Innovation Center in 2017 to determine and define their future product strategy. The strategy has 5 main focus areas, two of which are sustainability and indoor climate. Ambitious objectives have been defined within both areas, and the practical implementation has already started. One of the initiatives entails that in future sustainability will be an evaluation parameter right from the start of the R&D process. Another area that the cooperation will focus on is improving knowledge and transparency in relation to composition of materials and constituent substances in general. 2017 Communication on Progress 25 DOVISTA EXPECTS ALL THE GROUP’S COMPANIES TO increase their focus on a product’s entire life cycle from production to disposal or reuse/recycling use raw materials, water and energy ever more efficiently to reduce the amount of waste and the negative impact on the environment DOVISTA : Distinctive brands shared excellence 26 Communication on Progress 2017 CO2 The total number of units produced by the DOVISTA Group has increased by 40% since 2010. In the same period the total emission of CO2 has increased by only 18%. The amount of CO2 emitted per unit produced has been reduced by approx. 16% since 2010. In 2017 the DOVISTA Group emitted a total of approx. 27,300 tons of CO2. It is our objective to reduce the amount of CO2 emitted per unit produced even further in the coming years. Wood waste for heating As far as at all possible, the units in the DOVISTA Group use wood waste from production to heat their premises. If more wood waste than required for their own heating is generated, the surplus is sold either as surplus heat or as wood waste to local heating plants. The share of the total energy consumption used for heating coming from waste wood from own production can vary from year to year, depending among other things on weather conditions. 50 45% 46% 45% 46% 46% 41% 42% 40 38% 30 20 10 02010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 SHARE OF TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION FROM WOOD WASTE FROM OWN PRODUCTION FOR HEATING Waste for reuse/recycling Keeping our negative environmental impact from waste and surplus production as low as possible is something we consider very important, which is why we make sure that as much of it as possible is reused or recycled. The share of waste that is recycled or reused has been more than 90% in recent years. 100 96% 96% 94% 94% 92% 90 82% 80 76% 72% 70 60 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 SHARE OF WASTE THAT IS REUSED/RECYCLED Wood sourced from certified suppliers It is the objective of all companies in the DOVISTA Group that as far as at all possible wood must be sourced from certified suppliers. In 2017 the total share of wood from certified suppliers amounted to 87%, compared to 89% in 2016, 91% in 2015 and 88% in 2014. For several units in the Group the share is 100%. It is our objective that the share of wood from certified suppliers will grow in the coming years. 2017 Communication on Progress 27 Innovative development and experiments In DOVISTA we constantly focus on optimizing the beneficial properties of our products. By investing in innovation and by experimenting we gain new knowledge and insights, which is the foundation that the product development of the companies in the DOVISTA Group rests on, and which ultimately secures our continued growth Our research and development is based on an approach and methods that stem from Villum Kann Rasmussen’s statement that “one experiment is better than a thousand expert views”. To challenge ourselves, we are always involved in a number of ambitious development and experimental building projects, either initiated by ourselves or by leading research institutions. Our products are developed and tested in a continuous cooperation between the business units and the DOVISTA Innovation Centre. The knowledge thus accumulated is shared across the DOVISTA Group to make sure that new knowledge is turned into practical application wherever it will contribute to better solutions in the building sector. LIVINGlab by DOVISTA is the DOVISTA Group’s independent knowledge and development unit, whose primary function is to explore ideas and create new knowledge for the buildings of today and of the future. In cooperation with the frontrunners of the building industry and educational institutions, LIVINGlab explores the scope of windows and their use under real-life conditions. We share our knowledge with all parties who are interested in energy issues for instance through our extensive course activities. Circle House A substantial part of the world’s consumption of resources and energy, waste production and negative environmental impact come from buildings and building activities. Therefore the building industry must come up with new processes and business models to reduce its negative impact on Earth. One way of doing so is by working toward circularity in construction. Circle House is the world’s first social housing project built on the principles of circularity. This means, among other things, that after 50-75 years of use, it will be possible to take apart the building and reuse up to a targeted 90% of the original materials, with very little reduction in their value. One of the primary objectives of the Circle House project is to develop and spread knowledge about circular building principles in the building industry, which is why more than 30 different companies across the entire value chain have agreed to work together. The DOVISTA Group is represented by VELFAC as a project partner. The objective of this project is to construct a beacon based on circular principles, but also on market terms. Circular principles must be implemented in all aspects of the building, and the Circle House project is to serve as inspiration and motivation for others to start embracing to a much larger extent building and construction based on circularity and sustainability. Creating and sharing knowledge more sustainable and eco-friendly building To succeed in creating a building sector that has a less negative impact on the environment, it is all-important that we establish ambitious networks that are able to create, spread and share knowledge, inspire others and show the way towards sustainable, environmentally friendly and climate-conscious housing and construction practices. As DOVISTA has a lot of knowledge in these areas, it is only natural that we participate in a number of networks dedicated to do exactly that. At the moment DOVISTA participates in the following Danish networks: Green Building Council materialeudvalg (materials) Dansk Industri Specialudvalg for Affald og Ressourcer (waste and resources) Dansk Industri Byg Bæredygtighed og Ressourcer (sustainability and resources) Dansk Industris netværk for Cirkulær Økonomi (circular economy) Statens Byggeforskningsinstitut, følgegruppe, Forslag til Frivillig Bæredygtighedsklasse i BR (voluntary sustainability classification) DOVISTA : Distinctive brands shared excellence 28 Communication on Progress 2017 2017 Communication on Progress 29 DOVISTA EXPECTS ALL THE GROUP’S COMPANIES TO Invest in experiments that promote innovation and contribute new knowledge to the buildings of the future develop new products and solutions and improve existing ones on an ongoing basis implement new business processes, methods and systems. DOVISTA : Distinctive brands shared excellence 30 Communication on Progress 2017 ANTI-CORRUPTION In the light of the DOVISTA Group’s values and our Model Company Objective, it is of paramount importance to us that employees and executives at all levels in the group’s companies understand and act in accordance with the ethical and moral guidelines that form the basis of the way we do business, within the framework thus defined. To avoid all forms of corruption and bribery and to support our employees’ understanding of the kind of behaviour we demand and expect from them, we have drafted an Anti-corruption Policy that comprises all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. This policy has been explicitly communicated and implemented in all companies in the DOVISTA Group and is subject to regular follow-up to make sure that this policy as well as all other important policies in the DOVISTA Group is understood and complied with. DOVISTA EXPECTS ALL THE GROUP’S COMPANIES TO: comply with the Anti-corruption Policy of the DOVISTA Group.
