SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 IN BRIEF 2 CONTENTS INTRODUCTION OUR AMBITIONS SUPPLEMENTARY IN BRIEF ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CEO foreword .............................................................. 3 Introducing our ambition...................................... 11 Live by our Compass.............................................. 45 Purpose and strategy ............................................... 5 Eliminating emissions at our breweries .......... 14 Labour & human rights ......................................... 47 Reducing our beer-in-hand emissions ........... 18 Responsible sourcing ............................................. 49 NEW SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMME Quality and safety of our products .................. 50 Together Towards ZERO......................................... 7 ZERO WATER WASTE Ambitions and targets towards ZERO ............... 8 Introducing our ambition...................................... 23 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY Together towards the SDGs................................... 9 Cutting our water waste ....................................... 25 Brewing economic growth, jobs and government revenues ............................................ 52 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING Introducing our ambition...................................... 29 DATA AND ASSURANCE Preventing irresponsible drinking ...................... 31 Data summary table .............................................. 57 Encouraging responsible consumption ........... 36 2015-2017 targets ................................................ 64 Reporting process and scope .............................. 66 ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE Global Reporting Initiative table ....................... 68 Introducing our ambition...................................... 39 Definitions .................................................................. 73 Towards a ZERO accidents culture .................. 40 List of reporting sites ............................................. 74 Working towards a safer workplace ............... 42 Tax contribution principles................................... 76 Independent auditor's assurance report ........ 78 In brief CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 IN BRIEF 3 CEO FOREWORD BREWING WITH PURPOSE Sustainability is central to the partnership-driven sustainability. We believe our approach is not only good for the planet, Carlsberg Group’s purpose of but also for business and for society as a brewing for a better today and whole. It increases our efficiency, reduces risks tomorrow. And it is more and builds resilience in our supply chain, while important now than ever. That is resonating with our customers and consumers in an increasingly sustainability-conscious why in 2017 we launched a new world. sustainability programme, Together Towards ZERO, which Last year, we identified the four areas with the greatest relevance for our business and society: raises our sights higher than ever carbon & energy, water, responsible drinking before. and health & safety. Together Towards ZERO states our ambition within each of these areas: The world needs strong, collective action in the ZERO carbon footprint, ZERO water waste, face of complex sustainability challenges such ZERO irresponsible drinking and a ZERO as climate change, access to resources and accidents culture across our business. Under public health concerns. each ambition, we have set measurable targets for 2022 and 2030 respectively. The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Climate Agreement are Why are we setting our sights so high? helping to accelerate change, deepening the Because we feel that only bold targets will commitment of governments, civil society and stimulate the kind of game-changing businesses globally. They highlight how innovation the world needs. We cannot do the important it is for us to work together if we are job alone and “together” is a key element of to succeed in delivering change. our approach. Just as they were in the development of our new programme, Together Towards ZERO is our contribution to partnerships will be crucial for success in its this urgently needed change. It sets new future delivery. In 2017, we joined the RE100, industry standards for science-based and the We Mean Business coalition and the CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 IN BRIEF 4 Climate Leaders initiative driven by the World The world will undoubtedly see many changes Economic Forum. We also continued to support between now and the culmination of Together the world’s largest sustainability partnership, Towards ZERO in 2030. However, we are the UN Global Compact, and the determined to demonstrate the crucial role that implementation of its Ten Principles. This business can play not only through job creation report serves as our annual communication on and economic contribution, but also in progress and underlines our commitment to resolving global sustainability challenges, and transparency. we are keen to take a lead. We are confident that our high ambitions and long-term thinking But 2017 was not only about planning. We will set the Group and the societies in which we made concrete progress as well – both operate on a path to success. incrementally and through more radical changes. For example, at our breweries we reduced our water consumption by 3% and our Cees ’t Hart CO2 emissions by 6% compared with 2016. CEO, Carlsberg Group Falkenberg brewery in Sweden now only uses carbon-neutral energy – a milestone on the road towards our global 2030 target and we reached over 70 million consumers with our responsible drinking campaigns. Within health & safety, we saw a significant reduction in the number of accidents. However, one person was killed in an accident at the gates of one of our Indian breweries. This serves as a sad reminder of the need for constant vigilance as we strive towards a ZERO accidents culture. Our deepest sympathy goes to the family of the deceased person. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 IN BRIEF 5 PURPOSE AND STRATEGY BREWING FOR A BETTER TODAY Some have to dig deep to find their purpose. For us, it AND TOMORROW has always been there. We pursue perfection every day. We strive to brew better beers; beers that stand at the heart of moments that bring people together. We do not settle for immediate gain when we can create a better tomorrow for all of us. We are brewing for a better today and tomorrow. Our founders were driven by an The findings from this assessment, along with global megatrends such as climate change and ambition to brew for a better water scarcity, lie at the heart of our new today and tomorrow. Over 170 sustainability programme, Together Towards years later, we continue to ZERO (see page 7). Our material issues make pursue the same purpose. sense given the nature of our business, which focuses on producing, distributing and selling beer, soft drinks and other beverages. Learn We continue to take a lead in sustainability more about our business model on page 6. because it is central to our purpose and because we sincerely believe it is the right thing View the results of our to do – delivering tangible benefits for our materiality matrix in our 2016 business and for society as a whole. Sustainability Report https://carlsberggroup.com/media/10920/2016 CORE ELEMENT OF OUR STRATEGY -sustainability-report.pdf (p7) Sustainability is embedded in our corporate strategy, SAIL’22, as part of our aim to create ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS a winning culture throughout the Group. It is We engage regularly with our stakeholders in our ambition to contribute to a better society order to understand what is most important to wherever our beers are brewed and sold. In them – to hear where they think we are doing 2017, we refined our sustainability priorities well and where we need to improve. Annual and refocused our long-term efforts. reputation surveys conducted in our key markets involve consumers, customers, FOCUSING ON THE AREAS THAT COUNT employees and the general public. The findings In 2016, we carried out a materiality from these surveys also feed into our decisionassessment with Business for Social making. Throughout this report, we describe Responsibility (BSR) to identify the most partnerships with other stakeholder groups. important sustainability management topics, risks and impacts for our business. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 IN BRIEF 6 All these inputs inform the Carlsberg Group’s OUR BUSINESS MODEL sustainability decision-making and strategy, for which the Executive Committee (ExCom) ABOUT THIS has ultimate responsibility. REPORT ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION Naturally, as a global brewer with operations REPORTING SCOPE in over 35 countries and export and licence In 2017, we closed/sold three breweries. These Results against our 2015-2017 targets are are therefore excluded from this report. See page described on pages 64-65. activities in over 100 countries, we also make a 66 for a full overview of the reporting process significant economic contribution to society. and scope. METHODOLOGY AND Our contribution to economic growth is ASSURANCE described on pages 52-56. CONTENT This report references universal and topicThis report is split into three sections covering the related standards in the Global Reporting GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT key issues highlighted by our 2016 materiality Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Our sustainability performance is owned by assessment, which can be found in our 2016 Standards. The GRI table on pages 68-72 report. The first section is introductory and ExCom and overseen by the Supervisory Board details the specific content of each standard presents our strategy along with details of our that has been applied. To define report as per our normal flow of business. In addition, new sustainability programme, Together Towards content, we refer to the Reporting Principles to support the implementation of Together ZERO. The second section describes how we will of stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability Towards ZERO and ensure that we adhere to work towards achieving our Together Towards context, materiality and completeness. To our sustainable development policies, we have ZERO targets and reports on our 2017 ensure reporting quality, we adopt the a network of Together Towards ZERO area and performance in the four ambition areas. The third Reporting Principles of accuracy, balance, policy owners. Each has responsibility for section provides supplementary content under the clarity, comparability, reliability and headings Responsible Business, Economic following up on specific KPIs and targets, and timeliness. Contribution to Society, and Data and Assurance. for implementing standards. Our governance is The report further serves as our annual based on a decentralisation of responsibility to It is important to note that while Together Communication on Progress to the UN those functions that have the biggest impact Towards ZERO states our ambitions and targets Global Compact and as the statutory and ability to influence the specific actions of for 2022 and 2030, we are still committed to statement on CSR in accordance with section our business. achieving them through partnerships and circular 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act. thinking. Collaboration with partners is as much a priority today as it has been in the past. The management of risk within our work on The Group commissioned PwC to assure sustainability is integrated in the Group Risk selected information at a limited level of This report provides updates on the commitments assurance. This information is identified Management approach. The findings of Group we made for 2017 and the actions we have by the note “Within PwC’s assurance scope”. Risk Management can be reviewed on page 32 planned for 2018. Progress towards our 2017 PwC’s conclusions can be found in of the Annual Report. Sustainability-related commitments is shown like this: the independent assurance report on risks are not singled out as most material risks pages 78-79. Fully Partially Not for the Group, but they are included in the achieved achieved achieved general risk of failure to implement the Group corporate strategy. New sustainability programme CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 NEW SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMME 7 NEW SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMME TOGETHER TOWARDS ZERO In 2017, we devised a new there are also opportunities, such as the falling price of renewable energy and increasing sustainability programme, consumer interest in sustainable products. Together Towards ZERO. This Furthermore, fewer accidents make Carlsberg a underlines our commitment to more attractive place to work, while taking a sustainable development. strong stance on responsible drinking shows that we are a responsible company. These examples show how our Together Towards The new programme consists of four major ZERO investments can help make our business ambitions: ZERO carbon footprint, ZERO water more resilient in the future, contributing to our waste, ZERO irresponsible drinking and a ZERO success both short and long term. accidents culture. Each ambition is underpinned by individual and measurable targets for 2022 Our wider value chain will also benefit. Through and 2030 respectively, as detailed in the our ambitious targets, we hope to create a corresponding sections of this report. virtuous circle of improvements among our suppliers and business partners. We believe Together Towards ZERO was developed in that setting challenging targets will increase partnership with leading global experts using a the pace of innovation in related industries, science-based approach. It is a highly stimulating creativity along the value chain and ambitious programme tailored to the SDGs. contributing to a more sustainable future. It sets out to deliver emission reductions that Together, we can make it happen. align with the more ambitious goal of the Paris Agreement on climate change to keep the global temperature rise to 1.5°C by the end of this century. Watch and find out more about Together Towards ZERO The programme will help ensure that we https://www.youtube.com/CarlsbergGroup reduce risks and strengthen our business, while also contributing to society. An example of the risks we face is a future increase in the cost of utilities such as water and energy. Meanwhile, CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 NEW SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMME 8 NEW SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMME AMBITIONS AND TARGETS TOWARDS ZERO ZERO ZERO CARBON IRRESPONSIBLE FOOTPRINT DRINKING We will offer 100% distribution of alcohol-free We will eliminate carbon emissions at our brews by 2022 to expand consumer choice. breweries by 2030 and be using 100% renewWe will also provide responsible drinking able electricity by 2022. Through the Carlsberg messaging as well as nutrition and ingredient Circular Community, we are working with information on our packaging and online, partners in our value chain to reduce while forming partnerships to encourage beer-in-hand emissions by 30% by 2030. responsible consumption. ZERO ZERO WATER ACCIDENTS WASTE CULTURE We will cut water usage at our breweries by half by 2030, effectively eliminating water waste during the brewing process. We will We will continue to target a year-on-year also engage with partners to improve water reduction in our accident rate in order to management outside selected breweries in achieve our 2030 target of ZERO lost-time high-risk areas. accidents. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 NEW SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMME 9 NEW SUSTAINABILITY PROGRAMME TOGETHER TOWARDS MOST MATERIAL SDGs AND TARGETS THE SDGs ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT ZERO WATER WASTE The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a call for governments, civil society, businesses and the general public to act to end poverty, fight inequality and tackle climate change. Being interconnected, all the goals are important, but we focus our efforts on those that are material to our business and where we can have the most positive effect. With the launch of Together Towards ZERO, we have added * 7.2 By 2030, increase * 13.1 Strengthen resilience 6.4 By 2030, substan* 6.5 By 2030, implement substantially the share of and adaptive capacity to tially increase water-use integrated water resources SDG 13 – Climate action – together with seven new targets since 2016. renewable energy in the climate-related hazards efficiency and ensure management at all levels. global energy mix. and natural disasters. sustainable withdrawals Look out for the bottle-cap global goal icons throughout the report for 7.3 By 2030, double the * 13.3 Improve educaand supply of freshwater updates on our progress. global rate of improvetion, awareness-raising to address water scarcity. ment in energy efficiency. and capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS and early warning. THAT CUT ACROSS OUR OPERATIONS ZERO ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE ACCIDENTS DRINKING CULTURE * 12.2 By 2030, achieve * 12.9 Support developing 17.16 Enhance the global the sustainable managecountries to strengthen partnership for sustainment and efficient use of their scientific and technoable development, comnatural resources. logical capacity to move plemented by multi-stake12.5 By 2030, substantowards more sustainable holder partnerships. 3.5 Strengthen the pre* 3.6 By 2020, halve the 8.8 Protect labour rights tially reduce waste generpatterns of consumption 17.17 Encourage and vention and treatment of number of global deaths and promote safe and ation through prevention, and production. promote effective public, substance abuse, including and injuries from road secure working environreduction, recycling and public-private and civil harmful use of alcohol. traffic accidents. ments for all workers. * New target. reuse. society partnerships. ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT ZERO Carbon Footprint CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 11 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT INTRODUCING OUR AMBITION Climate change is one of the momentum on the road towards ZERO carbon emissions, we have set intermediate targets for most pressing issues of our time. 2022. These include a 50% emission reduction, Addressing it requires a transition a switch to 100% renewable electricity and the to a low-carbon economy. As elimination of coal as an energy source at our stated in the Paris Agreement on breweries. By 2022, we also aim to reduce our beer-in-hand carbon footprint by 15%, to have climate change, business has a 100% low-impact cooling and to establish 30 key role to play. partnerships with suppliers – all leading to a reduction of our shared carbon footprint. Our ambition of ZERO carbon footprint aligns with the Paris Agreement’s more ambitious SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS goal of limiting global warming to 1.5°C. A single individual, organisation or government cannot tackle climate change alone. It requires OUR TARGETS strong collective action. We want to set the Working with climate experts in the Carbon standard and take a lead. Trust – an independent not-for-profit organisation – we developed a baseline carbon Our targets contribute to SDG 7: Affordable footprint and a set of science-based carbonand clean energy. By increasing the share of reduction targets. renewable energy and improving the rate of energy efficiency, we specifically address We want to achieve ZERO carbon emissions at targets 7.2 and 7.3. See pages 14 and 15 for our breweries by 2030. We recognise that this examples. We contribute to SDG 12.9 by will be a huge challenge, only achievable with carrying out research to improve every element highly focused actions and innovation. In of our production process and by installing upaddition, we have set a target that extends to-date technology at breweries around the beyond our own breweries to include the full world. By setting a tough, science-based value chain. We call this “beer-in-hand”, and target, we support SDG 13: Climate action, and we are aiming for a 30% reduction in emissions in particular target 13.1, which is to strengthen by 2030 against a 2015 baseline. To build CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 12 resilience to climate change. What is more, we face-to-face workshops to obtain feedback to reach ZERO carbon footprint at our are committed to acting as agents of change, and create detailed, local emission reduction breweries, working alongside internal and responding to SDG 13.3 to improve education, awareness and capacity on climate change plans. This process started in 2017 and will continue into 2018 and beyond as new external experts to develop implementable solutions. WHAT ARE mitigation and adaptation. To amplify impact, solutions, technology and innovations present SCIENCE-BASED we will cooperate with stakeholders in our improved ways for us to reduce our emissions. Our beer-in-hand targets focus on three main TARGETS? value chain and with other industries. See levers: innovative partnerships, performance pages 18-20 for examples. We expect to achieve our targets through a mix improvements and influential leadership. Science-based targets are based on climateof Group-wide initiatives, overseen by our change science. They are calculated to OUR APPROACH TOWARDS ZERO supply chain operation, and local activities. BASELINE CARBON FOOTPRINT achieve the level of decarbonisation required Our Environmental Policy, updated in 2017, Our journey towards ZERO carbon emissions at In 2016, we developed an end-to-end carbon to keep the global temperature increase sets the standards and provides guidelines on our breweries will start with a strong drive for footprint with the Carbon Trust. Based on 2015 below 2°C compared to pre-industrial carbon for all market companies. The policy world-class efficiency in parallel with a search data (our baseline), this shows that packaging temperatures. and responsibility for Together Towards ZERO for opportunities to innovate within our existing materials make up 40% of our carbon footprint, ultimately lie with ExCom, while the EVP for processes and the implementation of largewhile agriculture accounts for 17% and our Our targets align with the 1.5°C level of ambition in the Paris Agreement. supply chain holds specific implementation scale investment projects. breweries for 14%. Other areas of impact are responsibility for our roadmap for distribution (14%), trade refrigeration (9%), and Learn more about the Science Based Targets improvement. We are continuously updating The recently formed Carlsberg Young Scientists malting and processing (6%). initiative at: sciencebasedtargets.org the roadmaps for our markets and holding Community will also be involved in our efforts CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 13 CARLSBERG YOUNG SCIENTISTS COMMUNITY AIMING To support our journey towards ZERO, we have established the Carlsberg Young Scientists FOR 1.5°C Community. Coordinated by the Carlsberg Research Our Together Towards Laboratory, the Community will cooperate with ZERO targets are designed our supply chain organisation, partners and academic institutions to develop new innovative to reduce our emissions in ways to eliminate carbon emissions and reduce line with what is required water waste for the benefit of our business and to achieve the Paris the wider world. Agreement’s more In particular, we expect their input to contribute ambitious target of limiting to the achievement of our 2030 targets, where the temperature increase the technologies we need do not yet to 1.5°C. necessarily exist. According to the latest UN projections, the current commitments described in the Find out more about the Carlsberg Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) Young Scientists Community in the Paris Agreement on climate change https://carlsberggroup.com/sustainability/actions would result in global warming in excess of -towards-ZERO/carlsberg-young-scientistscommunity/ 3°C by the end of this century. The Paris Agreement’s goal is to keep the global temperature rise well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and to pursue efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C. With Together Towards ZERO, we want to show that it is possible for companies to deliver on the most ambitious trajection while still driving business growth. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 14 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT ELIMINATING EMISSIONS AT OUR BREWERIES 2022 TARGET 50% Reducing the impact of brewing of our breweries, in Croatia, Estonia, Italy and CERTIFICATION Serbia, thereby reducing electricity ISO 50001 is a recognised standard for has long been a focus for us. It consumption for refrigeration by an average optimising energy management. In 2017, accounts for 14% of our carbon of 10%. 14 further sites in Western and Eastern Europe footprint, and we are proud of achieved certification, bringing the total to 18. our progress in this area. Our By optimising or upgrading our brewing Another 10 sites are preparing for certification REDUCTION IN CARBON 2022 and 2030 targets provide a equipment, we completed projects to recover by 2020. EMISSIONS AT OUR heat during the brewing process. This led to a clear direction, a long-term view BREWERIES reduction in energy consumption during Eight of our most recently certified sites are in and the opportunity for a step pasteurisation and increased brewing Russia, where we became the first Russian automation. participants in a UN programme to develop change in positive impact. 2030 TARGET greater energy efficiency in the region. The ZERO Besides upgrading our equipment, we are also programme, called the Market Transformation OUR 2017 PERFORMANCE finding innovative ways to cut emissions. In Programme on Energy Efficiency in In 2017, we reduced our relative carbon Russia, for example, our team is taking Greenhouse Gas Intensive Industries in Russia, emissions by 6% to 5.9 kg CO2/hl – from 6.3 advantage of the low winter temperatures to was initiated by the UN Industrial Development kg CO2/hl in 2016. The reduction since 2015, replace conventional cooling with free ambient Organization (UNIDO). our baseline year, is 16%. cooling – a smart electricity-saving solution. CARBON EMISSIONS AT OUR BREWERIES Energy efficiency improved by 3% to 26.9 ELIMINATING COAL kWh/hl, compared to 27.7 kWh/hl in 2016. In total, nine sites in China converted to energy Find out more about UNIDO’s sources cleaner than coal in 2017 as part of Market Transformation EFFICIENCY PROGRAMMES our ongoing fuel conversion projects in Asia. Programme The improvements we have achieved to date This brings us to a total of 12 sites converted http://www.unido.ru/eng/project/current_project are a direct consequence of our global since 2016. We are now fully focused on our s/energy_efficiency_ghg_intensive/ efficiency programmes, which optimise our remaining five coal-fuelled sites in India, China existing processes and share best practice and Poland, as we work towards the complete across our breweries. Improvement projects in elimination of coal as a source of fuel by 2022. 2017 included upgrading our refrigeration systems to meet industry best practice at four CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 15 MOVING TOWARDS 100% RENEWABLE In total, 46% of the Group’s electricity now ELECTRICITY comes from renewable sources, an increase of Our 2022 ambition is to be using 100% 1 percentage point since 2016, taking us a renewable electricity at our breweries globally. small step closer to our target of 100% in 2022. In pursuit of this ambition, we are converting to In total, energy from renewable sources, cleaner energy sources, such as solar panel including biomass, biogas, solar power and installations, and purchasing renewable renewable energy certificates with guarantees electricity certificates. of origin, grew to 18% from 17% in 2016. In 2017, 100% of our breweries in Western Europe used energy from renewable sources and we bought a total of 358,231 MWh of renewable energy certificates with guarantees of origin. In comparison to previous years, we adopted a slightly different approach, buying certificates from local sources, including wind farms in 10 European countries and hydropower in five. We also continued to utilise our own rooftop solar installations in India, China and Switzerland. These installations produced a total of 3,819 MWh of renewable electricity. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 16 PARTNERING TO DRIVE CHANGE MAPPING OUR ROUTE TO ZERO We firmly believe in the power of collaborative During 2018, we will draw up more detailed ELIMINATING action to deliver change. This was demonstrated once again last year when we local carbon reduction roadmaps in cooperation with our market companies. These will include COAL joined the RE100 – a coalition of influential how to achieve our energy efficiency targets, businesses committed to 100% renewables. The fuel conversion and switching to renewable Coal is one of the most coalition aims to dramatically increase demand electricity. We also plan to engage with key CO2-intensive sources of for – and delivery of – renewable energy. stakeholders in a review of any new or existing energy and a major cause The total commitment to renewable electricity technologies that might be suitable for lowof pollution. consumption of its 100 plus members is more carbon brewing. than Poland’s annual electricity consumption. In China, where coal is still widely used, air Another avenue we intend to explore is pollution is a serious cause of public health Read more about the RE100 integrated energy streams. This will include issues and is also very CO2 intensive. In http://there100.org/ reviewing innovations and process technologies 2017, we stopped using coal at nine to reduce heat consumption, and finding new breweries across China. ways to reuse process heat. We will eliminate the use of coal at our breweries globally by 2022. WHAT WE SAID 2016 WHAT WE DID 2017 ACTIONS TOWARDS ZERO 2018 Certifications Certifications achieved at 14 sites, bringing ZERO carbon roadmap ISO 50001 energy management system (EnMS) in Western the total to 18 Refine local ZERO carbon footprint roadmaps to and Eastern Europe; certifications in 2017 as part of the achieve 2022/2030 targets Integrated Management System Performance improvements Efficiency programmes Energy efficiency programmes on track Implement best practice to reduce energy Continue energy efficiency programmes to deliver consumption and continue ISO 50001 certifications improvements across the Group in Western Europe Renewable electricity Innovations Workshops and analysis of technologies Revise renewable energy procurement strategy Continue the search for innovations in process, packaging conducted with selected key suppliers and utility facilities with key suppliers Carlsberg Young Scientists Community Establish a community of young scientists focused on developing solutions to achieve our 2030 carbon target Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 17 OUR FIRST CARBON-NEUTRAL BREWERY Carlsberg’s Falkenberg brewery in Sweden now runs solely on carbon-neutral energy Based in Falkenberg, the brewery is 100% energy sources,” says Ted Akiskalos, Managing powered by biogas and green electricity, Director, Carlsberg Sverige. reducing carbon emissions from thermal energy and electricity to zero. Sweden’s well-functioning infrastructure and the availability of biogas from the grid mean it Falkenberg has been using green electricity is possible to convert to renewable sources by for many years, and 26% of its thermal buying green energy. In markets where this is energy comes from biogas generated by not an option, we will need to deploy other the brewery's own wastewater. The solutions in order to achieve our target of 100% remaining 74% has previously come from renewable electricity at our breweries by 2022. natural gas. In cooperation with energy supplier Ørsted AB, this has now been Simon Boas Hoffmeyer, Sustainability Director, converted to biogas, with certificates Carlsberg Group, says: “Climate change is ensuring that the biogas supplied to the perhaps the most important issue for our grid has replaced an equivalent amount of society today – for citizens, governments natural gas. and companies all over the world – so we are very pleased with the positive development “For many, many years, we have been in Sweden.” working to create a more efficient brewery with as little impact on our environment as possible, and now we are taking a big step forward and using solely carbon-neutral CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 18 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT REDUCING OUR BEER-IN-HAND EMISSIONS VALUE CHAIN ANALYSIS We will carry out an indepth assessment of our In order to have the biggest multi-stakeholder, public, publica significant difference. Such beer-in-hand carbon private sector and civil society innovations also demonstrate impact, we will do more than footprint every three partnerships (SDG targets 17.16 our commitment to SDG 12: just eliminate brewery emissions. and 17.17). In 2017, one new Responsible consumption years. We will also reduce the total partner joined the CCC – KHS, a and production. We focus supplier of brewing technology and especially on targets 12.2 We will use external experts, such as carbon footprint of our products the Carbon Trust, to support our equipment. This is in line with our and 12.5 to achieve the – what we call our “beer-in-hand ambition to expand the community efficient use of natural methodology and data reliability when emissions”. with partners in areas of our value resources and reduce waste calculating our footprint. chain other than packaging. generation through prevention, MAPPING OUR ROUTE TO ZERO reduction, recycling and reuse. YEAR DATA PERIOD Our three main activities to achieve beer-in86% of our total emissions lie outside our 2020 2017-2019 hand carbon footprint reductions are: breweries. Cooperation with our suppliers is Circular packaging partnerships 2023 2020-2022 innovative partnerships, performance therefore crucial to our efforts to reduce value Our list of products sold in Cradle to Cradle® 2026 2023-2025 improvements and influential leadership. Each chain impact. Through our supplier relationship (C2C) certified packaging is growing. 2029 2026-2028 offers unique tools to help drive down management process, we assess our suppliers emissions. on their ambitions. The idea is to encourage The Cradle to Cradle Certified™ Product In the periods between the carbon and reward those suppliers who join us in the Standard was created to stimulate a footprint analyses, we will work 1. INNOVATIVE PARTNERSHIPS fight against climate change. By way of continuous improvement process that assesses on improving our performance in order to Transformational change cannot be achieved example, we give companies that adopt products according to five quality criteria: reach our targets in 2022 and 2030. alone, which is why we put so much effort into science-based targets the highest scores in material health, material reutilisation, developing partnerships. One such our system. renewable energy and carbon management, partnership is the Carlsberg Circular water stewardship and social fairness. Community (CCC), established in Packaging impact 2014. Through the CCC, we are Packaging accounts for 40% of In 2015, our Carlsberg and Somersby cans in able to harness knowledge and our carbon footprint. It the UK received bronze certification together expertise from around the world, therefore makes sense that with Ball Corporation. In 2016, the providing a good example of our packaging innovations and Kronenbourg 1664 glass bottle in France was commitment to SDG 17: activities that extend the useful added to the list in cooperation with OwensPartnerships for the goals, including life of returnable bottles can make Illinois. And in 2017, in cooperation with CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 19 supplier WestRock, we received our third C2C products to consumers, we can do it more Switzerland, we continue to focus on reducing Bronze certification for our Kronenbourg 1664 efficiently. Technology enables us to share fuel consumption, and hence carbon emissions. cardboard boxes. loads with businesses across industries, resulting in fewer vehicles on the road and Driver training, effective route planning and the use of more efficient trucks are all on the PARTNERS Our Green Fiber Bottle, which will be piloted better route planning. We take this approach agenda for 2018 and beyond. WANTED! in 2018, challenges perceptions about in markets such as Finland, Norway, Sweden packaging materials and waste streams. The and the UK. Returnable packaging improvements We cannot reduce our emissions alone. If bottle is being developed in cooperation with Bottles, kegs, pallets and crates all offer great you have ideas, innovations or insights, several partners in the CCC, including In Finland, 65% of our distribution is now opportunities for recycling and reuse. Making we would love to hear from you. BillerudKorsnäs, ecoXpac and the Technical handled by Posti, which also delivers mail new bottles is an energy-intensive process, so University of Denmark. across the country. Its trucks are newer and it makes sense to reuse them as often as Contact us at more fuel-efficient than the ones we were possible in markets with an infrastructure for sustainability@carlsberg.com and let’s We also installed a coating machine in using. This load-sharing initiative saves returns. In such markets, our bottles are used look at them together… Malaysia with CCC partner Arkema. The 596,750 litres of fuel per year, and in total up to 20 times before being recycled, which coating makes our refillable glass bottles look amounts to a reduction in CO2 emissions of considerably reduces carbon emissions during #TowardsZERO better and last longer, increasing the number of 1,370,820 kg. their lifetime. In markets that lack the times they can be used before recycling. This is necessary infrastructure, processes such as a good example of a solution that improves the In markets where we run our own delivery recycling are the most effective way to reduce circularity of our packaging while also reducing service, such as Denmark, Latvia and our packaging footprint. its environmental impact. In the coming years, we expect to launch more WHAT WE SAID 2016 WHAT WE DID 2017 ACTIONS TOWARDS ZERO 2018 exciting innovations to reduce our packaging impact. Innovation Coating machine installed in Malaysia to Supplier engagement Continue the search for innovations in process, packaging provide coating for RGBs to improve Engage with suppliers with highest CO2 footprint to and utility facilities with key suppliers appearance and make them last longer reduce shared emissions 2. PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENTS Besides challenging conventional thinking with Supplier relationship management Expanding partners KHS, producer of brewing technology and innovations, we will also reduce our carbon Expand the Carlsberg Circular Community (CCC) to include equipment, joined the CCC. As part of Integrate CO2 in supplier relationship management footprint by improving existing products and partners outside packaging Together Towards ZERO, we will continue process to measure and follow up on supplier to develop new partnerships performance services. We will do this by continuously improving our operational performance on a Market innovations day-to-day basis, for example through fuel Circularity Bronze certification achieved by WestRock Develop and market innovations with lower carbon Obtain 1 more Cradle-to-Cradle® certification for cardboard boxes used to package footprint and material use reduction initiatives in logistics, weight Kronenbourg 1664 reduction of materials and the phasing out of Consumer awareness substances with high global warming potential. Increase communication and engagement with consumers on climate change Sharing delivery loads Logistics emissions make up 14% of our carbon footprint. While we cannot stop transporting Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 20 In 2017, we refilled over 5.5 billion glass Corporate Sourcing of Renewables bottles. This figure was slightly lower than in An initiative that aims to get more companies to 2016 (5.6 billion) because of the switch from refillable to one-way glass bottles in Russia. commit to powering their operations with renewables, and deploys tools and resources to KEEPING OUR This was necessitated by dwindling return rates enable more companies to do so. The initiative is BEER AND THE and the difficulties of maintaining an efficient driven by the Clean Energy Ministerial (CEM), CLIMATE COOL return mechanism in Russia. which is a platform to advance international collaboration to accelerate the adoption of clean 3. INFLUENTIAL LEADERSHIP energy policies and practices worldwide. To cool beer in fridges and with draught equipment, we rely on refrigerants. These To maximise our impact, we work with some of have historically caused problems for the the world’s most influential companies, sharing Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders atmosphere and climate. In the 1980s, knowledge and best practice through industry An informal network, facilitated by the World the chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) used in coalitions, such as the Beverage Industry Economic Forum, for leading CEOs committed aerosol cans and coolers were found to Environmental Roundtable (BIER) and The to climate action. Collectively, they seek to damage the ozone layer. That is why, in Brewers of Europe. maintain private-sector momentum for 1987, 200 countries signed the Montreal ambitious climate action, foster cross-sector Protocol, committing to phase out CFCs. Since announcing Together Towards ZERO, we and public-private collaboration that can help They were replaced by have joined several other organisations and scale up climate solutions, and support delivery hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). While HFCs of the Paris Agreement and the Sustainable are not ozone depleting, we now know continued our engagement in several others: Development Goals. they have a high global warming potential. A unit of HFC is significantly We Mean Business more potent than a unit A global non-profit coalition working with the The Brewers of Europe of CO2. world’s most influential businesses to take We have continued our involvement with a pilot action on climate change and catalyse business project coordinated by The Brewers of Europe In 2016, the Montreal Protocol was leadership to drive policy ambition and to harmonise approaches to Product updated through the Kigali Amendment. accelerate the transition to a low-carbon Environmental Footprint (PEF). The objective is HFCs will be phased out and replaced economy. to provide input for European legislation about with alternatives such as hydrocarbons environmental impact at product level. with low climate impact. To support and The RE100 accelerate this action, we have committed A collaborative, global initiative uniting more We also actively engage with other businesses, to replacing HFCs faster than required. than 120 influential businesses committed to NGOs and civil society, fostering discussions By 2022, we will purchase only energyefficient coolers using natural 100% renewable electricity. Led by the Climate around the need for climate action through refrigerants. Group in partnership with CDP, the RE100 works conferences, social media channels and to massively increase demand for – and delivery memberships in relevant organisations that By partnering with cooling suppliers Celli, of – renewable energy. promote climate action. We are confident that Frigoglass, Klimasan and Oprema, we are this will result in more companies joining the showing how we can improve products fight against climate change and stimulate and processes to meet a common goal. growth in the market for climate-friendly solutions. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO CARBON FOOTPRINT 21 ZERO CARBON WINDMILL BAR Consumer awareness is key to making sustainable progress, and we are doing our bit to explain this in a fun and engaging way. We asked ourselves whether it was Sustainability Director Simon Boas Hoffmeyer possible to develop the most climatesaid: “Together Towards ZERO is not just about friendly bar in the world. The answer? us – it’s about raising awareness of global Probably! issues and inspiring others to take action. Bringing us into direct contact with consumers, That is how the ZERO Carbon Windmill the ZERO Carbon Windmill Bar helps us do this. Bar was born. Powered completely by an And what could be more fitting for a Danish integrated windmill, the bar also has a brewer than mixing renewable electricity with uniquely Danish feature – a bicycle that great beer?” consumers can use to generate the power needed to pour their beer (just in case there is no wind). Watch the bar in action https://www.youtube.com/CarlsbergGroup ZERO WATER WASTE Zero water waste CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO WATER WASTE 23 ZERO WATER WASTE INTRODUCING OUR AMBITION Our business is dependent on essential, but by cutting our usage in half we will make sure that none is wasted. the availability of clean water. No water, no beer. But supplies However, to have real impact we can do more. are becoming scarce in some We will also help safeguard shared water of the regions where our beers resources in the areas around our breweries. This means participating in community water are brewed. partnerships that secure long-term water availability. We therefore intend to engage with We must therefore treat water with the utmost partners who are willing to work with us in respect. Our vision for a better tomorrow is a pursuit of this goal in the years leading up to world in which zero water is wasted. 2022 and 2030. OUR TARGETS We are particularly focusing on areas classified Our targets include reducing water as high risk with regard to water scarcity. In consumption at our breweries and the 2016, with the support of experts from WWF formation of partnerships to safeguard shared and their Water Risk Filter tool, we identified water resources in high-risk areas. 15 high-risk breweries, and we are now pushing hard to reduce our water use at these Our top-line target is to halve water usage at locations. See page 26 for more information. our breweries by 2030, with an intermediate target of 25% by 2022. Since water usage for our baseline year (2015) was 3.4 hl/hl, this means we are aiming for 1.7 hl/hl by 2030 – an industry-leading position. The brewing process requires a greater volume of water than the volume of beer produced – partly due to evaporation and wet byproducts, and partly because we need water to clean our equipment. Water will always be CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO WATER WASTE 24 SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS since the cleaning of equipment is the area Water scarcity is a major concern. As a global where most waste occurs during brewing. brewer with operations in high-risk areas, we We will continue to measure and report have a responsibility to ensure both the success on progress. of our business and the well-being of the communities around our breweries. The recently formed Carlsberg Young Scientists Community will also be involved Our targets for ZERO water waste contribute to in addressing the water challenge. Working SDG 6: Clean water and sanitation. As we alongside internal and external experts, the describe on pages 25-27, we address targets Community will develop solutions to achieve 6.4 and 6.5 – increasing water use efficiency ZERO water waste – at our breweries and and implementing integrated water resources beyond. management – through our water use reduction programme and community To protect shared water resources in high-risk engagement plans. areas, we will partner with other stakeholders. Together, we will carry out meaningful projects OUR APPROACH TOWARDS ZERO that have a real, tangible impact on the Globally, our Environmental Policy and communities in which we operate. The first of accompanying operational manual, updated in these partnerships will be announced during 2017 as part of a Group-wide refresh, provide 2018, and others will follow in the years our breweries with guidance on water leading up to 2030. management. Water stewardship is primarily the responsibility of the leadership team at each individual brewery, particularly when it comes to managing permits for water extraction and discharge. To achieve our 2022 and 2030 targets, our local leaders will be supported by experts from our global utilities management team. Together, they will work to implement and refine our ZERO water waste roadmap, beginning with the sites identified as high risk. This roadmap includes the continued roll-out of existing wastewater recycling technology around the world. It will also include the search for new wastewater recycling technologies, CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO WATER WASTE 25 ZERO WATER WASTE CUTTING OUR WATER WASTE Responsible water stewardship is technology, the breweries are able to purify water and reduce salt concentration to the one of the most material issues extent that it is safe to be used in the cleaning for our business. We can make a process or discharged into the environment. big difference in this area by This is the most effective way to cut water halving water use at our waste in the brewing process, and will be a central part of our roadmap towards 1.7 hl/hl. breweries. Two other Indian sites are using equipment for partial water recycling. Our water targets provide clear long-term direction. We have already taken the first steps Delivering on the commitment in our 2016 towards best-in-class water efficiency by report, wastewater treatment upgrades were driving towards optimal efficiency and applying implemented in Ukraine, Poland, Nepal and the latest technologies at sites where water Italy during 2017. scarcity is a concern. Three further upgrades will take place in Russia OUR 2017 PERFORMANCE by the end of 2019. The plants will be built In 2017, our water efficiency improved by during 2018, and we expect them to be fully 3% to 3.1 hl/hl from 3.2 hl/hl in 2016. The up and running the following year. reduction compared with 2015, our baseline year, is 6%, which represents a strong performance when benchmarked in the industry. WATER EFFICIENCY AND WASTEWATER The key to improving performance further in this area is a concerted efficiency drive. In 2017, four zero liquid discharge projects at our Indian breweries were commissioned and taken into full operation. Using cutting-edge CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO WATER WASTE 26 USING CLEANED WASTEWATER FOCUS ON PRIORITY SITES Find out more about WWF’s LOOKING AHEAD TO 2018 AS SERVICE WATER Our 15 priority sites (out of a total of 85) are Water Risk Filter methodology In 2018, we will continue to reduce water Reusing wastewater is not always straightthose which were deemed high risk in a 2016 http://waterriskfilter.panda.org/ consumption and increase the reuse of water at forward. In some markets, it is illegal to use assessment by water experts WWF. Using their our breweries by applying existing process cleaned wastewater as service water; in others, Water Risk Filter methodology, high-risk sites technologies and assessing the potential of there are no standards in place. Given the were identified in India, Nepal, China and INNOVATIONS recent innovations in this area. sustainability benefits of this process, we will Vietnam. During 2017, we reached out to a number of advocate for change in the coming years, external stakeholders to conduct a sourcing engaging with governments to highlight the In 2017, our global utilities management team analysis of the available new technologies. As need for new policies that will benefit local carried out a risk analysis in collaboration with a result, we have commissioned small-scale societies as well as our business. these sites, laying the foundations for the pilot projects in Denmark and Croatia looking development of detailed action plans to at innovative technologies for cleaning our achieve our targets in 2018. wastewater. We will continue the search in 2018 and report on progress – including pilot project outcomes – next year. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO WATER WASTE 27 PROTECTING LOCAL WATER RESOURCES We are convinced that collaborating within In 2017, we began searching for suitable The Carlsberg Group is already playing a vital watersheds to drive collective improvements is partners who could help us implement concrete part in protecting local water resources by the best way to manage the water actions in high-risk areas. We want to carry drastically reducing water usage at our on which our high-priority sites out meaningful projects with a real, tangible breweries. depend. We have committed impact on the ground of the communities in to forming partnerships with which we operate. However, this alone will not solve NGOs, governments, civil the problem. We recognise that to society and other businesses successfully manage the social and to ensure the success of these environmental impact of water use and projects. quality, several stakeholders in a water catchment need to work together. WHAT WE SAID 2016 WHAT WE DID 2017 ACTIONS TOWARDS ZERO 2018 Efficiency programmes Water efficiency programmes on track ZERO water waste roadmaps Continue water efficiency programmes to deliver Refine local ZERO water waste roadmaps to achieve improvements across the Group 2022/2030 targets Performance improvements Wastewater Wastewater treatment upgrades conducted Implement best practice to reduce water Enhance compliance assurance for wastewater disposal, and additional focus given to plant consumption including new and upgraded wastewater plants, and zero compliance liquid discharge (soil discharge after treatment and water Carlsberg Young Scientists Community recycling) projects in India Establish community of young scientists focused on developing solutions to achieve our 2030 water targets Innovations Workshops and analysis of technologies Continue the search for innovations in process, packaging conducted with selected key suppliers and utility facilities with key suppliers Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING ZERO Irresponsible Drinking CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 29 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING INTRODUCING OUR AMBITION Our beers are often at the heart serve as great alternatives for people who are driving, pregnant or, for other reasons, do not of social occasions, just as they wish to drink alcohol. To provide more choice have been for centuries. That is on these occasions, we have set a target of what we want. But we also want 100% distribution of alcohol-free brews by them to be enjoyed responsibly. 2022 – meaning that wherever our beers containing alcohol are found, there will always be an alcohol-free option as well. In most situations, people enjoy our products in moderation and as part of a balanced lifestyle. To further help consumers make smart choices, This is the way they are intended. However, in we are placing responsible drinking messages some cases our beers are not consumed and nutritional information about our products responsibly and cause harm to individuals and on 100% of our packaging and online. to society. This is not acceptable, which is why we have set an ambition of a society with We are also embedding responsible drinking ZERO irresponsible drinking. Whilst challenging, messages in all our marketing communications we believe that by working together across – all in an effort to engage with consumers and business, government and civil society we can build an even healthier beer culture. start moving society in the right direction and ultimately make a big difference. In cases where we see irresponsible behaviour, we will collaborate with relevant stakeholders OUR TARGETS to make targeted interventions. Our goal is for Our targets in this area reflect where we think every market in the Carlsberg Group to have the best opportunities lie for us to make an established at least one key responsible effective contribution. drinking partnership by 2022. Beers provide a quality low-alcohol choice in SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS many different situations. Yet on some With our efforts to minimise the misuse of occasions, consumers are looking for options alcohol, we support Sustainable Development that do not contain alcohol. Today, we already Goal 3, specifically target 3.5 to strengthen the offer many quality alcohol-free brews that CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 30 prevention of harmful use of alcohol and target A new Group Responsible Drinking Policy was Our approach consists of three ways in which 3. ENCOURAGE 3.6 to halve the number of deaths and injuries introduced this year to set global standards on we can support consumers and society in Communicating through our brands, we seek to from road traffic accidents – the latter through drinking in the workplace. reducing the harmful use of alcohol: engage consumers in the responsible drinking our don’t drink and drive campaigns. debate. This could be through partnerships with In 2017, we sought advice from a group of 1. ENABLE customers and sponsors to encourage smarter OUR APPROACH TOWARDS ZERO health and behavioural experts from fields such To make it easier for consumers to make drinking choices, for example. Where direct Our Marketing Communication Policy (MCP), as biology, sociology, anthropology and smart, informed decisions, we are steadily engagement is impossible, we collaborate with updated in 2017, sets the framework for psychology to help strengthen the design and growing our portfolio of alcohol-free brews. By organisations that have the access and responsible communication across our business effectiveness of our responsible drinking 2022, we will make these products available credibility to carry our message. – including marketing, digital and social media initiatives. The purpose is to direct our on every relevant consumption occasion. channels and product packaging. responsible drinking efforts towards the right Since the issues vary so much from one market national goals and to give advice on the 2. INFORM to another, we need to adapt our efforts Specifically, our MCP sets standards to limit effectiveness of different actions. To help our consumers make responsible accordingly. With the input from the scientific the access to and appeal of alcohol marketing drinking decisions, we aim to include advisory group, we are currently assessing the to minors. This includes strict standards on The advisory group evaluates existing empirical responsible drinking symbols, as well as relevant indicators market by market. Where where we place our advertisements and which evidence on the effectiveness of responsible nutritional and ingredient information, on all possible, indicators are drawn from national themes we avoid to prevent appealing to drinking interventions and translates this into our consumer-facing packaging and online. health strategies as a way of ensuring young people. recommendations for specific initiatives at alignment with governments and other market level. partners. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 31 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING PREVENTING DRINK DRIVING AND UNDERAGE DRINKING Preventing drink driving and awareness campaign about the risks of drinking and cycling (see case story on page 32). underage drinking requires a multi-stakeholder approach that Altogether, our anti-drink-driving campaigns takes into account social and reached more than 10 million people. In 2018, as we begin the work that has been cultural differences. recommended by our advisory group, we will look at potential ways to increase the Around the world, we partner with businesses, measurability of our responsible drinking governmental authorities and other organisainitiatives. tions, pooling our ideas and resources to find new, smarter solutions to these problems. PREVENTING UNDERAGE DRINKING Our beers should never be sold to people who DON’T DRINK AND DRIVE CAMPAIGNS are below the legal drinking age. However, it We have found that engaging with consumers does happen today. We want to tackle this at the point of consumption is one of the most problem at its root by partnering with effective ways to prevent drink driving. To supermarkets, bars and restaurants to ensure make this possible, we collaborate with legal purchase ages are enforced. business partners who are in direct contact with consumers, such as bar and restaurant owners. In 2017, we initiated 76 underage drinking campaigns, reaching over 62 million people In 2017, we ran 102 don’t drink and drive and involving 36 retail partnerships. In Russia, campaigns, including one called Don’t Let for example, we continued to combat underage Cheers Turn into Tears in India. Combining a drinking in collaboration with the national digital campaign with physical materials posted brewers association. With the support of at customer venues, this initiative reached over several other brewers, we ran a campaign in a million consumers in a single day. 70,000 outlets and on social media that Meanwhile, in Denmark, where 25% of all reached over 35 million people altogether. bicycle accidents involve alcohol, we created an CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 32 Global Beer Responsibility Day (GBRD) continues to grow as an important occasion for TACKLING us to highlight our year-round efforts to promote responsible drinking. In 2017, we DRINK CYCLING IN DENMARK doubled the people reached on the day compared with 2016. In a country famous for its love of bicycles, in 2017 Carlsberg Danmark chose Global Beer Responsibility Day (15 September) to raise awareness of the risk of cycling while under the influence of alcohol. This was on the back of research showing that one in four Danish cycling accidents involves alcohol. By partnering with the Danish Road Globally, our Global Beer Responsibility Day Safety Council and a Copenhagen-based (GBRD) activities reached over 54 million taxi company, we encouraged drinkers to people. This exceeded our 2017 commitment leave their bicycles behind and offered to reach 30 million consumers. In total, 22 them a free taxi-ride home instead. markets across our regions joined in the collective effort with business partners – This not only ensured that consumers got including more than 70,000 retailers and bars, home safely, but also provided a platform five social organisations and seven for dialogue around the risks of drink governments – to jointly promote responsible cycling after a night out. drinking and develop and implement collective solutions to tackle irresponsible drinking. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 33 INCREASING THE AVAILABILITY OF ALCOHOL-FREE BREWS Making alcohol-free brews (AFB) more widely available is one of our key strategies for ALCOLOCKS achieving our ambition of ZERO irresponsible drinking. Alcolocks prevent people from driving if they are In 2017, 26 of our alcohol-free beer brands over the legal alcohol were available across 43 markets in which limit. We are now our products are sold, with more launches to introducing these across follow in 2018. In some of our main markets, our business. such as France, AFB now accounts for 5% of the total beer market, with key brands such as Tourtel Twist and 1664 Sans Alcool continuing Change starts from within. In 2017, we to grow. decided that all newly acquired trucks will be equipped with alcolocks. This builds In Russia, Baltika 0 has twice been awarded on successful experience in Northern Best beer in the category beer by the Russian Europe, where this is already the Chamber of Commerce, and has received standard. Our Car and Responsible numerous accolades outside Russia too. The Drinking Policies now routinely contain Baltika brand continues to be the market requirements on alcolocks, and in line leader in Russia with a 43% market share, and with this we have started installing in 2018 the line extension Baltika 0 Wheat will alcolocks in company vehicles and be launched nationally. making them available for employees with their own cars. In Greece, the popular FIX brand launched a new alcohol-free product extension in 2017, Roll-out began in Western Europe in FIX ANEY. Following a successful launch 2017 and will continue in 2018 and campaign, the brand‘s popularity is growing beyond globally. amongst consumers, and FIX ANEY is expected to achieve a 39% volume share of the Greek AFB market in 2018. Alcohol-Free Minibar In Sweden, our Alcohol-Free Minibar toured vacation hubs offering samples of alcohol-free brews and raising awareness of the category. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 34 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING CREATING DIALOGUE AROUND BINGE DRINKING Drinking excessive amounts of handed out special ear plugs – Tuborg Beer Plugs. This stimulated valuable conversations alcohol in a short period of time about responsible drinking. is not good for the individual or for those around them. Our anti-binge-drinking activities reached over 5 million people, while our combined In the Carlsberg Group, we leverage the power responsible drinking initiatives in 2017 reached of our popular brands to speak directly with over 70 million consumers globally, exceeding consumers about binge drinking, and to our commitment of 60 million. encourage moderate, responsible consumption of our products. OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2017 Across our markets, in 2017 we implemented 34 campaigns aimed at reducing binge drinking and encouraging moderate consumption. Music festivals and sporting events provide an ideal platform to get people talking about responsible drinking, and in 2017 we maximised the opportunities to raise awareness and nudge consumers towards smarter drinking choices. Tuborg Beer Plugs At the 2017 Roskilde Festival, the biggest music festival in Northern Europe, our Tuborg Tuborg Beer Plugs were nominated for a brand drew on research showing that loud Euro Best Design Award. music makes people drink faster. Tuborg staff See Tuborg Beer Plugs in action https://carlsberggroup.com/sustainability/actions towards-zero/ CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 35 WORKING IN PARTNERSHIPS When direct engagement with consumers is not PARIS possible or appropriate, we work with relevant partners such as CONCEPT BAR NGOs and industry associations. An example of this is the How do you encourage Drinkaware Crew scheme in responsible drinking without the UK, where specially spoiling the consumers’ fun? trained staff work in bars and La Moderne, a new concept clubs to reduce anti-social bar in France, has some behaviour amongst 18-24-year-olds, with the aim of keeping them safe. The scheme is bright ideas about this. overseen by the Drinkaware Trust, an independent charity of which we are a funder. Supported by social organisation Groupe SOS Since its pilot, training has been delivered in and sponsored by Kronenbourg, La Moderne 32 venues in 17 areas around the UK. In 2017, offers a whole series of smart ways to help over 3,600 individuals were supported by consumers keep their drinking at a reasonable Drinkaware Crew and a pilot took place at two level. For a start, the drinks menu includes a London festivals with an independent wide range of alcohol-free drinks (including evaluation due to be published in 2018. our beers) alongside traditional options. Secondly, consumers are encouraged to alternate between alcoholic and alcohol-free beverages, and discounts are offered on this combination during happy hours. What is more, every alcoholic beverage comes with a light snack free of charge. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 36 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING ENCOURAGING RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION Our brands offer us powerful and self-auditing process to drive global completion rate was 100%, meeting our 2017 independent audit in selected countries in 2017 compliance with the new policy. commitment in full. showed 100% compliance with this principle. far-reaching opportunities for communicating with consumers. In 2017, our marketing managers were We regularly monitor our advertisements to At market level, we support the establishment We want to leverage their required to complete an e-learning module on ensure they only appear in contexts where at of independent self-regulating bodies, which potential responsibly, the new policy, and by the year’s end the least 70% of the audience can reasonably be exist in over 75% of our markets and allow expected to be above the legal drinking age. An individuals and organisations to flag up encouraging moderation and avoiding appealing to those below the legal drinking age. WHAT WE SAID 2016 WHAT WE DID 2017 ACTIONS TOWARDS ZERO 2018 To ensure that this is the case, we are Number of consumers (GBRD) Over 50 million consumers reached through Number of consumers (GBRD) implementing responsible marketing policies Reach 30 million consumers during Global Beer activities in 22 markets Reach 40 million consumers during Global Beer and providing information about our products – Responsibility Day (GBRD) Responsibility Day (GBRD) both on our packaging and online. Number of consumers (other) 78 million consumers reached Digital Guiding Principles Reach 60 million consumers globally through our combined Ensure that the six standards within the Digital RESPONSIBLE COMMUNICATION Guiding Principles are implemented across all our responsible drinking initiatives We continue to drive strict self-regulatory brand digital channels to safeguard people below the legal drinking age practices across our business in an effort to Product information Ingredient and nutritional information on embed the Group’s responsible drinking 80% of consumer-facing primary packaging in Western 68% and 67% of packaging respectively in Concept initiatives philosophy in all our marketing activities. Europe to carry information on ingredients and nutritional Western Europe. We will reach 80% in Q1 2018 Develop and execute initial initiatives recommended values by the independent advisory group to promote 2017 saw the launch of a revised global responsible drinking Use of symbols Responsible drinking symbols now on 97% Marketing Communication Policy that reflects 100% of consumer-facing primary packaging to carry of our primary packaging new industry standards in digital marketing. responsible drinking information or text to discourage The new policy expands on earlier codes of harmful drinking practice through, for example, age-gating E-learning All marketing managers completed the All relevant marketing managers to complete the new module mechanisms, responsible drinking messages e-learning module on our Marketing Communication Policy and community guidelines on user-generated content (UGC). In 2018, we will implement a Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE DRINKING 37 inappropriate alcohol advertisements. If the In 2017, we reached our target of placing a self-regulator upholds a complaint, we take responsible drinking symbol on all our product actions to remove the advertisement. packaging globally. This was an extensive exercise that involved changing tens of CONSUMER INFORMATION thousands of packaging designs and provides At the end of 2017, we were just short of our another example of how we can leverage commitment to include ingredient and consumer touch-points to discourage harmful nutritional information on 80% of our drinking. packaging across Western Europe. A small number of packaging updates were postponed Looking ahead, we have now set a target to to early 2018, by when we will reach our make ingredient and nutritional information original target. During 2017, this information available on 100% of our packaging and online was made available for all our beer brands across all our regions by 2022. across different online platforms. Encouraging responsible drinking 97% of our primary packaging globally contains a responsible drinking symbol ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE 39 ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE INTRODUCING OUR AMBITION We are determined to protect the OUR APPROACH TOWARDS ZERO Our Health and Safety (H&S) Policy defines welfare of our employees by how we manage health & safety performance pre-empting the potential risks of across our business in order to prevent our operations to provide a safe occupational injuries, illnesses and industrial working environment. accidents, and to protect people in the communities in which we operate. We also engage actively with external partners and Essential to a safe working environment is a contractors to raise awareness of the health & ZERO accidents culture. This mentality is safety issues in our value chain. fundamental to the way we run our business. Ultimately, we believe that all accidents are A ZERO accidents culture requires strong and preventable. credible leadership. Managers at all levels are expected to lead by example and motivate OUR TARGETS their staff to participate in H&S initiatives. They We pursue a reduction in the number of are both responsible and accountable for accidents year on year, with the ambition to managing workplace health & safety. reach ZERO lost-time accidents by 2030. All employees are expected to take personal SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS responsibility and engage in H&S activities, as Our commitment to reach ZERO lost-time well as looking out for their colleagues. We accidents contributes to SDG 8, Decent work have systems in place for employees to log any and economic growth. In particular we focus on observations, suggestions and near misses. target 8.8 – promoting safe and secure working environments for all workers. Examples can be found throughout this section and in our case story Stop and think: making time for safety on page 41. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE 40 ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE TOWARDS A ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE Real and lasting change is only performance reviews and briefings now begin with H&S, signalling how important H&S is to possible if we succeed in embedding the Carlsberg Group and ensuring that the a ZERO accidents culture throughout message reaches all levels of our organisation. our organisation. TOP OF MIND – COMMUNICATION VISIBLE AND CREDIBLE LEADERSHIP AND VISIBILITY The first of our three H&S commitments made Making H&S top of mind for all our people is in 2016 concerns leadership. By modelling the essential to developing a ZERO accidents behaviour they want to promote, our leaders culture. Behavioural change takes time and create a solid foundation for a health & safety requires continuous communication, from daily culture. They need to be aware of risks reminders to targeted campaigns. themselves, and to set a strong personal example and engage with staff. This takes In 2017, we continued to implement our ZERO sensitivity, skill and commitment. Accidents campaign, placing particular focus on traffic safety and lockout/tagout (ensuring To support their efforts, in 2017 we developed dangerous energies are isolated before any a new approach to safety leadership training intervention to equipment and machinery). We and engaged a world-class provider to ensure also developed new standards for the visual that its format and contents were on point. communication of health & safety, and shared Two face-to-face pilot training sessions were these globally, ensuring a consistent message held in Western Europe during the year with across the organisation. the objective of clarifying the role of H&S leaders and providing them with the practical tools for use in their day-to-day work. Rollout will continue in 2018 and reach all managers globally by 2020. #TowardsZERO Leadership training is backed up by activities to introduce and reinforce cultural change at all levels. For instance, internal business Our people spread the word about our new ambitions for the launch of Together Towards ZERO CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE 41 To complement the health & safety communications initiated centrally, we STOP AND THINK continued to support local initiatives and highlight specific workplace hazards. MAKING TIME FOR SAFETY PROCEDURES AND SYSTEMS Our new Health & Safety (H&S) Policy, Building a ZERO accidents culture is a day-to-day mission. updated in 2017, will be launched in 2018. It We believe it pays to pull people away from their daily supports our ambition of a ZERO accidents routine and provide opportunities to reflect calmly on health culture by detailing requirements for areas such & safety issues. as incident reporting and analysis, emergency planning and response, leadership and employee participation in creating a safe workplace. A full day of training and best-practice The purpose of the day was to create sharing is a powerful way to demonstrate awareness of the importance of changing The policy also includes our Life Saving Rules, our commitment and reinforce key unsafe behaviours as we build a culture of a powerful reminder to our employees for messages. ZERO accidents. those rare occasions when someone’s life may be endangered if strict controls are not in place. Many of our markets are now doing this on This activity reached 6,589 people in one go, The rules are based on real events in the an annual basis. Carlsberg China held its including Carlsberg Group employees and history of our business and on general industry EHS day on 12 December 2017. contractors as well as local government and experience. Operations were halted for 24 hours at all media. sites so that employees and contractors Cultural change is a gradual process, not could focus 100% on safety, sharing best something that can be achieved overnight. But practice on topics such as traffic safety, a significant performance improvement in 2017 conducting emergency drills and rewarding suggests that our multi-dimensional approach teams that had demonstrated leadership is working, with strong support from senior during the year. leadership. Looking ahead, we must continue to build the health & safety mindset in all employees and further develop competences in risk awareness, identification and control. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE 42 ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE WORKING TOWARDS A SAFER WORKPLACE 2022 TARGET 2030 TARGET Only a combination of leadership, consistent communication and safety REDUCTION ZERO routines will deliver progress IN ACCIDENT LOST-TIME towards our ZERO accidents target. In 2017, we began to RATE YEAR ACCIDENTS1 see the first positive results of ON YEAR our efforts. 2017 SUMMARY Accident rates were down across all functions, confirming that we are on the right path. But there is still room for improvement, and none for complacency. WHAT WE SAID 2016 WHAT WE DID 2017 ACTIONS TOWARDS ZERO 2018 REDUCING THE NUMBER OF ACCIDENTS The Group lost-time accident rate (LTAR) in Leadership New training supplier selected, and material Leadership 2017 was 4.3, which was a significant Roll out health & safety leadership training developed and rolled out, including two Continue to roll out the health & safety leadership reduction of 42% compared with 2016, pilots in Europe training to reach all managers globally by 2020 indicating solid progress in our performance. Life Saving Rules Communication Health & safety visual communication Roll out the Life Saving Rules programme globally, Roll out EHS Communication Plan globally standard developed and launched globally, More specifically, the number of lost-time including communication and training, followed by a including displays, banners and campaign accidents went down to 183 from 311 in 2016. consistent compliance verification process posters This strong performance is also reflected in the fact that 20 of our markets reduced their Procedures New Health & Safety Policy approved by Deploy new Health & Safety Policy Group-wide, including ExCom, and communication and our EHS Guiding Principles implementation initiated 1 Our target of ZERO lost-time accidents applies only to direct employees. Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ZERO ACCIDENTS CULTURE 43 accident rate and three sustained their ZERO We also introduced a detailed review of all accident performances, while only seven saw lost-time accidents (LTAs) reported. This increases, in each case minor. process provides senior leadership of the region and market concerned with a valuable INCIDENTS AND FOLLOW-UP MEASURES opportunity to discuss root causes and follow2017 saw fewer accidents than the previous up actions. Their reports are shared across all year 2. However, there was one fatality to a sites so that universal lessons can be drawn member of the public when a gate at one of and new safety measures implemented our sites in India collapsed. This tragic incident globally. serves as a stark reminder of the progress we still need to make. LOOKING AHEAD TO 2018 Our approach for future years is founded on Rather than waiting until after the event to three strategic priorities: implement a change, we will always strive to identify the risks in advance and prevent 1. Eliminate fatalities and serious incidents by accidents from happening. In this unfortunate ensuring full compliance with health & case, we discovered that we needed stronger safety standards and through better controls at our entry gates. Based on this managing contractors. learning, we immediately drew up an action 2. Make sure health & safety is top of mind plan across our sites and monitored its for all our people through strong and implementation centrally. credible leadership, employee engagement and effective communication. Lost-time accident and days lost rates 3. Continuously improve our performance by (rate/1,000 employees)* reducing exposure to occupational risks. Lost-time accident rate (LTAR) LTAR Days lost rate (DLR) DLR More specifically, in 2018 we will continue to 10,0 200,0 roll out our new policy and leadership training, 8,0 160,0 and our Life Saving Rules programme. We will also review our compliance assessment 6,0 120,0 process. 4,0 80,0 2,0 40,0 0,0 0,0 2015 2016 2017 * Within PwC’s assurance scope. 2 During a cross-check analysis on our 2016 data, we discovered 17 unreported accidents from our Chinese market. Our LTA baseline for 2016 was therefore restated from 294 to 311. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Responsible Business CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 45 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS LIVE BY OUR COMPASS The Carlsberg Group’s business is In 2017, 34,500 Group employees received training in the Code via an e-learning module built on solid values such as or face-to-face sessions. As we delivered the honesty and integrity, which programme, we overcame challenges including translate into a company culture employee turnover and lack of access to of fair, ethical behaviour. computers for some employee groups. At the end of the e-learning, each employee signed a declaration committing to comply with The Live by our Compass programme the Code. continuously promotes high ethical standards across the Group and is supported by clear Our global compliance team is responsible codes, policies and manuals. for the implementation and updating of the Code, while local Managing Directors are Introduced in 2016 as part of SAIL’22, Live by responsible for compliance at market level. our Compass provides detailed guidance on Our Supervisory Board also received training in ethical behaviour and emphasises the the Code during 2017. importance of integrity at all levels of the organisation. The Group’s senior management continues to give this programme its full and vocal support, leading by example and helping to embed the values it embodies. IMPLEMENTING OUR CODE OF ETHICS AND CONDUCT Translated into 28 Group languages, our 2016 Code of Ethics and Conduct helps employees understand how to respond when faced with ethical dilemmas at work. Code of Ethics e-learning module The main character, Cody the Elephant, helps employees make the right ethical decisions CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 46 UPDATING AND IMPLEMENTING MAINTAINING OUR FOCUS SPEAKING UP disciplines. The purpose of the IC is to govern OUR POLICIES In 2017, all markets carried out compliance risk We encourage employees to report any key matters of misconduct in relation to During 2017, we devised a new policy structure assessments. Based on their findings, we will suspected matters of misconduct to their line reporting, investigation and follow-up. to ensure relevance and focus on the key areas adapt our approach and strategy to cover both manager or compliance function, or to file a of our business today, resulting in 29 Group emerging and existing risks. report via our anonymous Speak Up system. In In 2017, 53 matters were reported through our policies. These provide central direction, 2017, we promoted our new Speak Up system Speak Up system. This represented a mitigate key company risks and underline the Third-party screening procedures are part of globally with communication materials about significant increase, as in previous years we behaviour we expect of employees. All policies the Group’s standard procurement process, how and where to speak up. The system is received between 23-30 reports 3. Of all 2017 have been approved by ExCom and include helping us mitigate the risk of bribery and available in over 30 languages and can be Speak Up matters investigated and closed, 29% clearly defined roles and responsibilities. corruption. In 2018, with the support of accessed via web or phone. were upheld and sanctions varied from verbal external specialists, we plan to review our reprimands to dismissal. Our goal in 2018 is to COMMUNICATION existing third-party screening procedures. Our We have also developed a Speak Up Manual continue to raise awareness and further In line with our commitment for 2017, the key objectives are to ensure full compliance and a Misconduct Investigation Manual to give improve our transparency around speaking up. revised policies were communicated through with the relevant legislation and industry best guidance to our employees. These manuals will internal channels. In 2018, all relevant practices, and to develop new, more tailored be implemented early in 2018. Reported documents will be made available to and user-friendly screening protocols. matters are reviewed by our newly established employees via an online platform, improving Integrity Committee (IC), chaired by the CFO access to the policies and supporting materials. and including representatives of different Implementation of the new policies is ongoing – supported by over 200 manuals and the WHAT WE SAID 2016 WHAT WE DID 2017 ACTIONS 2018 ongoing development of our Compass training curriculum for employees during 2018, tailored Policies 29 policies revised and implementation Risk assessment to their functional risk level. Plan launch and implementation of all (approx. 35) new started Conduct market risk assessment on key compliance and revised Group policies developed during 2016 and 2017 risks in all markets Third-party screening Training 34,500 employees received training in the Update protocols for screening business partners and Support central functions and local markets to make Code of Ethics and Conduct via e-learning third parties training in the Code of Ethics and Conduct and new policies and face-to-face sessions available to approx. 42,000 Carlsberg Group employees Speak Up worldwide Promote Speak Up facilities through awareness Communication Policies communicated through internal campaign Support central functions and local markets in informing all awareness campaign relevant stakeholders about the new and revised Group Compliance training policies Develop compliance training curriculum for employees tailored to functional risk level Market audits Conduct in-market audits in all regions to monitor 3 Excluding the reports filed in 2015 and 2016 effectiveness of the Live by our Compass programme via the stand-alone and financial rewardbased speak-up system implemented in Malawi. Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 47 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS LABOUR & HUMAN RIGHTS We are determined to ensure that centres, recruitment interviews and the setting of criteria to measure job candidates’ profiles around the world our business is against job requirements. always conducted in a fair and responsible manner with respect In 2017, MyVoice, our annual internal for global standards and engagement survey of more than 30,000 employees, confirmed high acceptance of and guidelines. support for Triple A. We aim to provide a safe, healthy working UPDATING AND IMPLEMENTING environment in which all our employees are OUR POLICY empowered to achieve their full potential. In 2017, our Labour & Human Rights (LHR) Policy was revised as part of a Group-wide DRIVING OUR CULTURE THROUGH policy refresh. The policy applies globally to all TRIPLE A management, employees and contract workers Triple A is our behavioural framework, with the across the Group. While our overall approach As standing for alignment, accountability and has not changed, this exercise gave us a action. These three attributes define how we chance to align with the Group’s other policies work together to create a winning culture and to renew our focus on training. across our organisation. Triple A is also about treating people in a fair and equal way, the key In order to build awareness of the policy and of to long-term success. In 2017, we delivered on the LHR dilemmas that can arise, we provided all our commitments for embedding Triple A a general e-learning module and conducted across the Group. face-to-face train-the-trainer sessions throughout Asia, addressing people managers Triple A became the framework for all our (level 3 and above) and all HR and legal leadership and performance evaluations in professionals, and reaching around 1,200 2017. It forms the basis for our onboarding people in total. We focused initially on Asia, programmes, underpins our hiring process and since it is statistically a higher-risk area when it has been implemented across our people comes to matters addressed by the policy. management tools. These include development CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 48 In 2018, we will continue to roll out our LHR ISSUES AND RESPONSES 2017 TRAINING AND HIRING To increase the representation of women in top Policy e-learning module to line managers, HR In Cambodia, a labour dispute between our A diverse and competent workforce contributes and middle management, we require that at and legal professionals, focusing primarily on local partner, Cambrew, and local union to the competitiveness of any company. This least a third of the participants on our global Eastern Europe. During the year, we expect to activists resulted in a lawsuit, which was includes diversity factors such as nationality, Learning Leaders training programme are reach 90% of all Eastern European people managed locally through the Cambodian age and gender. female. The programme is designed to prepare managers (level 3 and above). courts. Our partner will continue to improve our future leaders for leading a function across working conditions through the Beer Selling In the Carlsberg Group, global gender our markets. Industry of Cambodia association and in distribution in 2017 was on a similar level to continuous dialogue with employees. previous years, and this remains a challenge for us. To foster gender diversity, external recruitment firms are required to present a minimum of one female candidate on their shortlist. And in the event of equal suitability, priority is given to the female applicant. WHAT WE SAID 2016 WHAT WE DID 2017 ACTIONS 2018 Triple A Triple A rolled out and implemented across Training Roll out our new behavioural framework, Triple A, to all the Group and included in all leadership, Eastern Europe: reach 90% of line managers, HR and employees to develop culture and assess/develop our development and recruitment instruments legal professionals through e-learning and face-topeople, aiming to reach all employees by end of Q1 2017 face training in selected markets Apply to performance and potential, including interview Onboarding guidelines for all candidates Include training and awareness in local onboarding programmes for people managers and HR Introduce Triple A to Development Centres and implement professionals utilising new HR system platform in People Management Tools, e.g. People Board, 360 feedback and onboarding programmes for new employees Human rights impact initiatives Implement initiatives to continuously identify and Gender diversity Recruitment firms must present a candidate account for human rights impact. Carry out ongoing Implement initiatives to give priority to the of the underrepresented gender. Priority monitoring of local market compliance underrepresented gender in top and middle management. given to the underrepresented gender in Implement and track throughout 2017 situations of equal suitability Policy Revised policy implemented across the Revise Labour & Human Rights Policy, continue policy Group, supported by a manual, e-learning training of managers and roll-out of the policy and train-the-trainer sessions Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 49 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESPONSIBLE SOURCING We see it as our responsibility to If an issue comes to light, our first response is to work with suppliers to help them achieve extend our influence throughout compliance and make lasting improvements. the value chain to improve the However, when a serious issue arises, our standards of our suppliers and approach is to immediately suspend material business partners. deliveries. STREAMLINING PROCUREMENT Our Supplier and Licensee Code of Conduct PROCESSES clearly communicates the standards we expect In 2017, we started the development of a with regard to labour & human rights, health & number of strategic point-of-sale (POS) safety, environment and business ethics. We ranges for our global brands for which the engage the support of external partners to procurement, consolidation and supply chain continuously monitor our suppliers and ensure have been outsourced to a company these standards are met. specialised in sourcing from Asia. We expect this to provide additional transparency and QUALITY AUDITS further strengthen compliance with our During our regular supplier audits, we check standards. that suppliers are in compliance with the Supplier and Licensee Code of Conduct. We We have continued with our membership of the want to be sure that systems and policies are in SEDEX (Suppliers Ethical Data Exchange) place in each company to drive continuous platform, which in 2017 was updated to improvement and monitoring in labour & become more user-friendly and accessible. human rights, health & safety, environment and business ethics, with particular focus on companies operating in high-risk areas. In 2017, we carried out 154 such audits, focused on glass bottles, cans and malt. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 50 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS QUALITY AND SAFETY OF OUR PRODUCTS Our business is all about out, often leading to corrective actions being MONITORING ON-SHELF QUALITY (OSQ) Other, less serious issues are dealt with by implemented by the supplier. Launched in 2010, our OSQ programme helps withdrawals from customer inventories before delivering top-quality and safe ensure quality standards are maintained once they reach consumers. In 2017, 11 withdrawals products. We take measures both POLICIES AND STANDARDS our products leave the Carlsberg Group site. were made globally. internally and along the value The Group’s Quality and Food Safety Policy The programme involves routinely taking chain to ensure we always live up sets out our commitment to making products products from the shelves of stores in 40 of the highest quality and meeting our markets and sending them to an external to our own and others’ high customers’ expectations as well as international laboratory for analysis. The laboratory expectations. standards. In 2017, this policy was revised and examines both product quality and appearance, the new version implemented globally. Among and its findings have led to improvements in GETTING IT RIGHT, EVERY TIME other things, this process strengthened our some of our production plants. We carry out Our beers are brewed to precise recipes and resolve to attain food safety certification for all similar types of quality check in 13 of our continuously monitored throughout the Carlsberg Group sites. on-trade markets. production process. Any product that fails to live up to our high quality standards is removed By the end of 2017, 23 of the 26 production RESPONDING TO QUALITY ISSUES before distribution. However, removals are sites we own in Western Europe had obtained Fortunately, the vast majority of quality issues wasteful and therefore best avoided. Food Safety System Certification (FSSC) or an are identified and addressed long before our equivalent certification. In 2018, two more sites products reach the consumers. However, on In 2017, we developed a Cost of Poor Quality will be added to the list, and we plan to reach the rare occasions when a quality issue does model that helps us identify the underlying root 100% coverage in 2019. In Eastern Europe, arise after a sale, we take measures to manage causes of quality issues and take measures to three of our 14 sites currently have FSSC and minimise its effects. prevent them recurring. The model has already coverage, and nine have ISO 22000 been rolled out in several Western European certification. By 2020, we hope to have all In 2017, we recalled two products, in markets, including Croatia, Germany and Italy. 14 sites covered by FSSC. In Asia, six of our Switzerland and Norway. A third recall took 39 sites have FSSC and five have ISO 22000 place through a licensed brewery partner in Another aspect of our quality work is the certification. However, we will need more time Iceland. We investigated and took action in all auditing of key suppliers. Every two to three to roll out ISO 22000 in this region, since we these cases to prevent the problems recurring. years, we run checks at our suppliers’ sites to are still building the systems necessary to ensure our high quality standards are being support certification. maintained. In 2017, 154 audits were carried ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY Economic contribution to society CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY 52 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY BREWING ECONOMIC GROWTH Promoting sustainable economic SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL GOALS To achieve economic growth, people need growth is a priority for most of quality jobs that stimulate the economy. The the world’s economies. Business private sector, including our Group, has a key is one of the cornerstones of role to play in supporting the implementation prosperity and makes a of SDG 8 through employment and value creation in the markets in which we operate. significant contribution to growth. Through our brewery operations, we contribute As a global brewer with operations in over 35 to targets 8.1 and 8.2 by supporting economic countries, and export and licence activities in prosperity, higher productivity and innovation. over 100 countries, we make a significant Our success feeds into target 8.5 to achieve full economic contribution to society. Our and productive employment, since worldwide operations create jobs, support the Carlsberg Group creates economic growth and generate government an additional half a revenues through the collection of excise duties million jobs in related and other taxes. industries. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY 53 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY CREATING DIRECT AND INDIRECT EMPLOYMENT 41,000 GLOBAL EMPLOYEES populated areas outside of big cities. We also Taking all our activities with related industries In 2017, the Carlsberg Group directly employed employ highly skilled people in sales & into account, Regioplan estimates that the total around 41,000 people in our majority-owned marketing, finance, procurement, logistics and indirect and induced employment created by CREATING JOBS! businesses. Most of these employees work at administrative functions. the Carlsberg Group in 2017 amounts to our breweries, which often provide much approximately 497,000 employees4. One Carlsberg Group employee creates needed employment in sparsely HALF A MILLION JOBS CREATED an additional 12 jobs in adjacent sectors. Our activities with suppliers in sectors such as agriculture, packaging and logistics stimulate Total employment generated by the indirect employment. And we contribute to Carlsberg Group is 497,000 jobs. 4 The indirect employment figures are slightly higher than in the 2016 induced employment – jobs created in the Carlsberg Group Economic Report due to the availability of more hospitality and retail sectors – through the sale accurate information on the ratio between on-trade and off-trade sales in the Asian markets. of our products. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY 54 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY GENERATING VALUE ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN The Carlsberg Group’s suppliers, along with our customers in hospitality and retail outlets, and our production and sales facilities all add value to the final product – which is sold to consumers all over the world. Added value is defined as the difference between the cost of the goods and services acquired for production and the market value of the final product. This added value makes it possible to pay our employees’ wages, cover tax liabilities, and reward our lenders and investors. This added value is also the source of VAT revenues collected by governments in the countries in which we operate. Calculated by Regioplan using a wellrecognised methodology, the value added through the production and sale of all Carlsberg Group products worldwide amounted to DKK 88bn in 2017. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY 55 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY ECONOMIC VALUE AND TOTAL TAX CONTRIBUTION In 2017, the Carlsberg Group generated a total of DKK 89.1bn in economic value in the countries in which we operate. Our total tax contribution included both taxes borne and taxes collected, which amounted to DKK 38.5bn. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY 56 ECONOMIC VALUE TOTAL GOVERNMENT REVENUES The economic value generated is made up of GENERATED gross revenue, other income, financial income The production and sale of our products and income included in special items. Our generate substantial revenues for governments, contribution is distributed among our supporting public services and stimulating stakeholders in the form of payments to economic growth in the countries in which we suppliers, wages to employees, financial operate. In addition to our total tax expenses to those who provide capital and contribution mentioned above, government taxes to governments. The economic value revenues are also generated in related sectors retained is the profit we use to finance such as agriculture, retail and hospitality. dividends for our shareholders and to support the future growth of our business. According to Regioplan’s methodology, we estimate that the Carlsberg Group generated In 2017, the total economic value generated by DKK 116bn in government revenues in 2017 the Carlsberg Group was DKK 89.1bn. through a combination of direct activities and the activities of related industries. Our direct TAXES BORNE share of total government revenues was 33%. Taxes borne by the Carlsberg Group include direct taxes such as corporate income tax, social security taxes and environmental taxes, View our Tax Policy and indirect taxes such as excise duties. In https://carlsberggroup.com/media/22487/tax2017, the Carlsberg Group paid DKK 29.3bn policy.pdf in taxes. TOTAL TAX CONTRIBUTION In addition to the taxes borne, we also collect taxes on behalf of governments in the countries in which we operate. These include taxes paid by our employees, VAT and other relevant taxes. In 2017, our collected taxes amounted to DKK 9.2bn and our total tax contribution amounted to DKK 38.5bn. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 57 SECTION 1 DATA SUMMARY TABLE ENERGY, CARBON AND WATER 2014 2015 2016 2017 General production figures Number of reporting sites 101 110 92 85 Beer production (million hl) 107.0 105.4 100.9 97.9 Soft drinks production (million hl) 13.6 13.9 14.3 14.2 Beer and soft drinks production (million hl)* 120.6 119.3 115.2 112.1 Malting (kt) 492.0 547.2 311.5 301.3 Environmental performance data (beer, soft drinks and malt production) Total thermal energy (GWh)* 2,970 2,943 2,481 2,326 Total electricity (GWh)* 1,012 988 914 869 Total CO2 emissions (kt)* (market-based) 982 945 768 698 Total CO2 emissions (kt) (location-based) 883 802 Total SO2 emissions (tonnes) 1,651 1,695 815 731 Total NOx emissions (tonnes) 1,586 1,562 1,163 1,075 Total water consumption (million m³)* 42.1 41.2 37.7 35.6 Total wastewater discharged (million m³) 27.2 26.6 24.2 23.0 Total organic load (COD) before treatment (kt) 75.5 78.8 79.9 74.9 Solid waste & by-products Incinerated (kt) 9.3 8.7 5.7 5.1 To sanitary landfill (kt) 64.6 68.6 56.9 68.6 Special waste (kt) 0.7 0.7 1.4 0.7 Recycled (kt) 164.8 189.2 225.5 222.0 Disposed of for land applications (kt) 173.7 165.9 127.4 117.4 Other (kt) 21.0 Total solid waste (kt) 434.1 433.1 416.9 413.8 Brewer’s grains and brewer’s yeast (kt) 1,409.0 1,348.9 1,265.0 1,236.0 * Within PwC’s assurance scope (see PwC’s Assurance Report, pages 78-79). CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 58 2014 2015 2016 2017 Relative figures for beer and soft drinks production Thermal energy (kWh/hl)* 21.4 21.2 20.0 19.3 Electricity (kWh/hl)* 8.0 7.8 7.7 7.6 Combined energy (thermal and electricity) (kWh/hl)* 29.4 29.0 27.7 26.9 CO2 emissions (kg CO2/hl)* 7.3 7.0 6.3 5.9 Water (hl/hl)* 3.4 3.4 3.2 3.1 Relative figures for malt production Thermal energy (kWh/tonne) 694.1 692.2 489.3 457.9 Electricity (kWh/tonne) 87.1 84.1 73.2 67.1 Combined energy (thermal and electricity) (kWh/tonne) 781.1 776.3 562.5 525.0 CO2 emissions (tonnes CO2/tonne) 0.19 0.18 0.13 0.12 Water (m³/tonne) 2.3 2.2 1.6 1.5 Other figures Complaints 93 33 36 32 Number of ISO 14001-certified sites 69 74 66 70 Number of ISO 50001-certified sites 1 3 4 18 Water source split Municipal water 49% 48% 46% 48% Own boreholes 43% 42% 47% 46% Surface water 8% 10% 7% 6% Wastewater destination Public sewer with wastewater treatment 66% 67% 66% 66% On-site treatment, followed by public sewer without wastewater treatment 3% 3% 2% 2% On-site treatment, followed by discharge to river/lake 30% 28% 28% 28% Other 1% 2% 4% 4% Thermal energy mix Natural gas 68.0% 66.1% 71.9% 69.1% Coal 14.9% 15.6% 7.0% 5.9% District heating 6.8% 6.4% 7.1% 7.6% Heavy fuel 3.4% 2.8% 3.1% 3.6% Renewable energy 5.2% 6.9% 8.2% 9.8% Light fuel 1.1% 1.2% 1.4% 3.0% Other 0.6% 1.0% 1.3% 1.0% * Within PwC’s assurance scope (see PwC’s Assurance Report, pages 78-79). CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 59 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total CO2 emissions from refrigerants HFC-based refrigerants (kt CO2)* 12.9 14.9 9.8 6.8 Together Towards ZERO carbon baseline Absolute emissions (kt CO2) (Together Towards ZERO 2015 baseline) 846 777 704 Sustainable packaging Percentage of companies carrying out consumer-facing sustainable packaging campaigns 28 24 34 281 Number of consumer-facing sustainable packaging campaigns* 45 22 16 18 Packaging mix Cans 26.1% 26.6% 27.4% 28.6% RGB 33.7% 33.7% 31.5% 29.8% NRGB 8.2% 9.2% 9.5% 11.6% R-PET 1.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% PET 22.5% 23.0% 23.0% 20.8% Kegs 6.6% 6.4% 7.6% 7.8% Bulk 1.3% 1.0% 0.9% 1.2% Other 0.4% 0.1% 0.1% 0.2% * Within PwC’s assurance scope (see PwC’s Assurance Report, pages 78-79). 1 15 out of 40 companies. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 60 HEALTH & SAFETY 2014 2015 2016 2017 Figures for Production3 Number of lost-time accidents* 156 114 105 73 Lost-time accident rate* 9.1 6.2 7.0 5.1 Number of lost days* 2,207 1,911 1,281 1,219 Days lost rate* 128.8 104.5 85.6 85.6 Figures for Logistics3 Number of lost-time accidents* 150 140 109 62 Lost-time accident rate* 17.4 15.5 13.8 8.2 Number of lost days* 2,201 2,511 1,619 1,128 Days lost rate* 254.8 277.2 205.1 149.5 Figures for Sales & Marketing3 Number of lost-time accidents* 40 52 952 43 Lost-time accident rate* 2.8 3.3 6.22 2.5 Number of lost days* 613 565 2,7872 961 Days lost rate* 43.2 36.2 183.02 56.3 Figures for Administration3 Number of lost-time accidents* 6 6 2 5 Lost-time accident rate* 1.3 1.4 0.62 1.4 Number of lost days* 97 43 30 57 Days lost rate* 21.3 9.7 8.22 16.3 Figures for the Group3 Number of lost-time accidents* 352 312 3112 183 Lost-time accident rate* 7.9 6.6 7.42 4.3 Number of lost days* 5,118 5,030 5,7172 3,365 Days lost rate* 115.0 106.2 136.92 79.4 Fatalities (Carlsberg Group employees on and off site, contractors and members of public on site) 6 5 5 1 Lost-time accidents – department split Percentage in Production 44 37 342 40 Percentage in Logistics 43 45 352 34 Percentage in Sales & Marketing and Administration 13 19 312 26 * Within PwC’s assurance scope (see PwC’s Assurance Report, pages 78-79). 2 Restated. 3 Carlsberg employees. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 61 MARKETING COMMUNICATION 2014 2015 2016 2017 Percentage of companies with a procedure in place to track consumer complaints 98 95 984 1004 Number of reported incidents of non-compliance with the Marketing Communication Policy 6 4 4 0 Number of sales, marketing and innovation employees trained through the marketing communication e-learning module 490 N/A N/A 502 Percentage of companies that have a “moderation” line on all branded communication in all digital marketing and TVCs and in all print communication above A4 56 65 665 775 RESPONSIBLE DRINKING 2014 2015 2016 2017 Percentage of companies implementing responsible drinking initiatives 62 78 756 906 Percentage of fermented produced volume carrying responsible drinking guiding symbols and/or equivalent text* 67 54 85 97 Responsible drinking campaigns 115 239 194 248 Percentage of companies in markets with self-regulatory bodies N/A 73 787 777 LIVE BY OUR COMPASS 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total number of employees trained in the Business Ethics Policy 5,674 6,835 NA NA Total number of employees trained in the Code of Ethics & Conduct 4,336 34,500 Percentage of companies that have implemented third-party screening procedures 68 84 84 95 Number of incidents reported through our Speak Up system 30 87 55 53 * Within PwC’s assurance scope (see PWC’s’s Assurance Report, pages 78-79). 4 39 out of 39 companies. 5 30 out of 39 companies. 6 35 out of 39 companies. 7 30 out of 39 companies. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 62 LABOUR & HUMAN RIGHTS 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total workforce (FTE**) 46,832 47,464 42,062 41,430 Percentage of employees by employment contract Permanent employees 82 88 86 89 Temporary employees 18 12 14 11 Percentage of employees by employment type Full-time 94 98 93 93 Part-time 6 2 7 7 Percentage of employees by employment category Total presidents + top managers 2.1 1.5 1.5 1.4 Total managers 11.5 12.3 12.6 13.2 Total specialists 40.9 39.9 36.7 36.9 Total workers 45.5 46.3 49.2 48.5 Percentage of employees by gender Male 72 72 69 71 Female 28 28 31 29 Percentage of management level by gender Male 76 78 77 76 Female 24 22 23 24 Percentage of employees by age Younger than 18 0.02 0.19 0.11 0.13 19-29 23 22 23 25 30-39 34 33 33 35 40-49 27 29 27 25 50 or older 16 16 17 15 ** FTE data from Carlsberg Group Annual Report 2017. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 63 2014 2015 2016 2017 Employee turnover Employee turnover percentage 15 19 21 24 Employee turnover percentage by age Younger than 18 19-29 36 32 31 31 30-39 31 33 34 38 40-49 18 20 20 18 50 or older 15 15 15 15 Employee turnover percentage by gender Male 72 71 69 63 Female 28 29 31 37 Hours of training per employee Average for the Group 15 15 15 15 Collective bargaining Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 71 73 74 74 Policy implementation status Percentage of labour & human rights procedures and processes implemented as average for the Group 94 92 92 90 2014 2015 2016 2017 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Number of integrated quality audits 101 171 182 154 CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 64 SECTION 2 2015-2017 TARGETS WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID Energy, carbon and water Responsible drinking Impact reduction Energy consumption has improved by 8% Responsibility messages 77% of our marketing materials above A4 5-10% reduction in relative consumption of energy, All print communication above A4 and digital and TV now carry responsible drinking messages Water consumption has improved by 7% water and CO2 compared to 2014 commercials to carry responsible drinking messages CO2 emissions have improved by 19% Circularity 10 partners by the end of 2017 Responsibility programmes 90% of our companies are now 17 partners in the Carlsberg Circular Community All Group companies to implement at least one implementing responsible drinking initiatives responsible drinking programme annually Certifications 3 bronze certifications obtained: Carlsberg Symbols on packaging 97% of our primary packaging now carries a 3 Cradle-to-Cradle® product certifications and Somersby cans, 1664 glass bottle, 100% of consumer-facing primary packaging to carry responsible drinking symbol 1664 cardboard box responsible drinking symbols to discourage harmful drinking Consumer activities 28% of companies conducted campaigns Consumer information Ingredient and nutritional information is on Annual consumer-facing sustainable packaging 80% of consumer-facing primary packaging in 68% and 67% of packaging respectively in activities by all Group companies Western Europe to carry information on ingredients Western Europe. We will reach 80% in Q1 and nutritional values 2018 Returnable packaging No baseline to track improvement against Consumer outreach In 2017, we reached over 70 million Improve returnable packaging performance in Annually reach at least 20 million consumers consumers. Average of 50 million production and in trade in markets where returnable through responsible drinking messaging and consumers reached annually since 2015 packaging is part of the long-term packaging campaigns strategy Health & Safety LTAR Our LTAR improved by 46% 40% reduction in the Group lost-time accident rate compared to 2014 performance Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 65 WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID Labour & human rights Live by our Compass Leadership Integrity covered in the implementation of Policy training 34,500 employees received training on Code Anchor integrity in the organisation as one of the Live by our Compass Train all employees on Code of Ethics & Conduct of Ethics & Conduct via e-learning and leadership competences upon hire and subsequently every three years face-to-face sessions Diversity Gender distribution similar to previous years Anti-corruption training Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy was Increase gender diversity in top and middle Train all employees in high-risk markets on launched in 2017. The detailed supporting management across the Group anti-corruption annually manuals were finalised in December, which meant that training was postponed until 2018, but anti-corruption essentials were UN Guiding Principles Human rights due diligence conducted on an covered in Code of Ethics & Conduct Understand and demonstrate continuous due ongoing basis, including assessing any e-learning diligence in accordance with the UN Guiding possible and potential human rights impacts Principles on Business and Human Rights Third-party screening Third-party screening is conducted by Embed third-party screening in contracting process contract owners and monitored by local E-learning E-learning and classroom training sessions and train relevant business units in all markets legal counsels Roll out LHR Policy e-learning module to HR and conducted across Asia region through 2017, line managers across the Group as a pilot for other reaching 1,200 employees target groups Risk assessments Risk assessments were conducted across all Conduct annual Compliance Risk Assessment across markets in 2017 all markets Fully Partially Not achieved achieved achieved CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 66 SECTION 3 REPORTING PROCESS AND SCOPE REPORTING APPROACH AND CRITERIA and will continue to play a role in connection COMMENTS ON BOUNDARY SETTING information about our company for them to be SCOPE OF THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING with the main areas of Together Towards The following sites have been closed/sold since able to make their own judgements concerning This report contains Standard Disclosures from ZERO. 2016 and have therefore been excluded from the Carlsberg Group’s position and role in the the GRI Sustainability Reporting G4 Guidelines 2017 reporting: societies in which we do business. without meeting the “in accordance” criteria. BOUNDARY SETTING Entities included in this report’s performance UZBEKISTAN: CLARITY In this document, we cover the relevant and data include majority-owned subsidiaries, • Carlsberg Uzbekistan: Tashkent brewery We strive to make our sustainability reporting significant social, ethical and environmental which are defined as companies that the (both company and brewery) accessible and easy to read, but are always issues for the financial year 1 January to 31 Carlsberg Group directly or indirectly owns, in open to feedback about the way we December 2017. Our GRI table includes which it controls more than 50% of the voting INDIA: communicate on our material issues. references to our Annual Report, which covers rights or that it otherwise controls. • Carlsberg India: Bihar brewery (temporarily our financial and economic performance. This closed) ACCURACY AND RELIABILITY information gives our stakeholders an overview Joint ventures and companies over which the Since 2009, our dedicated sustainability of our social, environmental and economic CHINA reporting system has helped us collect data Carlsberg Group does not have the opportunity performance. • Carlsberg Beer Enterprise Management from local sites and consolidate this at Group to exercise management control are not (Chongqing) Company Limited, Chongqing level. Every year since 2009, we have improved covered. However, we work with our partners We receive recommendations on our (“Eastern Assets”): Lujiang Co. Ltd the definitions of and accounting principles for as a matter of course to ensure an ongoing sustainability activities and reporting from our focus on sustainability issues. If a majorityour performance indicators in order to help our assurance provider, PwC, and we also ENSURING DATA QUALITY entities report accurately and reliably. owned entity is acquired during the financial continuously analyse competitors’ and industry In gathering information about our year, that entity will be included in the initiatives in order to keep ourselves up to date. sustainability performance, we have applied However, it is a challenge to obtain a complete following year’s report. the widely used principles of balance, clarity, and fully aligned overview of all our data that In this report, we revised the reporting areas in accuracy, reliability, timeliness and – at the same time – takes into account local By way of exception, the economic line with the materiality assessment from comparability. Please find additional procedures for data gathering. For this reason, contribution section of the report follows the 2016. In this assessment, community information on each of the topics below: we are continuously working on improving data boundary setting of the Annual Report, which investment did not come out as one of our includes minority joint ventures and other accuracy. We are using an international BALANCE most material issues, so we have discontinued associated companies. provider of sustainability software solutions to We are committed to communicating honestly global reporting on this area. However, systematise and collect our data. We have and openly about our performance, both when community investment and other philanthropic used the system since 2009, and it gives us a it has improved and when it has not. Our aim is activities are still highly relevant local topics higher degree of control over the datato provide our stakeholders with sufficient gathering process, helps local companies CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 67 compare data year on year, and enables DEFINITIONS instant consistency checks during the dataDuring the reporting process, we identified gathering phase. Besides the system, we use some differences in the interpretation of certain additional internal data management systems indicators at site level. However, we do not feel to collect information such as employee that these differences significantly impact the headcounts. validity of the reported data. Within the environmental data, any reference to PwC has been appointed to provide “production site” or “site” refers to sites where independent assurance regarding selected the Carlsberg Group produces beer, soft drinks economic, environmental and safety indicators. or malt, as well as combinations of these, and In each section of the report, we indicate which the water and energy consumption at these data has been assured. For further details, see sites. The term “production site” does not pages 78-79. include off-site consumption such as logistics and off-site administration. Definitions for TIMELINESS environmental indicators and health & safety Internally, we report our sustainability data are available in section 5, page 73. with varying degrees of frequency, depending on the nature of the data. Where necessary, TARGETS we revise the reporting frequency in order to We communicate two different kinds of action strike the right balance between obtaining the and target: correct data and observing appropriate time • One-year short-term actions intervals for reporting on it. Annual data • 2022 and 2030 targets gathering and external reporting are aligned with financial data collection, following the These have been developed by each of the calendar year. area owners in cooperation with Group Sustainability and may be adjusted following COMPARABILITY significant changes in the business, such as In the GRI table (section 4, pages 68-72), we major acquisitions and divestments, but only if have listed whether our reporting is fully or these changes are made before the target date. partially in line with the GRI indicator As far as possible, we include such changes by definitions. applying scenario planning to our targetsetting process. We include threeor five-year data, as recommended by GRI, in all cases where a comparable threeor five-year data history is available. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 68 SECTION 4 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TABLE This report and the following table to which we report on each GRI Standard Every response or performance indicator is The GRI Standards encourage disaggregation reference the Foundation, General Disclosures, and Disclosure. We have applied the GRI linked to a specific section of either our of information where feasible, but Management Approach and Topic-Specific since 2009. Annual Report 2017 (AR), our company acknowledge that the level of disaggregation Standards from the GRI’s Sustainability website (www.carlsberggroup.com) or the may vary by indicator. In this report we have Reporting Standards 2016. To increase Sustainability Report 2016 (SR). provided data primarily at Group level, with transparency, the table details the extent some regional and local data. GENERAL DISCLOSURES: GRI PROFILE REPORTING UNGC GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE NO. DISCLOSURE TITLE LOCATION LEVEL EXPLANATION PRINCIPLE SDG GRI 102 General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization SR 1 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services https://carlsberggroup.com/products/ 102-3 Location of headquarters Copenhagen 102-4 Location of operations https://carlsberggroup.com/who-we-are/about-thecarlsberg-group/global-presence/ 102-5 Ownership and legal form AR 50 102-6 Markets served https://carlsberggroup.com/who-we-are/about-thecarlsberg-group/global-presence/ AR 8, 15-22 102-7 Scale of the organization AR 5-8 102-8 Information on employees and other SR 62-3 Partial disclosure 102-8a, 102-8b, 102-8c, workers 102-8d, 102-8e, 102-8f 102-9 Supply chain https://carlsberggroup.com/who-we-are/about-thePartial disclosure 102-9a carlsberg-group/carlsberg-supply-chain-csc/ SR 12 102-10 Significant changes to the organization SR 66 Full disclosure 102-10ai and its supply chain Full disclosure 102-10aii Partial disclosure 102-10aiii 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach SR 6 7 102-12 External initiatives SR 3, 36, 65 Partial disclosure 102-12a CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 69 GRI PROFILE REPORTING UNGC GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE NO. DISCLOSURE TITLE LOCATION LEVEL EXPLANATION PRINCIPLE SDG GRI 102 General Disclosures 2016 102-13 Membership of associations Beverage Industry Environmental Roundtable (BIER), Corporate Sourcing of Renewables, International Alliance for Responsible Drinking (IARD), RE100, Suppliers Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX), The Brewers of Europe (BOE), WEF CEO Climate Leaders Initiative, We Mean Business, World Federation of Advertisers (WFA), Local brewers associations 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker SR 3 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms SR 45-46 10 of behavior 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns SR 46, AR 30-31 10 about ethics 102-18 Governance structure AR 32-39 102-22 Composition of the highest governance AR 32-39, 46-49 body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Chair not also an executive officer 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest AR 37 Full disclosure 102-24a governance body Partial disclosure 102-24b 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in Supervisory Board sustainability reporting 102-35 Remuneration policies AR 40-45 102-40 List of stakeholder groups SR 5 Partial disclosure 102-40a 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements SR 63 3 8 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders https://carlsberggroup.com/media/10920/2016Partial disclosure 102-42a sustainability-report.pdf#page=7 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement SR 5 Partial disclosure 102-43a 17 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised SR 5 Partial disclosure 102-44a 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated AR 121-123 financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic https://carlsberggroup.com/media/10920/2016Partial disclosure 102-46a, 102-46b boundaries sustainability-report.pdf#page=8 102-47 List of material topics SR 5, https://carlsberggroup.com/media/10920/2016sustainability-report.pdf#page=7 CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 70 GRI PROFILE REPORTING UNGC GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE NO. DISCLOSURE TITLE LOCATION LEVEL EXPLANATION PRINCIPLE SDG GRI 102 General Disclosures 2016 102-48 Restatements of information SR 43 102-49 Changes in reporting SR 66 102-50 Reporting period The report covers the 2017 calendar year 102-51 Date of most recent report Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report 2016, published on 24 February 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions sustainability@carlsberg.com regarding the report 102-55 GRI content index This report has been prepared with reference to the GRI Standards 102-56 External assurance SR 6, 78-9 ECONOMIC GRI 201 Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated SR 54 8 and distributed 201-2 Financial implications and other risks SR 7, 23 Partial disclosure 201-2a:i, 201-2a:ii, 7 13 and opportunities due to climate change 201-2a:iv GRI 205 Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 Communication and training about antiSR 45-46 Partial disclosure 205-2a, 205-2b, 205-2c, 10 corruption policies and procedures 205-2d, 205-2e ENVIROMENTAL GRI 301 Materials 2016 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging SR 19, 59 Partial disclosure 301-3a, 301-3b 7,8,9 12 materials GRI 302 Energy 2016 103 1/2/3 Management approach SR 12 7,8 302-1 Energy consumption within the SR 11-20, 57-59 Partial disclosure 302-1a, 302-1b, 302-1c, 8,9 7 organization 302-1e, 302-1f, 302-1g 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption SR 11-20 Partial disclosure 302-4a, 302-4b, 302-4c, 8,9 7 302-4d CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 71 GENERAL DISCLOSURES: GRI PROFILE REPORTING UNGC GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE NO. DISCLOSURE TITLE LOCATION LEVEL EXPLANATION PRINCIPLE SDG GRI 303 Water 2016 103 1/2/3 Management approach SR 24 Full disclosure 103-1, 103-2 7,8 Partial disclosure 103-3 303-1 Water withdrawal by source SR 58 7,8 6 GRI 305 Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) SR 11-21, 57-59 Full disclosure 305-1a, 305-1e, 305-1g 7,8,9 7,13 Partial disclosure 305-1c, 305-1d, 305-1f 305-2 Energy indirect GHG emissions (Scope 2) SR 11-21, 57-59 Full disclosure 305-2a, 305-2e, 305-2g 7,8,9 7,13 Partial disclosure 305-2b, 305-2d, 305-2f 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions SR 11-21, 57-59 Full disclosure 305-5a, 305-5c 8,9 7,13 Partial disclosure 305-5b, 305-5d, 305-5e 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulphur SR 57 Full disclosure 305-7a:i and ii 7,8,9 oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions GRI 306 Effluents and Waste 2016 306-1 Water discharge by quality and SR 58 Partial disclosure 306-1a, 306-1b 7,8,9 6 destination 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method SR 57 Full disclosure 306-2b 7,8,9 12 Partial disclosure 306-2-a, 306-2c GRI 308 Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using SR 18, 49 Partial disclosure 308-1a 17 environmental criteria SOCIAL GRI 401 Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee SR 63 Partial disclosure 401-1b 6 8 turnover GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety 2016 103 1/2/3 Management approach SR 39 Full disclosure 103-1, 103-2 1,2 Partial disclosure 103-3 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, SR 39-43, SR 60 Partial disclosure 403-2a, 403-2b, 403-2c 1 occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workrelated fatalities CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 72 GENERAL DISCLOSURES: GRI PROFILE REPORTING UNGC GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE NO. DISCLOSURE TITLE LOCATION LEVEL EXPLANATION PRINCIPLE SDG GRI 404 Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year SR 63 Partial disclosure 404-1a 1 per employee GRI 405 Training and Education 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies SR 48, 62-63, AR 35-36, 46-47 Partial disclosure 405-1a, 405-1b 6 8 and employees GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-1 Operations that have been subject to SR 49 Partial disclosure 412-1a 1,2,3,4,5,6 human rights reviews or impact assessments 412-3 Significant investment agreements and SR 49 Partial disclosure 412-3a 1,2 contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening GRI 414 Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using SR 49 Partial disclosure 414-1a 1,2,3,4,5,6 social criteria GRI 416 Customer Health and Safety 2016 103 1/2/3 Management approach SR 30 Full disclosure 103-1, 103-2 Partial disclosure 103-3 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety SR 31-37 Partial disclosure 416-1a 3 impacts of product and service categories GRI 417 Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service SR 29-37 Full disclosure 417-1b 3 information and labeling Partial disclosure 417-1a 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning SR 36 Partial disclosure 417-3a 3 marketing communications CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 73 SECTION 5 DEFINITIONS INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT Total thermal energy consumption Total thermal energy consumption for beer, soft drinks and malt production GWh Total electricity consumption Total electricity consumption for beer, soft drinks and malt production GWh Total water consumption Total water consumption for beer, soft drinks and malt production m3 Total production of beer and soft drinks Total fermented and non-fermented products produced hl Total CO2 emissions Total fossil carbon dioxide emissions1 (direct and indirect) emitted from the energy used for beer, soft drinks and malt production kt CO2 Specific thermal energy consumption Thermal energy needed to produce one hectolitre of beer and soft drinks kWh/hl Specific electricity consumption Electricity needed to produce one hectolitre of beer and soft drinks kWh/hl Specific water consumption Water needed to produce one hectolitre of beer and soft drinks hl/hl Specific CO2 emissions Fossil carbon dioxide emissions (direct and indirect emissions) emitted from the energy used to produce one hectolitre of beer and soft drinks kg CO2/hl CO2 emissions from refrigerants Impact from refrigerants refilled or recharged in any system at a brewery or malting site. Expressed in CO2-equivalents kt CO2 Lost-time accidents (LTA) in Production, Logistics, Sales & Occupational accidents that result in employees being unable to perform the full range of their normal duties for at least one day, Number (LTA) Marketing and Administration excluding the day of the accident Lost-time accident rate (LTAR) in Production, Logistics, Sales & Number of LTAs x 1,000 / number of FTEs Rate (LTAR) Marketing and Administration Days lost (DL) in Production and Logistics, Sales & Marketing Days absent from work (excluding the day of the accident) due to lost-time accidents Number (DL) and Administration Days lost rate (DLR) in Production, Logistics, Sales & Marketing Number of DLs x 1,000 / number of FTEs Rate (DLR) and Administration Full-time equivalents (FTEs) in Production, Logistics, Sales & Number of employees on payroll, where part-time workers are converted into FTEs by an equivalent proportion and one person counts as Number (FTEs) Marketing and Administration maximum 1 FTE Number of consumer-facing sustainable packaging campaigns Campaigns towards consumers with the purpose of reducing the environmental impact of packaging by, for example, encouraging correct disposal Number of used packaging through recycling messages Percentage of fermented produced volume carrying responsible Volume of packed fermented products that carry responsible drinking guiding symbols and/or equivalent text divided by total packed fermented Percentage drinking guiding symbols and/or equivalent text production volume x 100% 1 CO2 emission factors used for fossil fuels and electricity are in accordance with the 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories and IEA statistics: CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion (2016 Edition). CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 74 SECTION 6 LIST OF REPORTING SITES COUNTRY COMPANY SITES WESTERN EUROPE Bulgaria Carlsberg Bulgaria Pirinsko, Shumensko Croatia Carlsberg Croatia Koprivnica Denmark Carlsberg Danmark Jacobsen Brewery, Saltum, Carlsberg Fredericia Carlsberg Breweries No production sites Estonia Saku Õlletehase as Saku Finland Sinebrychoff Kerava France Kronenbourg Kronenbourg Obernai Germany Carlsberg Deutschland Holsten-Brauerei Hamburg AG, Mecklenburgische Brauerei Lübz Greece Olympic Brewery S.A. Thessaloniki Ritsona Brewery Italy Carlsberg Italia Varese Latvia Aldaris Aldaris Riga Lithuania Svyturys Utenos Alus Utena, Klaipeda Norway Ringnes Farris, Gjelleråsen, Imsdal Poland Carlsberg Polska Okocim Brewery Brzesko, Kasztelan Brewery, Szczecin Brewery Serbia Carlsberg Srbija Carlsberg Srbija Celarevo Sweden Carlsberg Sverige Falkenberg, Ramlösa Sverige Switzerland Feldschlösschen Rhäzüns, S Rheinfeld, Sion Carlsberg Supply Company No production sites UK Carlsberg UK Northampton CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 75 COUNTRY COMPANY SITES EASTERN EUROPE Azerbaijan Baku (Company) Baku Brewery Belarus Alivaria Alivaria Kazakhstan Carlsberg Kazakhstan Carlsberg Kazakhstan (brewery site) Russia Baltika Breweries Baltika Brewery St Petersburg, Baltika Don Brewery Rostov-Na-Don, Baltika Khabarovsk, Baltika Novosibirsk, Baltika Samara, Baltika Tula Brewery Tula, Yarpivo Brewery Yaroslavl, Yarpivo Voronezh Carlsberg Eastern Europe (Grain Co) Malt Plant Yaroslavl, Malt Plant Tula Ukraine Carlsberg Ukraine Lvivska Brewery Lviv, Slavutich Zaporozhye, Slavutich Kiev ASIA China Xinjiang Group Akesu Brewery, Urumqi No. 2 Brewery, Wusu Brewery, Yining Brewery, Korle Brewery Carlsberg Brewery Guangdong Carlsberg Brewery Guangdong (Huizhou) Ningxia Group Ningxia Xixia Jianiang Brewery Yunnan Group Kunming Huashi Brewery Yunnan, Dali Beer Co. Ltd Chongqing Brewery Group Mawangxiang Brewery, Dazhulin Brewery, Hechuan Brewery, Liangping Brewery, Wanzhou Brewery, Fuling Brewery Chongqing Jianiang Beer Co., Ltd. Panzhihua Brewery, Xichang Brewery, Boke Brewery, Shizhu Brewery, Yibin Brewery Chongqing Brewery Guoren Co., Ltd. Guoren Lixian Brewery, Guoren Changde Brewery, Guoren Yongzhou Brewery Carlsberg Beer Enterprise Management (Chongqing) Changzhou Tianmuhu Beer Co. Ltd, Anhui Tiandao Beer Co. Ltd, Company Limited, Chongqing (“Eastern Assets”) Carlsberg Hong Kong Not a production site Carlsberg Brewery Hong Kong Not a production site India Carlsberg India Kolkatta, Alwar, Aurangabad, Paonta Sahib, Hyderabad, Dharuhera, Bihar (temporarily closed) Laos Lao Brewery Pepsi Plant Vientiane, Lao Brewery Pakse, Lao Brewery Vientiane Malaysia Carlsberg Malaysia Carlsberg Kuala Lumpur Myanmar Myanmar Carlsberg Bago Brewery Nepal Gorkha Brewery Gorkha Brewery Singapore Carlsberg Singapore Not a production site Vietnam Carlsberg Vietnam Phu Bai, SEAB Hanoi CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 76 SECTION 7 TAX CONTRIBUTION PRINCIPLES BASIS OF PREPARATION when Carlsberg A/S directly or indirectly owns data is reported by the entity in local currency Income recognised in other comprehensive GENERAL COMMENTS or controls more than 50% of the voting rights in multiples of 1,000. income is not included. This Basis of Preparation presents the scope in the subsidiary or has control in some other and methodology for the collection and way. Subsidiaries that Carlsberg A/S controls SCOPE OF REPORTING AND DEFINITION Total tax contribution reporting of the data on tax payments used in have reported 100% of their taxes borne and OF KEY TERMS Total tax contribution is the sum of taxes borne the Economic Contribution to Society Report collected, and the full amount is included in the “Tax” in this Report means any amount of and taxes collected paid to governments for section (“the Report”). Carlsberg Group tax contribution. money required to be paid to, or collected and the period from 1 January to 31 December. subsequently remitted to, a government. Amounts are included as paid when cash is The Report aims to provide readers with an Companies over which the Carlsberg Group released from or received by the Carlsberg overview of the total tax contribution to society exercises significant influence but does not Taxes are reported by differentiating between Group. that the Carlsberg Group (excluding associates) control are considered to be associates. taxes borne and taxes collected. The following has generated during the year. The total tax sections provide the scope of the data Operating costs Significant influence is generally obtained by presented in the Report. Include cost of sales, sales and distribution contribution is defined as taxes borne and taxes direct or indirect ownership or control of more expenses, administrative expenses and other collected by the Carlsberg Group. than 20% but less than 50% of the voting rights. Terms defined in the Carlsberg Group’s Annual operating expenses, but excludes employee Data for associates is not part of the Carlsberg Report 2017 are not described below. wages. The Basis of Preparation supports the data for Group tax contribution. taxes borne, taxes collected and total tax Employee wages contribution included in the Report. Entities acquired or formed during the year are Taxes borne and taxes collected are the taxes Include wages to employees excluding social recognised in the Report from the date of due in respect of an accounting period as security costs. It is the responsibility of the Management of acquisition or formation. Entities that are defined in IFRS, as adopted by the EU. Taxes the Carlsberg Group to ensure that appropriate disposed of or wound up are recognised in the borne paid and taxes collected paid, including Providers of capital procedures are in place to prepare reporting in consolidated income statement until the date excise duty paid, are included when cash is Include financial expenses recognised in the line with this Basis of Preparation. of disposal or winding-up. released from or received by the Carlsberg income statement, but not financial expenses Group. recognised in other comprehensive income. All data, unless otherwise stated, is prepared The data includes a degree of estimation, as KEY TERM DEFINITIONS for the year from 1 January 2017 to 31 tax per entity is not reported in detail if a type Economic value retained Economic value generated December 2017. of tax is below DKK 100,000 per year. Instead, Consolidated profit after tax. Economic value generated comprises gross taxes below DKK 50,000 are not reported, revenue, other income, financial income, Data is collected for all companies that while taxes above DKK 50,000 but below DKK income included in special items and share of Carlsberg A/S controls. Control is obtained 100,000 are reported as DKK 50,000. The profit after tax in associates and joint ventures. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 77 Current tax Corporate income tax Real estate taxes 2. TAXES AND EXCISE DUTIES COLLECTED The corporate income tax due in respect of Corporate income tax comprises any tax on the Real estate taxes comprise any propertyThese are taxes not finally borne by the taxable profit for an accounting period, as in business calculated on the basis of its profits, related taxes, including property, land and Carlsberg Group, but for which the Group bears accordance with the International Financial income or capital gains. Typically, these taxes estate tax (other than stamp duty, which is an administrative burden of collection. These Reporting Standard IAS 12 “Income Taxes”. would be reflected in corporate income tax shown below). Typically, these taxes tend to taxes are, however, indirectly generated from returns made to governments and tend to become payable, and are paid, to governments the Group’s business activities and are therefore Deferred tax become payable, and are paid, either in the throughout the year. part of the Group’s total tax contribution. The corporate income tax due in respect of year the profits were made or up to one year temporary differences between accounting later, depending on the local tax rules as to Withholding taxes on dividends, royalties, Personal income taxes values and tax base, as defined in IAS 12. timing of payments. interest and professional fees These comprise employee taxes withheld from Withholding taxes comprise the final tax employee wages and paid to governments, i.e. Employee taxes Excise duties (beer and soft drinks etc.) burden on payment of dividends, interest etc. tax collected and remitted to governments on Include personal income taxes and social Excise duties are indirect taxes on the after any tax relief. behalf of employees. contributions for employees (borne and consumption or the use of certain products collected). (e.g. alcoholic beverages or tobacco). In Transportation taxes Social contributions withheld by the company contrast to value-added tax (VAT), they are Transportation taxes comprise flight tax, petrol These comprise social contributions payable by Government tax, registration duties and other taxes levied employees to social security and private funded expressed as a monetary amount per quantity The term government means any government on the mobility of goods and employees. and unfunded schemes. Generally, the of the product. body or nation, state, region or district. employment of staff requires the employing Social contribution for employees company to administer employees’ social Energy taxes (net, non-refundable) Direct tax Social contribution for employees comprises Energy taxes comprise environmental taxes security contributions by deducting these from A tax paid directly to a government by the the social security contributions levied on and levied on the consumption of energy. Such wages and salaries. person on whom it is imposed. Such taxes also borne by the employing company. Such taxes may include taxes on the consumption of include non-refundable VAT, non-recoverable contributions may include the employer’s Withholding tax on dividend distributions made electricity, oil, gas or coal. withholding taxes, real estate tax etc. national insurance contributions, employment by Carlsberg A/S Environmental fees insurance tax, employees’ provident fund, oldThis comprises taxes that are required to be Indirect tax age and survivors’ pensions, and disability Environmental fees comprise additional withheld in advance on payments made to A tax required to be paid to a government by insurance tax. environmental taxes that may apply deshareholders. one person at the expense of another. pending on company operations. Such taxes may include other taxes and duties on the Stamp duties Value-added tax (VAT) SCOPE OF REPORTING Stamp duties comprise taxes that arise on VAT is a broadly based consumption tax supply of goods and services that are 1. TAXES AND EXCISE DUTIES BORNE transfers of assets or capital. Typically, these assessed on the value added to goods and These are the taxes that the Carlsberg Group is potentially harmful to the environment and taxes would be reflected in stamp duty returns services. It applies more or less to all goods obliged to pay to a government on its own have not been included in the energy taxes. made to governments and tend to become and services that are bought and sold for use behalf, or taxes that the Group is obliged to payable, and are paid, to governments shortly VAT (non-deductible) or consumption in certain geographic areas. pay to a third party and that cannot be after capital or assets have been transferred. This comprises the non-deductible part of the The amount shown comprises the net VAT recovered from a government. value-added tax, i.e. taxes that arise in relation payable to a government, i.e. VAT on sales less to brewing or sale, which cannot be recovered Other taxes VAT on purchases. This category comprises all taxes paid that from a government. The payment is borne by have not been included in the above categories. the company and not the consumers. CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 78 SECTION 8 LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR TO THE STAKEHOLDERS OF WHAT ARE WE ASSURING PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS APPLIED comprehensive system of quality control CARLSBERG GROUP The scope of our work was limited to assurance AND LEVEL OF ASSURANCE including documented policies and procedures Carlsberg Group engaged us to provide limited over selected 2017 data in Section 1 (pages We performed a limited assurance engagement regarding compliance with ethical assurance on the data and information 57-63) of the 2017 Carlsberg Group in accordance with International Standard on requirements, professional standards and described below and set out in the Sustainability Report, namely: Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Sustainability Report of Carlsberg Group for ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Our work was carried out by an independent the year ended 31 December 2017. • Energy, carbon and water: data on ‘beer and Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. A multidisciplinary team with experience in soft drink production’, 'energy consumption', limited assurance engagement is substantially sustainability reporting and assurance. OUR CONCLUSION 'CO2 emissions', 'HFC’s data’ and ‘water less in scope than a reasonable assurance Based on the procedures we have performed consumption’ and related explanations (pages engagement in relation to both the risk UNDERSTANDING REPORTING AND and the evidence we have obtained, nothing 14-15 and page 25); assessment procedures, including an MEASUREMENT METHODOLOGIES has come to our attention that causes us not to • Responsible drinking: data on ‘percentage of understanding of internal control, and the Data and information need to be read and believe that data in scope for our limited fermented produced volume carrying procedures performed in response to the understood together with the accounting assurance engagement in the Carlsberg Group responsible drinking guiding symbols and/or assessed risks; consequently, the level of principles (section 3: Reporting process and Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 equivalent text'; assurance obtained in a limited assurance scope, section 5: Definitions, section 6: List of December 2017 are without material • Sustainable packaging: data on 'Number of engagement is substantially lower than the reporting sites and section 7: Tax contribution misstatements and have been prepared, in all consumer facing sustainable packaging assurance that would have been obtained had principles), which Management is solely material respects, in accordance with the campaigns'; a reasonable assurance engagement been responsible for selecting and applying. The accounting policies as stated in the sections 3, • 'Health & Safety': data on 'lost-time accident performed. absence of a significant body of established 5, 6 and 7 of the 2017 Carlsberg Group rate' and 'days lost rate' in Carlsberg Group practice on which to draw to evaluate and Sustainability Report. respectively and additional explanations OUR INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY measure non-financial information allows for (page 42-43); CONTROL different, but acceptable, measurement This conclusion is to be read in the context of • In the “Economic contribution and tax We have complied with the Code of Ethics for techniques and can affect comparability what we say in the remainder of our report. contribution” section, the following Professional Accountants issued by the between entities and over time. information for 2017: Taxes borne incl. excise International Ethics Standards Board for duties, corporate tax paid and excise duty Accountants, which includes independence and paid (pages 55-56). other ethical requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, We do not provide any assurance on the professional competence and due care, achievability of Carlsberg Group's objectives, confidentiality and professional behaviour. The targets and expectations. firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 79 WORK PERFORMED • Reconciled selected tax information with the OUR RESPONSIBILITY We are required to plan and perform our work audited consolidated financial statements of We are responsible for: in order to consider the risk of material Carlsberg A/S; • Planning and performing the engagement to misstatement of the data and information. In • Read other information included in the 2017 obtain limited assurance about whether doing so and based on our professional Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report in order selected environmental, health & safety, judgement, we: to identify any material inconsistencies with social and economic contribution data in the • Completed a media search to identify relevant the selected data in scope for our assurance 2017 Carlsberg Group Sustainability Report risk and issues within the scope of the engagement and our limited assurance report are free from material misstatement, whether assurance engagement for Carlsberg during thereon. due to fraud or error; the reporting period; • Forming an independent conclusion, based on • Reviewed the suitability of the reporting the procedures we have performed and the criteria; MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITIES evidence we have obtained; and • Evaluated the design and implementation of Management of Carlsberg Group is responsible • Reporting our conclusion to the Stakeholders the systems, and processing and internal for: of Carlsberg Group. controls over the selected data in scope for • Designing, implementing and maintaining our assurance engagement; internal control over information relevant to • Conducted interviews with relevant policy the preparation of data in the 2017 Carlsberg owners at corporate levels, who are Group Sustainability Report that are free from Copenhagen, 7 February 2018 responsible for collecting, consolidating and material misstatement, whether due to fraud carrying out internal control procedures on or error; the selected data in scope for our assurance • Establishing objective accounting principles PricewaterhouseCoopers engagement; (sections 3, 5, 6 and 7) for preparing data Statsautoriseret • Visited production sites in China, Denmark and information; Revisionspartnerselskab and Russia to obtain insight into local • Measuring and reporting data and CVR no. 3377 1231 sustainability management, review data and information in the Sustainability Report based assess the robustness of the sustainability on the accounting principles; and Mogens Nørgaard Mogensen Gert Fisker Tomczyk data management systems; • The content of 2017 Carlsberg Group State Authorised Public State Authorised Public • Conducted an analytical review of the Sustainability Report. Accountant Accountant selected data in scope for our assurance Mne21404 Mne9777 engagement submitted by all production sites for consolidation at corporate level; • Evaluated relevant internal and external documentation, based on sampling, to determine whether the selected data in scope for our assurance engagement is supported by sufficient evidence; CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 DATA AND ASSURANCE 80 Carlsberg A/S 100 Ny Carlsberg Vej 1799 Copenhagen V Denmark Phone +45 3327 3300 www.carlsberggroup.com CVR No. 61056416 Editor: Carlsberg Group Corporate Affairs Design & layout: Operate & SkabelonDesign Copywriting & proofreading: Onestone & Borella projects
