COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT GROUPMED INSURANCE (Oct. 2017 Oct. 2018) GMI GROUPMED INSURANCE To our Stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that GroupMed Insurance and Reinsurance Company S.A.L. (GMI) affirms its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the ares of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Coruption In this Communication on Progress, we describe the actions that we took to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely Yours, Omar Bilani Chief Executive Officer GroupMed Insurance and Reinsurance Company S.A.L. 3rd Floor, 131 Marfaa Bulding, Foch Street P.O. Box: 11-7695 Riad El Solh, Beirut, Lebanon Tel.: +961 1 999 250, Fax: +961 1 999 251 Capital: 27,000,000,000 L.B.P. Fully Paid C.R. Beirut: 1020056 M.O.F.: 4696 M.O.E.T. License Number 204 by Decision Number 13/A.T. Dated 5-4-1984 Subject to Decree Number 9812 Issued on 4/5/1968 as Amended VISION Be part of a leading insurance services group that seek continuous development and customer satisfaction. MISSION Proactively assess client’s needs and address them through sophisticated services, tailored solutions and innovative insurance products. CORE VALUES Client Focus Team work Commitment Meet the requirements Provide team members Perform all initiatives with and expectations with with the tools needed to determination and tenacity measurable deliverables explore their full potential to guarantee achievement and ensure quality in all of all objectives our provided services Innovation Credibility Integrity Invest is systems that facilitate Strive to ensure all measures Have no compromise work and are up to date are taken to earn the trust and on our ethics as individuals, reliability of all our shareholders as teams and as a group United Nations Global Compact The 10 principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion & bribery HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 1 We are equal opportunity employers and all our pratices provide no discrimination against any applicant be it because of race, color, religion, political views, gender, age and physical/mental disability. 2 Our management believes in an open door policy where all employees are welcome to discuss their needs. 3 GMI developed a Code of Ethics and Conduct that includes a set of policies, rules and social norms to ensure continuous high levels of ethics across all our practices. 4 We provide our employees with fair and compatible remuneration, benefits and rewards. 5 We focus on our employee’s professional and career development through continuous assesment of technical and soft skills training needs . LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 1 Our salary scale provides a good income for our employees based on seniority levels. Our lowest paid employees consist of 22% above the minimum wage 2 Employees receive a handbook that displays all the employees rights and obligations. 3 Gender equality is applied at GMI as 55% are men and 44% are women 4 Age Diversity: 9% are in the age range of 50 60 years old 11 % are in the age range of 40 49 years old 47 % are in the age range of 30 39 years old 32 % are in the age range of 20 29 years old ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 1 We are eco-friendly. We recycle our own used papers and are increasing our efforts in continuously becoming more green. 2 GMI provides a healthy working environment. We encourage and continuously launch sessions on health advice and extra curricular activities to help with work-life balance and the general wellbeing of our employees 3 We own premium quality chairs to ensure that our employees are comfortable in their seats 4 Smoking is prohibited in our premises ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion & bribery 1 GMI has a fully developped Code of Ethics and Conduct where Anti-Corruption policies are detailed. 2 We are very careful in taking all precautions required to guarantee that our operations are in compliance with related laws and our practices meet all regulatory requirements. We also take extreme measures in addressing any breach, or attempt of extorsion/bribery or any action that directly opposes our Code of Ethics and Conduct. 3 Our employees attend yearly training sessions related to Anti-Money Laundering and Combatting the Financing of Terrorism awareness 4 We maintain clients confidentiality. THANK YOU GMI GROUPMED INSURANCE
