UN Global Compact CSR report 2017 Social responsibility at Royal Arctic Line This document is an unofficial translation of the Danish original. In the event of any inconsistencies the Danish version shall apply. About Royal Arctic Line A/S The Government of Greenland has granted Royal Arctic Line A/S an exclusive concession for the marine transport of cargo to and from Greenland and between towns and villages in Greenland. The Company is therefore vital to Greenland. Royal Arctic Line also operates 13 ports and harbours in Greenland and has a branch in Aalborg. All concession marine cargo to and from Greenland is sent via Aalborg, and via Reykjavik for cargo to Iceland, USA and Canada. Royal Arctic Line A/S was formerly part of Den Kongelige Grønlandske Handel KGH (Royal Greenland Trading Company) which started sailing to Greenland in 1774. The Company has had its present name since 1993. The Company is wholly owned by the Government of Greenland We future-proof transport to and from Greenland This report has been prepared as part of the Company’s Company. Investments must be made. It is a huge task efforts to support the UN Global Compact. and we do not have much time, because everything we started out with is becoming outdated. We have a busy Royal Arctic Line has a very important mission. We want to time ahead. make it easy to trade with Greenland. We want to ensure the most value for Greenlandic products and the best chain Making it easy to trade with Greenland is an honest and of supply. We will ensure transport to and from Greenland noble objective, based on a clear role in the infrastructure. by creating open and flexible solutions. This is a very suitable objective for the new Royal Arctic Line we have created. This is a huge transition. Before, it was about Royal Arctic Line’s own profits and its own role in transportation and As a company, we are committed to supporting the UN logistics. ”Making it easy to trade with Greenland” is about Global Compact. We are naturally therefore also working increased focus on contributing to the opportunities we can with CSR within the more traditional definitions based on create with growth and trade in Greenland. the 10 principles regarding human rights, the workforce, the environment and anti-corruption. Our success will be measured by the growth potential we are able to achieve in Greenland. Some would call this true This report concerns developments within these areas in CSR, in harmony with the cultural values we have in 2017 and the results we have achieved. Greenland. Old and outdated principles must be changed, new contracts made, new roles found for everyone in the We hope you enjoy reading this report Royal Arctic Line Verner Hammeken CEO 3 CSR at Royal Arctic Line Environment and climate Conditions for employees At Royal Arctic Line, we focus our work on systematically We respect international human rights and labour rights and reducing our negative impact on the environment by, we work consistently to ensure our employees are given among other things, reducing our energy and fuel congood, safe conditions with equal opportunities during their sumption. We look for ways to use more environmentally employment friendly technology without compromising security of supply or reliability. This means that, where possible, we are continually seeking to optimize our operations and processInvolvement in the local community es based on tested technology. We have a special obligation to ensure a positive development of the community we serve. Therefore, we seek to We seek to find the best possible solutions for the environsupport relevant partnerships and projects by making mental challenges that face our industry, e.g. ballast water, available our skills, services, time and/or funds. We focus antifouling measures and waste and pollution of the air, especially upon children and young people, culture and water and land, together with our partners. sports, those who are socially vulnerable and on education. Working environment and safety The safety, health and well-being of our employees are Anti corruption decisive for the success of our Company. We work conRoyal Arctic Line does not accept bribery, greasing palms stantly to ensure compliance and to improve the working (facilitation payments) or any form of unethical practice. We environment. Our employees always have the appropriate are therefore tightening our internal rules, controls and training, knowledge and equipment to work safely and auditing to ensure that Royal Arctic Line and its activities securely and we work to promote a company culture where always comply with applicable legislation and the principles safety, health and job satisfaction are always the right of ethical business practices. choices. Suppliers and partners Development of skills and training We want to influence our suppliers and partners to also We focus on developing the skills of our employees on all work systematically and in a structured manner with envilevels and on training trainees and apprentices. We are ronmental, social and ethical issues. We therefore work with particularly interested in elevating the level of education in dialog and demands to promote sustainability – also beGreenland and thereby helping to support a positive develyond our own company. opment for the country. 4 General performance 2015-2017 2015 2016 2017 Risk suppliers Employees 722 706 744 2015 2016 2017 Trainees 50 38 38 Number identified 137 135 N/A Ships 11 11 13 % that have signed Port terminals 14 14 14 purchase terms 85.0 % 88.8 % N/A Nautical miles sailed 328,053 374,065 418,343 The target for 2015 was to have the Terms of Purchase with Cubic metres carried 757,000 845,000 892,237 regard to CSR signed by 88 per cent of the identified risk suppliers before the end of the year. We achieved this target The Company’s ships and ports comply with the in 2016. Since our supplier base is in Denmark and has International Ship and Port Facility Security Code (ISPS). remained mainly unchanged we have chosen not to include this as a target for 2017. Container ships’ fuel consumption and emissions 2015 2016 2017 Work environment on board MGO 3,183 4,797 5,393 2015 2016 2017 HFO LS 4,636 4,383 5,103 Near-misses on ships 80 76 72 HFO HS 18,447 17,894 18,414 LTA Lost Time Accidents 4 3 3 Kilo fuel/nautical mile 67.6 72.4 69.1 EEOI 3,804 3,230 2,908 Near-misses are unforeseen incidents that do not result in an accident, sickness or injury, but which have a risk of doing so. It is therefore important to collect data concerning The EEOI (Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator) is a near-misses, in order to improve work processes and to voluntary index formerly known as the operational CO2 change dangerous environments to avoid work accidents. index. EEOI was developed by the IMO and since 2013 Royal Arctic Line has reported these figures to The Danish In 2017, 4 LTA (Lost Time Accidents) were recorded on 3 of Ship-owners Association. the Company’s container ships: 2 on Naja Arctica, 1 on Mary Arctica and 1 on Pajuttaat. EEOI figure: 2.91 gram CO2/ton cargo/per nautical mile sailed. Number of days since the latest LTA as at 31st December 2017 Pajuttaat 8 days Naja Arctica 136 days Mary Arctica 276 days Nuka Arctica 1.804 days Irena Arctica 540 days Ivalo Arctica 642 days (from take-over) Minik Arctica 486 days (from take-over) Malik Arctica 317 days (from take-over) 5 Governance Working environment and safety Royal Arctic Line’s CSR strategy is based on the CompaThe safety, health and welfare of the employees are pivotal ny’s CSR policies. Once each year, the strategy is coordito Royal Arctic Line’s success. This is why regular measures nated with the board and regular reports are sent to the are taken to improve working conditions. There is a strong management group. corporate culture that forms a natural part of Royal Arctic Line’s objectives. It is Company policy to always make Areas of responsibility are based upon the formulation of adequate training, knowledge and equipment available to UN’s ten principles for corporate social responsibility. In the employees so they can carry out their work in a safe addition, there is the responsibility which lies with the group and secure environment. management in cooperation with the board. Royal Arctic Line’s CSR policy focuses on areas that support its business objectives, areas that are important to its stakeholders At sea and to the public and on areas where Royal Arctic Line can Safety and security measures are based on the Internationmake a difference. This may be achieved in particular by al Maritime Organization’s (IMO) International Safety Manreducing the environmental effects of the Company’s operaagement (ISM) Code and the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) tions, improving safety and health at work, promoting Convention. Internal audits are performed every year and human rights and ethical operations and through involveexternal audits are performed every 30 months. Work-place ment in Greenlandic communities. This will add value to evaluations take place regularly. To maintain focus on the society and to the Company. work of minimizing risks of accidents, all ISM certified vessels are encouraged to report at least one near miss per month. In 2017, there were four Lost Time Accidents on the Human rights Company’s cargo ships. Royal Arctic Line respects international human rights and labour rights and makes a continued effort to offer employees equal terms, conditions and opportunities in this reOn shore spect. Applicants having the same qualifications must be In shore in Greenland, 15 work-related injuries were reportgiven the same opportunity for employment, which is why ed in 2017 compared to 25 in 2016. During 2017/2018, ISO Royal Arctic Line encourages any interested parties to apply certification will be phased out in the five ports where it has for vacant positions regardless of their background. Royal been implemented and we are introducing the RAL quality Arctic Line’s efforts to safeguard human rights are supportstandard in all ports; the HSEQ Department will carry out ed by guidelines established through the staff policy on how auditing. In 2017 and 2018, increased focus is on building the Company addresses equality issues and combats broader skills in ISPS (International Ship and Port Facility discrimination, victimisation, harassment or violence at the Security) activities, so that our responsibilities as port auworkplace. thority can be met with higher quality and safety, primarily with regard to port calls by cruise ships. 6 Employees, development of skills and training Trainees Royal Arctic Line is privileged to have skilled and committed Royal Arctic Line has a long tradition of being committed to employees, and continued access to qualified labour is vital raising the level of education in Greenland. The Company’s to our business. We aim to give our employees a meaningcomprehensive trainee and apprentice programmes play an ful work life with focus on quality, dedication and motivation. important role in the Company’s personnel strategy as well as in its responsibility to train the local workforce. Job satisfaction and sick-leave The average level of job satisfaction in 2017 was rated at 66 on a scale of 1-100, compared to 69 in 2016. In 2017 sickRoyal Arctic Line offers the leave was 5.1 per cent, which is higher than last year and following training opportunities some way from our goal of 2.7 per cent. Royal Arctic Line • T  erminal work has not succeeded in further reducing sick-leave in 2017. • T  erminal assistant manager (a higher-level course following on after terminal worker training and Developing employee skills which may only be taken once an employee attains the position of foreman) Development of skills is a natural part of the individual employee’s opportunities. As a wholly owned Greenlandic • W  arehouse and transport worker enterprise, Royal Arctic Line has a special responsibility to • B  oilermaker contribute to the creation of jobs in Greenland and the Company is working to increase the proportion of Green• C  onstruction equipment mechanic landic managers at Royal Arctic Line by e.g. giving employ• IT supporter ees access to supplementary training and by playing an active role in the development of maritime training pro• IT administrator grammes in Greenland. • T  NI Office assistant – academic education specializing in transport and logistics (also called shipping/forwarding) • International trade and marketing • E  conomy and resource management • N  avigator • M  arine engineer • S  hip’s mechanic • A  ble seaman Royal Arctic Line offers 15 different training programmes. Training with Royal Arctic Line is aimed at qualifying the candidate for a career with the company and also providing a sound foundation for seeking careers in other companies. 7 Diversity overshadow the process of achieving results through In line with the Guidelines on Corporate Governance for guidelines. Finally, it is the Company’s position that profesPublic Limited Companies owned by the Government of sional competences are of paramount importance when Greenland, Royal Arctic Line is continually focusing its selecting management staff. efforts on ensuring diversity. A report on the gender composition and the participation of local employees in manThe turnover of personnel at management levels at Royal agement has been prepared. Guidelines have been laid Arctic Line is quite limited and it is therefore a drawn-out out regarding employment procedures that support the process to change the composition. Especially at the desire for diversity. The Company has considered setting second management level (port manager, ship’s captain, concrete objectives, but has decided against this because chief engineer, etc.) the number of women is far below the experience shows that concrete objectives can Company’s overall statistics for gender composition and at 8 8 this level of management, personnel turnover is very low. Climate and environment In 2017, using guidelines for recruitment procedures, we Marine transport is the most economic and environmentalsucceeded in recruiting a local female as harbour master. ly friendly form for commercial transport and it consumes At non-management levels, cooperation has been ongoless fuel per ton cargo moved than rail, road or air transing, especially with the Municipality of Sermersooq, to port. create jobs for people who have difficulty finding their place on the labour market. This preparatory work has run Despite these advantages, it is Royal Arctic Line’s policy to into some difficulty, especially with regard to matching limit the negative impact of its ships and its activities. potential candidates to the special positions the Company is able to create. Cooperation continues in 2018. 9 At sea The introduction of and compliance with IMO’s ballast water The shipping industry is subject to extensive climate and convention ensures that Royal Arctic Line handles ballast environmental regulations. Royal Arctic Line is continually water in such a way that movement of invasive species working to comply with present and future requirements in between oceans is minimized. the field, by e.g. encouraging its employees to have a culture that surpasses the general requirements. We can mention our waste disposal handbook. We are also working On shore at optimizing the ships’ fuel consumption by coordinating In 2013, the headquarters became part of Clean Greenland voyages in the Master Sailing Schedule. – Green Companies, a three-year collaboration between WWF, CSR Greenland and six Greenlandic companies. The In 2017, the EU transport industry presented a series of project aims to reduce the environmental impact of reporting requirements; see EU Regulation 2015/757 of 29 administration facilities over time. The project has focused April 2015 applicable from 1 January 2018. on reducing food waste, reducing energy consumption and focusing on paper and toner consumption in printers. The The purpose of this is to collect information about all cargo results are not yet available, since there is not a complete to and from EU ports. Royal Arctic Line is included in this year for comparison. Looking forward, the Company will regulation on all north and south bound Atlantic voyages. continue to make the environment and quality active parts The MRV regulation requires the ship’s crew to report once of the employees’ workdays. Advantages at the ISO a day the number of nautical miles sailed and the fuel concertified ports will be shared with the rest of the Company sumption. The method of reporting complies with applicaand the same applies to experiences from Clean ble standards and has been approved by the classification Greenland–Green Companies. company DNV-GL It is expected that over time it will provide a holistic picture Suppliers and partners of the CO2 foot print of the cargo that is transported to and Royal Arctic Line is interested in influencing its suppliers and from the EU. The reports are also used to evaluate the business partners to deal with environmental, social and performance of the ships according to fuel and distance paethical issues in a systematic and structured manner. This is rameters. The oil prices have gone up from index 46 to why the Company is involved in dialogue and requires its index 63 and this increase has provided an incentive for suppliers to promote sustainability – also beyond our own increased focus on fuel-saving initiatives. business. Previously, we asked our suppliers to sign the Company’s Terms and Conditions of Supply committing In 2017, Royal Arctic Line accepted delivery of the new ship them to complying with the UN conventions on child labour, Malik Arctica, the replacement for Arina Arctica which, at an human rights, labour rights, anti-corruption and the Rio age of 33 years, was sold for recycling to Jatob, FrederikConvention on sustainability and environmental protection. shavn. Recycling of ships with focus on reducing the enviIn 2016, Royal Arctic Line had identified 134 risk suppliers. ronmental impact has attracted a great deal of attention in The target for 2015 was that 88 % of these should sign the recent years. This has resulted in the IMO convention (Hong Terms of Purchase. This target was achieved in 2016. Since Kong convention concerning responsible scrapping of almost all purchases are undertaken in Greenland and ships) which Denmark ratified and implemented on 1st July Denmark, where transparency regarding environmental, 2017. In consideration of the environment, Royal Arctic Line social and ethical conditions for the individual supplier is chose to sell Arina Arctica to Jatob, as the company comhigh, we have chosen not to require documentation in 2017. plies with present environmental legislation and has the required environmental permits for handling materials and Because of the high degree of transparency of our suppliwaste from scrapped ships ers’ social and ethical standards in Denmark and Greenland, Royal Arctic Line prefers to focus future relationships The continued renewal of Royal Arctic Line’s fleet allows for with suppliers and business partners on joint measurement implementation of new technology and takes into account of the environmental impact of the purchases the Company new legislation and new methods which all help to reduce undertakes. This is an area we will take a closer look at in the Company’s impact on the environment. 2018. 10 Anti-corruption Who are critical suppliers? Royal Arctic Line aims to operate in a transparent and incorSuppliers are considered critical if they have one or ruptible market, both nationally and internationally. Therefore, more of the following characteristics: the Company does not accept bribery, greasing palms or any • They are strategic suppliers from which the other type of unethical business conduct. Although the ComCompany purchases essential services/goods or pany’s domestic markets in Greenland and Denmark do not upon which the Company depends in some way experience serious problems in this respect, the development • They operate in critical countries or industries strategy also extends to new markets and new partnerships – for example the oil industry with players in industries where corruption may occur. Royal • They supply products that may affect the Arctic Line has adopted an anti-corruption policy to tighten inenvironment or safety at work house rules and control mechanisms and audits to ensure – e.g. bunkers, pallets, chemicals or work clothing that the Company’s activities are always ethical. Through the • They supply products carrying the Company logo Group’s intranet, all employees have access to these policies – e.g. merchandise – that could affect the and to a form for reporting gifts given and received. The Company’s reputation. Suppliers that have one or policy is based on a best practice policy which has been more of the abovementioned characteristics are adjusted for Company use after a series of employee-workincluded in the gross list of suppliers that, based shops. on the risk evaluation, should sign the Terms and Conditions of Supply. Involvement in the local community Royal Arctic Line has a sponsor committee that meets once a month in Nuuk to process applications. For this reason, the Company makes services, skills and sponsorships available to initiatives that benefit Greenland. The Shipping Company’s sponsor committee provides support for children and young people, culture and sports and those who are socially vulnerable in Greenland. Royal Arctic Line provides sponsorships for freight charges and financial support for events or projects that are relevant for Greenland. The Company and the Association for Children’s Rights, MIO, signed an agreement in December 2017 regarding sponsoring a book about good family life. Royal Arctic Line is pleased and proud of this sponsorship. We all have a responsibility concerning this important and necessary work for the whole of Greenland. As a socially responsible company, it is a great honour to help making it possible for MIO to publish this book and there is no doubt that it will be of great benefit to the public. The agreement includes the sum of DKK 130,000 for writing, illustrating and printing and also for the transport of the books. 11 Future CSR efforts Royal Arctic Line has a clear social role which in itself Objectives for Royal Arctic Line will continue to involve involves a high level of benefit for the public and thus major support of social relationships in family life through a social responsibility. However, we will continue to measure healthy, evolving and active working life. The stability that our work with human rights, the workforce, the we can contribute to society is of great value to children’s environment and anti-corruption. Even in Greenland and living conditions as they grow. Denmark, where the standards are generally high, it is important that Royal Arctic Line promotes a basis for Furthermore, we consider climatic and environmental necessary internationalization by considering its position impacts to be an increasingly crucial element of our with regard to these central issues in a global perspective. future CSR. In this context, the continued work for the UN Global Compact is important. © Royal Arctic Line A/S, May 2018 Editor: Ann-Britta A. Olsvig Layout: Nuisi grafik Photos: Hans Jensen, Royal Arctic Line & Lars Frederik Andersen
