COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 October 2018 Statement from jp.ik’s President To the United Nations Secretary General Your Excellency Mr. António Guterres, In 2018, jp.ik celebrates ten years in the field of Education, implementing largescale ICT-based education projects. It has been an inspiring and rewarding journey, contributing to the transformation of communities through a disruptive approach based on technology, engineering and pedagogy. Aiming to pursue our mission, we honourably support the ten principles of the Global Compact on Human Rights, environment and fighting corruption. Therefore, our second Communication on Progress highlights our intention and strong desire to continue implementing these ten principles and our commitment to integrate the Global Compact and its principles on our culture, our strategy and cooperative projects that drive the broadest sustainable goals from the United Nations, in particular, the Sustainable Development Goals. We have a strong commitment to the promotion of Human Rights by supporting initiatives in the field of education, which spark the development of the community. That is why, we support a number of projects within the scope of the technology-education binominal. We continue focused in promoting some measures that motivate personal and professional appreciation and the cooperation among workers from different areas. We have also participated in Forums dedicated to the importance of human capital and education as the engine of sustainable development. This second Communication on Progress highlights our commitment and dedication as a member of the Global Compact network because we believe we can contribute to a better and more sustainable future. The President, Jorge Sá Couto INDEX JP.IK’S CULTURE JP.IK’S PRINCIPLES OF ACTION IN THE CONTEXT OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery • Communication on Progress • 3 JP.IK’S CULTURE Mission Implement innovative and sustainable solutions that promote the transformation of communities through technology, engineering and pedagogy. Vision Provide global access to knowledge through technological solutions. Values Local Awareness We offer solutions that are unique and tailored to the needs of our clients and respective communities. Innovation We create advanced technological solutions that guarantee the success of projects in the present and in the future. Ambition We are bold! We want to continue growing and evolving. Humbleness Ours is a success story! However, we have not forgotten our origins and how we got here. We do not underestimate others and are constantly learning. Persistence We are committed and never give in to adversity. Integrity We act honestly! We strive to honor our commitments to employees, clients, suppliers and shareholders, creating relations of trust. Change Our capacity to adapt and transform in the face of adversity pushes us further forward! JP.IK’S PRINCIPLES OF ACTION IN THE CONTEXT OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY jp.ik’s business activity is based on a solid, responsible and sustainable business model rooted in fostering and strengthening of relations and sharing of values with our stakeholders. Our daily activity is guided by three principles: • Motivation and satisfaction of our staff members • Collaborative and socially responsible behavior with the communities we engage • Socially responsible practices in the context of relations with all stakeholders Therefore, jp.ik’s organizational management integrates in its essence the Human Rights and jp.ik’s conduct and communication reflect transparency to our stakeholders. Communication on Progress • 5 PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT Human Rights PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights We support the Principles of the Global Compact regarding the Human Rights’ domain. Therefore, jp.ik promotes the respect for Human Rights as formal criteria reflected in the processes of value creation and decision-making and investment, aiming to ensure our business partners do not allow and/ or engage Human Rights’ violations. Sustainability of jp.ik’s Education Projects For the last ten years, jp.ik is present in over 70 countries and implemented over 20 large-scale education technology’s projects. jp.ik has benefited the lives of over 15 million students worldwide. In this field of large Education projects’ implementation, jp.ik desires to contribute to the sustainable development of communities who benefit from these projects, so we consider that is fundamental to work with local partners with deep knowledge on their own communities, such as, the effective needs of the Nation, the national development goals and social and cultural specificities. To strengthen those trust relations, jp.ik participates in some reference events linked to Education and Technologies, namely: Bett 2018, january 24th to 27th at the EXCEL London BETT is the first event of the year in the domain of education technologies, gathering the sector largest companies, edtech start-ups and thousands of participants from over 130 countries of the global education community. BETT is the forum to share and debate the future of education alongside with the role that technology and innovation have on the capacitation of educators and students all over the world. • Communication on Progress • 7 Virtual Educa Summit, September 10-14 Buenos Aires, Argentina Virtual Educa is a multidisciplinary initiative that promotes Education innovation towards social transformation and sustainable development. Virtual Educa was founded in 2001 aligned within the framework of the Organization of American States (OAS) activity and almost twenty years later, it is considered the institutional reference model of public-private cooperation in the field of education innovation. MENA Innovation, July 29-31 Cairo, Egypt This is the African Ministerial Forum for Innovation, Education and ICT, gathering governmental agents involved in Education and ICT, and partners from the technologies’ sector to share experiences, challenges and solutions in the field of technology integration in Education. Training Policy jp.ik understands how important is to contribute to the increase of market’s competitiveness through the promotion of human resources’ high quality and the training provided to jp.ik’s workers. That being said jp.ik invests in the following aspects: • Internal training initiatives for the development of synergies and the knowledge share and experiences among workers from different areas. • Workshops for the personal development and promotion of the workers’ health, we point out, for example, healthy eating workshops and group fitness classes. Besides, by promoting the development of our workers’ skills, it is possible to create the conditions to their individual personal and professional growth, contributing to their own professional fulfilment. With this purpose in mind, it was implemented in the beginning of 2017 the Skills Development Reward with the value of 1500€ available to all workers with the goal of supporting workers on their training. • Communication on Progress • 9 PRINCIPLE 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses jp.ik’s DNA and business are aligned with solid values and Humanistic principles that reflected itself in our way of being and in our relations with the most diverse stakeholders. In this perspective, in May 2017 came we presented our Code of Ethics through which we formalize our way of being and acting, focusing topics, such as our Principles of Action, legislation compliance or the management and protection of property and other resources. Since then, in the welcoming session of our new employees, we share our Code of Ethics and we provide a brief group session with our Ethics Ombudsman to promote the introduction to this so very relevant theme to us. PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT Labor PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association recognition of the right to collective bargaining Diversity and equality of opportunities are central pillars of our DNA, so we developed clear policies of non-discrimination for recruitment processes, training and career progression. Following the recognition of our effort in 2016 by achieving the 25th place and the election as Best Company to work for the X Generation in the Initiative Best Companies promoted by Exame, a national reference publication in the Human Resources’ area, jp.ik has strengthen the investment in internal communication. Therefore, and with the goal of promoting collaboration and creative thinking among staff, jp.ik developed a digital platform. Named for Hub, this digital platform is a collaborative channel open to all members of our staff, aiming to promote synergies among different areas, to highlight our open communication and collaborative environment. PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor jp.ik fully complies with contracts and working hours of all workers. We comply with the legal obligation regarding working hours and public holidays according to the legislation of each country and under the principles of the International Labor Organization. We take on a fair wage policy meeting the elemental needs of the workers and enables a substantial quality of life to the families. PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labor It is strictly forbidden the use of child labor. jp.ik considers that the close relations with partners and suppliers and the audits carried out to them contribute to the mitigation of the problem and to the awareness of the managers, therefore allowing continuous advances throughout the whole supply chain. • Communication on Progress • 13 PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our staff members are the most valuable asset of our company, so we invest in the continuous improvement of our working conditions, namely Hygiene and Safety at Work, professional development of our workers, implementing continuous training programs, because we comprehend how important is to contribute to the capacitation and talent promotion. Furthermore, and with the purposes of strengthening the relation between workers and Administration by promoting dialogue, sharing experiences and promoting safety, we carry out regularly several internal iniatives, such as: breakfast with the CEO; The Employee Appreciation Day and Fire Drills. PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT Environment PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Our commitment to the Environment is based on our active contribution for a sustainable Planet and a sustainable future. This commitment is reflected on the promotion of a sustainable economic growth, and so we invest on innovation with the goal of minimizing environmental impacts in order not to compromise the interests of the future generations. PRINCIPLE 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Lights off, Nature on We invest in awareness’ initiatives for our staff regarding the importance of energy saving. In 2018, we continue with the internal initiative ‘Lights off, Nature on’. Paper and Plastic Recycling We also promote materials’ recycling, namely paper and plastic among our staff, aiming to contribute to a more sustainable environment. PRINCIPLE 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Technologies Our Popup School is an eco-friendly multipurpose solution, featuring a design aligned with a sustainable engineering and eco-friendly materials to enhance the development of communities around the world towards a lasting development. Therefore, our Popup School is a sustainable and convertible infrastructure and its green construction combines cutting-edge technology with recycled, low energy consumption materials. The Popup School aims to be the pillar of the whole community, promoting lifelong educational and training opportunities. So, the Popup School can serve as a training center, health center or community center. During 2018 jp.ik’s engineering team developed a handful of improvements to this infrastructure, such as laminated glass, a safer material to use in a childenvironment or the optimization of the materials (by using aluminium) and the structure itself. • Communication on Progress • 17 PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT Anti-Corruption PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery The establishment of our acting policy through the release of our Code of Ethics reflects the respect for our corporate values, as well as the rejection of all types of practices related to bribery or favoring other entities. In addition, the release of the annual Account Report ensures the diffusion to all stakeholder of important information concerning our activity, namely financial situation, performance indicators and investments.
