EMBRACING INNOVATION KOSMOS ENERGY 2017 CORPORATE  RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Whether it’s through incremental improvement or fundamentally challenging conventional wisdom, Kosmos Energy embraces creativity and maintains an open, responsive, and entrepreneurial spirit. For host countries, our relentless pursuit of innovation focuses on being a long-term partner 2 L  etter to Stakeholders 19 Project Lifecycle and Operations Map 36 M orocco that aims to help them build a brighter future. 4  Company Overview/ 38 São Tomé and Príncipe Financial Highlights 20 Côte d’Ivoire We seek to work with our host nations to create 42 S enegal 5 Business Principles in Action 22 Equatorial Guinea 46 Suriname  healthy and diverse economies. Responsibilities to Stakeholders 24 Ghana Ethical Conduct 50 W estern Sahara Our Workplaces 29 S pecial Feature Kosmos and the Environment Kosmos Innovation Center 54 IPIECA/API/IOGP Kosmos in Society Content Index Commercial Responsibilities 32 Mauritania 57 2017 Performance Data ABOUT KOSMOS ENERGY Kosmos is a well-capitalized, pure play deepwater oil and gas company with growing production, a pipeline of development opportunities and a balanced exploration portfolio along the Atlantic Margins. Our assets include growing production offshore Ghana and Equatorial Guinea, a competitively positioned Tortue gas project in Mauritania and Senegal and a sustainable exploration program balanced between proven basins (Equatorial Guinea), emerging basins (Mauritania, Senegal and Suriname) and frontier basins (Côte d’Ivoire and São Tomé and Príncipe). As an ethical and transparent company, Kosmos is committed to doing things the right way. Our Business Principles articulate the company’s commitment to transparency, ethics, human rights, safety, and the environment. Kosmos Energy is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and London Stock Exchange, traded under the ticker symbol KOS. For additional information, visit our website www.kosmosenergy.com. 2 3 FELLOW STAKEHOLDERS, At Kosmos Energy, we are tourism. We work from a shared agenda with Although this practice separates us from challenge of making our partners in government and the wider some oil and gas companies, we continue sure development restless to improve. community. to see demand from stakeholders who want proceeds in a In order to continue to grow and reach our In Ghana, the KIC targets innovation in to better understand how the oil and gas sustainable manner potential as a company, we continuously seek agriculture, the country’s most important industry works. The transparency challenge that benefits local new ideas and innovative solutions that will sector and largest employer. Kosmos runs includes not just providing access to data, people. In Mauritania improve our business and how we engage the KIC program itself using local employees but also improving understanding of it, and and Senegal, Kosmos with our host countries. Whether it’s through and experts. The result is a distinctive focus ensuring stakeholders have the knowledge and its partner are incremental improvement or fundamentally on commercial solutions informed by local needed to use it constructively, and hold working hard to challenging conventional wisdom, Kosmos knowledge. governments and industry to account. In maximize the use embraces creativity and maintains an open, response, we have stepped up our efforts of local companies Since its inception in 2016, the Kosmos to engage civil society and the media, and suppliers in the responsive and entrepreneurial spirit. Innovation Center in Ghana has: hosting workshops across our portfolio of construction of the The success of this approach can be seen ANDREW (ANDY) G. INGLIS • Trained and mentored 270 young countries – in Ghana, Mauritania, Morocco, project’s nearshore quite clearly in our “below ground” technical Chairman and entrepreneurs Senegal, and Suriname. This has proved Chief Executive Officer infrastructure. work. Our geologists and geophysicists have effective in promoting transparency, building opened basins in Ghana, Mauritania and • Helped form and fund 8 start-up businesses Staying True to Our Business Principles relationships, and deepening trust. Senegal – places where it took new ideas to who have gone on to access $850,000 in As we enter more countries and work with find commercial hydrocarbons when others additional capital E MB RACI N G I N N OVAT I O N new partners, we will need to manage our had failed. It can also be seen in the way our • Accelerated the growth of 9 existing With new production assets in our portfolio, above ground activities with the same level of engineers devised the innovative nearshore small businesses several new countries of operation, and an diligence. Our Business Principles remain an concept we are using to develop the Tortue • Stimulated the national dialogue on the active exploration program underway, we important touchstone. gas resource and accelerate the delivery of importance of agriculture, and will need to channel our innovative and economic benefits to Mauritania and Senegal. FO CU S E D O N T H E F UT URE entrepreneurial spirit to meet both new and • Enhanced the sector’s appeal to In our “above ground” engagement, our pursuit familiar challenges: We achieved a great deal in 2017, but there is young people. of better ways of working centers on being a much more for us to do. Every member of the Continuous Improvement in Safety long-term partner that is aiming to help host Kosmos team recognizes that we can never be countries build a brighter future. We know our The KIC has proved In 2017, we met our safety target with a total satisfied. We must always strive to find new and future success is fully connected to theirs. As so successful in recordable injury rate of 0.64 and marked our better ways of working that deliver benefits to a result, we seek to work with our host nations Ghana that we have fifth straight year without a lost time incident. our host communities. to create healthy and diverse economies. plans to adapt the We are proud of this record and will continue This differentiated approach is demonstrated model and expand its to stay focused on protecting our people and through the success of the Kosmos Innovation footprint into some contractors while driving toward an incident Center (KIC) in Ghana, which is our way of of our other host and injury free workplace. investing in the country’s future beyond countries. Kosmos has been a Protecting the Environment oil and gas. formal supporter of the L EA D I NG O N Andrew G. Inglis We have been successful at working with local United Nations Global TRA NS PA R ENCY and international stakeholders to conduct our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer KOSMOS IN NOVAT ION CEN TER Compact since 2013. The UN Global Compact Our embrace of seismic operations in a manner that protects The KIC invests in young entrepreneurs and is a voluntary initiative innovation has also marine life, most recently whales and sea turtles small businesses who have big ideas and for businesses that are helped to shape offshore São Tomé and Príncipe. As we acquire want to see their country grow. By marrying committed to aligning our approach to more seismic data in new areas, and mature entrepreneurship, innovation, and technology, their operations and transparency. Over prospects for potential drilling, we will need to we are empowering people to turn their strategies with universal the years, we have ensure that we continue working collaboratively ideas into viable, self-sustaining businesses. principles in the areas set a standard for to safeguard marine biodiversity. The KIC offers a customized mix of business of human rights, labor, training, mentorship, and seed funding. A environment, and antitransparent behavior Delivering Economic Benefit sector focus is chosen based on a country’s corruption, and take by publishing our We believe that hydrocarbon development can actions that advance host government needs, and challenges are looked at through societal goals. be an engine of economic opportunity. With the a business lens. The goal of the KIC is to drive contracts, along with Tortue LNG gas project moving toward a final innovation where it is needed most — whether our payments to investment decision, the partnership faces the in agriculture or healthcare, education or governments. 4 5 COMPANY OVERVIEW THE KOSMOS Kosmos Energy was founded with the goal of creating value for all of our stakeholders: investors, ENERGY employees, and the governments and citizens of FI N A N C I AL HIGH LIGHTS BUSINESS our host countries. We recognize that creating steady, long-term returns can only be achieved by PRINCIPLES advancing the societies in which we work. Year Ended (in thousands, except volume data) 2017 2016 2015 Revenues and other income $636,836 $385,355 $471,556 In 2013, we adopted the Kosmos Energy Business Principles to formalize this Net income (loss) (222,792) (283,780) (69,836) commitment by articulating the values that have always guided our actions. The Net cash provided by operating activities 236,617 52,077 440,779 Business Principles are also informed by what our stakeholders have told us about EBITDAX 540,117 405,300 500,064 their expectations of a responsible company. Capital expenditures 57,432 644,510 777,204 Total Assets 3,192,603 3,341,465 3,203,050 Total long-term debt 1,282,797 1,321,874 860,878 We define how we conduct our business and the standards to which we hold Total shareholders’ equity 897,112 1,081,199 1,325,513 ourselves accountable through the Business Principles. The Business Principles are supported by more detailed policies, procedures, and management systems which Production (thousand barrels of oil per day) 29.6 19.21 23.4 are referenced in this report and on our website. Sales volumes (million barrels)2 11.2 6.8 8.5 Total proved reserves (million barrels of oil equivalent) 3 110 77 76 The Business Principles reflect our values across six areas: Responsibilities to Crude oil (million barrels) 3 100 74 74 Stakeholders, Ethical Conduct, Our Workplaces, the Environment, Society, and Natural gas (billion cubic feet) 3 61 15 14 Commercial Relationships. Although the Business Principles are our standard, the 1 1 .3 million barrels of lost production due to mechanical issues with the Jubilee FPSO turret bearing were paid to the company under actions we take to adhere to them change as we evolve as a company. For each its Loss of Production Insurance policy in 2016. Principle, we have included a case study to demonstrate how we translated the 2 Includes our share of sales volumes from our Equatorial Guinea equity method investment. 3 words into action in 2017. Includes our share of reserves from our Equatorial Guinea equity method investment. 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 TOTA L EMPLOYEES E M PLOY E E D IST R IBU T ION 282 2017 United States: 70% 199 Ghana: 15% Mauritania: 6% 267 2016 São Tomé and Príncipe: 3% 192 Senegal: 3% Morocco: 2% Total Employees Suriname: 1% U.S. Employees 6 7 B U SI N E SS PR INCIPLE 1 Responsibilities to this report lists the payments we made to governments in 2017. Communities We believe in engaging local communities in who share our values and standards. We are committed to maintaining effective systems and procedures to prevent inhumane treatment and forced labor from taking place within and proprietary information and we similarly work to protect the intellectual property of others. Civil Society We will engage and engaging in debate deepens our understanding of the issues. We seek non-governmental organizations (NGOs) as valued partners in our social investment programs. Our Stakeholders a manner that creates economic and social opportunity and our operations or our supply chain. with and listen to civil society, recognizing the role civil society relationships with civil society in the Our employees and contractors are countries and communities where respects human rights. Investing plays in holding governments and prohibited from engaging in improper we work create mutual value and are in community relationships ahead companies accountable. We are payments, misusing confidential central to our success. of drilling operations is a key part always open to having meaningful Strong and supportive partnerships Employees We aim to provide a information to indulge in, or assist of our approach. Our Stakeholder dialogue with civil society about Kosmos also engages in public policy underpin our business and create stimulating and rewarding work others to participate in, insider Engagement and Community the challenges inherent in exploring discussions occurring globally on value. Our stakeholders are environment through a culture that trading. We expect our employees and Development Policy explains for oil and gas. Sometimes we will energy and corporate responsibility. interested or potentially affected promotes entrepreneurial thinking, contractors to respect confidential the standards to which we hold disagree, but we believe listening parties, including shareholders, facilitates teamwork, and embraces ourselves accountable when employees, governments, ethical behavior. Directors, officers, interacting with communities. We communities, business partners and employees are required to have published this policy on our and suppliers, and civil society. comply with all aspects of the website at: www.kosmosenergy. We believe we have unique Business Principles and our Code of com/responsibility. Two years corporate responsibilities with Conduct in their work activities and respect to each of these groups: in representing the company. ago, we reviewed our global social BUSINESS PRINCIPLE 1 school teachers develop their ability to train and inspire investment programs to better young people in the STEM disciplines. IN ACTION: Shareholders We aim to create Host Governments We seek to understand their impacts and The Kosmos Energy STEM Teacher Institute is an attractive returns and manage our collaborate with host governments align their focus areas with our C A PAC I T Y BUI L D I N G I N innovative program offered through the Perot Museum business risks. Kosmos Energy’s and contribute to national business. As a result of the review, ST E M E D UC AT I ON A N D to improve the quality of formal science instruction for participating kindergarten through 12th grade teachers, board of directors focuses on development. Our goal with host we enhanced program design and SC I E N T I F I C I N N OVAT I ON and increase interest and engagement among their building a successful, long-term governments is to develop a shared project selection criteria to ensure students in STEM subjects. Through this program, teachers future for the company and ensures agenda based on mutual trust and our efforts are sustainable and Each day at Kosmos, we use the fundamentals of science, enjoy professional development opportunities and access technology, engineering, and math (STEM) to do our jobs. to the Perot Museum’s network of educators and vast we maintain good corporate respect. We begin engaging with complementary with local and We interpret seismic data to identify potential oil and gas resources. governance. In 2017, the board was host governments at the time of national development priorities. deposits. We plan deepwater drilling operations targeting comprised of 10 members, including licensing to ensure alignment with Our new approach targets the The program, which is now in its third year, involves a prospects located more than three miles below the ocean formal application process for teachers to ensure they are eight independent directors. The national priorities and industry following areas: floor. We study the rocks we bring to the surface to better invested and committed. Chosen teachers from across board of directors had six standing needs. Kosmos aims to become a understand where oil and gas might be found. Being at Entrepreneurship and Innovation the Dallas-Fort Worth area attend a week-long Summer the forefront of science and technology is how we play our committees: audit; nominating and partner of choice. We are open about Academy, where they are grouped according to their Linking to the entrepreneurial spirit part in helping to meet the world’s energy needs and how corporate governance; compensation; our business dealings with host level of comfort and expertise in sciences – pre-service and can-do attitude that is at the we create value for our shareholders. exploration assurance; external affairs governments because transparency teachers, novice teachers, advanced teachers, and mentor heart of Kosmos’ culture, the same The shortage of people with training in the STEM teachers – rather than by grade level. and political risk; and health, safety builds trust and accountability. The disciplines poses a potential long-term threat to many spirit that led to the company’s Instruction continues through the academic year with and environment. “Performance Data” on page 59 of businesses, including our own. In 2015, Kosmos announced founding. five professional development sessions held on weekends a partnership with the Perot Museum of Nature and twice a month, for which they receive continuing Oceans and Coasts Linking to Science to face this challenge head-on by helping Dallas education credits required for teachers by the Texas where Kosmos conducts its Education Agency. The teachers are also mentored operations and where relations throughout the academic year. with fishing communities are vital Kosmos employees – engineers, geologists, and to protection of our license to geophysicists – have served as guest speakers on scienceoperate. related topics, including the practical application of scientific principles in business. This has been a successful Science, Technology, Engineering way to simultaneously build capacity of local educators and Math (STEM) Education while providing a way for our employees to engage in Linking to the deep expertise of their community. our geologists, geophysicists, and The program reached about 4,800 students during engineers who give Kosmos its the 2016-2017 school year, with participating teachers reporting increased confidence and creativity in teaching technical and operational edge. the STEM disciplines. By investing in STEM education, we will help to create the next generation of technical experts. Business Partners and Suppliers We allocate contracts through a fair and transparent process, and adhere to our Business Principles in A start-up team discusses strategy as part of the business incubator program of the Kosmos Innovation Center in Ghana. our operations. We aim to work with suppliers, both local and multi-national, 8 9 B U SI N E SS PR INCIPLE 2 Ethical Conduct industry accountable for managing oil and gas revenues appropriately. In 2014, we made a policy decision to disclose payments to governments at the project BUSINESS PRINCIPLE 2 The EITI requires participating governments to establish a multi-stakeholder steering group comprised level, as laid out in the European IN ACTION: of representatives of governments, business, and civil Union Accounting Directive, society to oversee a process in which companies T RA N SPA RE N CY A N D which is designed to improve declare material payments to government, and D I SC LOSURE S I N A N the government declares all material receipts from corporate accounting practices and The Business Principles are to a Whistleblower Hotline as a transparency. We believe this type of E VOLV I N G RE G UL ATORY extractive companies. These figures are reconciled, and any discrepancies are identified and investigated supported by robust compliance vehicle for employees, third parties disclosure is beneficial to investors, E N V I RON M E N T by an independent expert. policies and methodology, including and others to report, without risk of civil society, and local communities, our Anti-Corruption Compliance retaliation, potential violations of any We have been a Supporting Company of the EITI since and reflects evolving international Kosmos aspires to be a leader in transparency and anti2012. Kosmos has operations in six countries that have Policy and Procedures, which Kosmos policy. corruption. We have set a high standard for transparent expectations. Kosmos was the implemented or are in the process of implementing the align with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt behavior by disclosing the terms of our petroleum EITI: Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Mauritania, São Tomé and Leading in Transparency first U.S. oil and gas company to Practices Act (FCPA) of 1977, the agreements and reporting payments made to our Príncipe, Senegal, and Suriname. In these countries, and Engagement disclose project-level payments host governments – including specific entities – at the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, as well as we engage with the EITI through feedback and dialogue to governments despite not being project level and in aggregate. We are open about in the multi-stakeholder groups. Kosmos is a member best practices in anti-corruption As part of its commitment to legally obligated to do so. our business dealings with host governments because of the EITI steering committee in Ghana, Suriname, compliance. Kosmos regularly transparency, Kosmos aspires to go transparency builds trust and accountability. All our and as of 2018, in São Tomé and Príncipe as well. evaluates its anti-corruption beyond a box-checking exercise by We believe our approach to petroleum agreements with host governments are We play an active role in the EITI process in measures and performance. making information publicly available transparency helps us better available on our website at www.kosmosenergy.com. Mauritania and Senegal. and increasing our engagement with manage social and political issues, The “Performance Data” on page 59 of this report lists All Kosmos employees and key the payments we made to governments in 2017. We advocate for the adoption of EITI by our host stakeholders at every level to ensure establishing Kosmos as a partner governments. When we operate in countries that are contractors are required to attend Kosmos has met with stakeholders around the world they have the depth of knowledge of choice and mitigating not yet members of the EITI, we actively promote yearly anti-corruption training, who want to better understand how the oil and gas the EITI and the transparent management of any needed to hold governments and barriers to growth. and certify that they have read, industry works. To that end, we have organized and revenues from natural resources. For example, Kosmos facilitated workshops in nearly every country where encouraged and assisted the Government of Suriname understood, and will comply with our we operate to deepen the knowledge of various in the process of joining EITI, and we were pleased Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy. government agencies, parliamentarians, civil society when Suriname formally applied to become an To further ensure comprehension, organizations, and media outlets working to promote EITI candidate country in May 2017. all employees are required to pass a good governance and transparency in the oil test on the substance of the policy. and gas sector. We strongly support the work of the Extractive We exercise care in the selection of Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), a leading vendors, suppliers, and contractors, global standard that strengthens governance by and we impose the same high promoting transparency and accountability in the standards of conduct that we oil, gas, and mining sectors. observe in our own company. We use a risk-based process to evaluate third parties who will work on our behalf. We conduct background due diligence when appropriate to make sure we have obtained full disclosure. In addition to providing third parties with copies of our Business Principles and Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy, we routinely conduct in-country training for key contractors and suppliers on compliance and supplement in-person training with online training modules. Kosmos conducts an annual internal audit of the company’s compliance with its business ethics policies and periodically conducts audits on third parties. We maintain and respond Two workers on the Ensco DS-12 drillship offshore Mauritania carefully review the day’s drilling plans. 10 11 B U SI N E SS PR INCIPLE 3 Our Workplaces development opportunities have enabled them to assume greater responsibility and handle the increasingly complex work that we are moving to local offices. We augment our internal programs with external development opportunities through our Education Reimbursement Policy. Kosmos aims to be a world-class harassment, or intimidation of any We recognize fundamental labor pure play, deepwater oil and gas kind. Employees are respected and rights and require contractors company known for delivering encouraged to contribute their to adhere to international labor excellent results and being a ideas. We base all work-related standards and local laws. We do workplace of choice for some of decisions, including recruitment not permit child, forced, or bonded the best people in the industry. and advancement, on qualifications, labor at our operations or among We want our employees to have merit and performance. our suppliers. For more information, careers that are professionally please see Kosmos’ statement in We seek to hire and develop local challenging, personally rewarding, compliance with the UK Modern employees for our international and focused on delivering value to Slavery Act 2015 located on the operations. We are proud that in our stakeholders. In 2017, we hired homepage of our website. Ghana and Mauritania, 100 percent 33 new employees to bring our total of our employees are citizens of Kosmos is a relatively small company number of employees at year end those countries. This level of local with a fast-paced, collaborative to 282 worldwide. We incorporate employment is a long-term target for work environment and a high level the ideas and experiences new Kosmos in all the countries where we of employee engagement. We employees bring while retaining our have operations. have instituted programs to ensure distinctive culture and upholding our Business Principles. We are also committed to investing employees remain engaged as the in the development of our company evolves. These programs Kosmos focuses on recruiting, include town hall meetings, during employees. For example, employees retaining, and developing a diverse which senior management provides hired in Ghana, Mauritania, Morocco, and capable workforce that São Tomé and Príncipe, Senegal, an operational update and holds an BUSINESS PRINCIPLE 3 Dallas-based employees and direct-hire contractors embraces our Business Principles were required to attend a course on distracted driving, and Suriname have rotated through open forum, as well as employeeIN ACTION: defined by the National Highway Traffic and Safety and entrepreneurial culture. We led committees on Wellness and our U.S. headquarters on special D RI V I N G D I ST RAC T I ON AWAY Administration (NHTSA) as “any activity that diverts are an equal opportunity employer Community Philanthropy. attention from driving, including talking or texting on assignments or for training. These and do not tolerate discrimination, your phone, eating and drinking, talking to people in At Kosmos, keeping our employees and contractors your vehicle, fiddling with the stereo, entertainment or safe, both at work and at home, remains our navigation system—anything that takes your attention highest priority. away from the task of safe driving.” This interactive course educated our employees and contractors As part of our annual behavioral safety training on their personal risks associated with driving and initiative, every employee and key contractor must gave them tools to avoid behavior that could lead to complete a mandatory behavioral safety course. collisions in the future. Participants learn to recognize the state-to-error patterns that cause the majority of injuries in the To provide practical driving skills for our employees, workplace, on the road, and at home. and to complement the classroom training, we installed an interactive driving simulator called Virtual Hazard In mid-2017, Texas passed a new law prohibiting texting Detection (Virtual HD®) for our U.S.-based employees, while driving. This was important legislation: in 2016 their families, and our direct-hire contractors. We alone, the state of Texas had 109,658 traffic crashes provided incentives for those who completed the that involved distracted driving, leading to over 3,000 full simulation. Virtual HD® is an advanced training serious injuries and at least 455 fatalities. Driving a car program that covers the safest driving techniques that is one of the riskiest activities anyone can undertake. are lacking in many of today’s drivers. The training To raise awareness of the issue among our employees, program covered topics such as hazard recognition, and to emphasize the importance of driving with scanning, following distance, distracted driving and caution, Kosmos implemented additional safety space management. training in our Dallas office around the theme of In 2018, we will continue to provide the Distracted safety while driving. This decision was made by our Driving course as a refresher through our Learning HSE Management Committee, which is our Senior Management System, as well as the Virtual HD® Management-level oversight body. simulator. We also plan to assess the need for driving safety courses as a supplement to the regular safety training in our international offices. As our portfolio grows, Kosmos continues to build a team comprised of capable and diverse individuals, each with entrepreneurial spirit and a commitment to open, honest communications. Here, employees meet in our office in Dallas, Texas. 12 13 B U SI N E SS PR INCIPLE 4 Kosmos and the the Biodiversity Oil and Gas Program, to improve understanding and protection of the ecosystems offshore Mauritania. This research project is being carried out by in safe and efficient operations that are consistent with strong well governance procedures and internationally recommended best practices. Disclosure Project (CDP), Tullow Oil participates in the CDP, reporting emissions and management processes on behalf of the Jubilee co-venturers, including Kosmos. targets are a TRIR and LTIR of less than 1.1 and 0.5, respectively, zero spills, and zero fines/penalties. We aim to be an injury-free workplace no matter where in the world we Environment the Mauritanian Institute for Kosmos believes climate change Our management plans to revisit operate and recognize that each Oceanographic and Fisheries this decision if Kosmos operates individual needs to play a role in this is real and influenced by human Research in collaboration with the any hydrocarbon production in effort – through safety vigilance, activity. At this time, Kosmos does Royal Netherlands Institute for Sea the future. awareness of surroundings, and not operate any of its producing Kosmos values the natural areas • Impact identification, prediction, Research based in the Netherlands. focusing on the task at hand. In 2017, assets. Kosmos has oil and gas We finished 2017 with a Total where it does business, both land and analysis More information about this program we continued to require personal production offshore Ghana and Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) of and sea, and strives to prevent or is available on page 34. and occupational safety training for • Generation of mitigation or Equatorial Guinea, which we entered 0.64 and a Lost Time Incident Rate minimize potential adverse impacts all employees to reinforce our management measures and We plan for an effective and timely in late 2017. In Ghana, our co-venture (LTIR) of 0.0, against our global on the environment. Our Health, safety culture. actions response to emergencies that could partner, Tullow Oil, operates the targets of less than 1.25 and 0.5, Safety, and Environmental (HSE) impact personnel, the environment, Jubilee and TEN fields. While we respectively. We had zero fines and management system, known as The • Significance of impacts and local communities, or our assets. do not participate in the Climate zero spills. Our 2018 performance Standard, is reviewed and, if needed, evaluation of residual impacts In 2017, we continued our regular updated annually. The Standard sets • Documentation of the assessment program of conducting crisis clear expectations and performance process simulation drills with internal and measures that we use to plan and Kosmos’ ESIAs may also include external stakeholders to help us monitor our corporate, country, and records of public consultation and improve our ability to respond in project-level activities. The Standard supporting technical documentation. the unlikely event of an emergency. is available on our website. These simulations are created and BUSINESS PRINCIPLE 4 • Analyzed stakeholder attitudes, including emerging Conducted offshore, our seismic investor expectations around climate change reporting After signing a contract for a new adapted to reflect the evolving IN ACTION: and initiatives such as the Task Force for Climatelicense area, the first stage of acquisition activities also provide nature of our business activities. Related Financial Disclosures; unique insight into the presence TA KI N G A C LOSE R LOOK the upstream oil and gas project Our local leadership teams and of marine life, including marine AT C L I M AT E C HA N G E • Examined the wider policy environment, projections lifecycle is the acquisition of seismic HSE advisors are mentored through of global energy needs, and climate-change risks and data. In 2017, Kosmos completed mammals, sea turtles, and sea birds. these exercises to develop their opportunities for our business. or began seismic surveys offshore Where possible, we share this data ability to lead on the ground Kosmos recognizes that the world is facing a serious We are now considering how to integrate the review’s Suriname, São Tomé and Príncipe, with scientists and local marine during an incident. challenge from climate change influenced by human findings into our future business strategy. In the research institutes. In recent years, activity. Morocco, and Western Sahara. Our meantime, climate change will remain on our agenda, we have contributed data for papers In addition to training personnel, In 2017, we conducted a review of our approach to and we will continue to review and adapt our approach geologists and geophysicists use the on Clymene dolphins in the Eastern Kosmos carefully considers the climate change and the external policy and stakeholder as the external environment evolves. geophysical data acquired in these Tropical Atlantic, whale and dolphin technology and drilling equipment environment. In the review, we: surveys to create detailed images occurrence offshore Ireland, and sea that it uses. Our Well Integrity • Benchmarked Kosmos’ approach against that of a of the earth’s physical subsurface turtle populations offshore Morocco. Management System governs well set of industry peers; characteristics which then enable us design and how wells are drilled, to make more informed decisions Kosmos also supports a marine completed, and tested. We believe about the potential location and biodiversity initiative in Mauritania, size of oil and gas deposits. Prior to seismic acquisition or drilling operations, Kosmos completes environmental and social impact assessments (ESIA) as standard practice. The process used satisfies International Finance Corporation (IFC) guidelines, as well as those reflected in the Equator Principles. The key process elements of an ESIA generally consist of the following: • Initial screening of the project and scoping of the assessment process • Examination of alternatives • Stakeholder identification (focusing on those directly affected) and gathering of environmental and social As part of our Environmental and Social Impact Assessment process, we evaluate potential baseline data effects on sea birds such as those pictured here in Mauritania’s Diawling National Park. 14 15 B U SI N E SS PR INCIPLE 5 Kosmos in a labor rights risk assessment of our operations in certain countries to better understand our risks during exploration, as well as risks that could arise with oil or gas Society discoveries. We believe adopting a proactive approach to human rights is good risk management and the right thing to do. Kosmos aims to be a trusted stakeholders is both responsible Kosmos seeks to implement the partner, good corporate citizen, and respectful. We have conducted Voluntary Principles on Security and and catalyst for positive change. human rights training sessions Human Rights in our operations. While governments have the for employees and incorporated Although port facilities are often principal responsibility for ensuring human rights into our social impact secured by state security providers, citizens benefit from oil and gas assessments to understand our we use private security providers development, we recognize that potential risk exposure. for our office operations. We have Kosmos also has a role to play. We Since it is important for community conducted security assessments and are more likely to have a sustainable members to achieve redress if training sessions for these private business if we work with a range they suffer harm as a result of contractors that incorporate the of stakeholders, promote good our operations, we maintain and Voluntary Principles as guidance. governance, and maximize the publicize mechanisms in every Our goal is not only to prevent opportunities we create for those country for addressing grievances. In potential human rights abuses, around us. addition, we have trained employees but also to encourage security Prior to seismic operations or and contractors to handle and providers to serve as advocates for exploration drilling, we conduct resolve grievances appropriately. protecting and promoting human environmental and social impact rights. We are participating in the We seek to apply the U.N. Guiding assessments to consult with Voluntary Principles process with Principles on Business and Human potentially impacted communities the Government of Ghana, which Rights in all our operations. A key and create well-informed operating is the first country in Africa to join element of the Guiding Principles BUSINESS PRINCIPLE 5 the collection, as well as retained several important plans. These assessments help us the Voluntary Principles Initiative. masterworks that were on view in the first exhibition. develop a baseline of socioeconomic is for companies to evaluate IN ACTION: The 2015-2016 exhibition, Spirit and Matter: Masterpieces Since BP is the operator of our gas within their risk assessments the from the Keir Collection of Islamic Art, showcased more conditions before activities begin, extent to which the company’s project offshore Mauritania and BUI L D I N G C ULT URA L than 50 masterworks from the collection marking the first understand and mitigate any Senegal, we plan to engage with BP UN D E RSTA N D I N G A N D time many of the featured works had been on display activities may pose risks to those potential adverse impacts from the in implementation of the Voluntary CON N E C T I ON S T HROUG H in North America. More than 115,000 people visited the around them. In 2015, we hired activities, and collect information Principles as the field is developed. A RT I N DA L L AS exhibition. a third party expert to conduct that enables future operations to Although the process of bridging cultures begins with benefit workers, communities, and the preservation of historic artifacts, it develops most In 2015, the Dallas Museum of Art (DMA) announced fully through the study of art and what it reveals, not local businesses. Kosmos as the presenting sponsor of the Keir Collection just about the artists and the works themselves – their Upon establishing a country office of Islamic Art for its inaugural years of exhibitions and form, their style, and their content – but also the social, installations. Assembled over the course of five decades political, and cultural circumstances that shaped them. to oversee our operations, we by noted art collector Edmund de Unger (1918-2011), When this knowledge is shared, it becomes a catalyst for complete an assessment to identify the Keir Collection is recognized by scholars as one deeper understanding and greater trust among societies. social investment opportunities of the world’s most geographically and historically and potential partners from the comprehensive, encompassing almost 2,000 works in a The people of Dallas will enjoy the fruits of the range of media that span 13 centuries of Islamic art. scholarship now taking place at the DMA on the Keir community. In 2015, we reviewed Collection and will be able to view and learn from the our social investment programs Kosmos’ partnership with DMA is an extension of our collection for free. By supporting the display of the Keir worldwide to better understand their desire to engage with the communities where we Collection – and the scholarship and knowledge it has live and work, and foster appreciation for the art and and will continue to generate – we are proud to play a impact. The result of the review led culture of these communities. The partnership between role in our United States home, Dallas, for the benefit of to a new approach, implemented the museum and the company provides $800,000 of increasing the understanding of people everywhere. in 2016, that better aligns with support over five years for a series of special exhibitions, community, government, and installations in the museum’s collection galleries, and company priorities. a prospective touring exhibition. The sponsorship also includes resources to facilitate loans of items from the Kosmos has a deep commitment Keir Collection to other U.S. and international institutions. to respecting and promoting In 2017, the DMA opened The Keir Collection of human rights. Our Human Rights Islamic Art Gallery in a newly redesigned gallery space Policy, available on our website, that increased the number of works on view from ensures that our behavior toward Three participants in the Kosmos Innovation Center’s Start-up Challenge gather data employees, contractors, and external during a market research tour in Ghana. 16 17 B U SI N E SS PR INCIPLE 6 Commercial provide training and reinforce our HSE-related expectations. Local and multinational contractors attend these sessions in order to further commit themselves to working within as well as in Mauritania where we had active drilling operations. The assessment was completed by an international firm who helped us identify opportunities to update language as well as improve crossfunctional cooperation to optimize local content. We seek to maximize the amount of that we source locally. Our local content approach aims to enable people to access jobs, and to enable businesses to access supply chain opportunities through Kosmos. Responsibilities our standards. certain policies and contract goods, services, and employment Ensuring that our suppliers and contractors fully understand their contractual obligations regarding At Kosmos, we see our interactions willingness to observe the standards anti-corruption provisions is vitally with local business partners as articulated in our Business Principles important. Our local procurement another way to contribute to the and supporting policies is a key professionals offer one-on-one countries in which we operate. In consideration in the selection BUSINESS PRINCIPLE 6 sessions with our suppliers to explain fact, in the event of exploration process. our requirements under our policies, IN ACTION: success, oil and gas development When a potential local supplier the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices COL L A BORAT I N G W I T H BP TO can be an important engine of is found to be outside our HSE Act of 1977, the UK Bribery Act P ROT E C T HUM A N RI G HTS economic development. standards, we often work to provide of 2010, and other relevant local We maintain high standards for the necessary training or certification legislation. During this process, we Since establishing our partnership with BP in our suppliers and commercial to elevate them to the standard. This often identify areas for additional Mauritania and Senegal, we have collaborated on partners in terms of safety, the is frequently the case, as we operate training within our local supply chain. all facets of the exploration program and the Tortue environment, and anti-corruption. in several countries with nascent oil LNG project: technical, environmental, economic, In 2015, we conducted a formal and social. BP and Kosmos share similar high Suppliers are required to adhere and gas industries. We periodically review of our approach to local standards, but Mauritania and Senegal were new to our Business Principles. Their organize contractor forums to content, both at the corporate level countries of operation for BP. As a result, Kosmos has worked hard to share its knowledge of working in these countries with BP and smoothly transition our social and environmental projects. In 2017, we worked closely with BP on our joint approach to human rights in Mauritania and Senegal, first by comparing our corporate standards and policies, then evaluating the individual contexts of each country. We shared our due diligence processes and outcomes, human rights training conducted for employees, contractors and top suppliers, and current activities related to human rights. We discussed and planned next steps together. We believe it is important to transition as seamlessly as possible, while building on – rather than duplicating – our previous work. In 2018, now that we have finished the transition to non-operator in Mauritania and Senegal, we will continue to focus on human rights by supporting BP’s policies and related activities. FOLLOWING A THOROUGH FARM-OUT PROCESS, BP EMERGED AS THE RIGHT PARTNER TO HELP US ADVANCE THE TORTUE GAS PROJECT AT PACE AND TAKE FORWARD A MULTI-WELL EXPLORATION PROGRAM. WE ARE PLEASED TO HAVE SECURED A SUPER-MAJOR PARTNER THAT BRINGS FINANCIAL CAPABILITY, DEEPWATER DEVELOPMENT AND LNG EXPERTISE, AND A VISION THAT IS FULLY ALIGNED WITH THE INTERESTS OF BOTH COUNTRIES. – Andrew G. Inglis Kosmos Energy’s Chairman and CEO Kosmos personnel at the shore base in Nouakchott, Mauritania exemplify our entrepreneurial spirit and team-based approach. 18 19 PROJECT LIFECYCLE AND OPERATIONS MAP The diagram below outlines the oil and gas project lifecycle, from entering a new geography, to exploration and, if successful, development and production. Our corporate responsibility activities – such as social investment and capacity building – in each country are increased as we move along the project lifecycle, although the standards to which we hold ourselves remain the same. The colors on the diagram correspond to the countries and areas of operation listed on the map to show where we were in the project lifecycle during the 2017 year under review. PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 PHASE 5 PHASE 6 Entering a Exploring Undertaking Appraisal Development Production of new market through site exploration drilling of field and oil and gas and seismic drilling building of surveys infrastructure MOROCCO WESTERN SAHARA MAURITANIA SENEGAL GHANA EQUATORIAL CÔTE D’IVOIRE GUINEA SÃO TOMÉ SURINAME and PRINCIPE 20 21 PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 PHASE 5 PHASE 6 E N T E R IN G CÔTE D’IVOIRE In late 2017, Kosmos acquired five blocks offshore Côte d’Ivoire as part of a second cycle exploration initiative in the Gulf of Guinea. As an extension of the Tano Basin in Ghana, which the Kosmos exploration team opened with the Jubilee discovery in 2007, offshore Côte d’Ivoire provides an opportunity for Kosmos and our partner BP to execute a frontier/emerging basin exploration strategy and pursue new technical themes. Kosmos and BP each A multi-client 3D seismic containing adequate CÔTE D’IVOIRE acquired an equal acquisition program is oil and gas may exist, 45%-45% working interest being conducted by then Kosmos and BP will in five contiguous blocks Petroleum Geo-Services determine where to drill BLOCK BLOCK CI-707 CI-708 covering approximately (PGS) in 2018, including an exploration well. 17,000 square kilometers, over 12,000 square In 2018, Kosmos plans to as shown in the map at kilometers in Kosmos’ open an office in Côte left. PETROCI, the national blocks during the first half BLOCK d’Ivoire and begin putting CI-526 oil company of Côte of the year. The seismic together a small team d’Ivoire, has a 10% carried survey uses sound waves of employees based working interest in the to map rock formations BLOCK BLOCK in the capital city of CI-602 CI-603 Gulf of blocks as well. Kosmos is on and below the ocean Guinea Abidjan. We are currently the exploration operator floor to establish the analyzing opportunities and BP will be the potential presence of for early social investment development operator hydrocarbons. If the programs as well. in the event of a seismic surveys show that commercial discovery. formations potentially 22 23 PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 PHASE 5 PHASE 6 E N T E R ING SEISMIC P R O DUC T I O N EAR LY COM M U N I T Y These primary school children’s teachers EN GAGEM EN T received training under the Program for Educational Development of Equatorial Guinea. In 2018, Kosmos, as operator, commenced seismic acquisition over Blocks W, S and EG-21. In preparation for the seismic survey, we completed an Environmental Kosmos’ commercial partner Impact Assessment, engaged in Equatorial Guinea is Trident coastal and fishing communities, and Energy, a privately-held established a grievance mechanism. international exploration and production company. Kosmos has already begun engaging with fishing communities onshore as part of our initial activities to introduce Kosmos as a new company In addition, several other Kosmos in Equatorial Guinea. team members were involved in the development and operation of those N EW AN D ON GOI N G SOCI AL fields after their initial discovery. I N VEST M EN T We entered into the new agreements We intend to implement an impactful of the country’s primary teachers in Equatorial Guinea on a 50/50 social investment program with in instructional skills, established basis with Trident Energy and the local population. While we model primary schools, modernized formed a joint venture company, are growing in familiarity and the education information system, KTEGI, to operate the fields. KTEGI understanding of the local context in and strengthened the institutional leverages the distinct expertise of Equatorial Guinea, we are continuing capacity of the Ministry of Education each company, combining Kosmos’ Hess Corporation’s social investment and Science. Over $12 million will exploration expertise and programs in education and health. have been invested in education subsurface knowledge with through the PRODEGE program from EQUATORIAL GUINEA Trident’s operational capabilities. The flagship social project, its inception through 2018. the Program for Educational H U M AN R I GH TS DU E Development of Equatorial Guinea Kosmos will also initiate an annual DI LI GEN CE AN D T RAI N I N G (PRODEGE), is now a public-private social investment program for the partnership among Kosmos, Trident three exploration blocks, which As is our practice, Kosmos engaged and the government of Equatorial we aim to focus on the coastal Kosmos’ entry into Equatorial Guinea in October 2017 was an important milestone a third-party expert to conduct Guinea. During PRODEGE’s first five communities. human rights due diligence for our for the company. We and our partner Trident Energy acquired Hess Corporation’s anticipated in-country activities. years, the program trained two thirds interests in the Ceiba and Okume fields and signed three new exploration The report stressed the importance of community engagement as production sharing contracts over offshore Blocks W, S and EG-21. Kosmos will well as policy implementation and monitoring. be the exploration operator for Blocks W, S and EG-21, and a new joint venture KTEGI has adopted Kosmos’ company, Kosmos Trident Equatorial Guinea Incorporated (KTEGI), is the operator Business Principles, Anti-Corruption of the Ceiba and Okume production assets. Policy, and Code of Conduct and conducted training for employees on implementation of these policies. This is the first time Kosmos has A D D I N G P R OD UC T I ON A N D We expect to conduct human acquired producing assets and E X P LORAT I ON T HR OUG H rights training for KTEGI staff and entered a new country with an J OI N T V E N T UR E contractors, with an emphasis on BLOCK W EG-21 existing workforce, facilities, ongoing supply chain. We have conducted Founding members of the Kosmos operations and social investments. similar training in other countries Energy exploration team opened the Kosmos will operate in Equatorial where we operate. For more Rio Muni basin in 1999 when they Gulf of Guinea as we do in every country. information on our supply chain discovered the Ceiba and Okume Guinea EQUATORIAL EQUATORIAL We are in the early stages of policies, please see page 16. GUINEA fields while working for Triton Energy. GUINEA implementing our standard policy BLOCK S framework which supports our Business Principles, particularly in the GABON areas of human rights, community The implementing partner for the PRODEGE program is FHI 360, a development NGO engagement, and social investment. dedicated to improving lives through integrated, locally driven solutions. 24 25 PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 PHASE 5 PHASE 6 P R ODUC T I O N for a national plan to expand The FPSO John Evans Atta Mills produces oil at the Tweneboa, Enyenra, Ghana’s gas infrastructure to meet and Ntomme (TEN) fields. the country’s domestic power needs in a cost efficient and sustainable way. Oil production from the TEN fields began in 2016 and increased in 2017 due to prudent and sustainable management of existing wells resulting in a gradual ramp up in production. Total oil produced from TEN in 2017 was 20,452,577 bbls averaging 56,034 bopd. Total gas produced by the TEN field in 2017 was 26,818 mmscf, or 73 mmscf of gas per day in 2017. The Greater Jubilee Full Field Development Plan was approved by the Ghana Ministry of Energy in late 2017. The plan sets out the integrated development of the Grievance Mechanism The Kosmos CLOs also work in close Jubilee field and the Mahogany and collaboration with the CLOs from Although we did not operate Teak discoveries located in the West our co-venturer Tullow, so that they any drilling activities in Ghana in Cape Three Points block. As a result, are fully up to date with Tullow-led 2017, we continued to maintain we commenced new drilling in the operations in the Jubilee and our community-level grievance field in the first half of 2018, together TEN fields. mechanism in the Western Region. GHANA with drilling in the TEN fields due to Our formal grievance mechanism EN G AGEMENT A ND LISTENING the resolution of the border dispute provides a communication channel between Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire. for members of the community to As a long-term partner in Ghana, raise concerns about our operations Kosmos regularly engages with a Prioritizing Safety and the wide range of stakeholders, including or submit complaints. Environment local communities, suppliers, civil 2017 marked the tenth anniversary of our discovery of the Jubilee field in the We visit the Western Region to Our active monitoring of safety society, media, and academia. We remind communities of the grievance Tano Basin offshore Ghana – one of the largest discoveries offshore West Africa and environmental compliance in communicate regularly with these mechanism, how it works, and Ghana contributed to strong HSE stakeholders to understand their in the previous two decades. Our successful fast-track development produced performance in 2017. There were how it can be accessed. Through concerns about our industry and continuous engagement, we its impact on the country. We share first oil within 42 months of the discovery. no environmental incidents or Lost empower community leaders to Time Incidents (LTIs) for any of information that improves mutual assist those people with grievances Kosmos’ operations in Ghana in 2017, understanding of the role of the oil navigate the system. Although we Kosmos is a non-operating coM A N AG I N G O U R F O O T P R I N T continuing our record of zero LTIs and gas industry. did not receive any new grievances venturer of the Jubilee Unit and the since 2012. We continued to invest in GHANA Total oil production from the Jubilee in 2017, three grievances registered Tweneboa, Enyenra, and Ntomme Outreach to Local Communities field in 2017 was 32,749,975 barrels, safety training throughout the year, through the formal channel were (TEN) fields in Ghana, comprised which helped sustain performance The area directly onshore from the equivalent to an average of 89,726 outstanding at the end of 2016 and DEEPWATER of Tullow Oil, Anadarko Petroleum, gains achieved in prior years. Tullow Jubilee and TEN fields includes the TANO BLOCK WEST CAPE barrels (bbls) of oil per day (bopd). resolved in 2017. These grievances THREE POINTS PetroSA, and Ghana National Oil, as operator, reports on the safety six coastal districts of the Western Total gas production from the Jubilee concerned our social investment BLOCK Petroleum Company (GNPC). Tullow and environmental performance for Region, where we have centered field in 2017 was 44,231 million projects in the Western Region. Oil is the operator of the Jubilee Unit Jubilee and TEN operations. much of our local community standard cubic feet (mmscf) of and TEN fields, meaning it oversees To supplement our formal grievance engagement. In the Western gas, of which 70%, equaling 30,980 Our staff in Ghana receives JUBILEE operations related to oil and gas mechanism, we have stationed Region, our key stakeholders are the mmscf, was exported to the Ghana behavioral safety training each production. Although Kosmos does Community Liaison Officers (CLOs) fourteen traditional councils within National Gas Company’s onshore year in addition to annual training not oversee day-to-day operations in Kosmos-branded offices in local the six coastal districts, the Fish processing facility at Atuabo and on Kosmos’ Health, Safety, and of the Jubilee Unit and TEN fields, villages. We distribute contact Processors’ Associations of Ankobra onward flow to the Aboadze power Environment policies and standards. we take an active role in stakeholder numbers and e-mail addresses for and Ekpu Communities, as well as Gulf of plant for fuel to generate electricity. These trainings are mandatory. We Guinea engagement, secondment of top the CLOs as well as directions to communities where we have ongoing national talent, social investment In addition to oil exports, Kosmos believe they contribute to our strong their local community offices. The social investment projects. programs, and other activities to help promotes the use of natural gas to safety record in Ghana. CLOs are an important part of our ensure Ghanaians receive benefits generate power. Gas exports from We join community meetings held by approach to managing grievances, from hydrocarbon production. the Jubilee Field increased 15% in the Jubilee and TEN field operator. in that they solicit and respond to 2017. Kosmos continues to advocate We use these sessions to provide feedback from community members. 26 27 (NRGI), and the Ghana Extractive To further our commitment to economic needs and management Industries Transparency Initiative supporting investment and economic of oil and gas resources. The (GHEITI). GHEITI is an important development in Ghana, Kosmos six advisory council members forum that Kosmos uses to engage sponsored the Ghana Investment provide key insights that influence on issues of revenue transparency Summit in August 2017. The our business and above-ground and anti-corruption. We are a private summit was attended by investors approach. sector member of the GHEITI multifrom Africa, Europe, Asia and the Members of the council were stakeholder group, which oversees Americas. Kosmos participated in selected based on their business the public reconciling of payments panels with the Ghana Investment knowledge, diverse points of view, and receipts between government Promotion Centre to discuss and history of success leading and extractive companies. In 2017, opportunities in oil and gas as a companies in Ghana. The advisory Ghana completed its sixth oil and veteran of the industry in Ghana, council has even taken an active role gas reporting cycle. Kosmos has as well as share our learnings from in the Kosmos Innovation Center by been a part of the process in Ghana working with young Ghanaian volunteering as guest lecturers and since its inception. entrepreneurs as part of the Kosmos Fishing boats are anchored along the business mentors. There is natural coast of Ankobra, a community in the Innovation Center. In 2017, we were pleased to coalignment between Kosmos and Western Region. sponsor the first Enterprise Africa Ghana when it comes to creating Independent Advisory Council Summit, hosted in Accra. The a well-managed and increasingly outside the U.S. is in Ghana, where summit provided a forum for Kosmos created an independent productive petroleum sector. sourcing goods and services locally key stakeholders – development advisory council comprised of and hiring Ghanaian employees is an partners, government, civil society, respected Ghanaian business POSI T I VE I M PACTS important way that we contribute to academia, businesses community, leaders in 2014 to demonstrate Kosmos is committed to playing national development. Kosmos has and entrepreneurs – to explore the our long-term commitment to the its part in creating positive worked hard to build a network of nexus between entrepreneurship development of Ghana. The advisory Employees in our office in Accra, Ghana regularly take part in development outcomes for host local suppliers, and provided training professional development trainings. and economic development in council guides the company and countries from our oil and gas and capacity building ourselves Sub-Saharan Africa. The 2016 serves as a sounding board as we discoveries. Our largest office to bring them to international Kosmos Innovation Center Agritech work to support Ghana’s socioupdates on Jubilee and TEN field gas sector, the status of the Ghana industry standards. Challenge winner, TroTro Tractor, also operations, environmental monitoring government’s anti-small scale illegal We are committed to supporting participated in the summit, where and compliance, canoe incursions and mining initiative, and goals related to personal and professional the company gained international fishermen interactions, the Voluntary public security training and private development for all our employees visibility and built new business Principles on Business and Human security licensing reform. through tailored training programs, connections. Rights, social investments, effects rotations through our other global Kosmos uses private security of the Ghana-Côte d’Ivoire maritime Government Engagement offices, and attendance at workshops personnel to provide security for boundary dispute decision by ITLOS, and conferences. In 2015, Kosmos our employees and office operations Kosmos regularly engages with and our environmental and social achieved a major milestone by in Ghana. Security for the Jubilee the government of Ghana to keep impact management plans. These employing a 100 percent Ghanaian and TEN fields’ operations is the them informed of our activities and engagements result in the support staff – a number that we have now responsibility of the operator. We with the goal of ensuring that our of local leaders and traditional maintained for the third consecutive have trained all Kosmos Energy activities contribute to national authorities in keeping fishermen safe year. We currently have 45 Ghana security personnel on the development. As part of our around our offshore installations employees in Ghana, 95% of whom Voluntary Principles on Security and government engagement efforts in and approval of our social participated in personal and/or Human Rights per our corporate 2017, we provided all 250 members investment plans. professional development programs. policies and in support of Ghana’s of the Ghanaian parliament with work on the Voluntary Principles. We also conducted a total of 38 Voluntary Principles on copies of our Business Principles internal training programs for our Security and Human Rights For more information on the and annual reports. We presented staff in Ghana, including a refresher Voluntary Principles on Security our approach to transparency The Government of Ghana is course on the International Finance and Human Rights in Ghana, including publishing our contracts currently finalizing its National Corporation’s Environmental and please see the country’s website and payments to governments, Action Plan for implementation Social Performance Standards. dedicated to their implementation: anti-corruption policy, and ongoing of the Voluntary Principles on In 2017, we also contracted six www.ghanavps.org. support of the Extractive Industries Security and Human Rights. national service personnel to work Transparency Initiative. We also Kosmos has supported this process in finance, supply chain, human Working in Partnership explained the work of the Kosmos by participating as an industry resources, office administration, with Civil Society Innovation Center in supporting representative in national dialogues corporate affairs and commercial Kosmos maintains regular contact young Ghanaian entrepreneurs and to discuss key issues that can help departments. It is our hope that the with civil society organizations in small and medium sized enterprises. with implementation. The dialogues training and experience they receive have covered issues such as onshore Ghana such as the African Centre for Young entrepreneurs with the Kosmos Innovation Center learn about founding and growing while working at Kosmos helps and offshore risks associated with Energy Policy (ACEP), the National businesses that use technology to solve problems in the agricultural sector. prepare them for their future careers. increased activities in the oil and Resource Governance Institute 28 29 Social Investment Projects investment projects focused on The overall program includes three themes: local agribusiness construction of water purification We continue to support social and enterprise development, facilities, training of operators investment in Ghana through environmental stewardship, and from local communities, and Kosmos-initiated programs, as well road safety and traffic management. implementation of a monitoring as those led by the operator of the These projects were carefully program to ensure sustainability. Jubilee and TEN fields. In 2017, we designed in collaboration with Each new water facility is governed focused our social investment on community stakeholders to ensure by a board of community members youth entrepreneurship through their long-term sustainability. who oversee the project. Water the Kosmos Innovation Center, Health Ghana works in partnership clean drinking water, and small Clean Drinking Water for Ghanaians with these boards to determine community-level projects. Page 29 Kosmos has supported clean drinking the appropriate usage fees and of this report describes the Kosmos water projects in Ghana for the last management of the water purification Innovation Center in detail. WE ARE ON TO SOMETHING six years. We first worked with the service. In addition, the organization Editors and journalists are important provides sanitation and hygiene BIG. THIS PROGRAM Safe Water Network to build water stakeholders in Ghana as they education to further improve health ENCOURAGES SMART YOUNG filtration systems for over 28,000 regularly write about domestic oil outcomes for the villagers using the ENTREPRENEURS TO LOOK AT people from twenty villages in the and gas activities and their work new clean water systems. AGRICULTURE DIFFERENTLY. Western Region. The project received often shapes public understanding. WITH THE TYPE OF such a positive community response We are continuing our support of In 2017, we again sponsored INNOVATION FOSTERED BY that Kosmos decided to expand our the Water Health Ghana program the annual Ghana Journalist THE KIC, OUR YOUNG PEOPLE support of water projects to other in 2018, when the program will Awards, a forum that encourages CAN MAKE AGRICULTURE parts of the country. install water purification facilities professionalism and innovation in A MORE DYNAMIC SECTOR We are now involved in a multiand conduct management training AND ATTRACTIVE CAREER news reporting across Ghana. year project with Water Health for an additional ten communities. PATH WITH PLENTY OF Each year, we contribute to the By the end of 2018, our multi-year Ghana, a subsidiary of Water Health OPPORTUNITY. I AM THRILLED Jubilee Unit and TEN Development partnership with Water Health will International, to provide clean WITH THE TREMENDOUS social investment programs. These have brought clean drinking water to drinking water for villages in five RESPONSE THAT WE HAVE initiatives are overseen by a team of over 280,000 people across Ghana. regions. In 2017, we expanded the RECEIVED FROM YOUNG representatives from the Jubilee Unit co-venturers, including Kosmos. In program to ten new communities, EMBRAC I N G I N N OVAT I O N I N G H A N A : PEOPLE WHO WANT TO BE providing clean drinking water for A PART OF THIS EFFORT TO 2017, the Jubilee and TEN social T H E KOS MOS I N N OVAT I O N C EN T ER nearly 130,000 Ghanaians. TRANSFORM GHANA. We launched the Kosmos largest sector in Ghana’s economy. Innovation Center (KIC) in 2016 The KIC has focused on inspiring Joe Mensah, Kosmos Energy to help Ghana build a brighter young entrepreneurs to transform Ghana Vice President and future by applying innovation and Ghana’s agricultural sector through Country Manager technology to some of the country’s innovation in the nexus between key challenges. After more than a agriculture and information and decade of helping to develop the communications technology (ICT). national oil and gas industry, we To achieve results that drive change, challenged ourselves to think big the KIC uses a three-pronged and develop a program that would approach: Collaboration, Incubation, support potentially transformative and Acceleration. economic development. The Kosmos Innovation Center was the result COLLABORAT I ON of a year-long process of research, The Collaboration pillar of KIC is analysis, and evaluation. designed to build connections and Now in its third year, the KIC foster innovative partnerships among continues to evolve through valuable Ghanaian entrepreneurs, investors, partnerships, committed local staff, and other experts. The KIC hosts to develop solutions to challenges and feedback from stakeholders workshops, conferences, market faced in the agriculture sector. at all levels. We are excited by research tours, and other events to the futures of the businesses we In 2017, Kosmos participated in promote collaboration. have supported and are inspired the annual National Food and by the dedication of the young KIC Collaboration events bring Agricultural Show in Accra. The entrepreneurs we have met. together the best and brightest KIC team led an interactive session minds from a range of fields, such discussing how to encourage young In its initial phase, the KIC has turned as business, technology, finance, people to enter the agricultural its attention to agriculture – the and academia, to work together sector. The program was well Traditional chiefs sample clean drinking water from a Kosmos-sponsored Water Health Ghana facility. 30 31 AgroInnova, with its product ACCE LERATIO N AKOKOTAKRA, is an enterprise The Acceleration pillar of the I’M GREATLY ENCOURAGED BY THE COMMITMENT KOSMOS CONTINUES TO mobile and web-based management KIC supports the development SHOW TO THE KOSMOS INNOVATION CENTER BUSINESS BOOSTER PROGRAM. system that allows poultry farmers of promising small and medium to record, monitor, and track their IT HAS BEEN A GREAT PLEASURE TO WORK WITH THE VENTURES AS A sized enterprises through technical operations in real time. With this BUSINESS MENTOR. I HAVE SEEN IMPROVEMENT IN THE BUSINESSES AS THEY assistance and capital investment. innovative and comprehensive tool, EMBRACE THE LESSONS LEARNT FROM THE PROGRAM AND THE GUIDANCE After a stringent screening process, poultry farm managers have their PROVIDED BY MENTORS AND INVESTORS. BEING INVOLVED IN THE KOSMOS selected companies receive a range farms “at their fingertips” for more of support aimed at helping them INNOVATION CENTER HAS PROVIDED ME AN OPPORTUNITY TO GIVE BACK TO effective and efficient operations. grow. MY COUNTRY IN A WAY THAT WILL CREATE IMPACT IN MANY LIVES. AKOKOTAKRA will help poultry farmers in Ghana monitor and grow In 2017, KIC launched its first Mr. Ishmael Yamson Jr. their output. Business Booster program. Mentor for the KIC Business Booster We selected nine GhanaianQualiTrace developed a product owned businesses which have to authenticate, track, and trace operated within the agriculture crop protection products used by sector of Ghana for at least three attended by key stakeholders in startup enterprises. During our week tour brings the participants farmers to increase their yields. years. The five-month program agriculture, including representatives annual business incubator program, to five regions in Ghana – Greater Using a mobile validation system, the entailed two, week-long business from the Ministry of Food and young entrepreneurs spend five Accra, Volta, Eastern, Ashanti, and product aims to ensure that farmers development boot camps in Accra, Agriculture and farming District months in residence to develop Brong-Ahafo – to interact directly and consumers in Ghana can identify A KIC participant poses in front of a a mentorship support program Assemblies such as East Gonja, business plans around commercially with farmers and agribusinesses genuine farm inputs and quality food tractor. The first winner of the KIC Agritech and engagement with investors Savelugu and Sagnarigu. viable technological solutions to to test their assumptions and produce. This tool will also help to Challenge was TroTro Tractor, a company and wealth advisors. During the development challenges within the collect valuable input. The young thwart counterfeiting agricultural that connects farmers with tractor operators. program, the participating ventures INCU BATIO N agricultural sector. entrepreneurs also attend a series inputs in Ghana, a problem that validated and refined their business accounts for the loss of about $1.5 tractor operators within their vicinity, The Incubation pillar of KIC provides of lunch-and-learn programs aimed models, prepared for growth, and One of the highlights of the trillion globally on annual basis. enabling them to request, schedule, capacity building, mentorship, and at deepening their understanding gained access capital to build their incubator for the young and pre-pay for tractor services. seed funding through innovation of the agricultural sector, studying In addition to the winners of the companies. entrepreneurs – known in the The platform gives farmers greater challenges to promote the challenges in agriculture, and KIC AgriTech Challenge, four program as “AgriTechies” – is the access to mechanized farming The KIC collaborates with Uncharted, development of promising Ghanaian analyzing their experiences and other promising business teams market research tour. The twoequipment. a U.S.-based nonprofit, to lead the learnings from the research tour. who competed were funded and Business Booster execution and supported by KIC partners MEST and Since winning the AgriTech The Meltwater Entrepreneurial curriculum delivery, and Impact Hub Premium Bank of Ghana. Challenge, TroTro Tractor has grown School of Technology (MEST) is Accra, a collaborative co-working to seven employees and signed up KIC’s key partner in the Incubation The KIC continues to support space, to provide local expertise in over 30,000 farmers in Ghana for programming. MEST partners with winners from previous years as logistics, operations, and recruitment its tractor sharing services, based KIC to provide training to the young needed. The first start-up company for the Business Booster program. on a similar model as the ride-share entrepreneurs in the incubator to win the Agritech Challenge was company Uber, but used for tractors. program. The training emphasizes TroTro Tractor Limited in 2016. For more information about the The company has also secured Kosmos Innovation Center, visit confidence, teamwork, presentation TroTro Tractor Limited has developed additional investments in order www.kosmosinnovationcenter.com. abilities, critical thinking skills, and a platform that uses mobile phones to continue scaling their business acumen. and GPS units to connect farmers to successful business. At the end of the KIC incubator program cycle, the startups pitch I N C U B AT I O N P R O G R A M AT A G L A N C E their final business plans during the Agritech challenge. The winning entrepreneurs receive seed funding, technical assistance, and mentorship 270 $950K 8 79 to help them turn their business ideas into reality. The KIC started its second year INVESTED JOBS ASPIRING STARTUPS in 2017 by reaching an exciting IN KIC STARTUPS CREATED milestone: 100 young entrepreneurs YOUNG LAUNCHED BY KOSMOS accepted into the annual KIC ENTREPRENEURS AND EXTERNAL Agritech Challenge program. Two PARTICIPATED INVESTORS start-up companies from this group IN KIC won the 2017 Agritech Challenge Three local entrepreneurs learn firsthand about challenges and opportunities in the agricultural industry during a market research trip to farms in Ghana. and were funded by Kosmos: AgroInnova and QualiTrace. 32 33 PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 PHASE 5 PHASE 6 E X P LO R ATI O N AP P R AI SAL D E V E LO P M E NT D R I L L I NG D R I L L I NG Kosmos farmed in to ultra-deepwater block C18 with a 15% working interest in 2017, alongside partners Total S.A. (45%), Tullow Oil (15%), BP (15%), and SMHPM (10%). Total is the operator of block C18 and completed a 9,000-sq km 3D seismic survey in the block in early 2018. M AN AGI N G OU R F OOT PR I N T In 2017, Kosmos performed a drill stem test on the Tortue-1 well, drilled two exploration wells, and conducted a 3D seismic survey offshore Mauritania. All activities were safely executed as planned without incident. All Kosmos personnel and contractors, such as the employee pictured here at our shorebase in The drill stem test (DST), a Nouakchott, have the right and responsibility to stop any unsafe work or remove themselves procedure that determines the from any unsafe working conditions. productive capacity, pressure, permeability and/or extent of the We have also introduced training total revenue – once Tortue LNG gas reservoir, was conducted in a programs for local suppliers and is on stream in several years, this water depth of 2725 meters, one their staff focused on workplace number will likely increase – and of the deepest drill stem tests ever health and safety, as well as labor the Mauritanian Hydrocarbon conducted. Close collaboration rights. Code of 2011 requires companies between all commercial partners to publicly disclose the payments Since we transitioned our MAURITANIA and stakeholders throughout the they make to government. In 2017, Mauritanian employees to work for planning process, installation and Kosmos served as a private sector our partner BP at the end of 2017, test execution was key to the member of Mauritania’s EITI National we have hired a new Mauritanian success of the project. Committee. country manager and support staff Kosmos’ shorebase in Mauritania, to maintain our employment of In addition to our stakeholder Since first acquiring licenses in Mauritania, Kosmos has drilled three successful located in Nouakchott, marked three 100% Mauritanian nationals in our engagements in Nouakchott, we years without a lost time incident Nouakchott office. continue to engage with fishing offshore exploration wells. We drilled the Tortue-1 well and the Ahmeyim-2 well in in 2017. We worked hard to achieve communities near our offshore this record, through dedicated EN GAGEM EN T AN D LI ST EN I N G exploration acreage through the southern part of block C8 and made important discoveries in the Greater Tortue trainings, regular meetings, and close We believe that being a great Environmental and Social Impact area. Kosmos also made another major gas discovery in the northern part of block cooperation among our employees, explorer is not enough to be Assessments, social investment, and contractors, business partners, and regular community visits. successful – we must also engage C8 when our Marsouin-1 exploration well encountered at least 70 meters of net the government of Mauritania. with local people and listen to In 2017, we held four public natural gas pay, representing a significant, play-extending find. We have continued to organize their concerns. Our gas discoveries consultations, covering areas contractor forums related to Greater offshore Mauritania mean that we in Nouakchott, Ndiago, and Tortue activities to provide training expect to have a presence in the Nouamjhara. We met with local The Greater Tortue natural gas pace and take forward a multiBLOCK and reinforce our HSE-related country for many years to come. representatives as part of the ESIA C18 resource is a single large gas well exploration program in both expectations. Local and multinational We want to be a welcome investor, processes to present upcoming accumulation that stretches across Mauritania and Senegal. contractors – representing drilling, both to our host governments and drilling activities and get input on the maritime boundary between Kosmos currently holds licenses for shorebase, and aviation – attended local communities. To achieve this the proposed Greater Tortue plan Mauritania and Senegal. The scale blocks 6, 8, 12, 13 and 18 offshore these sessions in anticipation of goal, we build relationships with of development, as well as and quality of the gas field, and the Mauritania, as shown in the map at increased activity and re-committed stakeholders through engagement answer questions. Atlantic exploration potential of the rest of BLOCK left. Since late 2016, our partners themselves to working within our and listening on all topics: the Ocean C6 the basin, attracted the attention Since we have been present in in blocks 6, 8, 12, and 13 are BP standards. environment, transparency, our of several major international oil Mauritania for over five years, the BLOCK and Société Mauritanienne Des operations, capacity building and C12 companies who expressed their Our office in Nouakchott is staffed local community in the Ndiago Hydrocarbures et de Patrimoine social investment projects, health and interest in partnering with us. with 100% Mauritanian citizens, region is now familiar with Kosmos Minier (SMHPM), with 65% and 10% safety, and socioeconomic impacts. MAURITANIA Following a thorough farm-out and we prioritize the professional and informed about the oil and gas working interests, respectively. In BLOCK C13 BLOCK process, BP was chosen as the right development of these employees. We are pleased to support the exploration taking place offshore. C8 2017, we transitioned operatorship of partner to help Kosmos advance In 2017, Kosmos employees in government of Mauritania’s We met with, among others, the the Greater Tortue gas development SENEGAL the Greater Tortue gas project at Mauritania attended international commitments to transparency. local Diawling Park Authority, project to BP. trainings in finance, industry-specific Mineral resources currently represent fisherman’s associations, and local subjects, and English lessons. nearly a quarter of Mauritania’s religious, economic and government 34 35 staff suggestions, Kosmos has through mobile device charging and fish are brought ashore. Many of also provided lessons in basic better access to radio and television, these women are part of co-ops to management and entrepreneurship and lead to greater productivity in increase efficiency, share the costs skills. We partner with the economic activities. of equipment and improve access International Labor Organization to market for the fish products. The Diawling National Park (PND) (ILO) office in Mauritania on an Kosmos partnered with EcoDev, a borders the Senegal River and employability skills training program local development NGO, to build the municipality of Ndiago in southwest for students enrolled in the English capacity of the Ndiago women’s fish Mauritania. The 16000-hectare classes. processing co-ops. national park is characterized by a Each year that Kosmos has been range of different habitats (pond, We provided a series of workshops present in Mauritania, our office has river, islands, estuary, and lakes) for members of the cooperative participated in annual volunteering and is home to a wide diversity of on organization and management and charity during the month of flora and fauna. Diawling is part of a of small and medium enterprises Ramadan. The Ramadan holiday Trans-Border Biosphere Reserve that The mouth of the Senegal River is home to (SMEs), entrepreneurship skills, and often leads to increases in food is a valuable avian breeding site due a multitude of birdlife, such as the sea birds hygiene and safety. Through this pictured here offshore Mauritania. Researchers with the Biodiversity Oil and Gas Program (BGP) analyze marine prices that can put basic items out to the combination of saltwater and training, the co-ops aim to increase mammal and sea bird activity while on a marine survey offshore Mauritania sponsored by Kosmos. of reach for many families. Kosmos’ freshwater at the Senegal River delta. their profits and develop more Fisheries are a key income involvement in 2017 provided 3,000 sustainable business practices. The Kosmos supports the national park provider in the Ndiago region. meals for families in need during hygiene and safety training was leaders. Each meeting represented Extractives (GAED) international through skills training for park staff Understandably, the local community Ramadan. Our local employees in augmented by construction of a new an open invitation to continue master’s program, a joint master’s on park surveillance, monitoring strongly cares about the safety of Nouakchott volunteered to assist in fish drying and processing area to dialogue on our activities, as well as degree program on managing of invasive species, and tourism its fishermen and their vessels, as food distribution. lessen environmental impacts and a commitment to keep stakeholders impacts from the extractive sector, management. We also provided well as the safety of those engaged improve working conditions for the informed of our progress and plans. held at the University of Nouakchott While many of our social programs new monitoring equipment, such in ancillary activities such as fish women. and the University Gaston Berger of are based in Nouakchott and support as watchtowers, binoculars, GPS, processing. Kosmos has previously Saint Louis, Senegal. national development, we believe it and a drone, to improve capacity on provided safety gear and fish In addition to improvements to the POS ITIVE IM PACTS is also important to benefit coastal park surveillance and research. Due processing equipment to the Ndiago physical work space, we provided Mauritania’s Biodiversity Oil and Gas The master’s degree program was communities in the Ndiago region, to our cross-border offshore LNG the women with new equipment community to reduce health risks Program (BGP) is a multi-stakeholder developed by the International which is directly onshore from project, we encouraged the Diawling for fish processing and safe and improve working conditions, and initiative supported by the Ministry Union for Conservation of our license areas near the border National Park to work together with food handling. The project also in 2017 we decided to expand our of Environment and Ministry of Nature (IUCN), United Nations with Senegal. Because there was the Djoudj National Bird Park on established a fund owned by the program in Ndiago. Energy. Kosmos is pleased to have Development Programme (UNDP), little demographic and economic the Senegal side of the river delta women’s cooperatives to provide a multi-year partnership with the the German Development Institute The population of Ndiago has a information available on the Ndiago since the two national parks share working capital for the purchase BGP team and to provide support (GIZ), MAVA Foundation, Global majority of women due to the region when we entered Mauritania, similar geography, flora, and fauna, of fresh fish, processing costs, and for marine research and policy Environment Facility (GEF), the travel required by the men who fish we began our work in the area by and thus have similar challenges and access to markets for sales. development. The BGP aims to World Wildlife Fund (WWF), and offshore. The women of Ndiago are conducting a community needs opportunities. bring researchers and policymakers the two universities for students responsible for processing after the assessment. together to improve marine from Mauritania, Senegal, and other African countries. Kosmos The assessment identified energy biodiversity protection, regulatory is supporting the GAED master’s access as a local need in Ndiago. capacity, and engagement among During stakeholder meetings, the various groups that use the program by providing our employees EMBRACING INNOVATION We are excited to partner with Start-Up Mauritania as guest lecturers, hosting field trips community and local authorities had on this first phase of the Kosmos Innovation Center ocean. IN MAURITANIA and internships, and contributing suggested that the local economy in Mauritania. This partnership includes capacity In 2017, we again sponsored BGP could benefit from electrification building for their business incubator and startfinancial support. GAED students In 2017, Kosmos began planning the establishment researchers on a multi-week marine projects. Kosmos responded by up competition as well as direct support to the have also joined our teams in the of a Kosmos Innovation Center (KIC) in Mauritania survey to increase knowledge and developing a rural electrification winning start-up companies. field for seismic and drilling ESIAs in to promote entrepreneurship among the data about biodiversity in the waters project in Ndiago in partnership with both Mauritania and Senegal. country’s youth. We identified Mauritania as an Through Start-Up Mauritania, we will offer a offshore Mauritania. This is the third the local community and the Ministry excellent location for the KIC because young program for 50 Mauritanian youths to create such survey that we have sponsored. For four consecutive years, Kosmos of Energy. people comprise 20% of the population and are start-up concepts in 2018. The start-up teams will In the coming year, BGP, along with has funded English language Kosmos built solar installations in experiencing a 19% unemployment rate. Youth participate in a business training curriculum and its partner IMROP, intends to use this training for students at Centre de three remote areas of Ndiago that are key drivers of economic growth and social capacity-building program, learning from senior data to author a Marine Biodiversity Formation et de Perfectionement were not previously connected to change in Mauritania, but currently face a lack of mentors and market research tours. They will Atlas of Mauritania. Professionels (CFPP), the largest the power grid. The project now economic opportunities and jobs. Entrepreneurship ultimately compete in successive rounds of pitch vocational training center in While we pursue development of the provides electricity to more than is a key pathway to employment and economic competitions, with the winners receiving support to Nouakchott. We had learned from a Mauritania’s natural gas resource, 2,100 people in Ndiago. It is our hope empowerment for youth and can boost the overall launch their businesses. needs assessment that the students we aim to also enhance national that the new electricity will result Mauritanian economy as well. The ethos of the were often being excluded from KIC Mauritania will encourage collaboration and capacity in the oil and gas industry in increases to quality of life in the Kosmos Innovation Center is to offer sustainable job applicant pools for which they innovation among young entrepreneurs, investors, and related fields. One such initiative local villages. Electrification has been opportunities for young people to create their own were qualified because they did not and business leaders in Mauritania. is our multi-year partnership with shown to improve health and indoor futures – not to give short-term handouts. have sufficient English language the Gérer les Impacts des Activités skills. In response to student and air quality, increase connectivity 36 37 PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 PHASE 5 PHASE 6 SEISMIC We learned in our Environmental guard vessels had to cut the nets of POSITIV E IMPAC TS and Social Impact Assessment that the fishing boats in the path of the Corps Africa matches Moroccan the seismic survey would take place seismic vessels. youth with local communities to in a densely fished area. Kosmos We asked fishermen whose implement poverty-reduction conducted extensive mitigation equipment was lost or damaged projects. This program helps prepare measures in order to safety share the during the survey to provide their the next generation of Moroccan area with artisanal fishermen. information to the fishing liaison development practitioners by Our local team presented the officer. After a full engagement to giving them practical experiences survey to fishing cooperatives and ensure we were providing the proper that they can apply to their career, government officials along the reparations, Kosmos replaced all of as they develop skills in program coast. The team then handed out their equipment, including new nets management, leadership and flyers presenting the survey in three and hooks where relevant. adapting to difficult circumstances. languages to fishing communities Kosmos has supported Corps Africa and placed the flyers in central EN GAGEM EN T AN D LI ST EN I N G volunteer fellows each year since locations. We also sent a daily email Through workshops on a range the program started in 2013. For the with the vessel location to the fishing of topics – such as transparency, 2016-17 cohort, Kosmos sponsored cooperatives and relevant officials. resource governance models, and two volunteers in the Essaouira To maintain the exclusion zone stakeholder engagement – we have region. One volunteer refurbished around the seismic vessel, Kosmos helped to promote sustainable a multi-functional room that is now deployed four guard vessels with development in the oil and gas being used as a nursery school, fishing liaison officers (FLOs) sector in Morocco. For several years, classroom for women’s literacy onboard to communicate to ONHYM has been developing a programs, meeting place for women fishermen the location of the seismic corporate responsibility strategy and to sew carpets and a meeting space vessel and how to stay away. We program. for the community. He also led also employed a land-based fishing In early 2017, Kosmos’ staff led environmental projects focused on liaison officer to each fishing a workshop with ONHYM senior cleaning up the plastic bags that MOROCCO village on a weekly basis during the leadership on social investment are common in Morocco, as well duration of the survey. strategy. Kosmos also provided as workshops on leadership, selfwritten reports, materials and advice confidence and teamwork. The other Despite these extensive mitigation to help ONHYM implement a social volunteer helped village women form measures, there were some cases in investment strategy. an association and sell traditional which fishing boats got too close to handicrafts which provide income for As one of the first oil and gas companies to explore offshore Morocco in recent the seismic vessel. In order to ensure the women’s families. the safety of the fishermen, the years, Kosmos helped set the standard for how the industry does business in the country. Over four years, Kosmos built capacity at the shore base in Agadir, implemented social investment programs, engaged with a wide range of stakeholders and community members, and conducted several 3D seismic surveys. EMBRACING INNOVATION see which teams had the best business ideas, plans and IN MOROCCO pitches. Some of the teams ultimately launched their businesses, creating jobs and generating revenue. We drilled our first exploration 2018, we conducted a geochemical Enactus is an international nonprofit organization, Atlantic Ocean well in the Foum Assaka block in survey in the Essaouira block to active in 36 countries, dedicated to inspiring students 2014, which failed to encounter obtain sediment samples for further to improve the world through entrepreneurship. hydrocarbons in commercial analysis. ESSAOUIRA Kosmos partnered with ENACTUS Morocco to expand quantities. Based on these drilling BLOCK programming in Agadir and Essaouira, two cities on the results and further analysis of the M A N AG I N G OUR FOOT P R I N T Moroccan coast near our Essaouira license area. basin, we made the decision in 2016 Many artisanal small-scale fishermen to relinquish a portion of our acreage work along Morocco’s coast, Through our partnership with Enactus, over MOROCCO offshore Morocco. We maintained including in the Essaouira block 1,200 university students learned about social our position in the Essaouira Block area. One common style of fishing entrepreneurship and the basics of running their own to continue acquiring and analyzing in this area is for fishers to pause businesses. Students who wished to pursue additional data in the area. in one location and hang either a learning in entrepreneurship formed Enactus teams In the spring of 2017, we completed net or hundreds of small hooks at and launched 22 new projects. The teams then a three-month seismic acquisition varying depths. When employing participated in the Moroccan national competition to MAURITANIA survey in the Essaouira Block. this technique, it can take hours for The interpretation of this seismic fishermen to move from the chosen data is ongoing. In the first half of fishing spot. 38 39 PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 PHASE 5 PHASE 6 SEISMIC Kosmos will be the technical mitigations and appropriate During the ESHIA process for operator during the exploration experts were engaged to assist in our seismic survey in 2017, we phase of the license, with BP taking compliance with the plan. Through participated in public consultation over to manage any development in research and engagement, we are forums, met with a variety of the event of exploration success. proud that we could design a seismic government and civil society survey that exceeded international stakeholders, engaged with fishing M AN AGI N G OU R F OOT PR I N T environmental standards. communities, and established a In 2017, we conducted a 3D formal grievance mechanism for We are committed to working seismic campaign in Blocks 5, 6, individuals potentially impacted closely and transparently with local 11, and 12 covering over 16,000 by our activities. The assessment and international stakeholders to square kilometers, the largest data included extensive consultation safeguard São Tomé and Príncipe’s acquisition in our company’s history. on both islands, which presented unique biodiversity. By following The seismic survey was planned several opportunities for interested international standards and engaging and executed to minimize potential parties to provide feedback. This in dialogue with international and exposure to the environment, feedback was incorporated into the local organizations, we believe oil particularly marine mammals and sea Environmental Management Plan and and gas exploration can proceed in turtles. Two marine fauna observers survey design. a responsible and environmentally(MFOs) and one passive acoustic sensitive manner. To keep stakeholders informed, a monitoring (PAM) operator were community engagement program present. EN GAGEM EN T AN D LI ST EN I N G was also conducted ahead of the Kosmos and its partners spent over Kosmos is committed to seismic acquisition. The program a year developing an understanding transparency and active promotion included members from Kosmos, of the potential impacts of our of the Extractive Industries Galp, Agencia Nacional do Petroleo seismic survey on the waters Transparency Initiative (EITI) in each de São Tomé e Príncipe (ANP-STP), offshore São Tomé and Príncipe of our host countries, including São the national oil company, the local through the preparation of an Tomé and Príncipe, which has been a NGO MARAPA, and the Ministry of environmental, health and social member country since 2012. Fisheries. After the seismic campaign impact assessment (ESHIA). had concluded, we re-visited key Kosmos has established regular local and international stakeholders For each block, the ESHIA was engagement with the Director of EITI to update them on the completion developed by independent SÃO TOMÉ AND PRÍNCIPE and the multi-stakeholder group in of the survey and the success of our consultants and approved by the São Tomé and Príncipe. In 2017, we environmental mitigation plans. São Tomé and Príncipe Ministry of deepened our relationship with EITI Infrastructure, Natural Resources Kosmos has had an ongoing and plan to work together in 2018 to and Environment. dialogue with Fauna & Flora hold knowledge-building workshops Kosmos first entered São Tomé and Príncipe by acquiring acreage in four A project-specific marine fauna on the oil and gas industry for local International (FFI) regarding our protection plan was developed to stakeholders and the media. seismic campaign offshore São Tomé offshore blocks – 5, 6, 11 and 12 – in 2015 and 2016. In early 2018, Kosmos and Príncipe. FFI provided valuable include approved marine fauna acquired two additional offshore blocks – 10 and 13. In total, these six blocks feedback on our survey design and mitigation measures, and we agreed cover an area of approximately 38,600 square kilometers and are adjacent to to continue conversations around seismic acquisition and any future a proven petroleum system in Equatorial Guinea and Gabon. exploration drilling. We also shared cetacean and marine mammal data acquired by our marine fauna Upon entering São Tomé and government. Kosmos, Galp, Equator, Gulf of PRÍNCIPE observers and other scientists on Guinea Príncipe in 2016, Kosmos established and ANP-STP intend to make a the seismic vessel during the a local office on São Tomé island and decision regarding exploration BLOCK 10 acquisition program. BLOCK 5 appointed a country manager. We drilling in 2019. currently employ seven local staff, P OSITIV E IMPAC TS SÃO Our partner in blocks 10 and 13 is BP. BLOCK 6 working in areas such as accounting, TOMÉ The work program in these blocks Kosmos and our partners are finance, external affairs, HSE, and will be phased, which will enable contractually obligated to spend procurement. BLOCK 11 Kosmos and BP to develop a deeper approximately $3.3 million on social Galp Energia, a Portuguese oil and understanding of the basin and investment projects over four years UINEA BLOCK 12 GABON gas company, holds a non-operated stake as a partner in blocks 5, 11, and create the best chance of exploration success. In the first four-year (2016-2019) under the terms of our production sharing contracts with 12, and an operated position in Block phase, Kosmos and BP will acquire the government for blocks 5, 11 and BLOCK 13 6. Equity in these four blocks is also additional seismic data and will 12. To ensure this social investment shared with Equator and the Agencia analyze the data to decide on next An artisanal fisherman checks his equipment on the shores of São Tomé. Kosmos held public obligation results in real benefit Nacional do Petroleo de São Tomé e steps with regard to drilling. consultations with the fishing community and other local stakeholders in São Tomé and Príncipe prior to beginning seismic operations. to the people of São Tomé and Príncipe (ANP-STP), on behalf of the Príncipe, Kosmos has engaged with 40 41 the government to understand its national development priorities and formulate a strategic plan for the education sector. São Tomé and Príncipe has high levels of literacy compared to many other developing countries. However, the country’s young demographic – over 60% of the population is under the age of 24 – presents significant EN G AG I N G O N EN V I RO N MEN TA L I SS U ES W I T H challenges in the education sector FAU N A & F LO RA I N T ERN AT I O N A L which the government is eager to address. At Kosmos, we are committed to During our initial meeting, FFI provided arising. Eight mitigation actions were According to recent government actively consulting with stakeholders on valuable input on the design of our implemented during the seismic data, the key challenges are: the actions we take to mitigate impacts seismic survey and mitigation measures program: four involving Pilot whales when exploring for hydrocarbons. We in relation to potential impacts on and four for Humpback whales, • Class size: an average of 80 In partnership with the government of São Tomé and Príncipe, Kosmos is building schools and classrooms in four locations on São Tomé for children such as the two boys pictured believe that partnering and engaging in biodiversity. Kosmos presented the including one full shut-down for the students per classroom playing here. dialogue with stakeholders deepens our detailed Environmental and Social extended mitigation zone for • Pace of development: Inadequate understanding of public concerns that Impact Assessment completed during mother-calf pairs. use of technology due to lack of should be addressed. These dialogues the planning phase of operations, infrastructure and training Kosmos has agreed to build two new of the classrooms and facilities. can ultimately lead to better-informed along with other key studies and the secondary schools and associated Kosmos has also procured two minidecision making and reduced risks to logistics plan that minimized the overall • Instruction: Insufficient number facilities (in Santana and Monte Café) buses that are now used to transport environment. duration of the survey and ensured that of teachers, many of whom lack and add classrooms to two existing teachers to remote schools in Porto maximum distance was kept from each necessary training Following the public consultations schools in Neves and São Marçal. Alegre and Santa Catarina. area of sensitivity. for our seismic acquisition program Thus, the goals of the education Once these projects are completed, This initiative is being overseen and offshore São Tomé and Príncipe, we We discussed and clarified items initiative include improving access the Ministry of Education, Culture, monitored by a steering committee were contacted by Fauna & Flora about which FFI had concerns. to quality education, reducing the and Science will take responsibility comprised of Kosmos, the Ministry International (FFI), an international Subjects under discussion included: of Education, Culture and Science, wildlife conservation organization, • source level used for the seismic and ANP-STP. Groundbreaking for with an ongoing environmental We continued to work with FFI after campaign; the school construction is expected program on Príncipe Island. In the initial engagement by facilitating in the first half of 2018. Kosmos is response, the project management • the timing of operations to avoid the a meeting between our Marine Fauna currently working with the Ministry team from Kosmos met with migratory period of whales; Observers and FFI staff in São Tomé of Education, Culture, and Science conservation specialists from FFI to • the noise propagation model and Príncipe, and by holding a follow and ANP-STP to move the project discuss in greater detail our survey used to establish the size of the up meeting at FFI’s headquarters forward and ensure high standards plans and the proposed seismic mitigation exclusion zone; after the seismic acquisition was for construction. mitigation options. complete. With the permission of • the proposed monitoring and the government of São Tomé and In addition to the education projects mitigation actions; on São Tomé island, Kosmos intends Príncipe, Kosmos shared with FFI OUR ENGAGEMENT WITH to implement social investment • the necessity for adaptive the cetacean and marine mammal KOSMOS WAS A VALUABLE projects on Príncipe island in the management; and data acquired by our Marine Fauna KNOWLEDGE SHARING Observers and other scientists during coming year. In 2017, we conducted • possibilities for data sharing and inEXERCISE. THEY SHOWED the acquisition program. The data is an assessment and partner analysis country support for GREAT WILLINGNESS TO particularly important because there is on Príncipe. Based on the results of conservation actions. ENGAGE WITH FFI AND a lack of current research and data on this assessment, we plan to focus EXPLAIN IN DETAIL THE Communication is critical, and no cetaceans and turtles in the waters far our social investment efforts on EFFORTS THEY WERE more so than during field operations. offshore São Tomé and Príncipe. Príncipe around biodiversity and PLANNING TO MITIGATE FFI reviewed Kosmos’ Sensitive conservation, access to water supply, Through research, engagement, and Marine Fauna Protection Plan, the and innovation in local enterprises. IMPACT TO MARINE MAMMALS a collaborative approach, we are primary document that professional AND TURTLES. IN ADDITION, proud to have completed a seismic Marine Fauna Observers and Passive KOSMOS WAS RESPONSIVE survey offshore São Tomé and Acoustic Monitoring operators use TO OUR CONCERNS WHICH Príncipe that meets high international to implement the practical field RESULTED IN ENHANCED environmental standards. We greatly tools to minimize the risks to marine average number The island of is students of Príncipe per home to approximately 7,000 staffing for people andthe has aschools with qualified rich biodiversity, MITIGATION ACTIONS appreciate the willingness of FFI to fauna. During the seven-month-long classroom, andendemic including many preparing students species. In 2018, Kosmos teachers or teachers-in-training, plans to initiate several social and as meet with us and work together to DURING THEIR SURVEY. seismic survey, 306 observations the future labor forenvironmental projectsmarket. on Príncipe to ensure benefits wellreach bothmaintenance as the islands in the country. and repair ensure that we are each doing our of 12 cetacean species were made. Sophie Benbow part to protect marine fauna and Compliance with the mitigation Marine Programme Manager, FFI respect the unique environment of plan was exemplary, with no issues São Tomé and Príncipe. 42 43 PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 PHASE 5 PHASE 6 E X P LO R ATI O N AP P R AI SAL D E V E LO P M E NT D R I L L I NG D R I L L I NG In early 2017, Kosmos announced department, and representatives another major discovery of gas of fishing communities directly. We BY IDENTIFYING FUTURE offshore Senegal with the results of met with over 200 fishermen to NEEDS, COLLABORATION the Yakaar-1 exploration well. Located describe the location and duration OPPORTUNITIES, AND in the Cayar Offshore Profond of the survey, the names and contact block approximately 95 kilometers information of the survey vessels, the POTENTIAL FUNDING northwest of Dakar in nearly 2,550 nature and reason for the exclusion AVENUES TO MAINTAIN meters of water, the well discovered a zone around the boats, and the phone AND EXPAND OCEAN gross Pmean gas resource of about 15 number and email address for the ACIDIFICATION RESEARCH trillion cubic feet, in-line with pre-drill Kosmos Grievance Mechanism. We THROUGHOUT AFRICA, expectations. also handed out flyers on the survey, THIS INITIATIVE IN broadcast a radio announcement, SENEGAL OFFERED A M AN AGI N G OU R F OOT PR I N T and deployed a fishing liaison officer UNIQUE OPPORTUNITY TO Kosmos opened its office in Dakar (FLO) on board each vessel. MOVE FROM A PROBLEM in September 2014 to support our Our survey vessels encountered many DEFINING ERA INTO A drilling program and to establish artisanal boats in the nearshore zone. MUCH-NEEDED a visible presence in the country. The density of fishing activities often SOLUTION SPACE. Kosmos spent more than a year required our vessels to pause work working in fishing communities until artisanal fishers moved on, and Shona Paterson onshore from our license areas the geophysical work often had to Science Officer, to introduce the company, begin Future Earth Coasts stop completely during the hours of building productive relationships, and darkness. Despite this, there were no prepare for both seismic surveys and significant incidents with artisanal This was the first face-to-face meeting drilling activities. boats. Interactions with fishermen of the Ocean Acidification Africa Since those early days, we have built were cordial and cooperative. Network to discuss mechanisms for a team in Dakar which was comprised Our External Affairs staff returned knowledge sharing among scientists predominantly of Senegalese to Saint Louis at least twice a across Africa and to build momentum nationals. We have provided month for the duration of the for scientific action. development opportunities to our survey to re-deliver messages about Scientists from eighteen coastal SENEGAL Senegalese staff through training the importance of the exclusion African nations – working in chemistry, workshops and special assignments zone around our vessels, gather biology, economics and/or social to enhance their capabilities. feedback from fishermen on our science – came together to discuss In mid-2017, when BP took over operations and how we were handling the best way forward for research operatorship of Cayar Offshore interactions offshore, and ensure across the continent. The workshop Kosmos has a participating interest in two exploration blocks offshore Profond and Saint Louis Offshore ongoing awareness of the Grievance also included institutions such as Profond blocks, many of our staff Mechanism. the Abidjan UNEP Regional Seas Senegal – Cayar Offshore Profond and Saint Louis Offshore Profond. Convention in order to create linkages transitioned to work for BP. We Kosmos maintains a program to The license areas are adjacent to, and on trend with, our blocks offshore currently have a team of three strengthen HSE management to future policy development. employees in our office in Dakar to with the local and multi-national In addition to the workshop events, neighboring Mauritania. continue above-ground activities, contractors that support our drilling fifteen early-career scientists, such as social investment, and to operations. The program involves graduate students, and technicians support the operations that BP leads bringing together management underwent practical training in the Atlantic We first drilled two successful gas deposit and confirmed that a as the operator. representatives from each of the implementation of ocean acidification Ocean exploration wells offshore Senegal prolific inboard gas fairway extends contractors supporting Kosmos research. Participants hailed from In the first half of 2017, we conducted ST. LOUIS in 2016, which both discovered approximately 200 kilometers from operations to collaborate on Benin, Cameroon, Ivory Coast, Nigeria, OFFSHORE a geotechnical and geophysical significant deposits of natural gas. the Marsouin-1 well in Mauritania organizational challenges, crew Senegal, Ghana, and Togo. The PROFOND survey in the Saint Louis Offshore The Guembeul-1 well, which was through the Tortue area on the resource management, and showing training was specifically designed to Profond license in Senegal and the located approximately five kilometers maritime boundary all the way to the leadership in safety, health, and the emphasize eastern Atlantic waters to C8 license in Mauritania. Part of the south of our basin-opening Tortue-1 Teranga-1 well in Senegal. environment. build capacity for the practitioners survey took place in the nearshore well gas discovery offshore from West Africa. Announced in late 2016, Kosmos has area where the Tortue project Mauritania, demonstrated reservoir EN GAGEM EN T AN D LI ST EN I N G a partnership with BP in Senegal breakwater will be located – up to Kosmos also worked with the continuity, as well as static pressure (and Mauritania) that combines 10km from the coast and the town of As part of our commitment to government in Senegal to build SENEGAL communication with the Tortue-1 CAYAR Kosmos’ exploration expertise Saint Louis. It is a densely fished area, supporting environmental initiatives capacity in environmental well, suggesting that a single large OFFSHORE with BP’s deepwater development, with approximately 5,000 artisanal in the countries where we operate, management as part of our ESIA PROFOND gas accumulation stretches across LNG production and marketing fishing boats operating from Saint Kosmos sponsored a workshop on processes. As a first step, in 2016 the maritime boundary between experience. Kosmos holds an Louis. ocean acidification in Senegal through Kosmos organized a training on the Mauritania and Senegal. effective 30% participating interest the Future Earth Coasts initiative. conduct of environmental monitoring At the beginning of the survey, we The Teranga-1 well, drilled in the in both licenses. BP holds a 60% The week-long event was held at the of drilling activities. This training held in-person meetings in Saint Cayar Offshore Profond block participating interest. The national Ecole Superieure Polytechnique of the included the Bosiet-Huet certification Louis with the local artisanal fishing approximately 91 kilometers oil company Société des Pétroles du Universite Cheikh-Anta-Diop in Dakar. of Department of Environment and council (CLPA), the local fisheries southwest of the Guembeul-1 well, Sénégal (Petrosen) holds 10%. also discovered a very large, material 44 45 Classified Establishments (DEEC) In addition to capacity building four neighborhoods in Saint Louis: “clean up” days, the project included and gas industry in countries that agents and their visit to the drillship. within Senegal, Kosmos also Goxu Mbacc, Ndar Toute, Guet Ndar capacity building work with local are relatively new to oil and gas sponsored members of Senegalese and Hydrobase. The project aims to authorities to strengthen the waste like Senegal. These institutions In 2017, we built upon this training civil society to attend a Natural address several environmental issues management system so that once are home to our future workforce by bringing members of the DEEC Resource Governance Institute (NRGI) affecting fishing communities on trash was removed, the waterways and often help inform the national Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana to engage workshop in Cameroon, where we the Langue de Barbarie including would stay clear of new pollution. policy conversations and legislation. with their counterparts in those were a presenter. The topics covered artificial reefs, reforestation, and waste Kosmos sponsored professors from countries. We facilitated meetings We held four successful clean up included oil and gas project lifecycles, management. the University Cheikh Antar Diop between DEEC and environmental days, mobilizing nearly 100 local revenue flows during different stages in Dakar (as well as representatives agency officials in Ghana (Ghana Artificial reefs create new breeding people to help clean up trash of the project, the causes and impacts from the University of Nouakchott in Environmental Protection Agency) habitats and ecological niches for and plastic waste that normally of changes in oil price, contract Mauritania) to attend the GetEnergy and in Côte d’Ivoire (Agence Nationale fish, which is important in the heavilyline this section of the Senegal A pelican hunts for fish in the Djoudj National transparency, corruption risks, and Bird Park along the coast of Senegal. conference on local content in oil and De l’Environnement) to help DEEC fished waters offshore the Langue de river, gathering over 46 tons of managing the environmental impacts gas in London in 2017. develop a global support network, Barbarie. Le Partenariat commissioned waste in total. The local artisanal of exploration and production. villagers. The project, which began identify comparable mechanisms, and a local company to construct over fishing council, the mayor’s office, The GetEnergy event was designed in 2017, reinforces the ecological share lessons learned about how to We are now working in partnership 400 artificial reefs, then worked with local government departments, specifically for providers of education monitoring and surveillance of the regulate and monitor offshore oil and with BP to continue these types of fishing representatives, the national the Saint Louis Development and training to learn from companies, Park and supports the socioeconomic gas activities. capacity building engagements with maritime agency, professional scuba Agency and the municipal cleaning governments and service providers, government, civil society, journalists development activities of the with the goal increasing the number Kosmos also led or participated in divers, Saint Louis firefighters and the service all participated, along with and local communities in Senegal. Djoudj Inter-Village Committee. This of local people working in the oil workshops in Senegal in the past year Marine Protected Area to sink them representatives from the fishing committee is made up of national and gas industry. Kosmos aims on transparency, local content, good over a period of four days. We also communities. We also donated POSITIVE IMPACTS park officials and community leaders. to contribute to the development governance of natural resources, commissioned a local environmental equipment such as forks, shovels and Fishing Livelihoods in Saint Louis Our support goes toward: of linkages between educational and fundamentals of the oil and consultancy to do a health and safety personal protective equipment (PPE) Kosmos is working with Le assessment, oversee the immersion, to community waste management offerings and the needs of the oil and gas industry. We continued our 1. Habitat restoration and the Partenariat, an international NGO, as and ensure a safe and incident-free organizations. gas industry in Senegal as well as all regular engagement with the EITI, management of invasive plant our implementing partner for social immersion process. the countries where we are in the supporting dissemination of the 2015 Unfortunately, trash quickly returned species. In total around 16 hectares investment on the Langue de Barbarie development and production stage of and 2016 EITI reports by presenting The artificial reefs have all been ‘geoto the river banks in some of the of degraded natural habitats will be in Saint Louis, Senegal. Le Partenariat the project lifecycle. at a workshop in Saint Louis. We localized’ so that representatives neighborhoods. After a review of restored and rehabilitated. also hosted a group of students from is a partnership between the Saint In 2017, Kosmos and BP began from the Marine Protected Area can the project, we concluded that 2. Biological monitoring and tracking the CESTI School of Journalism in Louis region of Senegal and the local working together to support the monitor them and confirm they stay in waste management on the Langue the health of the park’s ecosystem Dakar at our offices, presenting on authorities of the Nord Pas-de-Calais Senegalese government in the place despite the underwater currents. de Barbarie is complex and the – including equipment for 50 ‘eco the Tortue project to help improve region in France. The organization has creation of a National Institute for In 2018, Kosmos and BP plan to work solutions are not straightforward. Le guards’ that volunteer from the understanding of our work and the oil been working in Saint Louis for over Petroleum and Gas to provide higher with Le Partenariat and the Marine Partenariat held several workshops park’s surrounding villages. and gas industry. This was part of an 30 years. education and training to develop the Protected Area to design a multi-year with local leaders to try to work Oxfam-sponsored training program 3. Providing risk huskers as an leaders, managers, and operators of Our projects with Le Partenariat are monitoring and evaluation program towards a more sustainable solution. for student journalists. income-generating activity for Senegal’s new petroleum industry. focused on improving the quality to fully measure the environmental of life for fishing communities in impacts of the artificial reefs. Djoudj National Bird Park community volunteers that work The initial scoping for the Institute with the park. included a jobs and opportunity For reforestation, we worked with Le The Djoudj National Bird Park in Senegal, located along the border 4. Bird spotting guides, binoculars assessment to inform curricula and Partenariat to plant eight hectares with Mauritania, was created in 1971 and other equipment to support goals for the proposed institute’s of pine trees and two hectares of as a natural bird sanctuary in the the villagers that work as guides in future growth, including technical mangrove trees. Approximately 9,000 adjoining backwaters, lakes and the park. English language training for a range pine trees and 10,000 mangroves rivers of the Senegal River delta. of stakeholders in the academic were planted in total. The pine trees The 16,000 hectare national park is Responding to Natural Disasters system, government, suppliers help combat localized erosion by home to approximately 365 different As a responsible corporate citizen and our workforce; leadership, securing the dunes with their roots, species of birds, 80 species of fish, 10 in Senegal, Kosmos understands the management and technical training and mangroves promote sediment species of mammals, and 132 species need to partner with communities for the first cohort of a national buildup in coastal waters and provide of plants. The area is also a resting when disaster strikes. In August 2017, workforce; and partnerships with habitats for fish reproduction. Over place for nearly 1.5 million migratory seventy-three families living along the international universities and training 680 community members participated birds crossing the Sahara Desert to coast in Saint Louis had their homes providers. We are also coordinating in the reforestation efforts. The the north. The park is located onshore destroyed during a severe storm. As with other oil and gas investors project was also supported by in Senegal on this initiative to local government agencies, Marine from the area where Kosmos made a result, they were forced to shelter in local schools while rebuilding their leverage partnerships and ensure a Protected Area representatives, and the Tortue-1 well natural gas discovery homes. Kosmos donated food and streamlined industry approach. the local artisanal fishing council. and is bordered by eight villages with nearly 25,000 inhabitants. mosquito nets to these families and Through our partner BP, we also Waste management and pollution to local mosques to help support engaged the British Council to reduction proved to be the most Kosmos worked with the Djoudj them while displaced. launch a multi-year English-language challenging. The aim was to clean Park authorities to design a project training program for university trash from the local river banks and that aims to conserve the habitats Capacity Building students, professors, and staff in key A Kosmos employee leads a capacity building workshop for Senegalese stakeholders on the oil reduce unauthorized waste dumps of the park through a participatory Universities and academia are government departments relevant to and gas value chain in partnership with the Natural Resource Governance Institute (NRGI). on the Langue de Barbarie by 80%. approach to land-management important stakeholders for the oil the oil and gas industry. In addition to high-profile public activities involving the neighboring 46 47 PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 PHASE 5 PHASE 6 E X P LO R ATI O N D R I L L I NG drilling rig. The primary marine viable areas of capacity building supply base for the operation and investment which could will be in Trinidad because maximize local content for Suriname does not currently have each scenario. a deep-water port capable of Kosmos is supporting the local accommodating the drillship and content study by providing input large supply vessels which are and guidance as well as sharing required to support in the cost of the project. We our drilling operation. will continue to seek ways to Kosmos has had an ongoing increase local participation in our dialogue with Surinamese supply chain during exploration government authorities over the while supporting government last few years regarding the port efforts to ensure any future oil and local supplier participation and gas operations are a driver of in offshore petroleum operations. economic growth and sustainable Specifically, that although we development in Suriname. endeavor to work from a local shore base whenever possible, our ENGAGEMENT AND primary shore base operations for LISTENING the exploration wells in Suriname An Environmental and Social must be run out of Trinidad, where Impact Assessment (ESIA) was there is pre-existing oil and gas conducted prior to beginning infrastructure and a deep-water drilling operations. As part of A seismic vessel collects data port. The government has indicated this assessment, we held public offshore Suriname. that they will revisit the decision consultations to describe the to dredge a deep-water port in drilling program, logistics plans, to publicly disclose revenues Suriname if a commercial discovery vessel locations and movements, received from the extractive is made offshore. rig description, socioeconomic industry (petroleum and mining) SURINAME The government of Suriname is baseline survey, well control, waste and encourage public dialogue keen to optimize local content management, potential impacts regarding government management at each stage of the project and mitigations, the environmental of the countries natural resources. lifecycle, and Kosmos is pleased management plan, and grievance The government plans to publish to work with them and other mechanism. We also used the their first EITI report in 2018 local stakeholders on this goal. In meeting to answer questions and and has already set up a MultiKosmos holds exploration licenses offshore Suriname for Blocks 42 and 45. Five 2018, Staatsolie, the national oil address stakeholder concerns. Stakeholder Group (MSG). Kosmos years ago, we established an office in Paramaribo, the capital of Suriname. Since company, plans to initiate a major The consultation attendees included represents the oil and gas private oil and gas industry local content government representatives, public sector on the Suriname MSG. We then, we have developed a capable team of local employees, listened to community are pleased to support Suriname’s Industrial Baseline Study through agencies, the fishing community, members, and implemented various social and environmental projects. an independent third party. This NGOs, private sector companies, EITI implementation. study will take a proactive approach community members and the Kosmos also supports good to identify opportunities where media. Attendees asked questions governance of natural resources Since beginning operations offshore to support local communities and local companies in Suriname can on the topics of health and safety in Suriname by engaging with BLOCK 45 Suriname in 2012, Kosmos has capacity building even before we participate or build capacity in for employees and contractors, international stakeholders. Kosmos conducted three seismic surveys. have drilled any wells. order to participate in current and the ESIA review process, oil spill sponsored and participated in The processing and interpretation future oil and gas activities. In preparation for drilling, we moved modeling and response, potential Chatham House’s annual “New of this data has confirmed that into a larger office in Paramaribo for noise, chronology of drilling Producers Discussion Group” BLOCK 42 the exploration potential offshore Throughout the study, the thirdand added three local employees to wells, training for local stakeholders, held in Paramaribo and hosted Suriname represents a top-ranked party expert firm will work with our team. This expansion will better and emergency response by Suriname’s Ministry of Natural opportunity in Kosmos’ exploration local companies and small and position Kosmos to manage the procedures. Resources and Staatsolie. During Atlantic portfolio. medium sized-enterprises (SMEs) to Ocean increased activity associated with the event, Kosmos was part of a assess their readiness to participate In May 2017, Suriname took an In addition to this technical work, our drilling operations. panel discussion on responsible in the petroleum supply chain. important step and formally Kosmos has focused on conducting The study will also estimate the submitted an application to stewardship of resources and above-ground activities, such MANAGING OUR FOOTPRINT range of local content expenditure commercial due diligence. The GUINEA as stakeholder engagement and become an Extractive Industries During exploration drilling, Kosmos which would be contributed over weeklong meeting brought together execution of social investment Transparency Initiative (EITI) will manage operations from our local the life of an oil or gas project – representatives from various projects. Kosmos aims to be a candidate country. Kosmos SURINAME office in Paramaribo. We established through exploration, development, Surinamese government agencies, welcome investor in Suriname and encouraged and assisted the a local helicopter base for personnel production and decommissioning businesses, civil society leaders, use our expertise and knowledge government in the process transfer to and from the offshore – with and without dredging of the and oil industry representatives of joining EITI. As a member port. The study will also identify country, Suriname will be required and included participants from 48 49 The mangrove restoration project Safety and Health, or NEBOSH, is team now has over a year of an accredited program that teaches KOSMOS HAS SHOWN SINCE THE START OF data from which to evaluate the practical skills in risk identification ITS OPERATIONS IN SURINAME TO BE VERY effectiveness of the STUs. Since and risk reduction. In 2017, we COMMITTED TO HIGH INTERNATIONAL the first phase of the project was offered the NEBOSH course for successful in increasing sediment teachers at the three technical STANDARDS AND A VALUABLE PARTNER accretion rates and thus slowing schools on the NATIN campus. This IN CAPACITY BUILDING IN TECHNICAL AND erosion, the team has decided to intensive training helps teachers GEOLOGICAL EDUCATION IN SURINAME. expand the project by upgrading identify and control potential PERSONALLY, HAVING WORKED IN THE the existing STUs and engaging hazards on campus to reduce EDUCATION SECTOR FOR OVER 20 YEARS, local community members to plant accidents and injuries. As Suriname’s mangrove juveniles along the coast of extractive industries continue to I WAS PARTICULARLY PLEASED WITH KOSMOS’ SAFETY Weg naar Zee. grow, it is our goal that safety be CULTURE AWARENESS CAMPAIGN. THIS PROGRAM BENEFITED fully integrated into the country’s In addition to partnering with AROUND 2300 STUDENTS AND 300 TEACHERS AT NATIN, vocational technical education, the University on mangrove WHERE I WAS MANAGING DIRECTOR UNTIL NOVEMBER 2010. which will help build the safety conservation and research, Kosmos culture of the Suriname workforce ALSO – AS THE MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES IS is also supporting STEM education for years to come. UPDATING THE GEOLOGICAL MAP OF SURINAME – WE WERE by working closely with the local university’s Geology Department The Academic Hospital Paramaribo HAPPY TO SEE KOSMOS HELP REVITALIZE THE GEOLOGY Engineering students at NATIN were among those who participated in the Kosmos-sponsored to evaluate their needs in terms of is the largest hospital in Suriname safety training in Paramaribo. DEPARTMENT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF SURINAME THROUGH hands-on laboratory and field work. In and serves as a major medical NEW LABORATORY EQUIPMENT AND TRAINING. THE 2017, we provided specialized geology research hub for the country. IMPROVED TECHNICAL EDUCATION IS MOTIVATING STUDENTS lab equipment to the university,  romoting Safety in Technical P School 2 (STS2) and Avond The government of Suriname has our second academic collaboration Education Middelbare Technish Opleiding prioritized developing the hospital. In TO STUDY GEOLOGY AND NATURAL RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT. with the geology department since (AMTO). support of the national development Kosmos’ top priority is ensuring Dave Abeleven, Msc. entering Suriname in 2012. Students the safety of our workers and the SafeStart is a global “train the agenda, Kosmos has committed Permanent Secretary of the will now be able to conduct more integrity of our operations, and this trainer” program that teaches multi-year support to the academic Suriname Ministry of Natural Resources advanced laboratory experiments and commitment to safety often extends behavioral based safety techniques. hospital and the training of its staff. research during their undergraduate into our capacity building and social Participants learn to recognize the Kosmos began by working with and graduate studies on campus. investment programs. state-to-error patterns that cause hospital personnel in 2016 to Our hope is that the new field work most injuries in the classroom, In 2016, Kosmos launched a multiidentify needs and create a plan and lab equipment will lead students workplace, on the road, and at home. year safety culture program at for how Kosmos and other oil to be more interested in, and better The SafeStart program included the Natuurtechnisch Instituut and gas operators in Suriname Colombia, Ghana, Guyana, Liberia, of Paramaribo, has in recent years prepared for, future careers in the instruction to certify teachers at the (NATIN) campus with the goal of can work together to build the and Trinidad and Tobago. experienced frequent flooding and extractive sectors in Suriname. NATIN campus to become SafeStart hospital’s research and patient care erosion due to the loss of mangrove establishing a safe learning and In 2018, Kosmos plans to organize With rain forest covering trainers. The teachers administered capabilities. Since the beginning of forests. The flooding and rising sea working environment for all technical a series of media workshops in approximately 94% of the national the second half of the SafeStart the hospital partnership, Kosmos levels have affected nearly 3,000 students and staff members. The Suriname to deepen the knowledge territory and a rich terrestrial program in 2017, thus ensuring has donated surgical tools, machines local community members, including program was developed through of journalists regarding petroleum biodiversity, Suriname is known as ongoing reinforcement of safety for monitoring patient vital metrics, artisanal fishermen, local farmers, and consultation with the staff at operations. We have held similar one of the greenest countries in the concepts. defibrillators (AEDs), and intensive bee keepers. In addition, erosion has NATIN, the Ministry of Education, workshops in other countries and world. The Green Heritage Fund is Staatsolie, and teachers from two The Health and Safety Foundations care unit beds. threatened to destroy two important have found that this approach can a local NGO in Suriname dedicated other technical schools on the NATIN at Work course from the National cultural and religious sites. help manage expectations around to protecting biodiversity and campus, Surinaamse Technische Examination Board in Occupational exploration drilling in addition Kosmos has partnered with raising awareness regarding national to educating stakeholders and Conservation International and Anton environmental issues. One of the promoting transparency in the oil de Kom University of Suriname on Green Heritage Fund’s largest projects and gas sector. a multi-year project to mitigate the is the Xenarthra Program, which EMBRACING INNOVATION IN other areas to motivate young people to solve coastal erosion at Weg naar Zee by provides shelter, care, rehabilitation SURINAME real world problems. Due to the success of POS ITIVE IM PACTS building Sediment Trapping Units and release of sloths into the forests this event, we also sponsored a multi-month (STUs). These structures promote of Suriname. Kosmos is supporting Our multi-year support of technical education hackomation program through IT Core focused Although our drilling operations sediment deposition and create the construction of an education and and STEM disciplines naturally encourages on fostering renewable energy and sustainability take place far offshore, Kosmos is conditions for halting and reversing research center for the Xenarthra innovation in Suriname. In 2017, we partnered solutions in Suriname. committed to preserving the coastal erosion. Mangrove juveniles will be Program, where Green Heritage Fund with existing programs to help them expand their As we look to 2018, we plan to develop more longenvironment and supporting coastal able to grow in the newly formed staff will protect and rehabilitate offerings in the intersection between technology term partnerships in Suriname that will help equip communities in Suriname. Mangroves mud banks, both naturally and when sloths while simultaneously using the and social entrepreneurship. We worked with a young people to pursue their innovative ideas for grow abundantly along Suriname’s planted by local researchers. space to educate and raise awareness local organization, IT Core, as a sponsor of their addressing local economic and social issues. coastline and prevent coastal erosion. of the need for conservation of the hackathon which applies elements of gaming to The area of Weg naar Zee, north species and others in Suriname. 50 51 PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 PHASE 5 PHASE 6 In addition, we met with a wide conclusion, Kosmos worked with range of stakeholders in Western AMIDEAST to design and implement Sahara, Morocco and Europe to an “English for specific purposes” explain the reasoning behind our course to educate young people decision to exit the block, answer in the specific English vocabulary questions and thank them for their they needed to improve their collaboration and open discussions incomes. Similar English classes were about our approach to investing in designed for the nearby town of Western Sahara. Boujdour and began in spring 2018. As with other countries and regions As a complement to the courses, where we have chosen to cease Kosmos partnered with the Dakhla exploration activity, we will strive to Association of Teachers of English, leave a legacy of social investment in Bookland, the Fulbright Commission support of local communities. and the Region of Dakhla-Oued Ed-Dahab to organize a conference EN GAGEM EN T AN D LI ST EN I N G on Teaching English to Speakers Young children participate in a cultural festival in Dakhla sponsored by Kosmos. of Other Languages (TESOL). Kosmos maintained a constant International experts and local presence on the ground in Western teachers gave presentations on four-night, traditional music, poetry Sahara for more than two years innovative techniques for teaching and games festival that Kosmos has with our placement of an American English to teachers working in sponsored for three consecutive expatriate Community Relations Dakhla and nearby cities. The years. As in previous years, Coordinator in Dakhla. The conference was well-attended thousands of people attended and Community Relations Coordinator by motivated teachers who then enjoyed hearing traditional songs – a former Peace Corps volunteer – implemented some of these new and exposing their children to a speaks Hassaniya, the language of techniques in the classroom. culture that is being diluted as the the Saharawi people. Through our engagement in Western population shifts from a primarily During the last two years, Kosmos Sahara, we have learned that events nomadic lifestyle to an urban one. held more than 200 meetings with celebrating local Saharawi culture WESTERN SAHARA In the spirit of preserving Saharawi local people and was involved in are popular in Dakhla as many culture, Kosmos also sponsored many open forums during that Saharawis are proud of their distinct a cultural educational event. time. We listened to opinions culture. Kosmos has promoted During the event 80 middle school and concerns about oil and gas Saharawi culture and built positive students attended a presentation exploration, and the future of the relationships in Dakhla by sponsoring on traditional nomadic tools, played Following a review of our global operations, Kosmos made the difficult decision region, from a wide range of local cultural festivals. traditional games, rode camels, stakeholders – from elected officials and heard a lecture on traditional to withdraw from Western Sahara after more than a decade of investment in the to unemployed youth, in both public In 2017, Kosmos sponsored two cultural events during the month literature and culture. and private settings. region. The decision to withdraw from the Boujdour Maritime block was made as of Ramadan. The main event was POSI T I VE I M PACTS part of an industry-standard portfolio review, and is based on a combination of Throughout our time in Western exploration results and our capital allocation strategy. Sahara, we invested in bringing benefits to local communities primarily through educational Kosmos has held rights to explore an data. For a period of time, including programs. In 2017, Kosmos Atlantic area offshore Western Sahara since after its withdrawal, Kosmos is Ocean partnered with AMIDEAST to 2006. Kosmos completed its first providing ONYHM with oversight teach English to 80 young people BOUJDOUR exploration well offshore Western and quality assurance services to MARITIME in Dakhla. A previous partnership BLOCK Sahara in early 2015. The well ensure this work is completed. had provided English lessons to a encountered hydrocarbons, but not M A N AG I N G OUR FOOT P R I N T different group of 80 young people in commercial quantities. WESTERN as part of a broader skills initiative. SAHARA With our withdrawal effective While deciding to leave was a difficult decision given our decade-long Feedback from the initial course 31 December 2017, Kosmos has presence in Western Sahara, we are showed that students were most transitioned its exploration work doing everything we can to make interested in English courses, and on the Boujdour Maritime Block the process of leaving as smooth as that the people who could most to ONHYM. Kosmos has assigned possible for everyone involved. benefit from English language the relevant service contracts to training were those working in ONHYM so ONHYM can complete the tourism, fishermen, traditional acquisition of additional 3D seismic School children in Dakhla play a traditional checkers game at a Kosmos-sponsored event to artisans and traders. Based on that promote Saharawi culture in a rapidly urbanizing society. 52 53 Kosmos Energy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Andy Inglis listens intently to a Sahrawi leader during a visit to Western Sahara. AN INNOVAT IVE APP ROACH and academia, we informed Saharawis and other stakeholders TO INVESTIN G IN Moroccan thinking on best practice in the territory. WESTER N SAH ARA models for consultation, revenue • Ongoing social investment in management, sovereign wealth While many investors have been several locations within Western funds, management of public intimidated by the political Sahara, which provided direct expectations, and transparency. complexities of investing in Western benefits to young Saharawis, Sahara, Kosmos took an innovative • The signing, in December 2013, of as well as emphasized the local approach to understanding the a Joint Declaration of Principles Saharawi Culture. legal and practical intricacies of the between Kosmos and ONHYM, • Regular engagements with local Western Sahara issue. In 2015, we on behalf of the Government of and international human rights and drilled the first ever deepwater well Morocco, committing to ensuring civil society organizations. offshore Western Sahara. that resource development will be in accordance with Article While our decision to exit Western From the very beginning of our 73 of the U.N. Charter and the Sahara was based solely on involvement in the region, we U.N. Legal Opinion, and that the exploration results and our capital dedicated time and resources to local population will benefit in an allocation strategy, we hope that our developing a deep knowledge of the effective and equitable manner proactive approach to investing in complex and nuanced situation in from any development and will be Western Sahara can serve as a the Western Sahara. We have been consulted in the process. model for future investors. welcomed by the local communities who have recognized the enormous • The completion of the first social Potential future investors will potential and benefits that an oil impact assessment (SIA) by an have the opportunity to build on discovery could bring to the region. international company in Western our approach to develop natural Sahara. The SIA involved extensive resources in parallel with the UN-led Our innovative approach to investing and structured engagement with mediation process. It is our belief in Western Sahara included: key groups of society in Western that the local population must be • Regular engagement, starting Sahara and followed a workshop involved in and benefit from natural in 2011, with the Government of for regulators on best practices in resource development. Morocco to develop an equitable social impact assessment. framework for a possible • The continuous presence in hydrocarbon development. Western Sahara of a HassaniyaThrough a series of workshops speaking, American expatriate involving international experts Community Relations Coordinator from major lending institutions who held over 200 meetings with 54 55 IPI E C A /A P I /I O G P CO NTENT I ND EX Kosmos Energy’s corporate responsibility reporting is informed by the IPIECA/API/IOGP Oil & Gas Industry Indicator Global Compact Page Number in Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting. The guidance provides direction on the content of a typical Number Indicator Principle Where Reported 2017 CR Report industry corporate responsibility report by covering 12 sustainability issues and 34 indicator categories. The table below is an index of the indicator categories. The locations of information demonstrating our support SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC INDICATOR S for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact are also shown in the index, both in this report COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY and in other sources, such as our publicly available policies and on our website, www.kosmosenergy.com. CR Report: Business Principles 6, 7, 14 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 23, 25, 26, 33, 37, 39, 43, 44, Local community 47, 51, 52 Indicator Global Compact Page Number in SE1 Indicator Where Reported impacts and engagement www.kosmosenergy.com: Society and Communities Number Principle 2017 CR Report Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* E N V I RON ME NTA L I N DI C ATO R S Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY SE2 Indigenous peoples and Community Development Policy* CR Report: Business Principles 13 E1 Greenhouse gas emissions 7, 8 SE3 Involuntary resettlement Not applicable CR Report: Performance Data 58 CR Report: Business Principles 7, 14, 15 E2 Energy use Not reported CR Report: Operations Spotlights 23, 25, 27, 28, 34, 35, 37, 40, 44, 45, 48, 49, 51 E3 Alternative energy sources Not reported CR Report: Case Study 29-31 SE4 Social investment CR Report: Performance Data 60 E4 Flared gas Not reported Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement ECOSYSTEM SERVICES and Community Development Policy* www.kosmosenergy.com: Society and Communities CR Report: Business Principles 12 Biodiversity and LOCAL CONTENT E5 7, 8, 9 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 34, 40, 48 ecosystem services 41 CR Report: Case Study CR Report: Business Principles 11, 15 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 24, 30, 38 E6 Fresh water CR Report: Performance Data 58 Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement SE5 Local content practices 6 LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT and Community Development Policy* www.kosmosenergy.com: Our People E7 Other air emissions 7, 8 CR Report: Performance Data 58 CR Report: Business Principles 17 CR Report: Business Principles 13 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 45, 47 E8 Spills to the environment 8 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 47 CR Report: Performance Data 57 CR Report: Performance Data 58 SE6 Local hiring practices 6 Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* CR Report: Performance Data 58 www.kosmosenergy.com: Our People Kosmos did not have any hydrocarbon discharges to E9 Discharges to water 8 water in 2017. Indicators E8 and E9 are combined in CR Report: Business Principles 6, 16, 17 our Performance Data as “Hydrocarbon or Local procurement and CR Report: Operations Spotlights Non-Aqueous Drilling Fluid Spills.” 27, 33 SE7 supplier development Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement CR Report: Performance Data 58 and Community Development Policy* E10 Waste 8, 9 THE STANDARD* E11 Decommissioning Not reported CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE HEA LT H A N D SA F E T Y I N DI C ATORS WORKFORCE PROTECTION CR Report: Business Principles 10, 11, 14 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 27, 33 HS1 Workforce participation 1 www.kosmosenergy.com: Health, Safety, Environment and Security THE STANDARD* HS2 Workforce health 1 www.kosmosenergy.com: Health and Safety Occupational injury and CR Report: Business Principles 13 HS3 1 illness incidents CR Report: Performance Data 61 PRODUCT HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISK Not applicable Kosmos Energy’s activities are limited to the HS4 Product stewardship exploration for and the production of oil and gas. We produce oil in Ghana and Equatorial Guinea only as a non-operator. PROCESS SAFETY AND ASSET INTEGRITY www.kosmosenergy.com: Environment HS5 Process safety 7, 8, 9 THE STANDARD* *PDFs are available at www.KosmosEnergy.com/responsibility/ *PDFs are available at www.KosmosEnergy.com/responsibility/ 56 57 IPI E C A /A P I /I O G P CO NTENT I ND EX (CON TIN U ED) 2017 PER FOR MA N CE DATA HUMAN RESOURCES Indicator Global Compact Page Number in Indicator Where Reported Number Principle 2017 CR Report The data on our workforce is point-in-time as of December 31, 2017. We prioritize hiring and training local staff from the countries in which we work. The ‘Local Employment’ metric does not include employees in our U.S. office, and we define Expatriates as SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC INDICATORS (CONTINUED) employees in our local country offices who are living and working on a long-term assignment in a country not of their origin. Turnover includes voluntary turnover in our U.S. office in Dallas, TX as well as in our global operations. HUMAN RIGHTS 2015 2016 2017 CR Report: Business Principles 6, 14, 17 Human rights due CR Report: Operations Spotlights 23, 31, 33 EMPLOYEES AND HIRING SE8 1, 2, 4, 5 diligence www.kosmosenergy.com: Human Rights Total Employees 256 267 282 Kosmos Energy Human Rights Policy* New Hires 54 27 33 CR Report: Business Principles 7, 10, 14 Turnover 7% 6% 7% CR Report: Operations Spotlights 26 SE9 Human rights and suppliers 1, 2 Kosmos Energy Human Rights Policy* TOTAL EMPLOYEES BY COUNTRY UK Modern Slavery Act Statement* United States 187 192 199 CR Report: Business Principles 14 Ghana 43 45 43 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 26 Mauritania 5 10 16 SE10 Security and human rights 1, 2 www.kosmosenergy.com: Security Kosmos Energy Human Rights Policy* Morocco 16 5 5 São Tomé and Príncipe 0 1 8 BUSINESS ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY Senegal 1 10 8 CR Report: Business Principles 8, 9 Suriname 4 4 3 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 26, 44 SE11 Preventing corruption 10 www.kosmosenergy.com: Business Ethics Contractors Kosmos Energy Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy* United States 28 14 33 Ghana 0 0 0 CR Report: Business Principles 8, 16 Mauritania 16 11 15 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 23 Preventing corruption Morocco 3 1 0 SE12 10 www.kosmosenergy.com: Business Ethics involving business partners Kosmos Energy Anti-Corruption São Tomé and Príncipe 0 1 0 Compliance Policy* Senegal 6 3 16 Suriname 0 0 0 CR Report: Business Principles 9 CR Report: Performance Data 59 Transparency of payments LOCAL EMPLOYMENT (%) SE13 10 Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement to host governments and Community Development Policy* Local 94% 92% 94% www.kosmosenergy.com: Transparency Expatriate 6% 8% 6% Public advocacy and CR Report: Business Principles 9 SE14 10 WORKFORCE GENDER DISTRIBUTION (%) lobbying Female Male Female Male Female Male LABOR PROTECTION United States 32% 68% 33% 67% 34% 66% CR Report: Business Principles 10 Ghana 28% 72% 27% 73% 26% 74% Workforce diversity and CR Report: Performance Data 60 Mauritania 60% 40% 30% 70% 25% 75% SE15 1, 6 inclusion www.kosmosenergy.com: Our People www.kosmosenergy.com: Careers Morocco 50% 50% 40% 60% 80% 20% São Tomé and Príncipe 0% 0% 0% 100% 25% 75% CR Report: Business Principles 10 Senegal 0% 0% 50% 50% 25% 75% SE16 Workforce engagement www.kosmosenergy.com: Careers Suriname 25% 75% 25% 75% 25% 75% CR Report: Business Principles 10, 11, 12 Workforce training and EQUATORIAL GUINEA (KTEGI) SE17 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 25, 27, 33, 43 development www.kosmosenergy.com: Our People Employees N/A N/A 62 Contractors N/A N/A 43 CR Report: Business Principles 14 CR Report: Operations Spotlights 23, 25, 39, 43, 47 Gender Distribution N/A N/A Female: 21% Male: 79% Non-retaliation and CR Report: Performance Data 60 Local Employment N/A N/A 74% SE18 1, 2, 3, 6 grievance systems www.kosmosenergy.com: Business Ethics Kosmos Energy Stakeholder Engagement and Community Development Policy* *PDFs are available at www.KosmosEnergy.com/responsibility/ 58 59 2 01 7 PER FO R M A N C E DATA (CON TIN U ED) ENVIRONMENT PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS (USD) 1 The Environment data presented in this report is for Kosmos operated assets only. Waste and air emissions are measured in tons, The Payments to Government data are reflective of direct payments made to government entities by Kosmos Energy on operated with greenhouse gas emissions measured in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. The data represents drilling rigs as well as seismic and projects, with the exception of payments reported for KBSL and KTEGI as explained in the separate joint venture table below, and support vessels. our working interest share of production entitlement to the Government of Ghana. Please see the footnotes for further detail on the payments we made to our host country governments in 2017. Kosmos drilled exploration wells offshore Mauritania and Senegal and conducted seismic surveys offshore Mauritania, Morocco, Western Sahara, São Tomé and Príncipe, and Suriname. The Ensco DS-12 drillship sat offshore Mauritania during a pause period from January 1 through March 21, 2017. Kosmos did not operate any drilling in Ghana in 2017. Ghana Mauritania Morocco São Tomé & Príncipe Senegal Suriname Surface Rentals 18,000 69,000 — — — — 2017 Training 2 175,000 1,200,000 56,000 66,000 — — Mauritania Senegal Suriname Moroccoo Western Sahara São Tomé & Príncipe WASTE (TONS) Environmental & Capacity — 900,000 — — — — Building Obligation2 Hazardous 830.25 319.06 2.37 N/A N/A 144.13 Non-Hazardous 412.65 135.96 6.56 N/A N/A 862.31 Permitting Fees 74,000 — — 11,000 — — TOTAL 1,242.90 455.02 8.93 N/A N/A 1,006.44 Taxes3 1,951,000 891,000 89,000 — 53,000 358,000 Income Taxes4 36,958,000 — 192,000 — — — Recycled/Reused/Treated 45% 62% 85% N/A N/A N/A Other 5 45,000 — 10,000 — — — AIR EMISSIONS (TONS) TOTAL 39,221,000 3,060,000 347,000 77,000 53,000 358,000 Carbon Dioxide (CO2) 118,930.15 54,458.17 8,113.02 20,881.64 15,498.28 111,361.28 Royalties/Production Mono-Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) 2,207.86 1,010.78 150.60 387.62 287.68 2,067.15 613,295 bbl — — — — — Entitlements (in barrels of oil)6 Sulfur Dioxide (SOx) 148.67 68.11 10.15 26.10 19.38 139.20 Royalties/Production Methane (CH4) 6.63 2.99 0.46 1.18 0.87 6.27 33,200,000 — — — — — Entitlements (estimated value)6 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCS) 74.23 33.67 5.06 13.06 9.69 69.60 Greenhouse Gases (GHGS) 119,069.33 54,521.26 8,122.64 20,906.44 15,516.50 111,492.87 PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTS KTEGI (USD) 1 OTHER Kosmos BP Senegal Limited (KBSL) represents a joint venture company which Kosmos Energy held a 50.01% interest in for the period March October 2017 and 100% interest thereafter. Costs in this table represents Kosmos’ participating interest in the joint venture. Fines and Penalties 0 0 0 0 0 0 In late 2017, through a joint venture with an affiliate of Trident Energy, Kosmos Energy acquired all of the equity interest of an entity Freshwater Use (m3) 26,799.25 6,159.20 N/A N/A N/A 7,012.00 subsequently renamed Kosmos-Trident Equatorial Guinea, Inc. (KTEGI), which holds an 85% paying interest in the Ceiba Field and Hydrocarbon or Non-Aqueous Okume Complex assets in Equatorial Guinea (Block G). Figures in the table represent Kosmos Energy’s indirect 50% participating 0 0 0 0 0 0 interest in KTEGI’s payments to the government during December 2017. Drilling Fluid Spills S Senegal (KBSL) Equatorial Guinea (KTEGI) Surface Rentals 49,000 25,000 2015 2016 Mauritania Morocco Senegal Mauritania Senegal Suriname Training2 300,000 — WASTE (TONS) Taxes 3 208,000 139,000 Hazardous 184.00 92.00 10.00 298.67 112.44 10.54 TOTAL 557,000 164,000 Non-Hazardous 115.00 542.00 14.16 296.80 114.11 82.90 Royalties/Production Entitlements TOTAL 299.00 634.00 24.16 595.47 226.55 93.44 66,259 bbl (in barrels of oil)7 Recycled/Reused/Treated 27% 56% 34% 54% 43% 10% Royalties/Production Entitlements $3,590,000 (estimated value)7 AIR EMISSIONS (TONS) 1. Our project-level and receiving-entity level disclosures are available on our website at www.kosmosenergy.com/responsibility/transparency.php. 2. Represents payments made directly to government for satisfaction of obligations per the Petroleum Agreements and/or Petroleum Sharing Contracts Carbon Dioxide (CO2) 35,225.94 12,591.45 17,914.02 51,893.95 20,815.17 20,530.75 (PSCs), as applicable including payments made in Mauritania to support the management of environmental risks in a precautionary manner and to assist with capacity building. In addition to the numbers above, Kosmos made payments to third party training providers and/or national oil company employees Mono-Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) 654.20 233.28 332.52 964.32 387.47 381.10 in accordance with training obligations per the PSCs totaling $83,000 for Morocco and $235,000 in São Tomé and Príncipe. 3. Primarily local payroll-related taxes and withholding taxes on interest payments in Ghana. These values are exclusive of withholding taxes remitted on Sulfur Dioxide (SOx) 44.18 15.39 13.97 64.80 25.96 25.66 behalf of service providers. Methane (CH4) 2.22 1.05 1.01 2.88 1.13 11.55 4. Includes interest payments made to the Ghana Revenue Authority of $4.7 million. In addition to this, Kosmos Energy paid the U.S. government $11.4 million in income tax payments during 2017. Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCS) 12.54 8.10 11.19 32.50 13.00 12.83 5. Primarily relates to donations made to the Ministry of Energy and Ministry of Trade in Ghana and payments to the port authority in Morocco for leased use of port facilities. Greenhouse Gases (GHGS) 35,272.56 12,613.50 17,935.23 51,954.43 20,838.84 20,773.30 6. Royalties represent the production entitlement to the Government of Ghana paid in barrels of oil out of Kosmos’ working interest share of production. Estimate of approximately $33.2 million based on the annual average of daily Brent prices in 2017 of $54.19 per bbl. 7. Production entitlement to the Republic of Equitorial Guinea paid in barrels of oil out of Kosmos’ working interest share of production. Based on the annual OTHER average of daily Brent prices in 2017 of $54.19 per bbl, this is worth approximately $3.59 million. Fines and Penalties 0 0 0 0 0 0 Freshwater Use (m3) 12,855.00 5,108.00 2,915.20 1,728.00 3,082.00 3,744.00 Hydrocarbon or Non-Aqueous 0 0 0 0 0 0 Drilling Fluid Spills 60 61 2 01 7 PER FO R M A N C E DATA (CON TIN U ED) SOCIAL SAFETY We define Social Investment Spending as payments that will directly impact the constituents of social investment projects. Not reflected Kosmos reports safety data for our global operations, including both employees and contractors. The definitions of the safety data in the numbers below are indirect costs related to social investment, such as needs assessments and reimbursable expenses incurred reported are consistent with those used by the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP). by our in-country social investment personnel. All of the Social Investment Spend is for Kosmos-initiated projects, with the exception of Lost Time Injury Frequency represents the number of lost time injuries (fatalities and lost work day cases) per million work hours. Total the Jubilee Unit and TEN Development Project in Ghana and our non-operated share of the contractually obligated social investment for Recordable Injury Rate refers to recordable injuries (fatalities, lost work day cases, restricted work day cases, and medical treatment cases) Block 6 in São Tomé and Príncipe. Those values represent our participating interest in the social projects of our non-operated assets. per million hours worked. There were two Recordable Injuries in 2017: a sliced fingertip on a seismic support vessel and an injured hip from a fall in our Dallas office. 2015 2016 2017 SOCIAL INVESTMENT SPENDING (USD) 2015 2016 2017 Ghana $ 461,000 $ 833,000 $ 1,339,000 Total Man Hours 2,103,056 2,314,907 3,110,164 Fatalities 0 0 0 Jubilee Unit and TEN development project 1 1,040,000 185,000 188,000 Lost Time Injury Frequency 0 0 0 Mauritania2 396,000 305,000 55,000 Total Recordable Injury Rate .95 1.3 .64 Morocco 216,000 88,000 80,000 São Tomé and Príncipe3 — 69,000 200,000 Senegal2 106,000 422,000 24,000 Suriname 143,000 104,000 88,000 United States 510,000 462,000 611,000 Western Sahara 90,000 42,000 86,000 Other4 205,000 — — TOTAL $ 3,167,000 $ 2,510,000 $ 2,671,000 JOINT VENTURE SOCIAL INVESTMENT SPENDING (USD)5 Senegal (KBSL) $ 113,000 Equatorial Guinea (KTEGI) — 1. Kosmos Energy’s participating interest in social investments of the non-Kosmos operated Jubilee and TEN Partnership, which may not necessarily represent actual payments made by the operator during the reporting period. 2. Amounts may differ from Kosmos Energy financial statements due to funding arrangements with commercial partners. 3. Kosmos Energy’s participating interest in contractually-obligated social investments of the non-Kosmos operated Block 6 project, which may not necessarily represent actual payments made by the operator during the reporting period. 4. Represents social investment in countries where Kosmos no longer has operations. 5. The table above represents social investment payments made in Senegal and Equatorial Guinea by joint venture companies of which Kosmos is a co-venturer. We have grievance mechanisms in place in every region where we have drilling and seismic operations. In Ghana, we received three grievances into our grievance mechanism in 2017. All three grievances were related to our potable water social investment projects in the Western Region, and were resolved through coordination with the Safe Water Network and traditional councils. In Morocco, we received 28 grievances during our seismic acquisition survey in the Essaouira block, where there is a very high volume of artisanal fishermen. Twenty-seven of these were related to damaged or missing fishing nets, which were resolved through the mutually agreeable solution of replacing the lost or damaged equipment with new equipment. The one unresolved grievance was a letter of general concern regarding impacts of the seismic survey on fish stocks. We worked with ONHYM to respond to the concerned party by providing scientific data and baseline information. 2015 2016 2017 GRIEVANCES LOGGED / GRIEVANCES RESOLVED Ghana 8/2 5/2 3/3 Mauritania 0/0 1/1 0/0 Morocco 0/0 0/0 28/27 Mauritania 0/0 1/1 0/0 São Tomé & Príncipe N/A N/A 1/1 Senegal 1/1 0/0 0/0 Workers on the ENSCO DS-12 conduct a safety check. The responsibility to ensure healthy employees, safe operations, and environmental protection is integral to the way Kosmos conducts our business. Suriname 0/0 0/0 0/0 Western Sahara 0/0 0/0 0/0 62 ABOUT THIS REPORT Our 2017 report, “Embracing Innovation,” explains how corporate responsibility is a fundamental part of Kosmos Energy’s day-to-day business, and how we are promoting innovation and making a positive difference in our host countries. The report reviews the application of our Business Principles and supporting policies across each stage of the upstream project lifecycle. We include information in this report based on internal discussions, external stakeholder feedback, and consultations with third-party experts. The report is designed to communicate our progress on the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which we support and endorse. In addition, this report is guided by the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) standards for voluntary reporting in the oil and gas sector and by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). For an index of where information related to the Ten Principles and IPIECA reporting standards is located, please see page 54. This report has not received external assurance from an independent reviewer. We appreciate your interest in our company and welcome your feedback on how we can improve our reporting. Please contact us at CorporateResponsibility@kosmosenergy.com.
