BSH HAUSGERÄTE GMBH The Board's introduction to the progress report to the UN Global Compact BSH joined the Global Compact in 2004 and played a leading role in drawing up a code of conduct based on the Global Compact for Home Appliances Europe (APPLiA) in 2005. These principles are integrated in BSH’s Business Conduct Guidelines and implemented throughout the Group. Our code of conduct for suppliers is also based on the UN Global Compact and ensures compliance with social and environmental standards in the upstream value chain. Munich, June 27th, 2018 sgd. Dr. Karsten Ottenberg Matthias Ginthum Chief Executive Officer Chief Markets Officer Johannes Närger Dr. Michael Schöllhorn Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer 1 BSH HAUSGERÄTE GMBH Communication on progress of the realization of the UN Global Compact's principles The following table indicates the guidelines and management systems that BSH has implemented to support the Global Compact principles relating to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. It also summarizes BSH's specific progress on realizing the Global Compact principles in 2017. Principle Guidelines & systems Measures Results Human rights Principle 1: Support for human rights  Business Conduct  Written acceptance of BSH Suppliers‘  Social Compliance Programme continued Guidelines Code of Conduct by suppliers (social for further key suppliers with workPrinciple 2: Non-complicity in human and ecological standards based on intensive or environmentally relevant  APPLiA Code of rights abuses Global Compact and ILO Declaration); production processes. Conduct  Since 2013, continuous systematic  Tracking of measures of suppliers audited  Occupational Health audits of production materials suppliers and systematic re-auditing. and Safety Guidelines by external certifiers and derivation of  BSH Suppliers‘ Code of measures. Conduct 2 BSH HAUSGERÄTE GMBH Labor standards Principle 3: Upholding freedom of  Business Conduct  Written acceptance of BSH Suppliers‘  Social Compliance Programme continued association and collective Guidelines Code of Conduct by suppliers. for further key suppliers with workbargaining intensive or environmentally relevant  APPLiA Code of  Since 2013, gradually systematic audits production processes. Conduct of production materials suppliers by Principle 4: Elimination of all forms external certifiers and derivation of  Tracking of measures of suppliers audited of forced and compulsory labor  BSH Suppliers‘ Code of measures. and systematic re-auditing. Conduct Principle 5: Abolition of child labor Principle 6: Elimination of  Business Conduct  Diversity Management (emphasis on  Maintaining last year’s proportion of discrimination Guidelines internationality and gender) further female employees (31 percent) and developed, diversity KPIs in strategic women among managers (24 percent).  APPLiA Code of goals. Conduct  Annual Girls‘ Day (female students get  BSH Suppliers‘ Code of to know jobs in the field of IT, Conduct manufacturing, technology and  BSH Corporate engineering). Principles  Diversity week (action week with different formats e.g. workshops and keynotes related to diversity).  Since 2013 corporate project “Demographic change in production“ supports a balanced age structure through age and health based working conditions.  Signing of the Diversity Charta. 3 BSH HAUSGERÄTE GMBH Environmental protection Principle 7: Precautionary  BSH's Environmental  Design for Environment approach for  Examination of the possibility of using approach to environmental Policy the design and construction of new biodegradable plastics for the transport protection products. packaging for our appliances.  Unified standards for Principle 8: Promotion of greater planning and building of  Group project „Resource Efficiency  Reduction of specific energy and water environmental responsibility production plants 2025“ for a further reduction of energy consumption by 15 percent and specific and water consumption as well as waste volume by 10 percent until 2020 Principle 9: Diffusion of  ISO 14001 certification facilitation use of climate friendly (compared to 2015). environmentally-friendly of BSH factories energy sources. technologies  All 43 production sites of BSH with  ISO 50001 certification  Reduction target for logistics to reduce certified environmental management of BSH factories in EU CO2 emissions resulting from goods system according to ISO 14001 until and Turkey transportation by 20 percent by 2020 September 2018.  Product Environment compared to 2006.  All production and logistic sites in Analysis (PEA) for  Certified quality assurance system for Germany as well as the site Cerkezköy in continuous recycling fridges adopted by our Turkey, logistics and European sites improvement of disposal service providers in Germany. larger than 250 employees certified environment-related according to ISO 50001, the standard for aspects during product  BSH engages in Stiftung 2°, a German energy management systems. development foundation dedicated to combat global warming.  Development and design of circular business models and products. 4 BSH HAUSGERÄTE GMBH Anti-corruption Awareness regarding corruption has risen due Principle 10: Action against  Group Policy Anti External Lawyer of Trust (for to (e.g.): corruption Corruption Gifts & employees and externals) and other Benefits anonymous reporting system (BSH  Worldwide Compliance dialog between Trust and Tell System) (for employees) managers and employees with regard to  Business Conduct all over the world. compliance. Guidelines  Risk-based compliance training  Over 37,000 web based Compliance  Governance, Risk and program for all employees all over the trainings and over 25,000 classroom Compliance approach world based on a learning management trainings participations in 2017.  APPLiA Code of system and the IMPACT Tool. Conduct  Worldwide Implementation of the  BSH Suppliers‘ Code of IMPACT Tool. Conduct 5
