Konecranes Annual Report 2017 PERFORMANCE DRIVEN ­ onecranes has made excellent K progress in the past 12 months, and our organization is currently in the process CONTENTS of a transformation which will leave us 2 ­Konecranes in a snapshot 68 Report of the Board of Directors primed for growth. 4 2017 highlights 81 Consolidated statement of income – IFRS 6 CEO's letter 82 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS The synergies of our acquisition of 8 Company narrative 84 Consolidated statement of changes in equity – IFRS MHPS are worth up to EUR 140 million, 10 Business environment 85 Consolidated cash flow statement – IFRS and to realize them we will deliver on 12 Business Area Service 86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements two fronts. 15 Business Area Industrial Equipment 128 ­Konecranes Group 2013–2017 18 Business Area Port Solutions 129 Calculation of key figures We are striving to make the acquisition a model one for the industry, in every 21 Regional facts and figures 130 Company list conceivable aspect – from process 22 Research & Development 133 Parent company statement of income – FAS integration to company culture. We will 24 Product overview 134 Parent company balance sheet – FAS pursue this success with dedication, 28 Corporate responsibility 136 Parent company cash flow – FAS commitment, and accountability. 44 GRI content index 137 Notes to the parent company’s financial statements 46 Corporate Governance 139 Board of Directors’ proposal to the Annual General Meeting At the same time, we will maintain 57 Risk management 140 Auditor’s report focus on our core business. Its 62 Board of Directors 145 Shares and shareholders continued strength is the foundation 64 Group Executive Board 152 Investor information of these dramatic and far-reaching 66 Senior Management 153 Contact details developments, and the basis of the growth to come. Thanks to our future-focused investments in recent years, we are thoroughly capable of executing this change – harmonizing processes and systems across the organization. This publication is for general informational purposes only. K ­ onecranes reserves the right at any time, without notice, to alter or discontinue the products and/or specifications referenced herein. This publication creates no warranty on the part of K ­ onecranes, We are motivated both by the express or implied, including but not limited to any implied warranty or merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. tremendous potential benefits, and the © 2018 ­Konecranes. All rights reserved. ‘­Konecranes’, ‘Lifting Businesses’, , ‘TRUCONNECT’, ‘Agilon’, 'BOXPORTER', fact that they are well within our grasp. 'Konecranes Gottwald', 'Konecranes Noell' and ‘Konecranes Liftace’ are either registered trademarks or trademarks of K ­ onecranes. Konecranes in a snapshot Konecranes in a snapshot Unmatched customer offering in Service, Sales by Business Adjusted EBITA by Personnel by Business Industrial Equipment and Port Solutions Area, 2017 Business Area, 2017 Area, 2017 Service 19% 19% With 600 service locations in 50 countries, ­Konecranes provides specia30% lized maintenance services and spare parts for all types and makes of 36% industrial cranes and hoists – from a single piece of equipment to entire 44% 14% operations. Our objective is to improve the safety and productivity of our customers’ operations. Konecranes is the market leader in crane service, with the world’s most 67% 37% extensive crane service network. 34% More than 600,000 pieces of equipment are covered by Konecranes service agreements. The majority of this equipment has been manufactured by other companies; Konecranes can provide expert maintenance Service 1,178.0 MEUR Service 160.9 MEUR Service 7,206 for any brand of equipment from any manufacturer. Leveraging the Demag Industrial Equipment Industrial Equipment 34.6 MEUR Industrial Equipment 6,024 installed base and agreement base is expected to be a significant source 1,118.7 MEUR Port Solutions 44.7 MEUR Port Solutions 3,067 of growth. Port Solutions 976.0 MEUR Industrial Equipment Business Area Industrial Equipment offers hoists, cranes and material One of the Industryhandling solutions for a wide range of customers, including industries like The world's largest leading Waste-to-Energy and Biomass, Paper and Forest, Automotive and Metals Production. Products are marketed through a multi-brand portfolio that most extensive suppliers technology crane service network includes K­ onecranes and the brands Demag, SWF Krantechnik, Verlinde, of port cranes and global modular R&M, Morris Crane Systems, and Donati. and lift trucks product platforms Konecranes is one of the world’s largest suppliers of industrial cranes, producing thousands of industrial cranes annually, tens of thousands of wire rope hoists and trolleys and electric chain hoists, as well as hundreds of engineered-to-order (ETO) cranes. More than EUR 3,136 million of net sales 16,371 employees 600,000 units in the maintenance in 2017 in 2017 agreement base Port Solutions Business Area Port Solutions offers a complete range of container handling equipment (both manned and automated), shipyard handling equipment, mobile harbor cranes and heavy-duty lift trucks, supported by a complete range of services. Products are marketed under the ­Konecranes brand, with some product groups marketed under the labels Sales and ­Konecranes Gottwald, K­ onecranes Noell and ­Konecranes Liftace. Listed Konecranes is a global leader in shipyard gantry cranes, and a promiservice Head office nent global supplier of cranes and lift trucks for container handling, heavy on Nasdaq unitized cargo, and bulk material unloading. locations in in Finland Helsinki 50 countries 2 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 3 2017 HIGHLIGHTS 2017 HIGHLIGHTS Sales/orders, MEUR Adjusted EBITA, MEUR/ Order book, MEUR Adjusted EBITA margin, % MHPS acquisition – defining moment in 2017 ­Integration work 1,535.8 On January 4, 2017, ­Konecranes completed the acquisition of Terex Corporation’s (Terex) Mateahead of initial 2099.6 1,920.8 2,011.4 1,903.5 2,126.2 1,965.5 2,118.4 1,920.7 3,136.4 3,007.4 1,036.5 1,038.0 979.5 rial Handling & Port Solutions (MHPS) business. ­Konecranes paid EUR 796 million in cash expectations. 5.9 6.2 5.8 6.8 5.6 6.9 893.5 and issued 19.6 million new K ­ onecranes class 216.2 B shares to Terex related to the acquisition. The 184.1 acquisition of MHPS improved ­Konecranes’ posi124.0 125.4 122.4 144.8 tion as a focused global leader in the industrial lifting and port solutions market. ­Konecranes Comparable combined company achieved a truly global footprint and is now able to adjusted EBITA margin expanded by 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 1.3 % offer comprehensive solutions based on a highly Sales Adj. EBITA pre-MHPS complementary set of products and services. With points. Order intake Adj. EBITA margin pre-MHPS the acquisition, ­Konecranes will achieve substantial growth opportunities as well as critical scale Comparable adj. EBITA for further technological development. Comparable adj. EBITA margin Out of the total of EUR 140 million p.a. synergies grew across the product portfolio suggesting that targeted at the EBIT level by the end of 2019, EUR the cross-promotion of the extended offering seems 56 million was implemented on a run-rate basis by to work well. The order book for most of our new Earnings & dividend Return on equity, % ROCE, %/ the end of 2017. One-time integration expenses are ­Konecranes Gottwald and K ­ onecranes Noell prodper share, EUR Adjusted ROCE, % expected to be EUR 130 million during 2017–2019 ucts continued to strengthen. of which EUR 66 million was booked in 2017. The order intake in Business Area Service and 2.88 23.7 The integration of MHPS ran ahead of the Business Area Industrial Equipment was lower than 1.20* 26.1 15.4 initial expectations throughout 2017. Business a year ago on a comparable combined company 10.3 17.0 9.5 19.2 11.6 17.4 Area Service moved fastest in terms of the execubasis as they prioritized focus on laying the foun17.2 16.7 15.6 tion of the planned cost savings. The US service dation for the combined operations. This meant 1.28 10.9 0.85 1.05 0.53 0.64 branch network consolidation was mostly impleconsolidation of operations in several countries and 1.05 1.05 1.05 8.3 6.8 mented and the integration is now moving to other even discontinuation of some underperforming busiregions. In Business Area Industrial Equipment, nesses. Moreover, the appreciation of the EUR/USD actions were focused on designing and launching affected the reported orders to some extent. a new go-to-market model in different countries. In 2017, Group sales were 4.3 percent below 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 Also, product platform harmonization work was the previous year on a comparable combined Earnings per share, basic Return on capital employed, % started. Business Area Port Solutions’ customer company basis. The decrease in Business Area Dividend per share Adjusted return on capital offering was extended through the MHPS acquisiPort Solutions’ sales related to the timing of delivemployed, % tion so it focused on packaging and managing the eries and exceptionally high sales of certain pro* The Board’s proposal to the AGM new complimentary and wide range of products, ducts in the comparison period. The sales in Busiservices and software to its customers. In 2017, ness Area Service and Business Area Industrial ­Konecranes made progress in optimizing manuEquipment were affected by similar factors as the Year-end net working Year-end net debt, Year-end market facturing operations in several countries, most order intake, prioritizing the margin improvement capital, MEUR MEUR/Gearing, % capitalization*, MEUR notably in China, India, Italy, and the US. through integration activities over the growth. On January 31, 2017, K ­ onecranes completed The adjusted EBITA margin improvement was 325.2 532.3 317.4 3,006.9 304.3 the divestment of STAHL CraneSystems. strong during 2017. The comparable combined 289.4 41.1 ­Konecranes received cash proceeds of EUR 232 company adjusted EBITA margin expanded by 1.3 263.7 1,984.6 million from the transaction. K ­ onecranes reported percentage points on a year-on-year basis, despite 1,495.4 1,380.2 1,345.0 a pre-tax capital gain of EUR 218 million from the the sales that were lower than a year ago. The 203.2 187.3 STAHL divestment in 2017. profitability improvement continued in Business 149.5 44.6 129.6 42.1 33.3 29.1 Area Service, while the turnaround progressed in Comparable combined company order Industrial Equipment. This indicates that the inteintake was stable, profitability improved gration of MHPS is proceeding successfully and The comparable combined company orders received therefore improves our efficiency. The focus of 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 decreased by 0.6 percent on a year-on-year basis in the management and the Board has been on the 2017. Business Area Port Solutions' orders received improvement in EBITA margin, in particular. Net debt * Excluding treasury shares Gearing 4 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 5 CEO's letter The ways, tools and means for growth We are preparing a solid base upon which to develop our next phase, Dear shareholders, Our main objective is to serve our customers and continue markets. We believe that sustainable growth is only achieved by nurturing responsible business practices and acting with which will be one of growth. providing excellent technologies that perfectly answer their integrity. needs. I am happy to say that during an extremely dynamic year, It is no longer enough for companies to focus only on their day-to-day operations have not been too much distracted by the direct footprint, they need to define what kind of value they huge number of integration activities which have taken place. are creating, both for their stakeholders and for the wider This is the third year in which the company has continued to world. We want to support a more all-encompassing society perform very well under significant pressure. Still our supreme by creating a diverse and inclusive work environment and by objective has been well fulfilled. fostering equality. The year began with us closing the largest deal in our history, In terms of financial performance, the year has seen a thus welcoming over 6,000 new colleagues into the Group. The special focus on developing EBITA margin, and, as a conseintegration procedure has included over 3,000 distinct activiquence, we were even ready to give up certain underperties, with hundreds of people participating. These have been forming businesses. This resulted in a final figure of 6.9 percent performed with a rigorous agility, allowing us to successfully adjusted EBITA margin and an increase of 17 percent, with each realize most of our plans for 2017. All in all, we can congratubusiness area playing their part admirably. late ourselves on a job well done. After an acquisition costing EUR 1.5 billion, of which EUR 686 Each of the business areas within this new group achieved million was financed with a share issue, we have net debt of only strong performance. I am especially happy that Business Area EUR 525 million and a solid balance sheet with a gearing of 41 Service has been able to perform the majority of their integrapercent. tion work, Industrial Equipment has undergone the first phase As shares were used to bridge the valuation and finance the of its turnaround, and Port Solutions showed a satisfying order acquisition, Terex became our largest shareholder, achieving intake. These achievements are already ample demonstration their target and completely exiting in September. The use of of our underlying task – preparing a solid base upon which to shares as parcel payment was thus another successful aspect develop our next phase, which will be one of growth. of a smooth, well-executed acquisition. During the year, we have seen the two legacy organizations In our interactions with customers, partners and stakeholders, meld into a single united front. In terms of corporate culture, we have heard only positive comments about joining forces in it has been easy to work together. In the beginning of the this way. Two powerful brands have combined, becoming vastly process, we set out to gather facts from across the organizamore than the sum of their parts, and we are very happy to have tion, building a comprehensive view before making the criarrived at such an excellent market position. On the technology tical decisions that would govern our collective future. From the side, we have been able to balance our road maps, and establish current vantage point, we can see that this was a wise strategy, a strong direction built on our shared heritage. and a well executed one in practice. We see our advantages especially in circular-economy busiBut the process was not one without difficult decisions. ness models. Digitalization, demand for low-carbon products Overlapping functions and operations naturally gave rise to a and the opportunities of rental services are certainly having an certain number of redundancies, and as part of the rightsizing, impact on our stakeholders and our business. personnel has decreased by approximately 730 employees. In our conjoined product offering, we are able to provide innoThese unfortunate necessities were carried out to ensure our vative power sources like hybrid technology and other enerfuture competitiveness. gy-saving solutions such as regenerative braking. Our aim is to Today, our company has the ways, tools and means to inspire and challenge the market and support our customers by commence growth. offering innovative, eco-efficient solutions. The renewed organization situates our support funcI would like to warmly thank all our stakeholders for their tions (procurement, marketing and communications, finance, continued faith in our capabilities, and for the parts they themHR, legal, and strategy) in service to our businesses, thus selves have played in our success. While there remains much to supporting profitability. The emphasis here is on providing clear be done, this represents an excellent start to the journey. responsibilities, explicitly avoiding the tendency to create siloes. Renewal is also underway in terms of our internal policies, Panu Routila as we harmonize our actions globally, across all territories and President and CEO 6 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes ­K onecranes Annual Report 2017 7 company narrative company narrative MISSION – STRATEGY – WHAT WE DO HOW WE GET THERE We are not just lifting things, but entire businesses. TECHNOLOGY REAL TIME VISIBILITY END TO END SHARED & LEADERSHIP TO CUSTOMERS’ PROFITABILITY HARMONIZED EQUIPMENT PROCESSES VISION – WHAT WE WANT TO ACHIEVE SERVICE EQUIPMENT IN THE LONG TERM Lifecycle Care in Real Time Core of Lifting Service for all types and makes of cranes and hoists Direct and Indirect channels in We know in real time how millions of lifting devices Global service network Industrial Equipment perform. We use this knowledge around the clock to make Improve the safety and productivity of our customers' Multi-brand strategy our customers’ operations safer and more productive. operations Need based customer offering VALUES – TACTICAL FOCUS AREAS – WHAT WE WILL OUR GUIDE TO DAILY FOCUS ON DURING THE NEXT 2–3 YEARS DECISION MAKING Trust in People GROWTH PROFITABILITY We want to be known for our great people. Customer experience Realizing potential Total Service Commitment TECHNOLOGY PEOPLE We want to be known for always keeping our promises. Engineering capabilities Lifting people Sustained Profitability We want to be known as a financially sound company. VALUE PROPOSITION – BRAND PROMISE: LIFTING BUSINESSES™ 8 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 9 Business environment K ­ onecranes global market positions: A market leader in industrial cranes and components, as well as crane service Global manufacturing industry and container traffic growth accelerated Among top 3 in container handling equipment The J.P. Morgan Global Manufacturing Purchasing Similar to Europe, the economic activity in Managers’ Index (PMI) signaled a solid and steady the US manufacturing sector, measured by the improvement in manufacturing operating condiPMI, expanded clearly in 2017. However, the US tions in 2017. At the end of the year, global manutotal industrial capacity utilization rate improved Regionally, volumes in Asia, which represent facturing production expanded at the quickest only marginally after having declined since the more than a half of the global container traffic, pace since early 2011. There was also a bounce end of 2014 and it indicated that slack capacity rebounded on most of the trade routes after in international trade flows, as growth of new remained in the industry. two weak years. Container volumes from Asia export business hit a near seven-year high. Developed countries, on average, tended to outperform Compared to the previous year, PMIs also rose in the BRIC countries, but the rate of expanto East Coast North America grew particularly strongly, as the widening of the Panama Canal Approximately emerging markets. The euro area remained a bright spot within the sion remained more modest than in Europe or the US. Brazil saw a clear positive turnaround, has supported traffic above expectations. In addition, the volumes in the Mediterranean ports 6% increase in global manufacturing sector. Its PMI rose to a near and it emerged from its two-year long recession increased clearly thanks to the improved economic global container record high level, with the growth improving across the countries. Outside the Eurozone, the perforin 2017. On the other hand, Chinese, Indian and Russian manufacturing sector operating condigrowth in Southern Europe. The container traffic in the Middle East suffered from low oil prices and throughput on a mance of the UK and particularly Swedish manufacturing sectors remained strong in 2017, as tions improved only at a marginal pace. The recovery of the world’s containerized trade tensions in the region. The average raw material prices, including year-on-year basis. well. Correspondingly, the European Union manuin 2017 turned out to be much bigger than what steel, copper, and oil were above the previous facturing capacity utilization rate continued to was the expectation in the beginning of the year. year’s level in 2017. The EUR/USD exchange rate improve and was near its ten-year high at the end The global container throughput increased by was volatile during the period as it depreciated in of 2017. approximately 6 percent on a year-on-year basis the first half, but then appreciated in the second in 2017. half compared to the previous year. 10 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 11 Business area service Business area service The Business Area’s mission to create a customer experience that drives growth is fulfilled The Business in large part by this systematic change. In practice, this means Lifecycle Care in Real Time, Area’s mission to utilizing customer consultation in combination with maintenance and usage data to deliver safety and create a customer productivity improvements. This way of operating is underpinned by a disciexperience that plined sales model and dedicated roles for all sales drives growth is fulfilled in large resources and assignments. The importance of analytics to the entire model cannot be overstated, with its role as one of our daily management tools bringing about increased transparency (with posipart by digital tive ramifications) in both customer operations and within the K ­ onecranes sales organization. transformation. Diverse markets The weakening dollar had negative translaformation, and with the MHPS business we are tion effects on US orders and sales. The oil and now in good shape to capture more of the sizeable gas sector and other commodity-based indusexisting market for service; the same can be said tries bottomed and some signs of recovery were for Austria and Switzerland. evident. Industrial production turned positive In Russia, the market situation was varied and during the year. We continued to make good progoverall the business has slightly declined. Eastern ress in segments such as automotive. However, European states have performed moderately. Our Integration. Transformation. Growth. severe weather did negatively affect orders and sales in the latter part of the year. Nordic home market has performed well, although Scandinavia has been challenging. Business Area Service provides specialized maintenance Similarly, western Canada’s oil and gas and other commodity sectors stabilized. The central The Middle East and Africa remained troubling environments, geopolitically speaking, but once services and spare parts for all types and makes of industrial and eastern parts of the country continued to again Saudi Arabia performed well thanks to the cranes and hoists, from a single piece of equipment to benefit from their industrial base. Mexico, Chile, Peru and Brazil declined while large installed base we have built up over the years. South Africa continued to show good growth entire operations. Our objective is to improve the safety and our relative position in those markets remains and benefited from early integration actions. productivity of our customers' operations. strong, and our position in Brazil has significantly strengthened due to the MHPS acquisition. In China, we have done well in our legacy ­Konecranes business, and customers are In Europe, our strong performance in the increasingly receptive of the improvements in UK and Spain continued and were further safety and productivity we offer. We continued Business Area Service began 2017 with a The installed base of Demag products brings strengthened by the acquisition. We attained solid to find stronger awareness and openness to continued long-term focus on transformation of significant potential for the service agreement business volumes in France and Italy. In Germany, outsourcing and increased interest in and demand the business model – namely through a producbase, with further synergies to be achieved by the K­ onecranes business is now clearly benefiting for our consultation services. The MHPS business tized offering, systematic processes and digitalileveraging the ­Konecranes service model, systems from the processes of business and digital transwill add to these opportunities. zation – as well as the beginning of integration of and infrastructure, integrating our e-commerce the MHPS Service units. These endeavors rolled platforms, incorporating a variety of our products, out generally as planned and the year ended with as well as sharing and spreading best practices a pivot to a focus on growth heading into the across the newly combined talent pool. new year. More broadly, the Business Area intends to Key figures Integration, of course, refers to the acquisition capture further market share by focusing on six 1–12/17 1–12/16 comparable Change, % 1–12/16 historical Orders received, MEUR 966.3 981.4 -1.5 727.9 of MHPS and the addition of its Demag brand to core trends: safety, productivity, outsourcing, reguOrder book at end of period, MEUR 196.0 200.3 -2.1 158.1 the Business Area offering, promising the opportulations and compliance, the aging industrial workNet sales, MEUR 1,178.0 1,214.1 -3.0 914.8 nity to strengthen the service business on a wide force, and digitalization. Adjusted EBITA, MEUR 160.9 153.4 4.9 100.2 scale. The front line service business was fully Digital transformation is a particularly vital Adjusted EBITA, % 13.7% 12.6% 11.0% integrated in the US, Canada, Brazil, India, UK and component, representing both an ongoing, longOperating profit (EBIT), MEUR 139.3 90.2 Denmark. Integration of the remaining countries term project as well as one of the acquisition Operating margin (EBIT), % 11.8% 9.9% will continue in 2018 and 2019. synergy benefits already being realized. Personnel at the end of period 7,206 5,749 12 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 13 Business area industrial equipment The installed base of Demag products brings significant potential for the service agreement base. Australia has seen some leveling in the commodity-based industries, but our transformation here is yielding very tangible results. We now Systematic integration have a solid business in India, bolstered by indications of recovery in the process industries. Our Business Area Industrial Equipment offers industrial cranes, their modest business in Japan continues to grow, with other Asian countries remaining steady. components and lifting equipment solutions for a wide range of customers, including industries like General Manufacturing, Appetite for growth With integration and transformation well underway Waste-to-Energy and Biomass, Paper, Power, Automotive, Aviation (and to a large extent executed), Business Area and Metals Production. Products are marketed to crane end Service will now pivot its energies toward growth. Capturing the synergies of the MHPS acquisition, users and through a multi-brand portfolio to independent crane increasing service agreement retention, improving manufactures and distributors. The business area includes the the bundling of service products in service agreements, and expanding the customer maintenance brands K ­ onecranes, Demag, SWF Krantechnik, Verlinde, R&M, spend to deliver safety and productivity enhanceMorris Cranes Systems and Donati. ments will be the main growth drivers. Online sales of parts, light lifting equipment and accessories will continue to increase, as stores are now active in the US, Canada, China, The year 2017 was the first year of integration This was the result of the cost-saving actions Singapore, Australia, Germany, the UK, Finland, of the acquired Demag operations into Business initiated in 2016, which are now paying diviand France. Area Industrial Equipment. Besides Demag, the dends, in addition to general improvements to Leveraging the Demag installed base and integration includes also Donati’s crane compoproject execution and the dismantling of the agreement base is expected to be a significant nents business. matrix to a product-line based organization with source of growth. This entails both expanding In March, ­Konecranes divested the Chinese direct P&L responsibilities. agreement base coverage, increasing agreement Sanma Hoists & Cranes Co. Ltd. to Jingjiang With the integration of the acquired MHPS busivalue and service sales per asset, and harmoHongcheng Crane Components Manufacturing ness units ongoing throughout 2017, a working nizing the combined offering and pricing. Work. With this divestment, the company streamprinciple was established to separate integration Finally, leverage and assimilating Demag service lined its product and brand portfolio in the project work from customer-related operations as products – such as light-lifting products, general Chinese market. much as possible in order to secure full focus on overhaul packages, and below-the-hook products The year was also one of profitability improveall customer-serving operations, whether sales or and inspections – will be another crucial step. ment for Business Area Industrial Equipment. order execution issues. 14 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 15 Business area industrial equipment This has allowed the business area to concentrate on upholding and improving customer excel­The year was one lence without any undue distractions, while, likewise, integration actions could be executed diligently of profitability completely independent of external-facing work. improvement, Market overview To look to Europe first, the Nordic countries thanks to the costThe target has been to maintain the brand-spedemonstrated growth both in orders and sales, as saving actions cific, differentiated offering of Demag products did Germany, Spain and Austria, while the UK and France showed a slight decrease in orders. initiated earlier. and K ­ onecranes’ other products, for which both companies are historically well known. A range of In Russia, orders received grew, but in the component-level modifications in our combined Middle East a decline in orders and sales was products have been undertaken, which secure the in evidence especially due to oil prices, and this best possible synergy effects in manufacturing market now awaits an oil price recovery and the reduction of various tensions in the area. South except in Chile, but towards the end of the year, there were some signs of possible recovery in and purchasing. These planned modifications will start their roll out also during the coming year. The business area Africa continued to be slow in order intake. In APAC, market orders and sales grew nicely recession-beaten Brazil. In manufacturing operations, some Demag and ­Konecranes production plants are geographically has been able to in India, while China’s orders grew in several key industry segments, and we expect sales growth to The route ahead In terms of the integration, Business Area close by, manufacturing similar kinds of products. The combined production facilities have excess concentrate on follow in tandem. In Southeast Asia and Australia there is optimism in the market and orders have Industrial Equipment’s focus has been upon defining the go-to-market strategy of Demag and capacity. Thus combining production capacities in the optimal way has also made necessary the upholding and been growing. ­Konecranes’ other operations, before structuring discontinuation of certain production facilities in improving customer In the Americas, larger project orders grew in the USA towards the end of the year, while standard combined operations accordingly. These plans are ready and will begin to roll out each region in which we are active. Each of the above processes has progressed on excellence crane and component orders grew across the whole year. Markets in Canada were more subdued during 2018. Simultaneously with the above actions, in the the basis of clean fact-based decision-making. In terms of management structures, the principle has without any undue compared to previous year. In South America, markets were generally low without growth in orders products area, the key offering has been defined in support of the selected go-to-market strategy. been to have persons both from K ­ onecranes and acquired MHPS operations, obviously making the distractions. selections based on experience and competence. The two company cultures have already been shown to match well. As both are prominent technology companies in the same business, commuWith the new organization and its way of working nication has been straightforward, and core values defined, Business Area Industrial Equipment looks found to match. forward to exploiting these brands’ natural posiBrands The overall focus is to achieve solid high single digit adjusted EBITA margin by 2020, an aim that tions in the marketplace, locating strong segments geographically, and in terms of distribution strucis currently on track. ture, customer base, and product offering. The Group’s brand strategy is based on the corporate Konecranes master brand, which is complemented by the Demag brand and a portfolio of freestanding power brands. Konecranes branded products are sold directly to end users, while power branded Key figures 1–12/17 1–12/16 comparable Change, % 1–12/16 historical products are sold to distributors and independent Orders received, MEUR 1,127.3 1,148.9 -1.9 821.5 crane builders. Demag branded products are sold Order book at end of period, MEUR 526.9 540.9 -2.6 399.4 Net sales, MEUR 1,118.7 1,130.8 -1.1 830.1 both directly to end customers, and to distributors Adjusted EBITA, MEUR 34.6 -6.1 669.9 15.7 and independent crane builders. Konecranes power Adjusted EBITA, % 3.1% -0.5% 1.9% Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR -4.0 6.0 brands include R&M, SWF Krantechnik, Verlinde, Operating margin (EBIT), % -0.4% 0.7% Morris Crane Systems and Donati. Personnel at the end of period 6,024 4,353 16 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 17 business area port solutions business area port solutions On the other hand, we did not see too many large greenfield automation projects, but instead saw growing interest in brownfield automation, which also points towards further service opportunities. This was a clear trend of the year. To consider the container-handling industry more generally, the consolidation already observed in relation to shipping lines, terminal operators – and of course equipment and systems suppliers such as ourselves – continued apace. The market The positive indicator of global container-handling volume improved compared to 2016, but could still be market said to be at a modest level, historically speaking. development Regional highlights To make a brief overview of the markets geographreported in ically, Europe has been active, with the trend of the previous year continued positive development that began in late 2016 continuing into the following year. This can be seen across the offering as a whole. North America has been strong, particuin 2017. larly in the first half of the year – with perhaps a little market uncertainty towards the end of the year. South America has not been as buoyant in New opportunities from an expanded offering comparison. 6.2% Progress in APAC has been reasonable, Business Area Port Solutions offers a full range of container although the growth level is not as high as in previous years. Nevertheless, sales have been handling equipment, shipyard cranes, mobile harbor cranes and reasonably strong, and we have been able to win increase in order book in 2017 heavy-duty container handling and fork lift trucks, supported by noteworthy orders from this area. The year’s order highlights show some excela complete range of software solutions and services. Products lent gains: in July, K ­ onecranes won a contract for are sold under the K ­ onecranes brand, with some product the delivery of an Automated rubber tired gantry (ARTG) system to a new customer, PT Prima Multi lines marketed further under the product names ­Konecranes Terminal, including eight ARTG cranes with associGottwald, ­Konecranes Noell and K ­ onecranes Liftace. ated software, interfaces and services, as well as three Ship-to-Shore (STS) cranes. 2017 saw the creation of Business Area Port The two offerings of Konecranes and TPS were Solutions as a distinct part of the organization, highly complementary, with minimal overlap. With containing all K ­ onecranes port-related equipment, each bringing its existing strength in different services and software solutions. markets to the table, the result is an excellent fit, This, of course, was the result of combining the short-term benefits of which have been swiftly Key figures 1–12/17 1–12/16 comparable Change, % 1–12/16 historical two operations of almost equal size: the Terex realized, together with extensive global service Orders received, MEUR 1,056.2 1,045.2 1.1 533.4 Port Solutions (TPS) and the ­Konecranes port capability and the expanded reach of combined Order book at end of period, MEUR 812.9 766.4 6.1 480.5 businesses. As of the end of 2017, organizaoperations. Net sales, MEUR 976.0 1,091.4 -10.6 543.2 tional development related to this move has The positive market development reported in Adjusted EBITA, MEUR 44.7 52.7 -15.1 50.5 been completed, and the new operating model the previous year continued in 2017. The equipAdjusted EBITA, % 4.6% 4.8% 9.3% has been in place since the second quarter. The ment market was increasingly active, especially in Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 11.6 49.0 key focus has been on the end-to-end responsiterms of products such as lift trucks and straddle Operating margin (EBIT), % 1.2% 9.0% Personnel at the end of period 3,067 789 bility of all business units. carriers. Mobile harbor cranes were another strong area. 18 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 19 business area port solutions REGIONAL FACTS AND FIGURES Being close to our customers through a local presence Business Area In the same month, Georgia Ports Authority ordered six more STS cranes from K ­ onecranes for Port Solutions the Port of Savannah, Georgia. Delivery of these will be in the first half of 2020. Illustrated below are the facts and figures of Konecranes global operations, now contains all In August, Bharat Mumbai Container Terminals Pte Ltd exercised its option to purchase further divided into three geographical regions. Konecranes port18 K­ onecranes Noell Rubber Tired Gantry (RTG) cranes. This order follows upon an initial order for EMEA – Europe, Middle related equipment, 18 RTG and 4 rail-mounted gantry (RMG) cranes, AME – Americas East and Africa APAC – Asia-Pacific services and which will be delivered during 2018. Rotterdam-based container specialist services software solutions. company Kramer ordered 11 empty container handlers and 11 reach stackers to their two 20% Personnel Personnel 20% Personnel depots. Peinemann Mobilift Group, K ­ onecranes Lift Trucks distributor for the Netherlands, was 3,205 61% 9,920 3,246 responsible for brokering the deal. And finally, K­ onecranes won its largest order so far for K ­ onecranes Gottwald Mobile Harbor Cranes in APAC, with Java-based port operator PT 17% Berlian Jasa Terminal Indonesia adding eight more 31% Sales Sales Sales cranes to its existing fleet of ­Konecranes Gottwald machines. 980.0 52% 1,633.7 522.8 Synergies in sight The integration of MHPS into ­Konecranes port business has given rise to a number of potential synergies, both those readily achievable in the short term and those for which a longer outlook is more appropriate. One strong example of this is the additional coverage provided by the new organization. This has enabled us to cross-promote products and services among existing customers and thereby increase sales. Early in the integration process, the decision was made to continue with the combined offering exclusively under the ­Konecranes brand, along with the creation of three different product names to reflect strongly recognized existing products. Thus, certain product lines are now marketed under the product names ­Konecranes Gottwald, ­Konecranes Noell and K ­ onecranes Liftace. In the longer term, Business Area Port SoluLargest markets: Largest markets: Largest markets: tions will be working on four fronts to capture United States, Canada Germany, Finland, United Kingdom, China, India, Australia, the more remote synergies: continued cross France, Austria, Sweden, Spain promotion of solutions and services, further Operations: Operations: 3,205 employees Operations: 3,246 employees organizational development, optimizing the 9,920 employees manufacturing footprint, and product platform Key brands: Key brands: optimization. ­Konecranes, Demag, R&M, Crane Pro Key brands: ­Konecranes, Demag, SWF Krantechnik, Parts and P&H® (through Morris Material ­Konecranes, Demag, SWF Krantechnik, Verlinde, Morris Crane Systems Handling) Verlinde and Donati 20 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 21 Research & development Research & development sions for excellent life cycle performance. Using manufacturing and material handling. The project pioneering technology, the crane is capable of looks at future concepts and addresses enhancing self-service operation and can operate without a aspects of distributed control, adaptation of IoT connection to existing power grids. The crane also technologies to industrial needs, enhancement of has an eco-efficient design and solar chargers. control and assistance applications by context and Its own battery management system enables a location awareness, as well as common modelsustainable use of resources. In practice, the smart based 3D engineering and supervision. PRODUCcharging management system controls the charging TIVE 4.0 is Europe’s biggest research project in process, converts the solar energy into electrical the field of digital industry, a large-scale underenergy and stores it in the rechargeable batteries. taking designed to maintain a leadership position Furthermore, the charging processes can be optiin European manufacturing. mized according to the local conditions. Finally, the GAMA is a project focused on solutions for safe V-type comes with process reliability, as the crane is mixed traffic of fully automated and manually driven built with proven Demag components. vehicles in an enclosed port area. The DYNAVIS As a result of the acquisition Konecranes’ project is currently exploring the product service world-leading service tools and service capalifecycle’s different stages – manufacturing, maintebilities can now also be leveraged across the nance and sales – with a vision to create a process newly acquired installed base. Likewise, tracking for one global visual language. The project will also customer behavior and collecting customer data utilize wearable devices, augmented and virtual has now been both expanded and rolled-out in reality, 3D models, animation, video and interactive applications and dynamic visualizations. And finally, Combined forces, harmonized processes new geographical areas successfully, and this will continue throughout 2018–2019. Konecranes, in collaboration with Telia, is currently continuing R&D work to advance narrow-band IoT Research and development is an essential cornerstone of Developments in IoT productivity capabilities, and in collaboration with Nokia, is One good example of developments in IoT (Internet utilizing a special network leveraging 5G concepts our business. Through comprehensive, in-house innovation, of Things) productivity in late 2017 relates to the and a global digital automation platform for R&D we emphasize our commitment to making our customers’ new features in yourKONECRANES crane portal, purposes. providing comprehensive real-time data for cranes operations more efficient, while upholding safety and minimizing with a transparent view of events and activiBig ‘A-launch’ at the TOC impacts on the environment. ties. With regard to lift trucks, geofencing is one Konecranes attended the TOC Europe (The Terminal notable IoT feature that enables the user to define Operations Conference) in Amsterdam, June 2017. geographical zones, called geofences, on a map. Konecranes’ big ‘A-launch’ introduced three autoIn 2017, R&D expenditure amounted to EUR 36.0 edge computing for reactive systems, autonoWithin geofences the user can set up height-limit mation-related technologies to the container million (22.3), or the equivalent of 1.1 percent mous devices for mixed-traffic environments, zones, speed-limit or eco-drive zones, restricted handling industry. The first ‘A’ was the Automated (1.1) of net sales. high-capacity, low-latency networks for machinezones or maintenance zones. Inside a speed-limit Konecranes Noell Straddle Carrier (A-STRAD) and Our efforts to generate new product concepts to-machine communication, cyber-secure zone, the driving speed will be limited to a pre-set Automated Sprinter Carrier (A-SPRINTER) systems. and technologies to enhance our offerings are systems with segregated safety-related control value, and whenever a lift truck enters a restriction Features include the TEAMS equipment control and constantly ongoing. As well as concentrating on zones, and the use of AR (augmented reality) for zone, the TRUCONNECT system alerts the driver fleet management system, the Navimatic navigation providing the highest lifecycle value, Konecranes user assistance and training. and logs the event. The feature allows the opersystem, and process automation featuring interR&D continues to focus on four key priorities: ator to define the operational mode (eco or perforchange and fence control systems. safety, environmental issues, productivity and Combining forces mance) and maximum speed for the lift trucks and The second ‘A’ relates to Konecranes Gottwald industrial design, with a strong focus on maintainOn January 4, 2017, Konecranes announced operators, based on time or driver. Finally, there is Automated Guided Vehicles (AGV) and new lithiability, ergonomics, and user experience. that its acquisition of Terex Material Handling & also a new feature that facilitates the relocation of um-ion battery technology that provides benefits Advancing these R&D priorities is designed Port Solutions (MHPS) had been completed. This lift trucks, including their geofencing settings, from including greater efficiency at lower deadweights, to create improved operational usefulness and combining of forces (which includes Demag and one customer to another in cases, for example, and faster charging. increased added value to our products and Terex Port Solutions) creates a unified entity and where the lift truck is rented or sold. The third ‘A’ was the announcement of cooperaservices, to enhance day-to-day efficiency and increased opportunities to implement shared, tion with Terberg, a respected provider of terminal productivity for all of our global customers. harmonized and enhanced processes from an Stronger research activities tractors and other special vehicles. As a result To deliver on these ambitions, in 2017, our R&D perspective. Konecranes major publicly funded projects in of these launches, Konecranes can now provide R&D continued to focus, for example, on how 2017 continued to be both ambitious and driven customers with a complete Automated Terminal digital technologies are changing the way indusNext generation crane development by a vision of advancement of the industry and Tractors (A-TT) system, with Terberg supplying the trial systems are designed and implemented. The new Demag Zero-Emission V-type crane is the related technology. The OPTIMUM project has, tractors and Konecranes supplying the automation Notable examples of this ongoing work include: first overhead traveling crane that can be operated as its central focus, the developing of optimized technology, required software and the integration advanced analytics for learning systems, device with regenerative energy and provides zero-emisindustrial IoT and a distributed control platform for on a turn-key basis. 22 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 23 Product overview Product overview An extensive portfolio of expert solutions From optimized, systematic maintenance services – to a worldService leading range of smart connected Industrial cranes – Configured-to-Order cranes (CTO) Industrial cranes – Engineered-to-Order cranes (ETO) industrial cranes, lifting systems, Konecranes provides specialized maintenance services and spare parts for all types and makes of industrial cranes and hoists. Lifecycle Industrial cranes’ range covers almost every lifting application, from Engineered-to-Order cranes utilize the latest technology to increase drives, trucks and stackers – Care in Real Time is our comprehensive and systematic approach to maintenance; connecting data, machines and people. Our services high-quality basic cranes up to the most advanced and specialized lifting technology currently on the market. Konecranes Smart Features the safety and productivity of our customers’ businesses. The cranes incorporate intelligent features, ergonomic controls and automation to Konecranes’ products and services include inspections and preventive maintenance, corrective mainterepresent the most advanced crane technology available today. They assist operators. They also use the Industrial Internet to connect data, nance and retrofits, consultation services, modernization services and provide total control over material handling, safety improvements, machines and people, bringing usage and maintenance data together fulfill every global need. the delivery of new equipment. reductions in load cycle times and crane lifetime extensions. to optimize processes and maintenance operations. Process cranes Modular cranes Parts Modernizations Process cranes are tailored to meet the needs of customers’ producModular cranes are innovative and feature the widest range of tion processes. They are designed and built to specific requirements. components and are reliable solutions the world over. Using our KBK When it comes to parts and service, it doesn’t matter who made the Modernizations can provide a complete transformation of an existing We have extensive expertise and knowledge of our customers' specific system, we can meet our customers’ specific application requirements crane. We offer genuine Konecranes spare parts as well as replacecrane as an alternative to replacing it. Common modernizations are industrial processes which is applied to offer the highest efficiency, precisely, quickly and efficiently. The components can be combined ment parts for all other makes and models. Konecranes parts design replacements of hoists, controls, trolleys and operator cabins to availability and safety for their installations. With the Demag developed to create individual suspension monorails, suspension cranes, pillarand manufacturing capabilities include rebuilding, reverse engineering, achieve increased capacity, speed, duty, ergonomics and/or load Warehouse Management System we provide fully automated crane mounted and wall-mounted slewing jib crane systems, from a single made-to-order parts, and component and assembly modernization. control. solutions for industrial storages and manufacturing processes. working station up to a complete intralogistics system. Universal cranes Components Digital Service Delivery Workstation Lifting Systems Demag universal cranes offer our customers quality, efficiency and reliComponents include hoists, control units and other crane modules as ability at the highest level. Every crane and component reflect decades well as drives and wheel blocks. Every single component reflects our Technology has revolutionized the way we capture, share and consume Workstation lifting equipment needs to be adaptable to changing of expertise and reliability as a partner to industry. Our product portmany years of experience as a proven module for crane installations, information. Our field operatives use mobile devices to enter inspection processes, and to unique production requirements and operating folio includes single and double-girder overhead traveling cranes and machinery and equipment. We offer the entire range of products, from findings. Maintenance data is remotely collected with TRUCONNECT. environments. Our range of light lifting products offer safe and reliable suspension cranes. The V-type girder is an innovation that is unique in sub-assemblies to complete systems. In terms of drive element combiCustomers view their reports at yourKONECRANES.com. Konecranes equipment suitable for various workstations. Designed for lifting and the crane business. nations and sophisticated controls for integrated systems, all compoSTORE is an e-commerce site for both internal users and customers. optimized for work areas and production lines, the equipment delivers nents are reliable and are designed to meet the customer’s needs. This is the speed and transparency of the industrial internet in action. the ultimate user-experience. 24 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 25 PRODUCT overview PRODUCT overview Products for Hazardous Environments Forklift trucks Straddle carriers Automated Stacking Crane (ASC) systems When lifting in explosive surroundings, lifting equipment should Konecranes forklift trucks are flexible and heavy-duty, with lifting capacities Konecranes Noell Straddle Carriers are known for their excellent ­Konecranes offers Automated Rail Mounted Gantry (ARMG) and Autoperform with a high level of safety and reliability. Our comprehensive ranging from 10 to 65 tons. They are used in a range of industries including maneuverability, high speed and reliability. They do not need sophismated Rubber Tired Gantry (ARTG) crane systems. The ARTG system range of explosion-proof cranes and components draws from our long metals production, paper and forest, oil and gas, and port applications. The ticated yard infrastructure, so initial investment costs are low and offers RTG-based container terminals a growth path towards fully autoexperience in explosion-proof applications. World-class engineering and OPTIMA cabin provides increased safety and visibility and the latest engines there is expansion flexibility. They are available in different sizes, mated operations. It includes ARTG cranes, Remote Operating Stations product development defines the lifting equipment, which is designed are eco-efficient and powerful. Smart connected lift trucks allow for remote stacking containers 1-over-2 or 1-over-3. They are also available as (ROSs), automation software, and all the required yard infrastructure, for extremely demanding work environments. monitoring, tracking efficiency of the fleet and maintenance planning. automated versions. including intelligent gates for road trucks. Container lift trucks Reach stackers Automated Horizontal transport BOXPORTER RMG Maneuverable, strong and reliable, our container lift trucks handle Powerful, efficient, offering proven performance, our reach stackers Konecranes offers a complete portfolio of automated horizontal transThe BOXPORTER RMG offers the clearest view in intermodal container empty (8–10 tons) and laden (30–45 tons) containers at ports and have lifting capacities ranging from 10 to 80 tons for container port for automated container handling in terminals. This includes the handling. It incorporates a host of technological innovations, most intermodal terminals. The OPTIMA cabin provides increased safety handling, intermodal, and industrial applications. The OPTIMA cabin Konecranes Noell A-SPRINTER, which handles containers 1-over-1, notably the smarter cabin with video and monitoring technology that and visibility for the driver and the latest engines are eco-efficient and provides increased safety and visibility. The engines are eco-efficient Konecranes Gottwald AGVs, now available with Li-ion battery technology provides superb visibility to container handling operations. BOXPORTER powerful. Smart connected container lift trucks allow for remote moniand powerful. Smart connected reach stackers allow for remote moniand Automated Terminal Tractors. Each option is available as part of a can also be automated as part of a complete intermodal container toring, fleet tracking and maintenance planning. toring, fleet efficiency tracking and maintenance planning. complete system that includes navigation and management software. handling system, including Remote Operating Stations (ROSs). Shipyard cranes Yard cranes Ship-to-Shore (STS) cranes Nuclear cranes Konecranes has a long history of designing, manufacturing and deliYard cranes for container terminals include RTGs, RMGs, Automated RMGs Used for container ship loading and unloading, our STS cranes have a Konecranes Nuclear Equipment and Services provides nuclear cranes vering special shipyard cranes to shipyards around the world. These (ARMGs) and Automated RTGs (ARTGs). With a standard lifting capacity of lifting capacity of up to 65 tons and an outreach of up to 70 meters. We and specialized lifting equipment for our customers throughout the include plate and block handling cranes for ship block manufacturing, 50 tons, they can be diesel-powered, or have cable reel and busbar systems can deliver our STS cranes with advanced noise reduction technology global nuclear industry. The nuclear quality control system meets the floating dock cranes, single and double-boom cranes for ship outfitfor fully electric operation, increasing eco-efficiency and decreasing local and camouflage paint schemes, making the cranes very silent and strict regulatory requirements of our global customers and their inditing, and the landmark of the shipyard and surrounding landscape, the emissions. Through TRUCONNECT remote service, providing usage informainconspicuous in container terminals close to urban areas. vidual specification requirements, such as NRC 10CFR50 Appendix B, Goliath gantry crane for ship block assembly. tion in real-time, maintenance can be improved and downtime reduced. ASME NQA-1, and KTA 1401. 26 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 27 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Creating the highest lifecycle value that presents us with interesting opportunities vant to our organization and how we can make an to develop our business models, improve our impact through them. In 2015, we set the longWe believe that sustainable growth results from strong, responsible resource efficiency and reduce our environmental term targets we aim to achieve in each of our four footprint. We design our products to enable them focus areas by the year 2020, and have been performance. We want to achieve this by involving our stakeholders, to be reused and recycled, or to be modernized to monitoring our progress since then. the societies and environments in which we operate, while at the extend their useful life. This report includes information on all our major economic, environmental and social impacts. How same time increasing the value of our shareholders’ investments. Our corporate responsibility strategy we manage these impacts and other key topics We believe that sustainable growth results from raised by our stakeholders is described in detail in strong, responsible performance. We want to the section, Key Impacts. Konecranes’ business model customer relationship creates opportunities for achieve this by working with our stakeholders and As part of the work of integrating Konecranes – how we create value equipment sales. Also, every crane sold creates the societies and environments in which we operate, with MHPS, we introduced a new Health, Safety Konecranes is a leading manufacturer of lifting opportunities for providing services. while at the same time increasing the value of our and Environment (HSE) management structure equipment, offering a vast range of advanced We firmly believe that we can deliver the highest shareholders’ investments. Our approach to corpowhich better supports our current business model lifting solutions and services to different induslifecycle value to our customers through Liferate responsibility supports our mission, vision and and ensures that these aspects are taken into tries worldwide. Our business aims to improve cycle Care – our comprehensive and systematic strategy, and our actions are guided by Konecranes’ account on all organizational levels. On a global our customers’ safety and productivity in mateapproach to maintenance using world-class tools values, Corporate Governance framework, and Code level, we employ directors for both HSE and Corporial handling. The solutions provided by our three and processes to maximize the productivity of of Conduct. Continuous improvement is our driving rate Responsibility. We also have HSE Directors business areas – Service, Industrial Equipment their uptime and minimize the cost of their downprinciple in everything we do, and for this reason, we for each of our three Business Areas Service, and Port Solutions – complement each other and time. We strive to make our business future-proof systematically measure, act on, and communicate Industrial Equipment and Port Solutions. Operating enable our customers to meet the bulk of their by engaging the best talent, developing top-notch about the environmental, societal, and economic under each of these three HSE Directors are local lifting needs through one supplier. technology, and maintaining a deep understanding impact of our operations. HSE Managers, who are in turn supported by BusiIn addition to offering a wide range of lifting of our customers’ needs. Our Corporate Responsibility strategy is divided ness Unit HSE Managers where relevant. The work solutions, we provide specialized maintenance Our aim is to generate growth and stay compeinto four key focus areas: Safety, Environment, of all our HSE professionals is guided by our HSE services and spare parts for all types and makes titive in a constantly changing marketplace. We People, and Integrity. We have defined our key strategy and global objectives that are tied to our of industrial cranes, hoists and port equipment – believe that the best way to achieve this is by corporate responsibility themes by conducting a key impacts. from a single piece of equipment to entire opercreating added value for our stakeholders and materiality assessment. Through this process, we ations. We strive to be the leading local crane society at large. By driving fair practices and high have identified the most relevant sustainability Fulfilling stakeholders’ expectations maintenance provider in all markets by having ethical standards, we can deliver long lasting topics for us based on our stakeholders’ expecUnderstanding the needs and expectations of our the largest and most extensive service network impacts and generate better financial results. tations. We have also reviewed the megatrends stakeholders is an important part of our responsibility in the industry. There is a high degree of synergy We continuously assess our operations from impacting our business and analyzed which of the work. Therefore, we regularly seek to obtain their feedbetween our business areas. Every service the perspective of a circular economy, a concept UN Sustainable Development Goals are most releback on our performance. To enable us to fulfill stakeSummary of renewed Corporate Responsibility roadmap with objectives Most relevant corporate responsibility themes for our stakeholders UN Global Focus area Objective 2020 Compact UN SDGs Very 1 Compliance, ethics, 6 Eco-efficiency of own Safety • Interim goal LTA1 < 3, ultimate goal zero accidents high 1 and integrity production (footprint) • Significant reduction in serious injuries and no fatalities 3 2 Safety culture 7 Sustainable innovation • Subcontractor safety tracking and management improved 2 3 Employee development 8 Product safety 4 • Certified safety management systems 9 5 and well-being 9 Transparent Influence on stakeholders Environment • Energy consumption intensity -10% MWh/sales*) and emission 7, 8, 9 4 Responsible supply communication intensity -20% CO2e-t/sales*) High 6 chain 10 Responsible leadership 10 5 Eco-efficiency of • ISO14001:2015 100% coverage in manufacturing 8 11 Equal opportunities and 7 products (handprint) diversity 11 People • Gender diversity of group management: male 75% / 3, 4, 5, 6 female 25% Medium • International diversity of group management: Finnish 50% / Other 50% Integrity • Continue to have code of conduct training coverage 100% 1, 2, 10 • 80% of existing suppliers by spend and 100% of new suppliers Very monitored for sustainability Medium High high *) Targets include scope 1 and scope 2 consumption and emissions (market-based). Baseline year 2013. 2013 data available only Impact on the economy, the environment, and/or society from legacy Konecranes. New targets and baseline for the combined company to be set in 2018. 28 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 29 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility holder expectations and provide transparent commumateriality assessment and analyzed the findings rect impact of the economic value we create rules and regulations, and to complying with all nication, we have identified our key stakeholders as at internal workshops. can be seen in a number of stakeholder groups. reporting requirements. We also contribute to the well as other important stakeholder groups. As a result, we determined our key corporate We make an impact on society by providing jobs economies of the countries where we operate Our key stakeholders include our employees, responsibility themes, which are as follows: and income for employees, by boosting local through indirect taxes, such as VAT, as well as customers, business partners and investors. In economies as an employer, provider and buyer through the employment taxes and social secuaddition, we have identified other relevant stake• Compliance, ethics and integrity of services and goods, as well as by being a rity contributions that we collect on behalf of holder groups that are increasingly important for • Eco-efficiency of own production (footprint) significant taxpayer. In recent years, we have governments. All of these taxes and tax-like Konecranes and with whom we are engaged in • Eco-efficiency of products (handprint) worked together with universities and also given payments contribute to the societies around us constant dialogue. These include our suppliers, • Safety culture and product safety them financial support. on local, regional and national levels. subcontractors and business partners, local • Employee development and well-being Comprehensive risk management and sustainIn 2017, Konecranes paid and collected EUR communities and authorities, students, universi• Responsible supply chain able business practices are crucial parts of our 594 million (285) in taxes and other compulsory ties and research institutes, media and noneconomic responsibility. To us, business ethics tax-like payments in countries where the group governmental organizations. In addition, the topics below are also seen as mean safeguarding sound business practices in line operates. A total of EUR 209 million (125) was important for Konecranes stakeholders: with the values outlined in our Code of Conduct. paid (taxes borne) directly by the group itself, Material topics while EUR 385 million (160) was collected (taxes Each year, we conduct a materiality assess• Responsible leadership Tax footprint collected) on behalf of governments. Additional ment according to the Global Reporting Initia• Equal opportunities and diversity Konecranes is committed to paying all of the information on taxes can be found in the financial tive’s Sustainability Reporting Standards. In 2017, • Sustainable innovations relevant taxes required by applicable tax laws, reporting section. following the integration of MHPS and Konecranes, • Transparent internal and external communication we placed special emphasis on analyzing and understanding the needs and expectations of the workforce who had been employed at MHPS Economy and Society In order for us to operate as a financially profiEconomic value distributed ­We believe that since prior to the acquisition. This analysis was performed through extensive interviews with repretable company in the long run, it is essential that we create shared value in the societies where sustainable sentatives of our different Business Areas and from various locations around the world. We then we operate. We believe that sustainable growth results from conducting our business respongrowth results linked the outcome of that work to our previous sibly and acting with integrity. The direct and indifrom conducting Taxes borne Taxes collected our business responsibly and acting with integrity. Dividend to shareholders 83 MEUR Wages, salaries and benefits 1,004 MEUR Total taxes borne 208 MEUR Total taxes collected 385 MEUR Corporate income taxes Managing our sustainability performance VAT/GST and other turnover 38 MEUR related taxes (net) 167 MEUR Our principles and commitments Employment taxes 155 MEUR Payroll taxes collected 213 Konecranes’ Code of Conduct guides our everyday mitigate negative impacts. Group-wide guidelines Other operational taxes 15 MEUR MEUR activities by clearly describing our internal stanfor reporting, appropriate approval procedures and Other taxes collected 4 MEUR dards and ethical values as well as our legal obliinternal controls help to ensure the implementaTaxes borne include all tax and Taxes collected include tax and tax-like payments gations. Our business activities are subject to tion of good practices. tax-like payments that Konecranes that Konecranes has collected on behalf of the has paid as its own taxes. Tax-like government such as VAT and similar turnover-related government regulations in the countries where we payments include, among other taxes (GST) paid (net), payroll taxes, and withholding operate. Our principles and commitments also Our management approach things, compulsory payments of taxes as well as other taxes. The economic burden social security contributions. for such taxes is ultimately borne by the buyer or play a key role in risk management. Having a set • Our core objectives for corporate responsibility final consumer. of rules and values in place enables us to better are to improve safety and eco-efficiency in all our 30 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 31 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility involves all our business units and geographical Furthermore, we have signed voluntary agreements regions. Please read the Corporate Governance and set internal targets for energy efficiency and 88 section on Konecranes.com for more information emissions. about risk management. Climate change may have a material impact We review the key risks to our corporate on our business. We view extreme weather condinationalities employed responsibility and strive to ensure that our mititions and flooding as risks to our operations. On at ­Konecranes gation activities throughout the Group are effecthe other hand, more stringent environmental tive. Many identified corporate responsibility risks legislation and increasing demand for energy effiare managed by several different group functions. ciency can be seen as opportunities, as our focus In addition, to help mitigate risk in our supply on providing energy-efficient products and soluchains, we will begin implementing our Supplier tions and on utilizing alternative power sources can Code of Conduct, which will emphasize the corpohelp our customers fulfill stricter regulations and 55% of ­Konecranes employees rate responsibility standards we expect from third parties. Konecranes supports the Paris Agreement’s aim to strengthen the global response to the requirements. We have also set targets with regard to eco-efficient product design in response to customers’ increasing demand for more sustainable products and solutions. We assess environmental are operatives threat of climate change and limit the increase in risks in greater detail as part of environmental global temperatures. We contribute to this effort by management and environmental risk mapping managing our climate impact and developing our and evaluation, where each unit is responsible for products and services to contribute to this effort. evaluating, prioritizing and mitigating their risks, which also include HSE risks and opportunities. operations and to act in an ethical manner. Our ness with third parties by studying their owneractions are guided by Konecranes values, our ship, activity and role. It includes anti-bribery, Key impacts Corporate Governance Framework and our Code sanctions and other due diligence checks, of Conduct. according to the level of risk identified. The year 2017 was predominantly driven by target organization by the end of the first half of • Our Code of Conduct sets the basic guidelines for • We have a reporting process for misconduct integration. On January 4, 2017, Konecranes the year. responsible business behavior. It is fully implewhich can be used to report suspicions of serious completed the acquisition of MHPS from Terex The selection process for positions sought to mented and has been rolled out to all Konecranes misconduct related to financial or banking crimes. Corporation, starting a new company where about find the best talent based on competence and employees through an e-learning platform. It • In 2017, both our Code of Conduct and our 11,000 employees from Konecranes and around potential as well as create a good balance of is compulsory for all, and we strive to keep the Anti-Corruption policies were updated, making 7,000 employees from MHPS joined together managers from both legacy companies. Overall, current level of trained employees close to 100 them more comprehensive and specific than and began the demanding integration work. By the integration work placed great emphasis on percent. Our aim is for every new employee to before. The roll-out of the updated policies will year-end, the total headcount had risen from open communication and transparency. It was a be trained, and we have applied an automatic take place during 2018. We also started working 10,951 (12/2016) to 16,387 (12/2017), including collaborative process where employee represensystem that notifies new employees about the on a separate Diversity Policy and began creating reductions and voluntary employee turnover. tatives were highly involved. Hard decisions were e-learning program. a Supplier Code of Conduct during 2017. Konecranes’ new operating model, consisting also needed, and in 2017, we announced the need • Our commitments towards responsibility are of three business areas instead of the previous to close down eight manufacturing units to remove outlined in our Code of Conduct and in our Safety Corporate responsibility risk managetwo, had been announced in December 2016, over-capacity and secure future profitability. and Environmental policies. ment and leveraging opportunities putting a high-level organizational structure in • We are committed to the United Nations Global The Board of Directors of Konecranes has defined place from the start of the year. The systematic Talent management Compact and its ten principles that underline the and adopted a set of risk management principrocess of building the organizational structure Our total service commitment relies on talented need to exercise a precautionary approach to ples based on widely accepted international good was conducted with the principles of fair treatemployees. Fair and responsible practices and environmental challenges. We put this into pracmanagement practices. These principles serve as ment, transparency and objectivity, and in close equal career development opportunities as well as tice by examining the full scope of impacts that part of our system of controls, and are designed cooperation with employee representatives. It embracing diversity are key enabling aspects of our operations might have. to ensure that any risks related to the company’s provided us with the opportunity to define the final our corporate responsibility as we race to attract • We have put Konecranes Minimum Requirements business operations are identified and managed into use globally which set the minimum level for adequately and appropriately to safeguard the our HSE management work. continuity of our business at all times. Distribution of managerial positions between legacies • We have also implemented a separate AntiRisk is defined as anything that could clearly Layer 2 10% 80% 10% corruption policy, and have compliance protoaffect our ability to achieve our business objecLayer 3 8% 71% 21% Layer 4 2% 58% 40% Legacy KC managers cols and guidelines in place to detect any risks tives and execute our strategies. Konecranes Layer 5 2% 60% 37% regarding bribery and corruption. follows normal risk assessment procedures, where Layer 6 2% 67% 31% Layer 7 4% 65% 31% Legacy MHPS managers • We have implemented a Know-Your-Counterparty priorities are set as a result of evaluated impacts Layer 8 2% 72% 26% process which identifies the risks of doing busiand probabilities. Our risk management process Layer 9 63% 38% Recruited managers 32 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 33 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Gender diversity of group management Board of Directors Group Executive Board 2 2 4 7 Directors and Managers with senior management subordinates 28 207 Female 165 1,426 Male Undefined the best talent. We aim to create a diverse working processes and the fair and equal treatment of of a joint leadership culture. Our business area and tation and follow-up will be introduced to the orgaenvironment and a culture that respects individuals. our employees. function integration teams conducted culture worknization in 2018. We also piloted a global salary Cultural integration, change management, We conducted a global integration pulse survey shops to identify cultural similarities and differences review process with a small group of employees, shared tools and ways of working, common to understand people’s sentiments and collect between the organizations and find ways to benefit supported by a common tool, to ensure cost control processes regarding performance management feedback from the organization. The survey results from them as well as mitigate potential problems. and enhance salary related decision-making. and rewards, as well as recruitment practices have helped us plan and execute good change manageIn the area of rewards and performance manageIn November, we conducted a full Employee also been high on the agenda during the whole ment, improve the way we work, focus our commument, we harmonized our performance manageEngagement Survey (EES), and the results of that year, facilitating the fair and equal treatment of nication in a better way, and pay attention to the ment process called Trust, People, Performance are available in early 2018. 2017 was also a year employees. In addition, many of Konecranes’ most critical topics on our employees’ minds. (TPP) in 2017 to include all employees. Managewhen we started developing multiple activities which existing processes have been refined to better The results showed that more than 85 percent of ment’s short-term incentive program now includes will enable Konecranes to sustain success into the support the new organization, and the process defiour employees were accepting, on board with, or all management roles in one short-term incentive future. Those activities will be implemented in 2018 nitions and decisions have been made objectively, committed to the integration, and the employee program, and a new long-term incentive program or later, but majority of the development and definibased on facts, and taking best practices from engagement level was above those of comparable called Performance Share Plan (PSP) was designed tion work was completed in 2017. One example of both companies into use. companies as well as above the level where it had and implemented. such an activity is the development of Konecranes’ In addition to focusing on leadership develbeen prior to the integration. When legally possible, employees were offered recruitment process and practices, supported by a opment, change management, and integraBuilding a common, performance-driven leaderthe possibility to become Konecranes shareholders common recruitment system. Its purpose is to offer tion of cultures, we increased our investment in ship culture was seen as a key topic and a prereqand contribute to the long-term success of the current employees opportunities for job rotation and fostering industry-leading technical skills in our uisite for a successful integration. Early on, all company through the Konecranes Employee Share career development, and to attract the best candiservice technicians and in improving customnew Konecranes managers were introduced to the Savings Plan (ESSP), which continued in 2017. dates around the world to join us. We renewed the er-centric sales and sales management skills. expectations on them and given support on leading The participation rate in the ESSP 2017 among Konecranes career site as part of this project. We continued Konecranes’ mentoring program, their teams through the coming changes. Both employees was 16 percent. We monitor employees’ performance and career which was launched in 2016, and implemented it managers and their teams were offered change In 2017, the TPP process was developed further development reviews and see personal developfurther within the organization. We refined many management training. to bring our performance culture to a new level, ment as a key factor in employee engagement. of our people processes to better support our Konecranes Leader training program, targeted to raising emphasis on talent development discusThe performance cycle is a continuous process present and future operations. Konecranes’ job senior middle management and global managers, sions, behavioral competencies, learning and develwith Longand Short-Term Incentives and associarchitecture was applied throughout the orgacontinued, and all new groups included managers opment, and career aspirations. The new process ated Key Performance Indicators, Development nization, enabling the harmonization of people from both legacy companies to ensure the building and a new tool supporting the process documenDialogues and Performance Reviews. We also 34 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 35 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Personnel at Konecranes Gender balance by age, % Age distribution of directors & senior management 230 437 4 23 7 29 15 35 22 22 22 13 35 50 259 6,315 26 5,056 26 12 20 92 2,636 25 1,442 32 10 30 5 5 1 28 44 2 6 11 25 BA Industrial BA Port BA Service HQ 25–29 30–39 40–49 50–59 >60 4 5 Female Male Undefined Solutions Equipment BA Industrial Equipment BA Port Solutions Fixed term <25 25–29 BA Service Undefined term 30–39 40–49 HQ 50–59 >60 measure engagement levels through the regular Konecranes sets diversity targets, not only for Responsible use of data employee engagement survey. Talent and divertop management but on all levels of our organiWe continuously observe and recognize the sity issues are taken into account in our basic HR zation to ensure that we recruit, develop, reward, changing requirements of the evolving legisprocedures, and we are introducing a separate compensate and promote employees equally. We lative environment. We are adjusting our data Diversity Policy, which will be rolled out in 2018. respect and recognize diverse work styles, lifeprotection practices to comply with the EuroThis policy is reinforced by our existing ones on styles and cultural differences. We implement our pean Union’s new general data protection reguRespect in the Workplace and Anti-Harassment. talent and diversity issues in our basic HR procelation and upcoming ePrivacy regulation, among dures. Our actions are guided by our new Diverother legal statutes. We also comply with releDiversity management sity Policy, which will be rolled out in 2018. It will vant legislations outside the EU. In accordance Konecranes employees come from different contiact as a basis for continued work on enriching with the data protection accountability requirenents. They represent a multiplicity of cultures, diversity within our organization. We are also ment, we do not merely rely on our compliance speak a large number of different languages and currently engaged in discussions on expanding with the data protection laws in practice, but are belong to various religions. We aim to draw the right the goal for gender balance in all Konecranes obliged and ready to demonstrate our compliance mix of employees from across our global organizamanagement teams, in addition to our Board of in advance. We accomplish this through careful tion to match our markets’ and customers’ needs Directors and Group Executive Board (GXB). planning and documentation of our personal data in terms of knowledge, skills, and cultural backWe give special attention to equal opportuprocessing activities. ground. In our view, diversity and inclusivity result nity and diversity in our recruitment process and We respect the rights of the individin better functioning teams and are a key driver of strive to ensure that the decision-making process uals whose personal data we process by, for creativity and value creation. A diversity of minds is transparent and that selections can be justiexample, providing them with comprehensive creates value, and is fundamental for us to stay fied. Konecranes wants to be at the forefront information on our personal data processing competitive in the fast changing world. We believe of breaking down historical diversity barriers in practices, as well as offering them proper opporthat this approach of fostering a diverse workforce heavy manufacturing industry, and we seek to tunities to realize their informational self-dehelps generate greater innovation, exceptional orgadevelop a diverse company for all generations, termination rights as required by law. Raising nizational performance, and most importantly, current and future. Our ambition is to reach a awareness within the company by offering outstanding customer service. We aim to support balance between genders at all leadership levels, training that is available to all employees is an a more inclusive society by creating a diverse and and in general, to build a much more diverse important part of enhancing our personal data inclusive work environment and fostering equality. organization. processing practices. 36 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 37 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Environmental management Konecranes Minimum Requirements for chemmental incidents and near miss cases are well. For the most part, we view the rapid environWe acknowledge our responsibility and recognize ical handling and waste management are in reported to our global HSE reporting tool, and mental changes more as opportunities than risks. our opportunity to affect environmental matters, use globally, setting the minimum level for enviinvestigations of root causes and corrective especially with regard to resource use and mitironmental management, and we enhance our actions are conducted accordingly. We also use Our management approach gating the effects of climate change. We are performance by building ISO 14001 managethe Konecranes Minimum Requirements for risk • We apply Minimum requirements that address committed to providing eco-efficient solutions ment systems to support our development. prevention, maintaining a defined level of enviour standards in waste management, chemical and services to our customers while preventing In addition, we pay special attention to the ronmental management. handling and safety. and minimizing harmful discharges into the air, use of efficient logistics and packaging, miniOn a global scale the most significant envi• We use materials, fuels and energy efficiently. water and ground. Our commitments with regard mizing waste, and reusing and recycling as much ronmental risks are related to the use of energy Steel is one of the key materials we use, and it is to environmental responsibility can be seen in as possible. Our approach to environmental and materials. With regard to energy, the risks 100 percent recyclable. our Code of Conduct and in our environmental product design is also described in the section are mostly associated with the possibility of • 53 percent of our factories have an ISO 14001 policy. Furthermore, we demonstrate our commiton Sustainable Innovations. new, unexpected regulatory changes, taxes or environmental management system in place ment to the United Nations Global Compact and During the last three years, the developproduct standards. Climate change, as well as requiring continuous development and annual its ten principles that underline the need to have ment of our operational energy efficiency has regulations and agreements around this topic, targets. a precautionary approach to environmental chalbeen rapid, resulting in significant environare also important factors affecting the use of • We have made efforts in responsible purchasing lenges by examining the whole scope of impacts mental and monetary gains. By the end of 2016, energy. Regarding material usage, the most signifby formulating Supplier Code of Conduct requirethat our operations might have. we had already reached our 2020 energy intenicant risks are also related to unexpected reguments, renewing our pre-assessment process In our assessment of the whole lifecycle of sity target (-10 percent MWh/sales), four years latory changes and product standards, as well and favoring non-hazardous chemicals our products, the most significant impacts come ahead of schedule. In addition, we have almost as possible shortages of raw materials. Water • VOC (volatile organic compounds) emissions from energy consumption during the product use reached our 2020 greenhouse gas intensity risks are not significant for Konecranes as we do from painting operations are carefully monitored. phase and from the production of raw materials target (-20 percent tCO2e/sales), with emisnot use much production water, however we are Water-based paint is not an option for all our and components. Our product performance is sion intensity decreased by 18 percent during closely following the development of this risk as products, but we use it when possible. discussed further in the section on Sustainable 2013–2016. As we aim to improve our operaInnovations. In our own operations, the most tions continuously, we are now in the process of significant environmental impacts result from defining new targets for the combined business. Environmental data 2017 Combined Legacy Konecranes*) service fleet fuel consumption and energy, such We examine environmental risks according company as electricity, heat, natural gas and LPG used in to major environmental aspects and impacts. Energy 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Total energy consumption (MWh) 335,300 213,0009) 224,6009) 241,9009) 236,5009) our manufacturing facilities. Assessments are done on a local level using an Fuel consumption1) (MWh) 166,200 141,500 151,800 169,600 161,400 assessment form to evaluate the severity and Natural gas and LPG consumption (MWh) 75,900 14,700 16,700 18,100 18,800 probability of the risks. After careful assessElectricity consumption (MWh) 80,000 40,300 42,100 40,300 41,600 ment, we formulate risk mitigation plans. In District heat consumption (MWh) 13,200 16,5009) 14,0009) 13,9009) 14,7009) many cases, environmental risk assessments Total energy consumption / sales (MWh/M€) 100 1019) 1069) 1209) 1139) also take safety risks into account. EnvironEmissions Total emissions2) (tCO2e) 102,000 53,7009) 57,6009) 62,7009) 66,1009) Scope 1, direct emissions3) (tCO2e) 58,200 39,200 42,500 46,900 45,200 Scope 2, indirect emissions (tCO2e)4) Location-based method 39,300 16,4009) 17,2009) 18,1009) 18,9009) Market-based method 43,800 14,5009) 15,1009) 15,8009) 20,9009) Scope 3, business travel (tCO2e)5) 10,000 7,700 8,300 9,600 9,000 Total emissions2) / sales (tCO2e /M€) 30 259) 279) 319) 319) Waste Metal scrap 6) (tons) 17,800 7,400 8,200 9,500 8,500 Cardboard, paper and wood6) (tons) 3,900 3,100 2,900 4,200 1,600 Hazardous and electronic and electrical waste7) (tons) 2,000 700 800 600 550 Other waste8) (tons) 3,100 2,300 2,100 1,200 2,700 Water Water consumption (m3) 257,200 120,900 139,600 138,800 160,100 Figures represent our manufacturing locations, except for fuel consumption (includes also service vehicle fleet) and Scope 3 emission figure (represents emissions from business traveling). 1 MWh = 3.6 GJ. M€ = million euros. 1) Fuel consumption consists of diesel and petrol. 2) Total emissions include scope 1 and scope 2 (market-based method). CO2, CH4 and N2O included. GWP: 2014 IPCC Fifth Assessment Report. Scope 3 is not included in the total emission figures, as collecting comprehensive Scope 3 data is still under progress. 3) Scope 1 includes emissions from fuel, natural gas and LPG consumption. 4) Scope 2 includes emissions from electricity and district heat consumption. Scope 2 indirect emissions are calculated according to the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance dual reporting requirement: location-based and market-based method. Konecranes Finland Oy acquired RES-GO (Renewable Energy Sources – Guarantee of Origin) for electricity, which are subject to EECS (European Energy Certificate System). These guarantees of origin covered 15,800 MWh electricity consumption for the year 2017. Production method was Finnish bioenergy. 5) Scope 3 includes emissions only from business travel. 6) Waste streams are directed to recycling. 7) Waste stream handling split into recycling, incineration and other adequate treatments depending on location. 8) Other waste includes plastic, organic, mixed and energy waste. Waste stream handling split into recycling, incineration, composting, and landfill depending on location. 9) Historical figures revised due to change in reporting scope (divestment). *) MHPS business not included. 38 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 39 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Sustainable innovations vant rules and regulations while helping to avoid In order to achieve substantial improvements conflicts of interest. In 2017, both our Code of in environmental performance, we take environConduct and our Anti-Corruption policies were mental considerations into account for the entire updated, making them more comprehensive and lifecycles of our products. Usability, eco-effispecific than before. A roll-out of the updated policiency, and safety are our guiding principles in cies will take place during 2018. product design, along with lifecycle thinking. Our We have zero tolerance for corrupt practices, products are designed to enable their reuse and an approach which is embedded in our monirecycling, and their lifetimes can be extended toring and follow-up processes. Several actions through modernization. Utilizing digitalization, and processes are set up to mitigate corrupwe offer advanced tools to improve the production and fraud risks. Especially when opertivity, serviceability and lifetime of equipment. ating in countries listed by Transparency InternaThe environmental impact of existing equiptional as high risk, the exposure to corruption is ment can also be reduced by applying improveincreased. Konecranes provides practical guidements and retrofits to them. We develop and lines regarding proper conduct in the fight against test different materials and new features, and corruption and regularly trains personnel against apply remanufacturing processes. The concept corruption and fraud. Anti-corruption trainings and of circular economy provides us with interesting e-learning programs were organized during 2017. business opportunities, and our approach to it is Konecranes undertakes due diligence and described in further detail in the section on our background checks on suppliers and subcontracbusiness model. tors before entering into business relationships. The lifecycle of a crane consists of the producWe expect our joint venture partners, suppliers tion of raw materials and components, manuand subcontractors to conduct their business facturing, use and maintenance, disposal of the in compliance with the same business ethics product, and deliveries between each stage. Each and commitment to integrity as we do, applying stage of the lifecycle has different impacts on the our Code of Conduct or more stringent pracsubstances list, which applies equally to prodHuman rights environment. Based on the product and its energy tices. Konecranes has established a confidenucts that Konecranes purchases from its We support and promote the principles set in the intensity, the two most significant environmental tial reporting channel by email. This process is suppliers as well as to our own production and UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN impacts come from energy consumption during managed by the Internal Audit function, which service processes. All Konecranes suppliers Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the use phase and the production of raw materials reports directly to the Audit Committee of the must be in express compliance with all local the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the and components. Konecranes Board of Directors. and international laws and standard practices. Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights Resource scarcity and the need for emission In addition, Konecranes’ Code of Conduct forms at Work of the International Labour Organizareductions result in the need for eco-efficient techSupply chain management a key part of any agreements made with key tion (ILO). In accordance with our approach, as nology. In our conjoined product offering we are able We utilize a category management procurement suppliers and subcontractors. well as to help us mitigate risks, we have set up to provide innovative power sources such as hybrid model to optimize our global supplier base, footAs a company, we adhere to the high ethical dedicated management processes and centraltechnology and other energy-saving solutions such print, relationships, and requirements for all standards defined in our Code of Conduct. We ized compliance processes to secure employees’ as regenerative braking. Also, as the use phase of suppliers. Integrated strategy and guidance is expect our suppliers and subcontractors to rights, such as their rights to freedom of associour products can last for decades, significant enviprovided by our Group Procurement function in commit to similar ethical standards and have ation and collective bargaining, and the right to ronmental improvements can be achieved through cooperation with our business areas. We currently made assessments in order to monitor the effecfreedom from discrimination. We have zero tolera smarter and more resource-efficient offering. work with more than 20,000 unique supplier and tiveness of these policies and requirements. ance for harassment and discrimination, and have Improving our products and services even further by subcontractor relationships globally, with most of Our Supplier Code of Conduct, which is rolled out a policy to our employees. utilizing the possibilities of the industrial internet is the spend derived from around 10 percent of our currently being developed, sets out the stanWe have translated our commitment to human one of our strategic initiatives. total supplier base. We are mainly a procurer of dard we expect suppliers to uphold. It contains rights into internal policies that are to be used as steel, mechanical and electrical components, and elements from the UN Global Compact, the guidethe minimum applicable standards, should the Anti-corruption and bribery prevention related services. lines of the International Labour Organization (ILO), local regulation be less stringent in any of the We are committed to working against corrupAs we are in the process of integrating two busiand our own Code of Conduct. Our goal is to evalGroup’s countries of operation. We have included tion in all its forms, including extortion and nesses, MHPS and Konecranes, each of which uate and set requirements that ensure that envithe basic principles of human rights in our Code bribery. This is demonstrated by our Anti-Corruphave defined procurement processes, we are now ronmental and social impacts are managed propof Conduct, which is communicated to all our tion policy and Code of Conduct, which define evaluating a harmonized approach. This involves erly through responsible sourcing. We are currently employees and suppliers. Furthermore, we have our level of ethical conduct and support our longadopting the best practices from both companies expanding our capability and coverage in this area separate policies on Respect in the Workplace, term competitiveness in the global markets. The with respect to procurement, as well as sustainable of supply chain management in a harmonized way. Safety, and a Diversity policy, which address Anti-Corruption policy fortifies our integrity and and ethical sourcing practices and requirements. Please read more about procurement risk managehuman rights. Moreover, we have included the transparency by increasing awareness of releOur Supplier Manual outlines our restricted ment in the Risk management section. social element in our audits of our suppliers 40 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 41 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility by conducting fair labor audits, work that will system and the differences in safety indicator continue to aim firmly at our Lost Time Accident continue in 2018. definitions for MHPS and Konecranes, historical (LTA) target of less than 3 by the year 2020, as By signing the United Nations Global Compact figures for 2013–2016 will not be published. We well as our ultimate target of zero incidents. in 2010, Konecranes pledged to support and apply the compact’s fundamental principles in the area of human rights, working conditions, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. We also expect our partKonecranes Safety Data ners and suppliers to adhere to the same prinCombined Company Legacy Konecranes*) ciples in their operations as specified in our 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Code of Conduct. We believe that responding Lost Time Accident Konecranes TOTAL 7.6 5.8 5.9 6.3 8.6 to stakeholders’ expectations and addressing Frequency (LTA11)) Industrial Equipment 6.6 these issues presents us with an opportunity to Port Solutions 14.8 improve both our human rights performance and Service 7.7 0 our bottom line. Fatalities3) Konecranes TOTAL 0 0 42) 1 0 In 2009, we chose to approach human rights 1) LTA 1 = Number of work related accidents causing at least one day of lost time / working hours performed over the reference issues with a Fair Labor Conditions Frame that period 1,000,000 hours. aimed to support continuous improvement while 2) 2 traffic fatalities, which are not calculated as recordable occupational fatalities, 1 sudden complication resulting from a serious acknowledging the varying levels of maturity with incident in the previous year, already considered recovered and back at work. 3) Own personnel which the topic is treated in different locations. Konecranes' Fair Labor Conditions Frame defines *) MHPS business not included in the historical numbers. the minimum level expected from all locations and serves as a guide on the expected improvement path to advanced level. The Frame and our approach are based on internationally recognized principles such as the UN Global Compact, the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and and we have several safety management tools Rights at Work and its Conventions, and the Social and practices in place. HSE minimum requireGRI Index Accountability SA8000 standard. ments set the foundational requirements that all Konecranes locations must fulfill. We implement Reporting principles and data collection Disclosing information how we manage our Health and safety a Serious Injury and Fatality (SIF) prevention The report has been prepared in accordance with economic, environmental and social impacts is There is no job so important or no service so program and measurement and prevention tools the GRI Standards and used together with the an integral part of the Annual report and finanurgent that we cannot take the time to perform have been introduced to support it. Our service most recent versions of the following documents: cial statements. The disclosure aim to fulfill our work safely and correctly. Safety work starts technicians use a Point of Work Risk Assessment GRI 101: Foundation, GRI 102: General Discloto the requirements of the EU’s Non-Finanfrom our own employees but extends beyond the (PoWRA) template to minimize risks at the point sures and GRI 103: Management Approach. cial Information (NFI) directive and disclosing company’s borders, including for example our of work. In addition, careful safety reporting and We have applied the Reporting Principles for information about diversity while using the GRI product offering, our suppliers, subcontractors follow-up procedures help us build a coherent defining report content by identifing our material Standards Framework. The reporting scope is and everyone we work with. By providing safe safety culture, recognize our most significant economic, environmental, and social topics and business that we have operational control over. products, solutions and services, we can saferisks, and validate the effectiveness of our safety applied the topic-specific Standards in reporting. Unless otherwise stated, the report covers guard our customers’ safety while simultaneously work. We also continue our work to build certiThis report has been constructed in accordance all Konecranes operations in all the countries improving the efficiency and productivity of their fied safety management systems in all our operwith the Sustainability Reporting Standards of where we operate, focusing on our core busibusinesses’ operations. Integrating safety into all ations. The new Supplier Code of Conduct we are the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Core option. ness, excluding joint ventures and subsidiaries. areas of our operations is a competitive advandeveloping seeks to enhance the safety of our The most material aspects for Konecranes were We have conducted limited third party assurance tage for us, and thus, safety is an integral part of subcontractors. determined by conducting a materiality assessfor safety (LTA1), energy and emission data. our business. We introduced a new safety and environment, involving key stakeholders and the compaThe external assurance statement available at Our most significant safety risks are related to mental data reporting tool in 2017 which will be ny’s management. This report discloses signifwww.konecranes.com. The quality of reporting factory work, crane and equipment installations, used in all Konecranes locations from the beginicant material aspects and describes our core will be further developed and defined as we and to the service business, where our technining of 2018. Implementing the new reporting impacts and how we manage them. A list of key proceed with the integration and implementing cians’ working conditions vary from job to job. tool enables us to put more focus on leading reported items can be found in the GRI Index new processes. We are in the process of redeAll Konecranes employees are properly trained safety indicators, such as the number of near Table. We consider that the reported disclosures fining our Corporate Responsibility strategy and to perform their tasks safely and correctly. Our miss cases and safety observations, as well as provide appropriate information on our perforupdating our targets for next years. More inforoverall approach and commitment to safety on corrective actions and their completion rate. mance. More information about the calculation mation can be found on www.konecranes.com. are outlined in our Health and Safety Policy, Due to the implementation of the new reporting methodology found in www.konecranes.com. 42 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 43 GRI-content index GRI-content index General disclosures Page/link Additional information General disclosures Page/link Additional information ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE REPORT PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization p. 153 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 30, 43 Reporting using GRI Standards framework (Core), 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services p. 2 changes in company size. 102-3 Location of headquarters p. 3, 75 102-50 Reporting period The reporting period for this Corporate Responsibility Report is the financial reporting period of January 1 to December 31, 2017. 102-4 Location of operations p. 3 102-51 Date of most recent report The previous report was published in March 2016. Report is 102-5 Ownership and legal form p. 46 Legal Form: Public Limited Liability Company published in three languages, English, Finnish and Swedish. Updated every quarter (www.konecranes.com) 102-52 Reporting cycle We aim to publish economic, social and environmental information 102-6 Markets served p. 3 annually in our Annual Report. 102-7 Scale of the organization p. 3 102-8 Information on employees and other workers p. 32, 33, 34, 37 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Please contact the CR team at cr@konecranes.com 102-9 Supply chain p. 40–41 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its Due to the integration with MHPS supply chain the historical figures are not comparable. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI p. 43 Standards 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach p. 38 102-55 GRI content index p. 44–45 102-12 External initiatives p. 32, 41, 42 102-56 External assurance p. 43 102-13 Membership of associations Konecranes holds positions on the Boards of the Port Equipment Manufacturers Association (PEMA), East Office of Finnish Industries MANAGEMENT APPROACH Ltd, and The Federation of Finnish Technology Industries. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 32–43 In addition, Konecranes participates in committees of the European 103-2 The management approach and its components p. 32–43 Committee for Standardization (CEN), and contributes to the operation of DIMECC Oy and the European Materials Handling 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Omission: Information unavailable due to Federation (FEM). the ongoing integration work 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker p. 6 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities p. 32–43 More information on risks is available in the 2016 Konecranes CDP CATEGORY: ECONOMIC disclosure available on www.cdp.net. 2017, CDP answer will be Material aspect: economic performance published in September 2018. 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p. 31 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of p. 31–32 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL behavior Material aspect: Environmental performance 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics p. 40 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Omission: Information unavailable due to integration work. We aim 102-18 Governance structure p. 46 to disclose information in the future. 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, p. 29 On global level, there are directors 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization p. 39 Electricity, district heat, natural gas and LPG figures for service environmental, and social topics for both HSE and Corporate Responsibility. locations are not included as information is not available. 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, p. 29–30 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p. 39 Electricity, natural gas, LPG and district heat figures for service and social impacts locations are not included as information is not available. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions p. 39 Electricity, natural gas, LPG and district heat figures for service 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 30 locations are not included as information is not available. 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements The amount of collective bargaining agreements is based 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions p. 39 Includes emissions only from business travel. on local legislation. The average amount is 39.5%. Other Scope 3 emissions not included as information not available: 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 29–30, 43 collection of these is in progress. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 29–30, 43 305-4 GHG emissions intensity p. 39 Electricity, district heat, natural gas and LPG figures for service locations are not included as information is not available. 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised p. 30 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method p. 39 Waste from service locations are not 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Financial section included as information is not available. statements Material aspect: Supply chain MATERIAL ASPECTS 414-2 New suppliers that were screened using p. 41 Omission: Information is not available. 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries p. 30, 43 environmental criteria Konecranes has specific HSE requirements for suppliers, but due to integration work disclosing figures is not yet possible. 102-47 List of material topics p. 29 The target is to disclose the information in the future. 102-48 Restatements of information http://www.konecranes.com/resources/media/releases/2017/ CATEGORY: SOCIAL konecranes-provides-corrected-2016-comparison-figures-forMaterial aspect: Fair labour practises combined-company-orders-received 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees p. 34 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular p. 35 Percentage is not disclosed. performance and career development reviews Material aspect: Occupational health and safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational p. 43 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Material aspect: Anti-corruption and bribery 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption p. 40 The percentages and the amounts of assessments have not been reported. Relevant risks are identified and assessed on a regular basis. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption p. 40 Percentage is not disclosed. policies and procedures Information not available. 205-3 Confrmed incidents of corruption and actions taken A few suspected cases of possible misconduct were reported and investigated by the internal audit and external service providers that are specialized in misconduct investigation. 44 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 45 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance care, exercising their business judgment on an activities of major strategic importance to the informed basis in what they believe to be the Company on an ongoing basis. Konecranes Plc (Konecranes, the Company) is a Finnish public best interests of the Company and its shareThe Board shall appoint a secretary to be limited liability company, which complies with the Finnish holder community as a whole. The Board of Directors shall decide on the present at all Board meetings. Companies and Securities Market Acts, the rules of Nasdaq business strategy of the Company, the appointElection and term of office Helsinki, and other regulations concerning public companies, ment and dismissal of the President and CEO, the deputy to the President and CEO, and other senior The AGM elects the Company’s Board of Directors for a term of one (1) year. According to the Articles as well as Konecranes Articles of Association, in its decisionmanagement, Group structure, acquisitions and of Association, the Board shall have a minimum making and administration. divestments, financial matters, and investments. It shall also continuously review and monitor the of five (5) and a maximum of ten (10) members. The Board elects a Chairman from among its operations and performance of Group Companies, members. The Articles of Association approved risk management, and the Company’s compliance by the EGM on September 15, 2016 and regisKonecranes complies with the Finnish Corporate and on the Company’s website without delay after with applicable laws, as well as any other issues tered on September 28, 2016 contain a provision Governance Code 2015 (the “Code”), which came meetings. The minutes of the General Meeting, determined by the Board of Directors. The Board which grants Terex Corporation or any member of into force on January 1, 2016 and was approved including those appendices of the minutes that shall keep itself informed of issues and business the Terex Group to appoint members to the Board by the Board of the Securities Market Associaare part of decisions made by the meeting, will tion. The Code can be found at www.cgfinland.fi. be posted on the Company’s website within two Konecranes complies with the recommendations weeks of a General Meeting. of the Code with no exceptions. More information on General Meetings Konecranes has issued a Corporate Govercan be found on the Company’s website at Corporate Governance structure of the ­Konecranes Group in 2017 nance Statement and a Remuneration Statement www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate based on the Code. See www.konecranes.com > Governance > General Meeting. Investors > Corporate Governance for details. Konecranes Group Board of Directors Konecranes Plc General Meeting The General Meeting of Shareholders is the Charter of the Board of Directors Articles of Association General Meeting Company’s highest decision-making body, through The Company’s Board of Directors has approved Auditor (Shareholders) which shareholders exercise their decision-making a written charter governing its work. This suppleCode of Conduct power and right of supervision and control over the ments the provisions of the Finnish Companies Act Group’s internal rules, Company’s business. and the Company’s Articles of Association. Inforregulations, and Group An Annual General Meeting (AGM) must be held mation in the charter is intended to enable shareBoard of Directors Policies within six months after the end of a financial year. holders to evaluate the operation of the Board. Laws, Audit Committee Internal Konecranes Plc’s Annual General Meeting 2017 The charter can be consulted on the Company’s rules, and Audit regulations Nomination Committee was held on March 23, 2017. An Extraordinary website at www.konecranes.com > Investors > General Meeting (EGM) must be held e.g. when Corporate Governance > Board of Directors. Human Resources Committee the Board of Directors considers it necessary or if an auditor or shareholders with at least 10 Responsibilities percent of shares so demand in writing to consider The Board is vested with powers and duties to President and CEO a specific issue. manage and supervise the Company’s administraGroup Administration The Board of Directors (Board) shall convene an tion and operations as set forth in the Companies and Support Group Executive Board Functions AGM or EGM by publishing a notice on the CompaAct, the Articles of Association, and other appliny’s website or in one or more national newscable Finnish laws and regulations. The Company Senior Management papers or by sending a written notice to shareaims to comply with all other applicable rules and holders by mail no more than three (3) months and regulations affecting the Company or its affiliates no less than three (3) weeks before a meeting. (Group Companies) outside Finland, provided that The notice shall include the proposed agenda. such compliance does not constitute a violation of BA Service BA Industrial Equipment BA Port Solutions The Company shall disclose on its website the Finnish law. date by which shareholders shall notify the Board The Board has a general obligation to pursue of Directors of any issue that they wish to be the best interests of the Company and all its Component Component included in the agenda. shareholders, and is accountable to the CompaBusiness manufacturing Business manufacturing Business units The Company will publish the decisions made ny’s shareholders. The members of the Board units and strategic units and strategic sourcing sourcing at General Meetings as stock exchange releases of Directors shall act in good faith and with due 46 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 47 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance of Directors depending on the amount of Terex meet at least four (4) times a year. The Chairman President and CEO been arranged in a reliable manner. The President Group’s ownership in the Company. As Terex has shall present a report on each Audit Committee Konecranes President and CEO holds the posiand CEO is also responsible for preparing matters ceased to own any Company shares, the special meeting to the Board. tion of Managing Director under the Companies presented to the Board and for the Company’s appointment procedure of members of the Board The attendance at Audit Committee Meetings Act. The Board decides on the appointment and strategic planning, finance, financial planning, of Directors is no longer applied. in 2017 is shown in the table of Board meetings dismissal of the President and CEO. The President reporting, and risk management. Biographical details of the Board of Direc2017 on page 55. and CEO may be a member of the Board of DirecInformation on the President and CEO’s remutors are presented on pages 62–63 and can also tors, but may not act as its Chairman. The current neration can be found on page 50 under Rewards be found at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Nomination Committee President and CEO, Panu Routila, is not a member for President and CEO. Corporate Governance > Board of Directors. The Nomination Committee consists of a minimum of the Board of Directors. In addition to the Board and its secretary, the of three (3) directors. The Board elects the Panu Routila started in his position on Group management Company’s President and CEO and CFO shall members and the Chairman of the Nomination November 1, 2015. Konecranes has a two-tier operative management attend Board meetings. The agenda of Board Committee from among its members. CFO Teo Ottola is the Deputy CEO. The Deputy structure consisting of the Group Executive Board meetings and background material will be delivThe Committee’s tasks and responsibilities CEO uses the powers of the CEO if the CEO posi(GXB) and Senior Management (SM). The GXB ered to Board members prior to meetings. The are defined in its Charter, which is based on a tion is not filled or in situations when the CEO is has no official statutory position based on legisBoard shall meet as often as necessary to proBoard resolution. The Charter of the Nomination incapacitated to fulfill his duties. lation or the Articles of Association. In practice, perly discharge its responsibilities. Normally there Committee can be consulted on the Company’s however, it plays a significant role in the Compashall be approximately eight regular meetings a website at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Responsibilities ny’s management system, strategy preparation, year, but the Board may convene whenever necesCorporate Governance > Board Committees. Under the Companies Act, the President and CEO and decision-making. The biographical details of sary in addition to these meetings. In 2017 the The Nomination Committee will meet as is responsible for the day-to-day management of GXB members can be found on pages 64–65. Board had 22 meetings. frequently as it determines is appropriate to fulfill the Company in accordance with instructions and The SM focuses on a review of the progress of The attendance of Board members at meetings its responsibilities, which will not be less than orders given by the Board. The President and CEO strategy implementation. The biographical details in 2017 is shown in the table of Board meetings twice (2) a year. may only undertake actions which, considering the of SM members can be found on pages 66–67. 2017 on page 55. The attendance at Nomination Committee scope and nature of the Company’s operations, The GXB normally convenes on a monthly Meetings in 2017 is shown in the table of Board are unusual or extensive with the authorization of basis. Business areas and regions have their Board committees meetings 2017 on page 55. the Board. The President and CEO shall ensure own management teams that convene on a In the beginning of 2017 the Board was assisted that the Company’s accounting practices comply regular basis. by two committees: Audit Committee and NomiHuman Resources Committee with the law and that its financial affairs have nation and Compensation Committee. In the first The Human Resources Committee consists of a meeting of the Board of Directors of Konecranes minimum of three (3) directors. The Board elects Plc after the Annual General Meeting on March 23, the members and the Chairman of the Human 2017, the Board decided to establish a separate Resources Committee from among its members. Nomination Committee and a separate Human The Committee’s tasks and responsibilities are Resources Committee to replace its prior Nomidefined in its Charter, which is based on a Board nation and Compensation Committee. In addition, resolution. The Charter of the Human Resources the Board has an Audit Committee in accordance Committee can be consulted on the Company’s with previous practice. website at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate Governance > Board Committees. Audit Committee The Human Resources Committee will meet as The Board shall appoint the members and the frequently as it determines is appropriate to fulfill Chairman of the Audit Committee from among its responsibilities, which will not be less than its members. The Audit Committee shall have twice (2) a year. at least three (3) non-executive Board members The attendance at Human Resources that are independent of and not affiliated with the Committee Meetings in 2017 is shown in the table Company. At least one (1) member must be indeof Board meetings 2017 on page 55. pendent of major shareholders. The tasks and responsibilities of the Remuneration paid to the Committee are defined in its Charter, which is Board of Directors based on a Board resolution. The Charter of the The remuneration paid to Board members is Audit Committee can be consulted on the Comparesolved by the Annual General Meeting. More ny’s website at www.konecranes.com > Investors information on the Board’s remuneration can be > Corporate Governance > Board Committees. found on page 55 under Remuneration of the Under its Charter, the Audit Committee shall Board of Directors. 48 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 49 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Rewards Philosophy Rewards for Group Executive Senior Management, are decided locally based on At Konecranes, we aim to attract, retain and motiPride in Board and Senior Management market practice. vate talented employees through our rewards Incentives The Board evaluates and decides the total remuKonecranes incentives are typically based on Purpose philosophy. We emphasize incentives and learning neration of the Group Executive Board members the financial results of the Konecranes Group; opportunities as drivers and as vital parts of the and other executives reporting directly to the Presbusiness area, business unit and/or a smaller Base Salary Benefits total employee experience. We link rewards to ident and CEO. unit, and the employee’s personal achievements performance and achievements in all levels in the Total against preset targets. Incentive criteria may vary, Employee organization. Experience Remuneration Elements but are usually based on the Konecranes Group’s Our rewards are designed to promote high Learning Work five key performance areas: safety, customer, Opportunities Environment performance and commitment to our busiSalaries people, growth, and profitability. Currently a ness targets. Konecranes reward schemes drive The base salaries and fringe benefits reflect the minimum of 50 percent of all employees’ targets competitiveness and long-term financial success Career Work-Life performance and individual job responsibilities, need to be based on financial performance and for of the Company, contributing to the positive deveAdvancement Balance experience, skills and knowledge of the Konecranes executives (examples such as business area/unit lopment of shareholder value. President and CEO and other Group Executive or service region/subregion management) 70–100 Konecranes positions itself to the employer Board members. percent of the annual incentive is typically based market based on the locations of the employees Competitive edge Konecranes salaries are set according to the on financial performance. and employee group. We are ready to invest High performance relevant local market in each country. Globally The size of the incentive opportunity is defined more on markets where the employer position Long-term financial success Konecranes targets itself to be at the median of by a person’s position in the organization, and of Konecranes is low and where there are fewer Commitment the chosen markets in terms of base salary. There location. The actual payout is based on the combicareer opportunities inside the company, as well is variance between countries and some employee nation of personal and financial performance. The as in fast-developing markets, such as high inflagroups. local and global market needs to guide the use of tion countries. The definition of market varies Rewards for Board of Directors At Konecranes, Managers review their incentives in each location individually. also between employee groups. For operatives The Annual General Meeting decides on the employees’ salaries annually in context to the Konecranes incentive schemes are always and staff, Konecranes predominantly uses local rewards for the Board of Directors and the Board’s Konecranes Rewards Philosophy, ensuring that based on written documentation. Quantitative comparison companies and for management we Committees annually. The proposals are prepared possible increases are allocated effectively to performance criteria are used rather than qualitacompare ourselves with international companies by the Nomination Committee. reward individual employees based upon their tive personal assessments, whenever possible. based on management location. performance and contributions. The Annual Salary The President and CEO’s annual incentive is Rewards for President and CEO Review Process also applies to Group Executive based on the comparison of financial performance Decision-making Process The HR Committee prepares and reviews the PresiBoard members and Senior Management who of the Company and the expectations of the Board All Konecranes reward issues are decided by the dent and CEO’s performance. External market data report directly to the CEO, reviewed by the Board of Directors for the applicable year. The maximum ’one above’ principle, meaning that an employand experts are used to support the preparation of Directors. incentive opportunity for the President and CEO is ee’s rewards must always be confirmed by his/her and review. Based on the HR Committee's review, 85 percent of the annual base salary. manager’s superior. The decision-making process market comparison and other relevant facts, the Incentives The Group Executive Board members’ annual is depicted in the chart below. Board determines the total remuneration element Short-term Incentives variable pay is related to Group and if applicable of the President and CEO. The Konecranes Group reward structure includes for the person, business area performance and to an incentive plan. Konecranes short-term incenthe individual’s performance against preset targets. tives are designed to support the Company’s finanThe annual variable pay percentage is based on the cial success and the employees’ commitment to individual’s responsibilities and is at maximum 50 Annual Geneneral Meeting fulfilling set targets on a semi-annual or annual basis to 75 percent of the individual’s annual base salary Decides on the rewards for the Board of Directors depending on the year. Participants, in addition to (2/3 from the maximum being the target level). and the Board’s Committees based on the proposal of the Nomination Committee Performance Nomination Committee Share Plan 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Prepares reward proposals Board of Directors for the Board of Directors 2014 Decides on the rewards for the President and CEO, 2015 and Group Executive Board members based HR Committee 2016 on the proposal of the HR Committee Prepares reward proposals for 2017 the President and CEO, and the Group Executive Board CEO’s plan Performance period Group Executive Board President and CEO Restriction period Share delivery 50 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 51 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Long-term Incentives Since 2017, the CEO is not entitled to sell shares Rewards for President and CEO and ­Konecranes Group Executive Board The aim of Konecranes long-term incentive plans, paid as reward through the Performance Share President and CEO Group Executive Board i.e. the Performance Share Plans, is to align the Plan until he owns Konecranes shares worth EUR Base salary Fixed salary with fringe benefits Fixed salary with fringe benefits objectives of shareholders and Konecranes’ key 750,000 in total. Short-term incentives • Based on financial performance • Based on individual performance and Group/ employees to increase the value of the Company, In 2012, Konecranes launched an Employee • Max. 85% of annual base salary business area performance • Maximum reward 50–75% of individual’s base salary to commit key employees to the Company and Share Savings Plan for all employees, including the Long-term incentives Paid according to Performance Share Plans Paid according to Performance Share Plans reward them for achieving set targets. Management, except in those countries where the Pensions • Finnish Statutory pension Finnish members In 2017 Konecranes had four active Perforplan could not be offered for legal or administra• Defined contribution plan at 20% of annual • Statutory pension mance Share Plans. Konecranes Performance tive reasons. Participants save a monthly sum of salary • Contribution-based group pension insurance scheme • Life insurance and disability insurances Share Plans have a three-year performance period, up to 5 percent of their gross salary, which is used during which the plan participants may earn to buy Konecranes shares from the market on Non-Finnish members • Defined contribution pension plan rewards according to the realization of the criteria behalf of the participants. If participants are still in • Local insurance cover set in the beginning of the performance period. possession of these shares after an approximate Shareholding requirements Performance Share Plan 2017 or Performance Must hold min. 50% of any net shares given based on The exception to this is the 2016 Performance three-year holding period, they will receive one Share Plan 2017–2021 for the CEO reward plans Share Plan which, due to the ongoing corporate matching share for every two initially purchased. • Must hold until he owns shares worth EUR • Until the value of shareholding equals annual salary and 750,000 in total • Membership in the Group Executive Board continues transaction process with Terex Corporation at that time, has a one-year performance period and 2 Pensions Previous plans • Must hold min. 50% of any net shares given years’ holding period. In 2017, the Board of DirecThe Finnish statutory pension system covers based on reward plans, until the value of tors issued an additional Performance Share Plan the Finnish Konecranes Group Executive Board shareholding equals annual salary for the CEO with a five-year performance period. members. The non-Finnish members participate in Each Performance Share Plan period defines pension systems in their local countries. In addia maximum reward in shares. For practical tion to statutory pensions, Konecranes provides reasons part of the earned share reward is paid supplementary contribution-based pension Terms of Employment for President and CEO at the end of 2017 in cash to ensure that the participants can pay schemes to the President and CEO. • Period of notice for either party: 6 months the necessary taxes for the reward. The actual The pension scheme for the President and CEO • Severance pay: equal to 12 months’ salary and fringe benefits, in addition to the notice period compensation reward payment is based on the performance sets his defined contribution at 20 percent of • Retirement age: 63 years of the Company against the preset criteria – if a his annual salary, excluding performance-based • Total remuneration: threshold level for the criteria is not met, rewards compensation (annual or long-term incentives). • Monthly salary: EUR 50,000 e ­ xcluding benefits will not be awarded. The Finnish members of the Group Execu• Fringe benefits: car, mobile phone Konecranes long-term incentive plans include tive Board participate in a defined group pension • Contribution-based pension: 20% of annual salary ownership obligations that pose restrictions to insurance scheme, which can be withdrawn from • Short-term incentive: maximum 85% of annual salary named plan participants selling shares paid as at the age of 60. However, the retirement age is • Long-term incentive: paid according to P ­ erformance Share Plans reward. The members of the Konecranes Group set according to the Finnish Employees Pensions Executive Board, including the President and CEO, Act (TyEL). The Finnish Group Executive Board have an obligation to continue owning at least 50 members have life insurance and disability insurCompensation for Board of Directors report announcements and the Company’s finanpercent of the shares they earn annually through ances. The non-Finnish members participate in a The Konecranes Annual General Meeting resolves cial statements bulletin for each year. the Performance Share Plan until their ownership contribution-based pension plan and have local the rewards for the Board members. In case the The Konecranes Board members are not in of Company shares equals their annual salary. insurance cover. term of office of a Board member ends before the an employment relationship or service contract closing of the next Annual General Meeting, he with Konecranes. They do not participate in or she is entitled to the prorated amount of the ­Konecranes’ incentive programs or have a pension annual remuneration calculated based on his or scheme arranged by Konecranes. Employee her actual term in office. Share 50 percent of annual rewards are paid in Savings Plan 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Konecranes shares purchased on the market on Q3 Result Q4 Result 2013 behalf of Board members. Rewards may also be 3rd Payment 4th Payment 2014 paid by transferring treasury shares based on the ¼ of annual ¼ of annual 2015 authorization given to the Board of Directors by rewards rewards 2016 the General Meeting. If payment in shares cannot Q4 Q1 2017 be carried out due to reasons related to either Q3 Q2 the Company or a Board member, annual rewards Savings period Q2 Result Q1 Result will be paid entirely in cash. The rewards are paid Holding period 2nd Payment 1st Payment in four equal instalments, each instalment being Delivery of matching shares ¼ of annual ¼ of annual purchased or transferred within the two-week rewards rewards period following each of the Company’s interim 52 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 53 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Annual remuneration report 2017 Rewards for President and The MHPS Acquisition incentive was paid out 6 Remuneration of Board of Directors This part presents the rewards paid and payable CEO and Konecranes Group months after the transaction was closed. This is Fees payable to the Board members as confirmed to Konecranes President and CEO, Group ExecuExecutive Board Members included in the Short-term incentives in the table by the latest Annual General Meeting at March 23, tive Board and Board of Directors in 2017. The remuneration of the Konecranes Group Execuon page 54. 2017 and the total compensation paid in 2017 are tive Management in 2017 is shown in the table on shown in the tables below. Short-term Incentives page 54. The salaries, fringe benefits and shortIn 2016 Konecranes moved to a semi-annual incenterm incentives paid to the President and CEO and tive program that was continued in 2017. For H1 the Group Executive Board amount to a total of EUR 2017 EBIT and for H2 2017 EBITA percent was used 5,434,014. Fees payable to the Board of Directors as main criteria for Group and BA management. In addition to annual incentives, Group ExecuAnnual fee 2017, EUR Chairman of the Board 140,000 tive Board members, excluding CEO, participated in Vice Chairman 100,000 Long-term Incentives an MHPS Acquisition incentive scheme, in which the Board member 70,000 The long-term incentives awarded in the recent maximum payout was 50 percent of the partiFee per Board Committee meeting 1,500 years are shown in the table on page 54. cipant’s annual salary if certain criteria were met. Chairman of the Audit Committee per AC meeting 3,000 Board members are also reimbursed for their travel expenses. Long-term Incentives Performance Share Plan (year) PSP 2014 PSP 2015 PSP 2016 PSP 2017 Performance period 2014–2016 2015–2017 2016 2017–2019 Measure Cumulative EPS Cumulative EPS EBITDA Cumulative EPS Total gross shares delivered 99,180 N/A 667,509 N/A Restriction period – – Until 31.12.2018 – Gross shares delivered Panu Routila, CEO 8,352 N/A 48,000 N/A Other members of Group Executive Board, TOTAL 19,836 N/A 120,000 N/A Total Compensation paid to the Board of Directors during 2017 BOARD REMUNERATION 2017 BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE 2017 EUR Cash Nr of shares EUR value EUR TOTAL EUR Board Audit HR Nomination ­Nomination Rewards for President and CEO and ­Konecranes Group Executive Board Members portion as as part of of shares as Committee meetings Committee Committee Committee and President and CEO Other members of Group Executive Board part of Total Total Annual part of Total Meetings attended meetings meetings meetings Compen2017 2016 2017 2016 Annual Remuneration Annual attended attended attended sation Panu Routila Panu Routila Remuneration Remuneration Committee Salaries and fringe benefits 664,836 467,071 2,297,895 2,047,243 Short-term incentives 575,500 143,500 1,895,783 498,009 Chairman Share rights allocated (PSP) Vitzthum Christoph 105,006 903 34,994 18,000 158,000 22/22 (-) 4/4 2/2 2/2 # of share rights 248,000 144,000 258,000 318,000 Shareholding in Konecranes Plc Other Board Members: # of shares*) 28,315 16 229,727 170,921 Johansson Ole 67,543 644 24,957 18,000 110,500 22/22 5/5 (-) 2/2 (-) Expense of statutory/voluntary pension plans 315,100 227,570 474,536 246,364 Kugel Janina 52,523 451 17,477 10,500 80,500 19/22 (-) 3/4 (-) 2/2 Langenskiöld Bertel 52,523 451 17,477 15,000 85,000 22/22 (-) 4/4 (-) 2/2 *) Includes 24,000 (for CEO) and 60,000 (for other GXB members) shares, which are under transfer restriction until December 31, 2018. Liljedahl Ulf 52,523 451 17,477 22,500 92,500 22/22 5/5 (-) 2/2 (-) There were no loans issued by the Company to the GXB members as of the end of December 2017. Persson Malin 52,523 451 17,477 15,000 85,000 21/22 5/5 (-) (-) (-) Other Board Members: 277,634 2,448 94,866 81,000 453,500 Left Board Members Gustavson Stig 25,000 10,500 35,500 7/7 (-) (-) (-) 2/2 Summary of Employee Share Savings Plan Sachs David*) 26,252 226 8,748 4,500 39,500 6/6 2/2 (-) (-) (-) Employee share savings plan (period) ESSP 2013 ESSP 2014 ESSP 2015 ESSP 2016 ESSP 2017 Shaffer Oren*) 26,252 226 8,748 4,500 39,500 6/6 (-) 1/1 (-) 2/2 Savings period July 1, 2013– July 1, 2014– July 1, 2015– September 1, July 1, 2017– June 30, 2014 June 30, 2015 June 30, 2016 2016–June 30, June 30, 2018 Svante Adde 17,500 10,500 28,000 6/7 1/1 (-) (-) (-) 2017 Left Board Members 95,005 452 17,495 30,000 142,500 Amount of participants*) 1,338 1,164 1,218 1,176 2,042 Amount of shares acquired 83,324 71,664 93,596 49,378 22,273 Total board compensation 477,645 3,803 147,355 129,000 754,000 (On-going) Due to the payment cycle, Board remuneration during 2017 includes the Board of Directors’ partial remuneration from January 1.2017 until AGM 2017 (1/4 installment Delivered or expected matching 41,662 35,832 46,798 24,689 11,136 and committee meeting fees), and from AGM 2017 until December 31, 2017 the partial remuneration (3/4 installment and committee meeting fees) that was decided by shares to be delivered* (On-going) AGM 2017. *) By the end of Q4 2017 *) Meeting attendance: Excluding the meetings that Board member was unable to attend due to disqualification. 54 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 55 Corporate Governance Risk management Insider administration Konecranes keeps a record of persons who Risk management The Board of Directors has approved Konecranes regularly participate in the preparation of the Plc Insider Regulations based on Market Abuse group level financial results or who can otherRegulation (“MAR”), regulations and guidance given wise have access to such information, and has K ­ onecranes Board of Directors has defined and in competitiveness of our products in a specific by European Securities and Markets Authority, the decided that the Closed Period set by Konecranes adopted a set of risk management principles market and affect our customers’ businesses. Finnish Securities Markets Act, Nasdaq Helsinki applies to them. Persons included in the Insider based on widely accepted international good Capital expenditure on industrial cranes varies Ltd’s Guidelines for Insiders, and guidance given by List’s project-specific sections are prohibited from management practices. The Audit Committee evawith the development of industrial production and the Financial Supervision Authority. trading in Konecranes financial instruments until luates and reports on the adequacy and approproduction capacity, while demand for port equipKonecranes maintains an insider list (“Insider termination of the project concerned. priateness of internal controls and risk management follows trends in global transportation and, List”) recording all persons having access to ment to the Board. over the shorter term, port investment cycles. The insider information related to the Company. The Audit lift truck cycle follows other product segments. Insider List consists of one or more projectThe main function of statutory auditing is to verify Risk management principles Demand for maintenance services is driven by the specific sections. Konecranes has determined that Konecranes financial statements represent Risk is anything that will clearly affect ­Konecranes capacity utilization rates of our customers. In addithat it will not establish a permanent insider a true and fair view of the Group’s performance ability to achieve its business objectives and tion to risks related to sales volumes, adverse section in this Insider List and there are thus no and financial position for the financial year, which execute its strategies. Risk management is part changes in demand can also result in overcapacity permanent insiders in Konecranes. is the calendar year. The auditor reports to the of K ­ onecranes control system and is designed to and affect market prices, as can the actions of In Konecranes, persons discharging managerial Board’s Audit Committee on a regular basis and ensure that any risks related to the Company’s competitors. responsibilities (“Managers”) according to MAR, is obliged to audit the validity of the Company’s business operations, are identified and managed ­Konecranes aim is to increase the proportion are the members of the Board of Directors, the accounting and closing accounts for the finanadequately and appropriately to safeguard the of service revenue in its total revenue stream and President and CEO and the members of the Group cial year and to give the General Meeting an audicontinuity of K ­ onecranes business at all times. thereby reduce its exposure to economic cycles. Executive Board. Managers and their closely assotor’s report. Konecranes auditors are elected The Group’s risk management principles In general, the demand for service is less volatile ciated persons have to notify Konecranes and by the AGM and will hold office until the end of provide a basic framework for risk management than that for equipment. Financial Supervision Authority of all transacthe annual general meeting following the elecacross K ­ onecranes, and each Group company As part of its strategy, K ­ onecranes strives to tions, as defined in MAR, conducted on their own tion. The same auditor with principal responsior operating unit is responsible for its own risk maintain a reasonably wide geographical market account relating to the financial instruments of bility may not serve for more than seven (7) finanmanagement. This approach guarantees the best presence to balance out economic trends in Konecranes within three days of the transactions. cial years. possible knowledge of local conditions, experidifferent market areas, while paying attention Managers are prohibited from trading in Ernst & Young Oy, Authorized Public Accounence, and relevance. to relevant distribution costs. ­Konecranes also Konecranes' financial instruments during a closed tants, has been the Company’s external auditor The Group’s risk management principles define aims to limit the risks resulting from changes in period starting on the 15th day of the month prior since 2006. Kristina Sandin served as Principal risk management as a continuous and systemdemand in different customer segments, as well to the end of each calendar quarter and ending Auditor in 2017. Ernst & Young Oy and its affiliated atic activity aimed at protecting employees from as the demand for certain products by maintaining when the corresponding interim report or the finanaudit companies received EUR 4,154,000 in fees personal injury, safeguarding the assets of all a diverse customer base and offering a wide range cial statement bulletin is published, including the for auditing Konecranes Group companies in 2017 Group companies and the Group as a whole, and of products and services. By active product deveday of publication of said report (“Closed Period”). and fees of EUR 601,000 for non-audit services. ensuring stable and profitable financial perforlopment, ­Konecranes also strives to differentiate mance. By minimizing losses due to realized risks, itself from its competitors and reduce the compeand optimizing the cost of risk management, titive pressures that it experiences. ­Konecranes can safeguard its overall long-term Following the acquisition of MHPS, K ­ onecranes competitiveness. has continued this strategy and has further developed its go-to-market strategy given the newly Significant risks for ­Konecranes acquired brands, products and channels. ­Konecranes has assessed its strategic, operaDuring 2017 the rollout of new IT-systems tional, financial, and hazard-related risks. The list continued; these systems improve our capabilities of risks below, and the risk management methods in risk management, as they improve transpadescribed here, are intended to be indicative only rency to the local operations and markets. In addiand should not be considered exhaustive. tion, we begun the alignment and integration of the MHPS systems and reporting. Market risks Demand for K ­ onecranes products and services is Customer credit risks affected by the development of local and global Challenges with customer payments could economies, regional and country-specific politiadversely affect ­Konecranes financial situation. To cal issues and stability, as well as the busilimit this risk, we apply a conservative credit policy ness cycles of K­ onecranes customer indusin respect of our customers. It is K ­ onecranes practries. Currency fluctuations may cause changes tice to review customers carefully before entering 56 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 57 Risk management Risk management into a formal business relationship with them and processes, proper test planning and documentation Share Savings Plan, and invested in employee demand-supply monitoring, balancing, forecasting, to require credit reports from new customers. The of the results. We use the results actively to develop well-being. and supplier communications to improve our credit risks of our customers are mitigated with the reliability of our products. ability to respond to customer needs rapidly. advance payments, letters of credit, payment With more data after the MHPS acquisition, Acquisitions ­Konecranes recognizes that price and contiguarantees, and credit insurance where appliwe continued to analyze technical data collected Unsuccessful acquisitions or a failure to successnuity risks are associated with some of its key cable. By using these tools and carefully monifrom cranes via our Industrial Internet solution, fully integrate an acquired company, could result suppliers, as they could be difficult to replace. In toring customer payments, we have been able to to increase our awareness of how cranes behave in reduced profitability or hamper the implementhe event of major production problems, this could successfully limit our credit risks. in daily operations. Based on this, we continue tation of corporate strategy. ­Konecranes reduces undermine our delivery capability. Quality risks and During 2017, “Know Your Customer” -practices to develop algorithms, helping us predict issues the risks associated with acquisitions by carrying defects associated with subcontracted compoof frontline units have been enhanced by several related to crane safety and operations. All this out due diligence analyses, using external advinents are also quality risks for ­Konecranes. process improvements. ­Konecranes has started limits the technical risks in crane usage, and sors when needed. To reduce subcontracting risks, K ­ onecranes a project to extend the use of integrated 3rd party grants us better knowledge for crane designs and On January 4, 2017 K ­ onecranes closed the constantly seeks competitive alternative sources services to a majority of its ERP-systems in order service operations. acquisition of Material Handling & Port Solutions while improving cooperation with existing to verify customer data against outstanding sancIn 2017 we conducted an external cyber secusegment from Terex Corporation. During 2017, suppliers. When available, alternative suppliers tions lists and products and spare-parts against rity audit to our devices and connectivity solutions. ­Konecranes invested substantial resources to enhance price competition, increase producthe dual-use items lists. With the MHPS acquisition we doubled our execute the successful closing of the transaction tion capacity, and reduce risks of single supplier patent portfolio and continued active manageand professional integration of acquired entities. dependency. K ­ onecranes supplier portfolio is Technology risks ment of our intellectual property. We aim to secure The scale and expected benefits of this acquisireviewed, categorized and managed centrally. ­ onecranes recognizes that there are various K our freedom to operate. In 2017 we continued to tion will create unprecedented opportunities for To reduce exchange rate risks, a global supply threats and opportunities related to the developactively protect our designs, innovations, trade­Konecranes, while failure to achieve the objectives arrangement aims to naturally balance long-term ment of new products and services in its busimarks, and domains. We have a regular process to may result in substantial risks. movements in exchange rates that potentially ness. Active management of intellectual property monitor possible violations and react on those. affect the competitiveness of our operations. rights is essential in the global marketplace. Technical training of our service technicians is Production risks In 2017, ­Konecranes continued and enhanced The MHPS acquisition opened K ­ onecranes new an essential risk management effort. The same ­ onecranes strategy is to maintain the in-house K the cooperation with critical suppliers. We also avenues to continuously monitor general market applies to lifting equipment specific training for production of key components that have high continued to drive business continuity managetrends, technological developments, competitors’ engineers and designers. Service technician added value, and/or provide core competitive ment development efforts with selected suppliers. actions, customer behavior, and developments training continued actively during the year. For engiadvantages. There are specific risks involved with in various industry segments, in order to identify neers, we continued developing specific training different aspects of production, such as producQuality risks signs of potential changes that could impact us. material and conducted trainings based on this. tion capacity management, operational efficiency, High-quality services and equipment along with We have developed internal processes to continuity, and quality. business procedures and processes, play a key secure systematic follow-up of key technoloPersonnel In 2017, activities were focused to further role in minimizing ­Konecranes business risks. gies. Similarly, we have refined process-driven ­ onecranes’ ability to operate is dependent on the K increase our internal supply chain capabilities and Most companies in the Group and all major Group approaches, from innovations to needed technoavailability, expertise, and competence of profesefficiencies while adjusting the production capacity operations use certified quality procedures. logical research, all the way to product developsional personnel. to the market demand. Replacement investments In 2017, ­Konecranes continued developing ment projects. Due to the integration, related to the acquisicontinued during the year, with increased focus on both its local and global quality improvement In 2017 we started collaborating with Maria01, tion of Terex MHPS segment in 2017, K ­ onecranes safety and security of operations. processes. That development was supported by the biggest startup incubator in the Nordics, increased the investments to change management continuing to deploy the Company’s shared IT and continued working closely with a number of trainings and cultural integration. In addition, the Procurement risks tools to better register customer experiences and start-up companies to ensure early knowledge of investment continued in industry-leading technical Procurement operates a proactive approach to approaches to problem-solving, with the goal of new ideas and technologies. We continue utilizing skills of our service technicians, leadership devemitigate risks related to pricing, quality, capacity, improving our business performance. To strive for and actively seeking new opportunities to work lopment, along with customer-centric and effecavailability, supplier Code of Conduct, and other operational excellence, K ­ onecranes continued to with external research institutes, universities, and tive sales and sales management skills. In these expectations as expressed in K ­ onecranes Global use and develop the Lean Six Sigma methodology specialized companies with specific know-how, focus areas, ­Konecranes invested in training Supplier Manual. Inefficiencies and deficiencies with good results. The methodology plays a key experience, and skills. All of these provide awareefforts to ensure customer satisfaction. in these areas could affect the performance and role in systematic improvement of the Company’s ness of and secure access to technological devel­Konecranes continued investing in safety reputation of K ­ onecranes adversely. K ­ onecranes processes and quality. opment in our field of business. programs, including a new, improved safety orgamanages its purchases, and the logistics of We utilize our global testing centers to further nization. The integration of Terex MHPS required materials and components of substantial imporIT risks improve safety and reliability of our products. We significant changes to organizational structure. This tance for its operations, on a centralized basis. K ­ onecranes IT is responsible for all IT services, carry out extensive life-time testing of our new and said, K ­ onecranes has been able to select the key Contracts with key suppliers are designed to optiapplications, and assets used by Group compaexisting products, creating new knowledge to reduce executives based on the best competences and mize these purchases globally. nies. K ­ onecranes operations depend on the avaitechnical risks. Testing centers are also an interetain almost all key executives in the company. In 2017, ­Konecranes continued to develop the lability, reliability, quality, confidentiality, and integgral part of our in-house research and are audited to Furthermore, ­Konecranes continued employee quality and scope of supplier cooperation and rity of information. During 2017, there was an ISO 17025 standard, ensuring the quality of testing engagement programs, such as our Employee its audit process. We also continued to improve increasing amount of attacks against ­Konecranes 58 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 59 Risk management Risk management IT services. These information security risks and own principles across the ­Konecranes Group. us discover our risks and by standardizing the sury Policy. Only in a few special cases, where incidents may have an unfavorable effect on Particular emphasis is placed on training, to related processes and digitalizing the tools we local central bank regulations prohibit the use of business performance. Therefore, K ­ onecranes ensure that employees are aware of and comply enable a reduction of risks. Group services for hedging and funding, is this continues to invest in IT security. with the applicable legislation, regulations, done directly between an operating company and ­Konecranes uses reliable IT solutions and internal policies, practices, and principles relating Financial risks a bank under the supervision of Group Treasury. employs efficient information security manageto their work. Comprehensive training programs ­ onecranes manages most of its financial risks K ­Konecranes Finance Corporation uses a treasury ment, to avoid data loss and prevent the confidenfor global target groups covered controls, policies, on a centralized basis through its Group Treasury. system that enables transactions to be processed tiality, availability, or integrity of data from being and many best practices that mitigate the risks The Group Treasury operates through K ­ onecranes in real-time and provides in-depth records of compromised. User care and support is exerrelated to illegal activities. Finance Corporation, which acts as a financial activities and performance. Standard reporting cised with internal and outsourced IT services to ­Konecranes is committed to complying with all vehicle for the Group at Corporate Headquarters. is done on a weekly basis and covers Groupensure the high availability, resiliency, and contiapplicable laws and regulations, but breaches of ­Konecranes Finance Corporation is not a profit level commercial and financial cash flows, foreign nuity of services, combined with rapid recovery in the company’s policies resulting in illegal activities center that strives to maximize its profits, but currency transaction exposure, debt positions, the event of any temporary loss of key services. can threaten the company. ­Konecranes recognizes rather its role is to help the Group’s companies derivatives portfolios, and counterparty credit Third party experts are utilized to audit, test, and that even small-scale illegal activity could damage reduce the financial risks associated with global exposure for financial transactions. In addition, all improve cyber security for internally and externally its reputation and affect its financials and results business operations, such as market, credit, and Group companies participate in monthly managedeveloped IT services. adversely, but does not consider the risk to be liquidity risks. The most significant market risk rial and statutory reporting. During 2017, the implementation of global IT material. Internal procedures, supervision, audits, relates to foreign currency transaction risk. See Note 33 in the Financial Statements and applications and harmonized business processes and practical tools are used to reduce K ­ onecranes The responsibility for identifying, evaluating, the Board of Directors’ Report for a detailed overcontinued. For the next few years, K ­ onecranes IT exposure to these types of risks. and controlling the financial risks arising from view of financial risk management. will focus on the integration activities due to the Illegal and fraudulent criminal activities the Group’s global business operations is divided acquisition of Terex MHPS business. Analytics and targeting K ­ onecranes cause risks that may have between business units and ­Konecranes Finance Insurance business intelligence capabilities are increasingly substantial impact on our financial results. We Corporation. The Group reviews its insurance policies as part in focus, aiming to turn increasing amounts of continued our efforts to decrease the exposure to Units hedge their risks internally with Group of its overall risk management on a continuous business-, user-, and device-generated data into such activity. Treasury. Most of the Group’s financial risks are basis. Insurance policies are used to cover all new business opportunities. ­Konecranes continued, and after the MHPS channeled through K ­ onecranes Finance Corporarisks that are economically feasible or otherwise acquisition, increased its efforts to ensure good tion, where they can be evaluated and controlled reasonable to insure. Contract and product liability risks governance and management practices throughout efficiently. ­ onecranes can be subject to various legal K the year. Almost all funding, cash management, and Internal control and Risk management actions, claims, and other proceedings in various foreign exchange transactions with banks related to Financial reporting countries, typical for a company in its industry Damage risks and other external counterparties are carried Can be consulted in the Corporate Governance and consistent with a global business that encomDamage risks include business interruption out centrally by ­Konecranes Finance CorporaStatement 2017. ­ passes a wide range of products and services. risks, occupational health and safety-related tion, and in accordance with the Group’s TreaThese may involve contractual disputes, warranty risks, environmental risks, fire and other disasclaims, product liability (including design defects, ters, natural events, and premises security risks. manufacturing defects, failure to post appropriate ­Konecranes identifies and assesses these risks warnings, and asbestos legacy), employment, auto continously as part of its business processes. To liability, and other matters involving claims related mitigate these risks, we have adopted a number to general liability. These risks are managed by of occupational health and safety guidelines, continuously monitoring operations, improving rescue planning, and premises security instrucproduct safety and documentation, training tions. ­Konecranes has also sought to prepare customers, and enhancing sales terms. for the materialization of these risks through In 2017 ­Konecranes updated its Contractual various insurance programs and by continuously Instructions with respective contract language improving its preparedness to deal with various improvements and related training program was potential crisis situations. extended to cover the acquired MHPS operaDuring 2017, we created a strategy to help tions. Systematic contracts management efforts focus our performance on several important continued and we recognize that our contract areas of safety and security. We have created base extended substantially due to the acquisithis program to improve our capacity to react tion of MHPS. quicker to trends from near miss reporting and other tools. Illegal activities To ensure development, we are focusing K ­ onecranes issues written policies to ensure on the building blocks of continuous improvecompliance with legislation, regulations, and our ment. We have created a global process to help 60 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 61 Board of directors Board of directors Christoph Vitzthum Ole Johansson Janina Kugel Bertel Langenskiöld Ulf Liljedahl Malin Persson b. 1969 b. 1951 b. 1970 b. 1950 b. 1965 b. 1968 Chairman of the Board since 2016 Vice Chairman of the Board since 2017 Board Member since 2016 Board Member since 2012 Board Member since 2016 Board Member since 2005 Chairman of the Nomination Committee since Board Member and Member of the Audit and Member of the Human Resources Committee Chairman of the Human Resources Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee since 2017 Member of the Audit Committee since 2012 2017 and Member of the Human Resources Committee since 2015 since 2017 since 2017 Member of the Audit Committee 2016–2017 Member of the Nomination and Compensation Committee since 2017 Member of the Nomination Committee since 2017 M.Sc. (Econ.) Chairman of the Nomination and Compensation B.Sc. (Econ. and Business Administration) Committee 2005–2011 Member of the Board since 2015 and Member of Vice Chairman of the Board 2015–2016 Principal occupation: Committee 2012–2017 Principal occupation: M.Sc. (Eng. ) the Nomination and Compensation Committee B.Sc. (Econ.) Chief Human Resources Officer and Member of M.Sc. (Eng.) President and CEO, Volito AB, Sweden, since 2015 Principal occupation: 2015–2017 Principal occupation: the Managing Board, Siemens AG, Germany, since Principal occupation: Primary working experience: CEO & Owner, Accuracy AB M.Sc. (Econ.) Board professional 2015 Board professional Husqvarna AB, Sweden 2011–2015: Senior Vice Primary working experience: Principal occupation: Primary working experience: Primary working experience: Primary working experience: President and CFO The Chalmers University of Technology FoundaPresident and CEO, Fazer Group Wärtsilä Corporation 2000–2011: President & Siemens AG, Germany 2013–2015: Corporate Hartwall Capital Oy Ab 2011–2015: Managing Cardo AB, Sweden 2007–2011: Executive Vice tion: President and CEO Primary working experience: CEO Vice President, Human Resources; Director President and CFO Volvo Group: Holder of various executive positions Wärtsilä Corporation 2009–2013: President Wärtsilä NSD Oy 1998–2000: President & CEO OSRAM, Germany 2012–2013: Chief Human Metso Paper and Fiber Technology 2009–2011: Alfa Laval 1992–2007: various financial and including: Services, Executive Vice President Wärtsilä Corporation 1975–1998: Vice President, Resources Officer President general management positions in Sweden, Volvo Technology Corporation: President and CEO Wärtsilä Corporation 2006–2009: President Wartsilä Diesel Inc. Siemens SpA, Italy 2009–2012: Director, Human Metso Paper 2007–2008: President Denmark and South Africa AB Volvo: Vice President, Coporate Strategy and Power Plants, Executive Vice President Wärtsilä Diesel Group; various positions in Resources Metso Paper's Fiber Business Line 2006–2007: Current key positions of trust: Business Development Wärtsilä Propulsion 2002–2006: President Finland, USA, France and Switzerland Siemens AG, Germany 2005–2009: Director, President Bulten AB, Sweden 2015–: Chairman of the Board Volvo Transport Corporation: Vice President, BusiWärtsilä Corporation 1999–2002: Vice President, Current key positions of trust: Corporate Development Executive Metso Minerals 2003–2006: President Peab AB, Sweden 2015–: Chairman of the ness & Logistics Development Finance & Control, Marine Division Aker Arctic Technology Inc: Chairman of the Board Siemens AG, Germany 2001–2004: Director, Fiskars Corporation 2001–2003: President and External Nomination Committee Current key positions of trust: Wärtsilä Corporation 1997–1999: Business Hartwall Capital Oy Ab: Chairman of the Board Strategy and Business Transformation CEO Shares: 451 Ahlström Capital Oy: Board Member Controller, Power Plants Division Kelonia Oy AB: Member of the Supervisory Board Accenture, Germany 1997–2000: Management Tampella Power/Kvaerner Pulping, Power Division Independent of the company and its significant Becker Industrial Coatings AB: Board Member Metra Finance Oy 1995–1997: Dealer Svenska Handelsbanken AB: Board Member Consultant 1994–2000: President shareholders. Getinge AB: Board Member Current key positions of trust: Shares: 11,795 Current key positions of trust: Current key positions of trust: Hexatronic Scandinavia AB: Board Member East Office of Finnish Industries: Board Member Independent of the company and its significant Shares: 451 Kährs Holding AB: Board Member Hexpol AB: Board Member EVA (Elinkeinoelämän valtuuskunta): Delegation shareholders. Independent of the company and its significant Shares: 3,744 Kongsberg Automotive AB: Board Member Member shareholders. Independent of the company and its significant Magnora AB: Board Member Finnish Food and Drink Industries' Federation: shareholders. Mekonomen Group AB: Board Member Board Member Peab AB: Board Member Finnish-Swedish Chamber of Commerce: Board Presscise AB: Board Member Member Ricardo Plc: Board Member Nordstjernan AB: Board Member Shares: 8,003 Oras Invest Oy: Board Member Independent of the company and its significant Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company: shareholders. Member of the Supervisory Board Shares: 1,625 Independent of the company and its significant shareholders. Since February 9, Mr Ole Johansson and Mr Bertel Langenskiöld are deemed to be dependent of the significant shareholders of the company, following the notice of HC Holding Oy Ab's holding exceeding 10 percent of Konecranes Plc's shares and votes. HC Holding Oy Ab is a subsidiary of Hartwall Capital Oy Ab. 62 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 63 Group executive board Group Executive Board Panu Routila Teo Ottola Fabio Fiorino Mikko Uhari Mika Mahlberg Timo Leskinen Juha Pankakoski Sirpa Poitsalo Susanna b. 1964 b. 1968 b. 1967 b. 1957 b. 1963 b. 1970 b. 1967 b. 1963 Schneeberger President and CEO Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Executive Vice President, Vice President, b. 1973 Member of the Group Deputy CEO Business Area Service Business Area Industrial Business Area Port Solutions Human Resources Technologies, Chief Digital General Counsel Executive Vice President, Executive Board since 2015 Member of the Executive Member of the Executive Equipment Member of the Group Member of the Group Officer Member of the Group Strategy Employed since 2015 Board since 2007 Board since 2012 Member of the Group Executive Board since 2017 Executive Board since 2013 Member of the Group Executive Board since July Member of the Group M.Sc. (Econ.) Employed since 2007 Employed since 1995 Executive Board since 1997 Member of Senior Employed since 2013 Executive Board since 2015 2016 Executive Board since 2017 Primary working experience: M.Sc. (Econ.) B. Eng. P.Eng. MBA Employed since 1997 Management Team 2013– M.Sc. (Psy) Member of the Senior Member of the Senior Employed since 2017 Ahlström Capital Oy 2008– Primary working experience: Primary working experience: Lic. Sc. (Eng.) 2016 Primary working experience: Management Team 2013– Management team 2013– M.Sc., MBA 2015: President and CEO Elcoteq SE 2004–2007: CFO ­Konecranes Primary working experience: Employed since 1997 Fiskars 2009–2013: Vice 2014 June 2016 Primary working experience: Alteams Oy, Kuusakoski Elcoteq Network Oyj 1999– 2012–6/2016: Executive ­Konecranes M.Sc. (Eng.) President, Human Resources Employed since 2004 Member of the Extended Terex Material Handling & Group 2002–2008: CEO 2004: Senior Vice President Vice President, Business 7/2016–1/2017: Executive Primary working experience: Nokia Services 2008–2009: M.Sc. (Eng.), eMBA Management team 2009– Port Solutions 2015–2016: Outokumpu Group 1997– (Business Control and Area Service, Chief Customer Vice President, Strategy ­Konecranes Director HR Primary working experience: 2013 Vice President & Managing 2002: Director, Drawn Copper Accounting) Officer and Technology & Executive 2008–2016: Vice President, Nokia Customer and Market ­Konecranes Member of the Executive Director Products Elcoteq Network Oyj 2011–2012: Executive Vice Vice President, Industrial Head of Business Unit Port Operations 2006–2007: 2010–2014: Vice President, Board 1999–2009 Trelleborg AB 2007–2012: Outokumpu Group 1995– 1998–1999: Group Business President, Head of Business Equipment Cranes Director, HR Head of Business Unit Parts; Employed since 1988 Director, Strategic Business 1997: Controller, Drawn Controller Area Service 2012–6/2016: Executive KCI ­Konecranes/­Konecranes Nokia Ventures organization 2008–2010: Director, LL.M. Development (Group) Copper products Elcoteq Lohja Oy 1996–1998: ­Konecranes Americas 2010– Vice President, Strategy and 2006–2007: Director, VLC 2004–2006: Head of Corporate Business Process Primary working experience: Trelleborg AB 2012–2015: 1986–1995: Various financial Business Controller 2011: VP, Head of Service, Technology; Cranes Operations Development; KCI K­ onecranes 1997–1998: Vice President, Sales management positions at Rautaruukki Oy 1992–1996: Region Americas 2011–2012: Executive Vice 2000–2006: Director, STS Nokia Ventures organization 2004–2008: Director, Supply Assistant General Counsel & Marketing (Trelleborg Partek Group in Finland, Financial Planner Morris Material Handling, Inc. President, Head of Market Cranes 2000–2004: HR Manager Operations; KCI ­Konecranes/KONE Industrial Solutions) France and Belgium Shares: 32,689 2006–2009: President Operations 1997–2000: Project Manager, MPS 1999–2000: HR Tellabs Corporation, 1988–1997: IXOS Software AG/OpenText Current key positions of R&M Materials Handling, Inc. 2010–2011: Executive Vice Harbor and Shipyard Cranes Consultant 2003–2004: Vice President, Legal Counsel 2002–2006: Director, trust: 1999–2006 / Drivecon, Inc. President, Head of Business Crown Cork & Seal Company Shares: 9,223 Supply Chain Operations; Shares: 31,833 Strategy & Markets, Head of Onvest Oy: Board Member 2002–2006: President Area Equipment 1996–1997: World Class 2002–2003: Regional European Marketing Shares: 28,315 ­Konecranes Americas KCI ­Konecranes/­Konecranes Manufacturing Manager Director, EMEA Operations; IconMedialab AG 2000–2002: 1998–1999: VP Business 2005–2009: President, New Partek Group 1990–1995: 2000–2002: Director, Management Consultant, Development, Latin America Equipment Business Areas Various managerial positions Operations; Project Manager, Engagement ­Konecranes Canada, Inc. KCI ­Konecranes in Business Area Precast 1998–2000: Plant Manager; Manager 1995–1998: Marketing 2004–2005: President, Concrete in Finland and Philips Medical Systems International Masters Manager Special Cranes (Heavy Belgium 1997–1998: Operations Publishers/ Meister Verlag AG AECL 1989–1994: Lifting); Shares: 10,123 Manager; 1997–2000: Product Division Mechanical/Project Engineer 1997–2003: President, FujitsuICL Computers Manager, Project Manager Shares: 21,880 Harbor and Shipyard Cranes; 1993–1997: various New Business KONE Corporation management positions in Shares: 1982–1997: various operations and business managerial positions at Wood development Handling Division (Andritz as Shares: 7,215 of 1996) in Finland, Sweden and in the USA, including: 1996–1997 Group Vice President, Marketing; 1992–1996: Group Vice President, Project Business; 1990–1992: Director, Wood Handling Unit, Finland Shares: 116,764 64 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 65 Senior management Senior management Tomas Myntti Marko Äkräs Marko Tulokas Andreas Wittke Scott Gilbey Anders Gustafsson Mikael Wegmüller Topi Tiitola b. 1963 b. 1967 b. 1972 b. 1967 b. 1962 b. 1964 b. 1966 b. 1969 Senior Vice President, Industrial Senior Vice President, Industrial Senior Vice President, Industrial Senior Vice President, Components Senior Vice President, Customer Senior Vice President, Supply Vice President, Marketing and Vice President, Integration Service, Region EMEA (Europe, Service, Region APAC (Asia-Pacific) Cranes Member of Senior Management since Experience and Service Offering Operations Communications Management Office Middle East and Africa) Member of Senior Management since Member of Senior Management since July, 2016 Member of Senior Management since Member of Senior Management since Member of Senior Management since Member of Senior Management since Member of Senior Management since 2013 2013 Employed since 2004 July, 2016 April 25, 2016 2013 2013 2013 Member of the Extended Management Employed since 2004 M.Sc. (Eng) Employed since 2004 Employed since 2016 Member of the Extended Management Employed since 1995 Member of the Extended Management Team 2012–2013 M.Sc. (Eng), MBA Primary working experience: B. Sc. Mech. Eng., P. Eng., MBA M.Sc. (Eng) Team 2009–2013 M.Sc. (Econ) Team 2011–2013 Employed since 1992 Primary working experience: SWF Krantechnik Primary working experience: Primary working experience: Member of the Executive Board Primary working experience: Employed since 2008 M.Sc. (Eng.) Konecranes 2008–2016: Managing Director Konecranes Konecranes 4–6/2016: Chief Supply 2006–2009 Konecranes M.Sc. (Eng.) Primary working experience: 2015–6/2016: Senior Vice 2004–2008: Sales Director 2012–6/2016: Director of Marketing, Chain Officer Employed since 2006 2013–2016: Director, Business Primary working experience: Konecranes President, Product and Applications Kerstner GmbH 1995–2004: Sales Service and Industry Atlas Copco Secoroc 2009–2016: Vice M.Sc. (Mark.) Analysis and Support Konecranes 2015–6/2016: Senior Vice President, Management, Industrial Equipment Director 2009–2014: Director of Marketing and President Global Manufacturing Primary working experience: KCI Konecranes/Konecranes 3/2016–6/2016: Senior Vice Customer Experience and Service 2011–2015: Vice President, Head of ABB Gebäudetechnik AG 1994: Communications, Region Americas Tophammer Equipment, Atlas Copco Publicis Helsinki Oy 2003–2006: Chief 2005–2013: Group Business President, Head of Region EMEA Offering Industrial Crane Solutions Mechanical Engineer Morris Material Handling 2004–2009: Secoroc 2003–2009: Vice President, Operating Officer Controller 2012–2016: Senior Vice President, 2011–2015: Vice President, Head of 2010–2011: Director, Head of various positions, General Manager Global Manufacturing SEK & GREY Oy 2000–2003: Planning 2000–2005: Financial Director, Head of Region EUR (Europe) Customer and Service Technology. Business Process Management Eastern Canada, Vice President ABB Stal 1999–2003: Plant Manager Group Director Standard Lifting Equipment 2011–2012: Senior Vice President, 2009–2011: Vice President, Head of 2008–2010: Director, Delivery Lars Fredin Service Canada, Director of Marketing ABB Switchgear 1996–1999: Publicis Törmä Oy 1997–2000: 1995–2000: several controller Head of Region NEI (Nordic, Eastern Service, West-Europe, Middle East and Process Americas Manufacturing Manager Planning Group Director positions b. 1961 Europe and India) Africa (WEMEA) 2007–2008: Director, Strategy and 2003–2004: self employed ABB Switchgear, 1994–1996: Finelor Oy (now L’Oreal Finland Oy) Senior Vice President, Lift Trucks 2010–2011: Vice President, Head of 2007–2009: Director, Head of Business Development, Process Valley City Architectural Furniture Manager Quality and Operations 1993–1997: Sales and Marketing Member of Senior Management since Industrial Cranes, Region NEI Business Unite Crane Service cranes 2013 1997–2003: various positions incl. Development Manager Kimmo Kemppinen 2009: Director, Market Operations, KCI Konecranes/Konecranes KCI Konecranes/Konecranes Sales Manager and General Manager ABB Swithchgear, 1991–1994: Quality Chips Abp 1991–1993: Product Group Employed since 2009 b. 1979 Head of Global Key Account 2004–2007: Director, Crane Service 2004–2007: Leadership positions Fujitec America 1995–1997: various and Operations Development Manager BSc, Small Business Management Vice President, Procurement Management and Sales Development Nordic in sourcing and supply chain positions incl. Senior Elevator Primary working experience: Member of Senior Management since 2008: Director, Business KCI Konecranes management in China and Finland Engineer, Director of sales and Bromma Conquip AB 2003–2009: 6/2017 Development, Business Area New 2001–2004: General Manager, Global Asko Appliances Uponor Plc 1998– Vice President Sales & Marketing Marketing Ari Kiviniitty Miikka Kinnunen Employed since 2017 Equipment Parts Center 2001: Several positions in supply Trow Consulting Engineers 1992– Metget AB 2000–2003: Business b. 1957 b. 1977 M.Sc. (Tech) TietoEnator Oyj 2007–2008: Chief KONE Corporation/KCI Konecranes chain management 1995: various positions incl. Sales Consultant and Sales & Marketing Chief Technology Officer Vice President, Investor Relations Primary working experience: Marketing Officer, Business Area 1993–2001: Various positions in Engineer, Manager, Elevating Devices Director (RFID technology) Member of Senior Management since Member of Senior Management since Danfoss Drives 2015–2017: Global Telecom and Media service and product management Group Kalmar AC 1998–2000: President 2013 2013 Procurement, Director Hantro Products Oy 2000–2007: Eerikki Mäkinen Kalmar Industries 1996–1998: Area Dover Corporation 1989–1992: Sales Member of the Extended Management Employed since 2009 Vacon Plc 2011–2015: Manager of Senior Vice President, Sales and Engineer b. 1974 Manager, East Asia Team 2012–2013 M.Sc. (Econ.) Supplier Operations Management Marketing Bernie D’Ambrosi Senior Vice President, Product Other current key positions of trust: Various positions in Australia, Japan, Member of the Executive Board Primary working experience: Vacon Plc 2008–2011: Global Cadence Design Systems 1996– UK 1986–1989 incl. High School b. 1967 Management and Engineering Byggning-Uddemann AB: Chairman of 2005–2012 Konecranes Category Manager 2000: Global Account Director Teacher and Consulting Engineer Senior Vice President, Industrial Member of Senior Management since the Board; Employed since 1983 2009–2016: Director, Investor Alteams Oy 2004–2008: Several Intel Corporation 1994–1996: Global Service, Region AME July, 2016 Interforum International AB: Chairman M.Sc. (Eng.) Relations manager positions in sales Account Manager Member of Senior Management since Employed since 2011 of the Board; Primary working experience: Carnegie Investment Bank AB Cap Gemini 1989–1994: Various 2015 M.Sc. (Eng.) Byggning-Ungern Trettioett AB: Konecranes 2001–2009: Financial Analyst management positions Employed since 2002 Primary working experience: Chairman of the Board 2015–6/2016: Senior Vice Digital Equipment Corporation 1984– B.A. (Bachelor of Arts), Political Konecranes President, Product Management and 1989: Various positions Science Major, Economics Minor, 2015–6/2016: Director, Light Lifting Development, Hoists and Components Youngstown State University, J.D (Juris Product Management KCI Konecranes/Konecranes Doctor), University of Toledo College 2012–2015: Director, Engineering (in 2005–2015: Senior Vice President, of Law France 2013-2014) Product Management and Engineering, Primary working experience: 2011–2012: Engineering Manager Acting Chief Technology Officer Konecranes SKF KCI Konecranes 2015–6/2016: Senior Vice President, 2010–2011: Team Manager, 2004–2005: Vice President, Standard Head of Region AME; Application Engineering Lifting Equipment 2012–2015: Vice President, Region 2005–2010: Application Engineer 2002–2004: Managing Director, Hoist AME Service Metso Paper factory 2009–2012: Vice President, Industrial 2004–2005: Senior Structural 1999–2001: R&D Manager Crane Solutions, Region AME Analysis Engineer 1996–1998: Technical Director, KCI Konecranes/Konecranes 2002– 2000–2004: Structural Analysis Components, Singapore 2009: Senior Legal Counsel, Region Engineer AME 1998–2000: Design Engineer Bertin Steel Processing, Inc. 1993–2002: Vice President, General Counsel 66 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 67 Report of the Board of Directors 2017 Report of the Board of Directors 2017 2017 Board of directors’ report Sales Comparisons to historical and The recovery of the world’s containerized trade in 2017 turned Group sales in the full-year 2017 increased by 48.1 percent and combined company’s figures out to be much greater than what was expected in the beginning totaled EUR 3,136.4 million (2,118.4). Sales in Service rose by This Report contains comparisons to both the Konecranes’ of the year. The global container throughput increased by approxi28.8 percent, in Industrial Equipment by 34.8 percent, and in historical figures and the combined company figures. Historical mately 6 percent on a year-on-year basis in 2017. Port Solutions by 79.7 percent. figures relate to Konecranes’ stand-alone financial information Regionally, the volumes in Asia, which represents more than In 2017, the regional breakdown was as follows: EMEA 52 as reported in 2016 (including the divested STAHL CraneSysa half of the global container traffic, rebounded on most of the (47), Americas 31 (38), and APAC 17 (15) percent. tems business). trade routes after two weak years. Container volumes from To provide a basis for comparison, this Report also contains, Asia to North American East Coast grew particularly strongly as Comparison to combined company figures under separate headings, the comparisons to combined compathe widening of the Panama Canal has supported traffic above Group sales in January–December decreased by 4.3 percent ny’s financial information on an unaudited basis estimated expectations. In addition, the volumes in the Mediterranean to EUR 3,136.4 million (3,278.4). Sales fell in Service by 3.0 by the management for 2016. This financial information has ports clearly increased thanks to the improved economic growth percent, in Industrial Equipment by 1.1 percent, and in Port been prepared to reflect the financial results of the combined in Southern Europe. The container traffic in the Middle East Solutions by 10.6 percent. company as if it had been operating as such for the full finansuffered from low oil prices and tensions in the region. cial year 2016. The comparable combined company’s operaThe average raw material prices, including steel, copper, and tions comprise Konecranes’ operations without the divested oil were above the previous year’s level in 2017. The EUR/USD Orders received and net sales, MEUR STAHL CraneSystems business, but include the acquired MHPS exchange rate was volatile during the period as it depreciated in (Comparisons to historical figures) business. See “Basis of preparation for comparable combined the first half, but then appreciated in the second half compared Change % at Change % at comparable comparable company” for further information. to the previous year. Change currency Change currency Comparable combined company’s financial information 10–12/2017 10–12/2016 percent rates 1–12/2017 1–12/2016 percent rates applies to an assumed situation and does not therefore reflect Orders received Orders received, MEUR 732.6 595.1 23.1 24.8 3,007.4 1,920.7 56.6 58.2 the true financial position or the result of the company during In 2017, the orders received totaled EUR 3,007.4 million Net sales, MEUR 910.0 613.3 48.4 50.8 3,136.4 2,118.4 48.1 49.6 2016. The previous year’s order book for MHPS included deliv(1,920.7), representing an increase of 56.6 percent mainly due eries for the next 12 months only. to the MHPS acquisition. Orders received increased by 32.7 Note: Unless otherwise stated, the figures in brackets in the percent in Service, by 37.2 percent in Industrial Equipment, and sections below refer to the same period in the previous year. by 98.0 percent in Port Solutions compared to the year before. Orders received and net sales, MEUR Orders received grew in all regions. (Comparisons to comparable combined company figures) Market review Change % at Change % at Change comparable Change comparable The J.P.Morgan Global Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Comparison to combined company figures 10–12/2017 10–12/2016 percent currency rates 1–12/2017 1–12/2016 percent currency rates Index (PMI) signaled a solid and steady improvement in the Orders received in January–December fell by 0.6 percent to EUR Orders received, MEUR 732.6 921.5 -20.5 -18.4 3,007.4 3,025.3 -0.6 0.3 manufacturing operating conditions in 2017. At the end of the 3,007.4 million (3,025.3). The order intake decline was attributNet sales, MEUR 971.0 -6.3 -3.2 3,278.4 -4.3 -3.4 910.0 3,136.4 year, global manufacturing production expanded at the fastest able to changes in the currency exchange rate. Orders received pace since early 2011. There was also a bounce in international increased by 1.1 percent in Port Solutions, but decreased by trade flows as the growth of new export business hit a near 1.5 percent in Service and by 1.9 percent in Industrial Equipseven-year high. Developed countries, on average, tended to ment compared to the year before. Orders received grew in Financial result of EUR 4.9 million (47.0) related to the MHPS acquisition, and outperform emerging markets. EMEA and APAC, but were lower in the Americas. In January–December, the adjusted EBITA increased by EUR 71.4 cost of EUR 7.3 million (0.0) related to the MHPS purchase price The euro area remained a bright spot within the global manumillion to EUR 216.2 million (144.8). The Group adjusted EBITA allocated to inventories. The increase in the restructuring costs facturing sector. Its PMI rose to a near record high level, with the Order book improved mainly thanks to the MHPS acquisition and cost-saving was related to the integration of the MHPS acquisition, which has growth improving across the countries. Outside the Eurozone, the The value of the order book at year-end 2017 totaled EUR measures implemented in 2016–2017. On the other hand, the resulted in plant closures and personnel reductions in several performance of the UK and particularly Swedish manufacturing 1,535.8 million (1,038.0), which was 48.0 percent higher than divestment of STAHL CraneSystems negatively affected the countries, such as China, India, Italy, and the U.S. The previous sectors remained strong in 2017, as well. Correspondingly, the at the end of 2016. Order book increased by 24.0 percent in adjusted EBITA by approximately EUR 24 million. The adjusted year’s operating profit included insurance indemnity of EUR 10.2 European Union manufacturing capacity utilization rate continued Service, by 31.9 percent in Industrial Equipment, and by 69.2 EBITA margin was 6.9 percent (6.8). The adjusted EBITA margin in million. to improve and was near its ten-year high at the end of 2017. percent in Port Solutions. Service improved to 13.7 percent (11.0) and in Industrial EquipIn 2017, the depreciation and impairments totaled EUR 117.0 Similar to Europe, the economic activity in the U.S. manufacment to 3.1 percent (1.9), but fell in Port Solutions to 4.6 (9.3). million (53.7). This included restructuring related impairments of turing sector, measured by the PMI, has clearly expanded in 2017. Comparison to combined company figures In January–December, the adjusted operating profit increased EUR 5.8 million (2.8). The amortization arising from the purchase However, the U.S. total industrial capacity utilization rate improved The value of the order book at the end of December totaled by EUR 36.8 million to EUR 177.6 million (140.8). The adjusted price allocations for acquisitions represented EUR 38.6 million only marginally after having declined since the end of 2014 and it EUR 1,535.8 million (1,507.7), which was 1.9 percent higher operating margin fell to 5.7 percent (6.6). The adjusted oper(4.0) of the depreciation and impairments. indicated that slack capacity remained in the industry. than in the previous year. Order book increased by 6.1 percent ating margin declined due to the amortization arising from the In 2017, the share of the result of associated companies and Compared to the previous year, PMIs also rose in the BRIC in Port Solutions, but decreased by 2.1 percent in Service, and purchase price allocations for acquisitions. joint ventures was EUR 3.3 million (6.0). Previous year’s EUR 5.8 countries, but the rate of expansion remained more modest than by 2.6 percent in Industrial Equipment. The order book decline The consolidated operating profit in full-year 2017 totaled EUR million gain on disposal of investment in associated company in Europe or the U.S. Brazil saw a clear positive turnaround, and in Service and Industrial Equipment was attributable to the 318.3 million (84.9). The operating profit includes adjustments related to the sale of shares in Kito Corporation. it emerged from its two-year long recession in 2017. On the other currency exchange rate changes. The previous year’s order book of EUR 140.7 million (-55.9) comprising of capital gain of EUR In January–December, financial income and expenses totaled hand, the operating conditions Chinese, Indian, and Russian for MHPS included deliveries for the next 12 months only. 218.4 million (0.0) from the divestment of STAHL CraneSystems, EUR -46.0 million (-34.6). Net interest expenses accounted for manufacturing sectors improved only at a marginal pace. restructuring costs of EUR 65.6 million (19.2), transaction costs EUR 29.8 million (9.9) of this. 68 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 69 Report of the Board of Directors 2017 Report of the Board of Directors 2017 The January–December profit before taxes was EUR 275.6 Cash flow before financing activities was EUR -292.6 million EUR 795.8 million in cash and 19.6 million in newly issued proceeds of EUR 2.8 million from the transaction and did not million (62.1). (131.4). This included acquisitions of EUR -733.2 million (-0.2), Konecranes class B shares worth EUR 686.2 million. record any loss or profit from this disposal. The income taxes in January–December were EUR 50.6 divestments of EUR +213.4 million (0.0), and capital expendiMHPS is a leading supplier of the industrial cranes, crane million (24.5). The Group’s effective tax rate was 18.4 percent tures of EUR -28.7 million (-27.3). components, and services under the Demag brand, as well as Personnel (39.5). A new tax reform legislation has come into effect in Interest-bearing net debt was EUR 525.3 million (129.6) at the port technology with a broad range of the manual, semi-auIn January–December, the Group employed an average of the USA, which includes, among other things, a reduction in the end of 2017. The equity to assets ratio was 39.2 percent tomated and automated solutions under several brands, such 15,519 people (11,398). On December 31, the headcount the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35 percent (32.9) and the interest-bearing net debt to equity ratio 41.1 as Gottwald. According to unaudited special purpose carve-out was 16,371 (10,951). In January 2017, the Group’s personnel to 21 percent from the beginning of the tax year 2018 and percent (29.1). financial information (USGAAP), the sales of MHPS were USD increased by approximately 6,000 people in total because of one-time tax expense for undistributed profits on overseas On January 4, 2017, Konecranes raised loans of EUR 1,052 1,418 million (EUR 1,280 million) and the adjusted EBITDA was the MHPS acquisition and the divestments of STAHL CraneSysassets for U.S. companies. Due to the tax reform, a reduction million related to the MHPS acquisition. The forgoing included USD 104 million (EUR 94 million) in 2016. tems and Sanma. Since the completion of the MHPS acquisiin deferred tax assets of approximately EUR 11.6 million and a a syndicated EUR 300 million term loan with a tenor of three Konecranes expects to implement EBIT level synergies of tion, the Group’s personnel has decreased by approximately corresponding tax expense as a change in the deferred taxes years, EUR 600 million amortizing term loan with a tenor of five EUR 140 million p.a. on a run-rate basis by the end of 2019. 730 employees on a comparable basis. was booked in 2017. In addition, the Group has recorded EUR years, and a EUR 152 million bridge term loan. All these loans One-time integration expenses are expected to be EUR 130 At year-end 2017, the number of personnel by Business Area 2.9 million tax expense and current tax liability of undistributed have been repaid or refinanced by the end of 2017. million during 2017–2019, with the expected capex of EUR 60 was as follows: Service 7,206 employees (5,749), Industrial profits on overseas assets for U.S. companies. On June 2, 2017, Konecranes announced that it issues million. Equipment 6,024 employees (4,353), Port Solutions 3,067 The January–December net profit was EUR 225.0 million senior unsecured guaranteed notes in the amount of EUR 250 On November 30, 2016, Konecranes signed an agreement employees (789), and Group staff 74 (60). The Group had 9,920 (37.6). million (the “Notes”). The Notes mature on June 9, 2022. The with Columbus McKinnon Corporation (“Columbus McKinnon”) employees (5,842) working in EMEA, 3,205 (2,704) in the AmerIn 2017, the basic earnings per share were EUR 2.88 (0.64) Notes bear a fixed annual coupon of 1.750 percent. Public regarding the divestment of the STAHL CraneSystems busiicas, and 3,246 (2,405) in the APAC region. and diluted earnings per share were EUR 2.88 (0.64). trading on the Notes commenced on July 7, 2017, on Nasdaq ness (“STAHL divestment”). On January 31, 2017, Konecranes In 2017, the Group’s personnel expenses totaled EUR In 2017, the return on capital employed was 23.7 percent Helsinki Ltd’s bond list under the trading code KCRJ175022. completed the STAHL divestment. Konecranes received cash 1,004.2 million (658.3). (10.3) and return on equity 26.1 percent (8.3). The adjusted On November 17, 2017, Konecranes announced that the proceeds of EUR 232.2 million from the transaction. Additionreturn on capital employed was 15.4 percent (19.2). company has signed a Schuldschein loan agreement in the ally, Columbus McKinnon assumed unfunded pension liabilities New financial targets amount of EUR 150 million. The loan has floating and fixed rate that were at EUR 67 million as of December 31, 2016. On November 6, 2017, Konecranes announced new post-inteComparison to combined company figures tranches with maturities of four and seven years. On November Konecranes reported a pre-tax capital gain of EUR 218.4 million gration financial targets. The targets are Group sales growth In January–December, the consolidated adjusted EBITA 22, 2017, Konecranes announced that it has signed a new EUR from the STAHL divestment in other operating income in 2017. (CAGR) of 5 percent in 2018–2020, Group adjusted EBITA increased by EUR 32.1 million to EUR 216.2 million (184.1). The 150 million five-year bank term loan. STAHL CraneSystems is a global supplier of the hoisting margin of 11 percent in 2020, and interest-bearing net debt to adjusted EBITA margin improved to 6.9 percent (5.6). Despite On December 21, 2017, Konecranes announced that the technology and crane components. The business is well equity ratio (gearing) below 80 percent. the decrease in sales, the Group adjusted EBITA improved company has signed a EUR 400 million five-year revolving credit known for its capability to build engineered system solutions. The Group’s adjusted EBITA margin target for 2020 is based mainly thanks to the cost-saving measures implemented in facility with two 12-month extension options. The committed Its customers include distributors, crane builders, as well as on the targeted annual sales growth during 2018–2020 and the 2016–2017, as well as successful delivery execution. Gross credit facility refinanced the existing EUR 400 million facility EPC companies. STAHL CraneSystems is headquartered in previously announced MHPS acquisition-related cost synergies margin improved and fixed costs were lower on a year-on-year signed in August 2016. Künzelsau, Germany. of EUR 140 million. basis. The adjusted EBITA margin in Service improved to 13.7 At the end of 2017, cash and cash equivalents amounted to On March 7, 2017, Konecranes agreed to divest Sanma percent (12.6), in Industrial Equipment to 3.1 percent (-0.5), but EUR 233.1 million (167.4). None of the Group’s EUR 400 million Hoists & Cranes Co., Ltd (“Sanma”) to Jingjiang Hongcheng Business areas declined in Port Solutions to 4.6 (4.8). committed back-up financing facilities were in use at the end of Crane Components Manufacturing Works. The agreement Following the MHPS acquisition, Konecranes reports three the period. included Sanma’s manufacturing machinery for CD/MD hoists business areas as of January 1, 2017: Service, Industrial Balance sheet In April 2017, Konecranes paid dividends to its shareholders and related inventory. Konecranes reported a pre-tax capital Equipment, and Port Solutions. The new Business Area Service The year-end 2017 consolidated balance sheet amounted to that amounted to EUR 82.3 million or EUR 1.05 per share. gain of EUR 0.1 million in other operating income in 2017. includes only the operations relating to the industrial service EUR 3,562.9 million (1,529.9). Total equity at the end of the With this divestment, Konecranes streamlined its product and and component parts. The new Business Area Industrial reporting period was EUR 1,279.4 million (445.5). Total equity Capital expenditure brand portfolio in Chinese market due to its earlier acquisition Equipment includes the operations relating to the industrial attributable to equity holders of the parent company at year-end In 2017, the capital expenditure, excluding acquisitions and of MHPS. cranes and components. The new Business Area Port Solutions 2017 was EUR 1,256.9 million (445.4) or EUR 15.96 per share joint arrangements, amounted to EUR 35.7 million (33.8). This On December 21, 2017, Konecranes divested Morris Middle comprises all port cranes and lift trucks operations including (7.58). amount consisted of investments in machinery, equipment, East Ltd, including the 49-percent shareholding in Eastern service and parts businesses relating thereto. The previous The subscription price of the 19,600,000 new class B properties, and information technology. Morris Cranes Ltd held by the company, to Columbus McKinnon year’s segment information has been recast to correspond to shares issued to Terex Corporation related to the MHPS acquisiCorporation. The transaction was related to the earlier divesthe new reporting segments. tion amounted to EUR 686.2 million. This was recorded in full in Acquisitions and divestments titure of Stahl CraneSystems. Konecranes received cash the fund for invested unrestricted equity. In January–December 2017, the capital expenditure for acquisiNet working capital at year-end 2017 totaled EUR 325.2 tions and joint arrangements was EUR 1,482.0 million (0.0). million (304.3). On May 16, 2016, Konecranes signed an agreement (the “Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement”) to acquire from Terex Cash flow and financing Corporation (“Terex”) its Material Handling & Port Solutions Net cash flow from the operating activities in full-year 2017 (“MHPS”) segment (the “MHPS acquisition”) against considerwas EUR 249.4 million (109.6). The cash flow improved due to ation consisting of cash and shares and to terminate the previthe improved financial results and release of the net working ously announced business combination agreement. On January capital. 4, 2017, Konecranes completed the MHPS acquisition and paid 70 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 71 Report of the Board of Directors 2017 Report of the Board of Directors 2017 Service Industrial Equipment (Comparisons to historical figures) (Comparisons to historical figures) Change % at Change % at Change % at Change % at comparable comparable comparable comparable Change currency Change currency Change currency Change currency 10–12/2017 10–12/2016 percent rates 1–12/2017 1–12/2016 percent rates 10–12/2017 10–12/2016 percent rates 1–12/2017 1–12/2016 percent rates Orders received, MEUR 236.8 179.0 32.3 35.6 966.3 727.9 32.7 34.4 Orders received, MEUR 285.3 201.0 41.9 44.7 1,127.3 821.5 37.2 38.9 Order book, MEUR 196.0 158.1 24.0 196.0 158.1 24.0 Order book, MEUR 526.9 399.4 31.9 526.9 399.4 31.9 Net sales, MEUR 313.0 233.1 34.3 36.6 1,118.7 830.1 34.8 36.5 Agreement base value, MEUR 231.4 199.1 16.2 231.4 199.1 16.2 Net sales, MEUR 321.4 254.3 26.4 29.3 1,178.0 914.8 28.8 30.3 Adjusted EBITA, MEUR1) 17.2 8.5 103.5 34.6 15.7 121.0 Adjusted EBITA, MEUR 1) 48.8 35.1 38.9 160.9 100.2 60.6 Adjusted EBITA, %1) 5.5% 3.6% 3.1% 1.9% Purchase price allocation Adjusted EBITA, % 1) 15.2% 13.8% 13.7% 11.0% amortization, MEUR -0.3 1,096.0 -1.2 1,150.6 -3.6 -14.7 Purchase price allocation amortization, MEUR -3.1 -0.3 926.3 -12.9 -1.3 884.6 Adjustments,MEUR -8.6 -1.4 504.4 -23.8 -8.5 179.4 Adjustments,MEUR -0.5 -2.7 -81.7 -8.7 -8.7 -0.2 Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 5.1 6.7 -25.2 -4.0 6.0 166.7 Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 45.2 32.1 40.9 139.3 90.2 54.5 Operating profit (EBIT), % 1.6% 2.9% -0.4% 0.7% Operating profit (EBIT), % 14.0% 12.6% 11.8% 9.9% Personnel at the end of period 6,024 4,353 38.4 6,024 4,353 38.4 Personnel at the end of period 7,206 5,749 25.3 7,206 5,749 25.3 In Industrial Equipment, January–December orders received The January–December adjusted EBITA was EUR 34.6 million In Service, January–December orders received totalled EUR (11.0). The adjusted EBITA margin improved mainly due to the totalled EUR 1,127.3 million (821.5), showing an increase of (15.7) and the adjusted EBITA margin 3.1 percent (1.9). The 966.3 million (727.9), showing an increase of 32.7 percent. MHPS acquisition and the cost-saving measures implemented 37.2 percent. Orders grew in all regions mainly due to the MHPS adjusted EBITA margin improved mainly owing to the cost-saving The order book increased by 24.0 percent to EUR 196.0 million in 2016–2017. Operating profit was EUR 139.3 million (90.2) acquisition. The order book increased by 31.9 percent from measures implemented in 2016–2017. Operating profit was (158.1) from a year before. Sales grew by 28.8 percent to EUR and the operating margin 11.8 percent (9.9). a year ago to EUR 526.9 million (399.4). Sales rose by 34.8 EUR -4.0 million (6.0) and operating margin -0.4 percent (0.7). 1,178.0 million (914.8). Sales grew in all regions mainly due to The total number of equipment included in the maintepercent to EUR 1,118.7 million (830.1). the MHPS acquisition. nance agreement base increased by 35.6 percent to 612,749 The January–December adjusted EBITA was EUR 160.9 (451,880). The annual value of the agreement base increased million (100.2) and the adjusted EBITA margin 13.7 percent by 16.2 percent to EUR 231.4 million (199.1). Industrial Equipment (Comparisons to combined company figures) Change % at Change % at comparable comparable Service Change currency Change currency 10–12/2017 10–12/2016 percent rates 1–12/2017 1–12/2016 percent rates (Comparisons to combined company figures) Change % at Change % at Orders received, MEUR 285.3 296.7 -3.8 -0.4 1,127.3 1,148.9 -1.9 -0.9 comparable comparable Change currency Change currency Order book, MEUR 526.9 540.9 -2.6 526.9 540.9 -2.6 10–12/2017 10–12/2016 percent rates 1–12/2017 1–12/2016 percent rates Net sales, MEUR 319.4 -2.0 1.6 1,130.8 -1.1 -0.1 313.0 1,118.7 Orders received, MEUR 236.8 240.4 -1.5 3.3 966.3 981.4 -1.5 -0.5 Order book, MEUR 196.0 200.3 -2.1 196.0 200.3 -2.1 Adjusted EBITA, MEUR1) 17.2 9.6 79.7 34.6 -6.1 669.9 Net sales, MEUR 321.4 334.3 -3.9 0.6 1,178.0 1,214.1 -3.0 -2.0 Adjusted EBITA, % 1) 5.5% 3.0% 3.1% -0.5% 1) Excluding adjustments and purchase price allocation amortization Adjusted EBITA, MEUR1) 48.8 51.1 -4.6 160.9 153.4 4.9 Adjusted EBITA, %1) 15.2% 15.3% 13.7% 12.6% 1) Excluding adjustments and purchase price allocation amortization In Industrial Equipment, January–December orders received order book was attributable to the negative currency exchange totalled EUR 1,127.3 million (1,148.9), showing a decrease of rate effect. Sales fell by 1.1 percent to EUR 1,118.7 million 1.9 percent. In total, orders grew in EMEA and APAC, but fell in (1,130.8). In Service, January–December orders received decreased Sales decreased in all regions. Parts sales outperformed field the Americas. In the Americas, industrial crane orders declined The January–December adjusted EBITA was EUR 34.6 million by 1.5 percent to EUR 966.3 million (981.4). The order book service sales. as the comparison period included some unusually large (-6.1) and the adjusted EBITA margin 3.1 percent (-0.5). The decreased by 2.1 percent from the year before to EUR 196.0 The January–December adjusted EBITA was EUR 160.9 single heavy-duty crane orders; orders for industrial cranes improvement in adjusted EBITA margin related mainly to the million (200.3). Sales in the reporting period fell by 3.0 percent million (153.4) and the adjusted EBITA margin 13.7 percent were approximately stable in EMEA and rose in APAC. Crane cost-saving measures implemented in 2016–2017, as well as to EUR 1,178.0 million (1,214.1). The decrease in sales was (12.6). The adjusted EBITA improved thanks to the positive component orders increased in EMEA and the Americas, but successful deliveries. Gross margin improved and fixed costs largely attributable to the discontinuation of certain underpersales mix, better productivity, and lower fixed costs. decreased in APAC. The order book decreased by 2.6 percent to were lower on a year-on-year basis. forming operations and negative currency exchange rate effect. EUR 526.9 million (540.9) from a year before. The decrease in 72 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 73 Report of the Board of Directors 2017 Report of the Board of Directors 2017 Port Solutions (Comparisons to historical figures) 218.4 million (0.0) from the divestment of STAHL CraneSysMr. Oren G. Shaffer to the Board of Directors. Change % at Change % at tems, restructuring costs of EUR 18.2 million (2.0), and transacThe AGM confirmed that Ernst & Young Oy will continue as comparable comparable tion costs of EUR 4.9 million (47.0) related to the MHPS acquithe Company’s auditor for the year ending on December 31, 10–12/ 10–12/ Change currency 1–12/ 1–12/ Change currency 2017 2016 percent rates 2017 2016 percent rates sition. The previous year’s unallocated Group overhead costs 2017. Orders received, MEUR 255.3 254.8 0.2 0.3 1,056.2 533.4 98.0 98.8 and eliminations included an insurance indemnity of EUR +10.2 The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the Order book, MEUR 812.9 480.5 69.2 812.9 480.5 69.2 million. repurchase of the Company’s own A or B shares and/or on the Net sales, MEUR 163.0 91.9 92.8 543.2 79.7 80.7 acceptance as pledge of the Company’s own A or B shares. The 312.8 976.0 of which service, MEUR 16.4 155.0 165.4 68.3 136.0 138.6 Administration amount of own shares to be repurchased and/or accepted as 41.8 161.3 pledge based on this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 Changes in the Board of Directors prior shares in total. The authorization is effective until the end of Adjusted EBITA, MEUR1) 16.6 16.7 -0.9 44.7 50.5 -11.4 to the Annual General Meeting the next Annual General Meeting, however no longer than until Adjusted EBITA, %1) 5.3% 10.3% 4.6% 9.3% As approved by the Extraordinary General Meeting held September 22, 2018. Purchase price allocation September 15, 2016, the number of members of the Board of The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the amortization, MEUR -2.6 -0.4 589.2 -10.9 -1.5 626.6 Directors increased to ten (10) after the closing of the MHPS issuance of A shares as well as the issuance of special rights Adjustments,MEUR -4.1 0.0 -22.2 0.0 acquisition since Terex was entitled to elect up to two members entitling to A shares referred to in chapter 10 section 1 of the Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 16.4 -39.4 49.0 -76.2 to the Board of Directors as long as Terex’s or its Group compaFinnish Companies Act. The amount of A shares to be issued 9.9 11.6 nies’ shareholding in Konecranes exceeded a certain agreed based on this authorization shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares. Operating profit (EBIT), % 3.2% 10.0% 1.2% 9.0% thresholds. On January 5, 2017, Terex nominated Mr. David A. The issuance of shares and of special rights entitling to shares Sachs and Mr. Oren G. Shaffer joined the Board of Directors. may be carried out in deviation from the shareholders’ pre-empPersonnel at the end of period 3,067 789 288.7 3,067 789 288.7 The Board of Directors elected Oren Shaffer a member of the tive rights (directed issue). The authorization can also be used Nomination and Compensation Committee and David Sachs a for incentive arrangements, however, not more than 1,000,000 In Port Solutions, January–December orders received The January–December adjusted EBITA was EUR 44.7 million member of the Audit Committee. A shares in total together with the authorization in the next totalled EUR 1,056.2 million (533.4), showing an increase (50.5) and the adjusted EBITA margin 4.6 percent (9.3). The paragraph. The authorization is effective until the end of the of 98.0 percent. Orders grew in all regions mainly due to the adjusted EBITA margin decreased mainly due to the MHPS acquiDecisions of the Annual General Meeting next Annual General Meeting, however no longer than until MHPS acquisition. The order book increased by 69.2 percent sition. Operating profit was EUR 11.6 million (49.0) and operThe Annual General Meeting of Konecranes Plc was held on September 22, 2018. However, the authorization for incentive from a year before to EUR 812.9 million (480.5). Sales rose by ating margin 1.2 percent (9.0). March 23, 2017. The meeting approved the Company’s annual arrangements is valid until March 22, 2022. This authorization 79.7 percent to EUR 976.0 million (543.2). accounts for the fiscal year 2016, discharged the members of revokes the authorization for incentive arrangements given by the Board of Directors and CEO from liability, and approved all the Annual General Meeting in 2016. Port Solutions proposals made by the Board of Directors and its committees The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the (Comparisons to combined company figures) to the AGM. The AGM approved the Board’s proposal that a transfer of the Company’s own A shares. The authorization is Change % at Change % at dividend of EUR 1.05 per share be paid from the distributable limited to a maximum of 6,000,000 A shares. The transfer of comparable comparable 10–12/ 10–12/ Change currency 1–12/ 1–12/ Change currency assets of the parent Company. shares may be carried out in deviation from the shareholders’ 2017 2016 percent rates 2017 2016 percent rates The AGM confirmed the annual remuneration payable to pre-emptive rights (directed issue). The authorization can also Orders received, MEUR 255.3 421.1 -39.4 -39.0 1,056.2 1,045.2 1.1 1.8 the members of the Board for the term until the closing of the be used for incentive arrangements, however, not more than Order book, MEUR 812.9 766.4 6.1 812.9 766.4 6.1 Annual General Meeting in 2018 as follows: Chairman of the 1,000,000 A shares in total together with the authorization Net sales, MEUR 312.8 351.6 -11.0 -9.6 976.0 1,091.4 -10.6 -9.9 Board EUR 140,000, Vice Chairman of the Board EUR 100,000, in the previous paragraph. This authorization is effective until of which Service, MEUR 41.8 40.4 3.5 5.9 161.3 159.6 1.1 1.7 and other Board Members EUR 70,000. Furthermore, the AGM the next Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, however no approved that 50 percent of the annual remuneration be paid in longer than until September 22, 2018. However, the author28.7 -42.2 52.7 -15.1 Konecranes shares. ization for incentive arrangements is valid until March 22, Adjusted EBITA, MEUR1) 16.6 44.7 In addition, the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of 2022. This authorization revokes the authorization for incentive Adjusted EBITA, % 1) 5.3% 8.2% 4.6% 4.8% the Board, and other Board members are entitled to a compenarrangements given by the Annual General Meeting in 2016. 1) Excluding adjustments and purchase price allocation amortization sation of EUR 1,500 per attended Board Committee meeting. The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on a In Port Solutions, January–December orders received adjusted EBITA declined due to lower sales, although the gross The Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Board of Direcdirected issuance of A shares without payment needed for the totalled EUR 1,056.2 million (1,045.2), showing an increase margin improved and fixed costs were lower on a year-on-year tors is, however, entitled to a compensation of EUR 3,000 per continuation of the Share Savings Plan that the Annual General of 1.1 percent. Orders grew in EMEA and APAC, but fell in basis. attended Audit Committee meeting. Meeting 2012 decided to launch. the Americas. Orders increased for the most of products and The AGM approved the proposal of the Nomination and The Board of Directors is authorized to decide on the issuservices. Orders for automated stacking cranes fell as the Group overheads Compensation Committee that the number of members of the ance of new A shares or on the transfer of own A shares held comparison period included the order from the Virginia Port In January–December, adjusted unallocated Group overhead Board of Directors be eight (8). Mr. Ole Johansson, Ms. Janina by the Company to such participants of the Plan who, according Authority with the value of the contracts exceeding EUR 200 costs and eliminations were EUR -24.0 million (-21.5) repreKugel, Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld, Mr. Ulf Liljedahl, Ms. Malin to the terms and conditions of the Plan, are entitled to receive million. The order book increased by 6.1 percent from a year senting -0.8 percent of sales (-1.0). In the fourth quarter, Persson, and Mr. Christoph Vitzthum were re-elected for a term free shares, as well as to decide on the issuance of A shares before to EUR 812.9 million (766.4). Sales fell by 10.6 percent adjusted unallocated Group overhead costs and eliminations of office ending at the closing of the Annual General Meeting in without payment also to the Company itself. The authorization to EUR 976.0 million (1,091.4). The decrease in sales related to were lower than usual due to the post-closing adjustments of 2018. includes a right, within the scope of this Plan, to transfer own A the timing of deliveries and exceptionally high sales of certain the MHPS acquisition and effects of internal margin elimination. Under § 5 of the Company’s Articles of Association, Terex shares currently held by the Company, which have earlier been products in the comparison period. Unallocated Group overhead costs and eliminations in the Corporation had the right to appoint two members to the limited to purposes other than incentive plans. The number The January–December adjusted EBITA was EUR 44.7 million reporting period were EUR 171.3 million (-60.3) representing Company’s Board of Directors upon written notice to the of new A shares to be issued or own A shares held by the (52.7) and the adjusted EBITA margin 4.6 percent (4.8). The 5.5 percent of sales (-2.8). These included a capital gain of EUR Company. Terex Corporation appointed Mr. David A. Sachs and Company to be transferred may in the aggregate amount to a 74 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 75 Report of the Board of Directors 2017 Report of the Board of Directors 2017 maximum total of 500,000 shares. The authorization is valid Corporate Governance Statement class B shares. Therefore, the Konecranes’ Board of Directors to reduce the rewards payable on the basis of the performance until March 22, 2022. This authorization replaces the authoriKonecranes complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance intends to propose to amend the Articles of Association to the period 2017–2019 if certain reward value cap is reached. zation for the Share Savings Plan given by the Annual General Code 2015 approved by the Board of the Securities Market next Annual General Meeting. The Restricted Share Unit Plan is directed to the selected key Meeting in 2016. Association. Konecranes has issued a Corporate Governance employees in Konecranes. The vesting periods will last from 12 The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on Statement as a separate report, which can be reviewed on the Treasury shares to 36 months. The prerequisite for reward payment is that the donations of up to EUR 200,000 to Aalto University and up Konecranes corporate website at www.konecranes.com. On December 31, 2017, Konecranes was in possession of key employee’s employment or service continues until the end to EUR 50,000 to Åbo Akademi University in one or several 165,761 own shares, which corresponds to 0.2 percent of the of the vesting period. The rewards to be allocated on the basis instalments. The Board of Directors is entitled to decide on Share capital and shares total number of shares and which on that date had a market of the entire plan will amount to a maximum total of 200,000 designating all or a part of the donations to specific study fields On December 31, 2017, the company’s registered share capital value of EUR 6.3 million. Konecranes Plc class A shares including also the proportion to and any other matters concerning the donations. The authorizatotaled EUR 30.1 million. On December 31, 2017, the number On February 28, 2017, 20,959 treasury shares were be paid in cash. tion is effective until the end of the Annual General Meeting in of shares including treasury shares totaled 78,921,906. conveyed without consideration to the employees as a reward The CEO long-term incentive plan consists of one five-year 2018. Konecranes has two classes of shares. On December 31, payment for the Savings Period 2013–2014 of the Konecranes performance period, calendar years 2017–2021. The potential 2017, the number of listed class A shares totaled 78,921,906 Employee Share Savings Plan. reward from the CEO Plan will be based on the Konecranes Board of Directors’ organizing meeting while the number of unlisted class B shares was zero as Terex On March 15, 2017, 49,938 treasury shares were conveyed Group’s cumulative adjusted Earnings per Share (EPS) during In the first meeting of the Board of Directors of Konecranes Plc Corporation ceased to own any class B shares following the without consideration to the key employees as a reward the financial years 2017–2019 and the cumulative Earnings after the Annual General Meeting the Board of Directors elected share sale executed on September 5, 2017. payment for the performance period 2014–2016 of the per Share (EPS) during the financial years 2020–2021. The Mr. Christoph Vitzthum Chairman of the Board and Mr. Ole On January 5, 2017, the 19,600,000 new class B shares Konecranes Performance Share Plan 2012. rewards to be paid on the basis of the CEO Plan correspond to Johansson Vice Chairman of the Board. issued to Terex were registered with the Finnish Trade On June 12, 2017, The Board of Directors resolved to cancel a maximum total of 200,000 Konecranes Plc class A shares The Board of Directors has decided to establish a separate Register and Euroclear Finland Ltd. The shares were issued 3,950,436 class A treasury shares held by the company. The including also the proportion to be paid in cash. However, the Nomination Committee and a separate Human Resources as the share consideration in addition to the cash considercancellation of the treasury shares was registered with the shares paid and to be paid as a reward on the basis of the Committee to replace its prior Nomination and Compensation ation payable to Terex for the purchase of the Terex’s MHPS Finnish Trade Register on June 13, 2017. performance periods of the Performance Share Plan 2017 will Committee. In addition, the Board of Directors has an Audit business. The subscription price for a class B share was EUR On August 8, 2017, 334,239 treasury shares were conveyed be deducted from the payable reward. The CEO will have the Committee in accordance with the previous practice. 35.01. The subscription price was fully recorded in the fund without consideration to the key employees as a reward possibility to earn a total of 48,000 Konecranes Plc class A Mr. Ulf Liljedahl was elected Chairman of the Audit for the invested unrestricted equity of Konecranes. Pursuant payment for the Konecranes Performance Share Plan 2016. shares including also the proportion to be paid in cash, on the Committee and Mr. Ole Johansson, Ms. Malin Persson and to specific provisions of the Konecranes’ Articles of Associbasis of the first performance period 2017–2019 of the PerforMr. David A. Sachs as Committee members. Mr. Bertel ation, the class B shares have the same financial rights as Performance share plan mance Share Plan 2017. Langenskiöld was elected Chairman of the Human Resources Konecranes class A shares, but are subject to voting and On June 16, 2017, Konecranes announced that the Board of The CEO will not be entitled to sell the shares paid as a Committee, and Ms. Janina Kugel, Mr. Oren G. Shaffer and transfer restrictions. Directors has resolved to establish new long-term incentive reward through the Performance Share Plan 2017–2021 to the Mr. Christoph Vitzthum as Committee members. Mr. Christoph On February 15, 2017, Konecranes received confirmaplans for the Group key employees and the President and CEO. CEO or the Performance Share Plan 2017 until he owns the Vitzthum was elected Chairman of the Nomination Committee, tion published by Terex regarding the completion of sale of The new share-based incentive plans are Performance Share Konecranes shares worth EUR 750,000.00 in total. and Mr. Ole Johansson and Mr. David A. Sachs as Committee 7,450,000 class B shares. Based on the conversion request by Plan 2017 for the Group key employees, Restricted Share Unit A member of the Group Executive Board or the Senior members. Terex, the Board of Directors decided to convert the 7,450,000 Plan 2017 for the selected Group key employees and PerforManagement must hold a minimum of 50 percent of any net class B shares sold by Terex to class A shares in accordance mance Share Plan 2017–2021 for the President and CEO. shares given on the basis of these plans, until the member’s Changes in the Board of Directors after with § 20 of the Articles of Association. The conversion was The Performance Share Plan includes three performance total shareholding in the company corresponds to the value the Annual General Meeting registered with the Finnish Trade Register on February 15, periods, calendar years 2017–2019, 2018–2020, and of the member’s annual salary and the member’s memberDue to the Terex Corporation’s shareholding falling below 10 2017. 2019–2021. The Board of Directors will resolve on the perforship in the Group Executive Board or the Senior Management percent of all outstanding Konecranes shares in the share sale On May 23, 2017, Konecranes received confirmation mance criteria and on the required performance levels for each continues. announced on May 23, 2017, the Terex-appointed members to published by Terex regarding the completion of sale of criterion at the beginning of each performance period. the Konecranes’ Board of Directors Mr. David A. Sachs and Mr. 7,000,000 class B shares. Based on the conversion request by During the performance period 2017–2019, the plan offers Employee share savings plan Oren G. Shaffer resigned from the Board of Directors as of May Terex, the Board of Directors decided to convert the 7,000,000 the key employees a possibility to earn a reward based on the On February 8, 2017, Konecranes announced that the Board 23, 2017 in accordance with § 5 of the Konecranes’ Articles of class B shares sold by Terex to class A shares in accordance achievement of required performance levels established for the of Directors has decided to launch a new Plan Period relating Association. with § 20 of the Articles of Association. The conversion was Konecranes Group’s cumulative adjusted Earnings per Share to the Employee Share Savings Plan. The new Plan Period registered with the Finnish Trade Register on May 24, 2017. (EPS) during the financial years 2017–2019. The adjustments to began on July 1, 2017 and will end on June 30, 2018. Each Changes in the Board of Directors’ Committees On September 5, 2017, Konecranes received confirmathe EPS include defined restructuring costs, transaction costs participant will receive one free matching share for every two On June 12, 2017, the Board of Directors elected Mr. Ulf tion published by Terex regarding the completion of sale of related to the MHPS acquisition, purchase price allocation acquired savings shares. Matching shares will be delivered to Liljedahl as a member of the Nomination Committee. Following 5,150,000 class B shares. Based on the conversion request by amortization, and other unusual items reported as adjustments a participant if the participant holds the acquired shares from the resignation of Mr. David A. Sachs, the members of the Terex, the Board of Directors decided to convert the 5,150,000 by the company. The adjusted EPS includes the gain on the the Plan Period until the end of the designated holding period, Nomination Committee are Mr. Christoph Vitzthum (Chairman), class B shares sold by Terex to class A shares in accordance disposal of STAHL CraneSystems. February 15, 2021, and if his or her employment has not ended Mr. Ole Johansson, and Mr. Ulf Liljedahl. Following the resigwith § 20 of the Articles of Association. The conversion was The rewards to be paid on the basis of the performance before this date for reasons attributable to the employee. The nation of Mr. David A. Sachs, the members of the Audit registered with the Finnish Trade Register on September 6, period 2017–2019 correspond to an approximate maximum total total amount of all savings of the commencing plan period may Committee are Mr. Ulf Liljedahl (Chairman), Mr. Ole Johansson, 2017. of 880,000 Konecranes Plc class A shares including also the not exceed EUR 8.5 million. The terms and conditions of the and Ms. Malin Persson. Following the resignation of Mr. Oren G. The shareholders’ agreement between Terex and Konecranes proportion to be paid in cash. The plan is directed to approxiPlan Period 2017–2018 are unchanged from the previous Plan Shaffer, the members of the Human Resources Committee are dated January 4, 2017 was terminated in accordance with its mately 260 key employees including the members of the Group Periods. Shares will be acquired with the accrued savings at Mr. Bertel Langenskiöld (Chairman), Ms. Janina Kugel, and Mr. terms in connection with the completion of the share sale on Executive Board and the Senior Management during the perforthe market price quarterly, after the publication dates of the Christoph Vitzthum. September 5, 2017 as Terex ceased to own any Konecranes mance period 2017–2019. The Board of Directors will be entitled Konecranes interim results, commencing in October 2017. 76 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 77 Report of the Board of Directors 2017 Report of the Board of Directors 2017 Market capitalization and trading volume In addition, approximately 100.5 million Konecranes’ shares In June 2017, Konecranes’ introduced three automation-recorruption and fraud. The closing price for Konecranes Plc’s shares on the Nasdaq were traded on other trading venues (e.g. multilateral trading lated technologies to the container handling industry. The Our goal is to evaluate and set requirements that ensure Helsinki was EUR 38.18 on December 31, 2017. The volumefacilities and bilateral OTC trades) in 2017 according to Fidessa. first was the Automated Konecranes Noell Straddle Carrier that environmental and social impacts are managed properly in weighted average share price in January–December was EUR On December 31, 2017, the total market capitalization of (A-STRAD) and Automated Sprinter Carrier (A-SPRINTER) our sourcing. Our Supplier Code of Conduct, which is currently 36.72, the highest price being EUR 42.64 in October and the the Konecranes Plc’s shares on the Nasdaq Helsinki was EUR systems. The second was Konecranes Gottwald AGVs and being developed, sets out the standard we expect our suppliers lowest EUR 31.52 in March. In January–December, the trading 3,013.2 million including treasury shares. The market capitalizanew lithium-ion battery technology. The third was Automated to uphold. As we are in the process of integrating two legacy volume on the Nasdaq Helsinki totaled 61.4 million of the tion was EUR 3,006.9 million, excluding treasury shares. Terminal Tractors (A-TT) system, with Terberg supplying the tracbusinesses, we are now evaluating a harmonized approach of Konecranes Plc’s shares, corresponding to a turnover of approxtors and Konecranes supplying the automation technology. adopting the best practices from both legacy companies with imately EUR 2,252.5 million. The average daily trading volume Notifications of major shareholdings respect to Procurement, as well as sustainable and ethical was 244,456 shares, representing an average daily turnover of In January–December 2017, Konecranes received the following Corporate responsibility sourcing practices and requirements. EUR 9.0 million. notifications of major shareholdings. In 2017, we continued the integration work building a common, performance-driven leadership culture. Cultural integration, Litigation % of shares % of shares and voting rights change management, common processes regarding perforVarious legal actions, claims, and other proceedings are Date Shareholder Threshold and voting rights through financial instruments Total, % Total, shares mance management, and rewards and recruitment practices pending against the Group in different countries. These actions, January 5, 2017 Terex Deutschland GmbH Above 20% 23.65 23.65 19,600,000 have been high on the agenda. This comes naturally as fair and claims, and other proceedings are typical for this industry and January 5, 2017 HTT KCR Holding Ab Below 10% 8.29 8.29 6,870,568 January 5, 2017 Polaris Capital Management LLC Below 5% 4.34 4.34 3,597,639 responsible practices and equal career development opporare consistent with the global business offering that encomJanuary 5, 2017 BlackRock, Inc. Below 5% n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. tunities, as well as embracing diversity are the key enabling passes a wide range of products and services. These matters January 6, 2017 Sanderson Asset Management LLP Below 5% 3.86 3.86 3,201,628 aspects of our corporate responsibility. involve contractual disputes, warranty claims, product liability January 6, 2017 Terex Deutschland GmbH Below 5% 0 0 0 0 We conducted a global integration pulse survey to under(including design defects, manufacturing defects, failure to January 6, 2017 Terex Corporation Above 20% 23.65 23.65 19,600,000 stand employee’s sentiments on the integration and collect warn, and asbestos legacy), employment, auto liability, and February 15, 2017 Terex Corporation Below 15% 14.66 14.66 12,150,000 feedback from the organization. The results showed that the other matters involving general liability claims. February 15, 2017 BlackRock, Inc.1) Above 5% 6.58 1.67 8.25 6,844,696 majority of our employees were on board with the integration, February 22, 2017 BlackRock, Inc.2) Above 5% 7.69 0.74 8.44 6,997,433 and the employee engagement level was above the comparable Risks and uncertainties May 24, 2017 Terex Corporation Below 10% 6.21 6.21 5,150,000 companies’ level as well as it was above the level prior to the Konecranes operates in the emerging countries that entail politMay 24, 2017 BlackRock, Inc. Above 10% 9.76 1.36 11.13 9,224,969 integration. ical, economic, and regulatory uncertainties. Adverse changes May 26, 2017 BlackRock, Inc. Above 10% 10.00 1.16 11.17 9,257,643 We introduced a new safety and environmental data-rein the operating environment of these countries may result in June 12, 2017 Konecranes Plc Below 5% 0.63 0.63 500,000 porting tool in 2017, which will be used in all Konecranes currency losses, elevated delivery costs, or loss of assets. June 15, 2017 BlackRock, Inc.3) Above 10% 10.64 1.11 11.75 9,278,033 locations from the beginning of 2018. Implementing the new Konecranes operates a crane factory in Zaporozhye, Ukraine. June 21, 2017 BlackRock, Inc.4) Below 10% 10.77 1.07 11.85 9,354,430 reporting tool enables us to put more focus on leading safety The operations in emerging countries have had a negative September 6, 2017 Terex Corporation Below 5% 0 0 0 0 September 6, 2017 BlackRock, Inc.5) Above 10% 12.36 1.41 13.77 10,871,199 indicators, such as the number of near miss cases and safety impact on the aging structure of accounts receivable and may October 3, 2017 BlackRock, Inc Above 15% 13.44 1.69 15.14 11,949,513 observations, as well as on the corrective actions and their increase credit losses or the need for higher provisions for October 26, 2017 BlackRock, Inc Below 15% 13.68 1.29 14.97 11,821,806 completion rate. We continue to aim firmly at our Lost Time doubtful accounts. October 31, 2017 BlackRock, Inc. Above 15% 13.74 1.28 15.02 11,859,461 Accident (LTA) target of less than 3 by the year 2020, and our Konecranes has made several acquisitions and expanded November 1, 2017 BlackRock, Inc Below 15% 13.51 1.10 14.62 11,540,128 ultimate target of zero incidents. organically into new countries. A failure to integrate the 1) T he disclosure obligation arose due to total holding in Shares and Voting rights for BlackRock, Inc. going above 5%. We reached our 2020 energy intensity target already by acquired businesses, MHPS in particular, or grow newly estabThe disclosure obligation also arose due to Shares and Voting rights for BlackRock, Inc. going above 5%. the end of 2016, four years ahead of schedule. In addition, lished operations may result in a decrease in profitability and The disclosure obligation also arose due to total holding in Shares and Voting rights for BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited going above 5%. 2) The disclosure obligation arose due to Shares and Voting rights for BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited going above 5%. our 2020 greenhouse gas intensity target has almost been impairment of goodwill and other assets. 3) The disclosure obligation arose due to total holding in Shares and Voting rights for BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited going above 10%. reached, with emission intensity decreased by 18 percent One of the key strategic initiatives of Konecranes is 4) The disclosure obligation arose due to total holding in Shares and Voting rights for BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited going below 10%. 5) The disclosure obligation arose due to total holding in Shares and Voting rights for BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited going above 10%. during 2013–2016. As we aim to improve our operations continoneKONECRANES. This initiative involves a major capital Additionally, the disclosure obligation arose due to shares and voting rights for BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited going above 10%. uously, we are now in the progress of defining new targets for expenditure for the information systems. A higher-than-expected the combined business. development or implementation costs, or a failure to extract Research and development Major publicly funded projects in 2017 continued to be We participated in several external investor ratings including business benefits from the new processes and systems may In 2017, Konecranes’ research and product development both ambitious and driven by a vision of the advancement of CDP. Konecranes achieved the result C, which is a decrease from lead to an impairment of assets or decrease in profitability. expenditure totaled EUR 36.0 (22.3) million, representing 1.1 industry and related technology. The OPTIMUM project has, as last year´s results, but we have continued our efforts in energy Konecranes delivers projects, which involve the risks related, (1.1) percent of sales. R&D expenditure includes product develits central focus, the developing of optimized industrial IoT and efficiency and emission reduction. We also continuously assess for example, to engineering and project execution including opment projects aimed at improving the quality and cost effia distributed control platform for the manufacturing and matenew business models and the concept of circular economy to Konecranes’ suppliers. A failure to plan or manage these ciency of both products and services. rial handling. PRODUCTIVE 4.0 is the Europe’s biggest research improve our resource efficiency and reduce our environmental projects may lead to higher-than-estimated costs or disputes In 2017, our R&D continued to focus, for example, on how project in the field of digital industry, a large-scale undertaking footprint. For example, in 2017 we introduced RENTALL, a prodwith customers. digital technologies are changing the way the industrial systems designed to maintain a leadership position in the European uct-as-a-service concept, renting lowto mid-range capacity Challenges in financing, e.g., due to the currency fluctuaare designed and implemented. Notable examples of this manufacturing. cranes and their service with a fixed monthly fee. tions, may force customers to postpone projects or even cancel ongoing work include advanced analytics for learning systems, GAMA is a project focused on the solutions for safe mixed In 2017, both our Code of Conduct and our Anti-Corruption the existing orders. Konecranes intends to avoid incurring costs device edge computing for reactive systems, autonomous traffic of fully automated and manually driven vehicles in an policies were updated, making them more comprehensive and for major projects under construction in excess of advance devices for mixed-traffic environments, high-capacity, low-laenclosed port area. The DYNAVIS project is currently exploring specific than before. A roll-out of the updated policies will take payments. However, it is possible that the cost-related committency networks for machine-to-machine learning, cyber-secure the product service lifecycle’s different stages – manufacturing, place during 2018. Konecranes Anti-corruption trainings and ments in some projects temporarily exceed the amount of systems with segregated safety-related control zones, and the maintenance and sales – with a vision to create a process for e-learning programs were organized during 2017 providing pracadvance payments. use of augmented reality for user assistance and training. one global visual language. tical guidelines regarding proper conduct in the fight against The Group’s other risks are presented in the Annual Report. 78 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 79 Report of the Board of Directors 2017 Consolidated statement of income – IFRS Events after the end of the reporting period In January 2018, Konecranes received the following notifica(1,000,000 EUR) Jan 1–Dec 31 2017 Jan 1–Dec 31 2016 tions of major shareholdings. Note: 3,5,6 Sales 3,136.4 2,118.4 % of shares % of shares and voting and voting rights through financial Other operating income 227.2 14.4 Date Shareholder Threshold rights instruments Total, % Total, shares 7 Materials, supplies and subcontracting -1,409.2 -979.7 HTT KCR Holding 7,8 Personnel cost -1,004.2 -658.3 December 31, 2017 Oy Ab Below 5% 0.00 0.00 0 9 Depreciation and impairments -117.0 -53.7 December 31, 2017 HC Holding Oy Ab Above 5% 9.35 9.35 7,381,238 7 Other operating expenses -515.0 -356.2 January 2, 2018 BlackRock, Inc. Above 15% 13.60 1.39 15.00 11,838,477 January 4, 2018 BlackRock, Inc. Below 15% 13.60 1.33 14.94 11,792,766 Operating profit 318.3 84.9 January 9, 2018 BlackRock, Inc. Above 15% 13.78 1.24 15.02 11,858,361 January 10, 2018 BlackRock, Inc. Below 15% 13.82 1.07 14.90 11,764,689 16 Share of associates' and joint ventures' result 3.3 6.0 January 16, 2018 BlackRock, Inc.1) Below 10% 12.95 1.26 14.21 11,222,451 16 Gain on disposal of investment in associated company 0.0 5.8 January 22, 2018 BlackRock, Inc.2) Below 10% 11.84 1.24 13.08 10,330,572 10 Financial income 39.8 1.0 1) The disclosure obligation arose due to holding in Shares and Voting rights for BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited going below 10%. 10 Financial expenses -85.8 -35.6 2) The disclosure obligation arose due to total holding in Shares and Voting rights for BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited going below 10%. Profit before taxes 275.6 62.1 Demand outlook Basis of preparation for comparable combined company 11 Taxes -50.6 -24.5 Demand situation for industrial cranes, hoists and service The comparable combined company financial information in Europe is stable within the industrial customer segments. is based on management’s estimates and is for illustrative PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD 225.0 37.6 Business activity in the North American manufacturing industry purposes only. The comparable combined company financial remains mixed. Demand in Asia-Pacific is showing signs of information gives an indication of the combined company’s Profit for the period attributable to: improvement. Global container throughput growth has improved key figures assuming the activities were included in the same Shareholders of the parent company 225.7 37.6 and the prospects for the small and medium-sized orders company from the beginning of 2016. Non-controlling interest -0.7 0.0 related to container handling have strengthened. The comparable combined company financial information is based on a hypothetical situation and should not be 12 Earnings per share, basic (EUR) 2.88 0.64 Financial guidance viewed as pro forma financial information as the differences 12 Earnings per share, diluted (EUR) 2.88 0.64 The sales in 2018 are expected to be approximately on the in accounting principles have not been taken into account. same level or higher than in 2017. We expect the adjusted The unaudited comparable combined company financial inforEBITA margin to improve in 2018. mation is based on Konecranes Group’s financial statements Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income for the financial year 2016 (adjusted for restructuring costs, (1,000,000 EUR) Jan 1–Dec 31 2017 Jan 1–Dec 31 2016 Board of Directors’ proposal for transaction costs and received insurance indemnity) according Profit for the period 225.0 37.6 disposal of distributable funds to IFRS and Terex Corporation’s (“Terex”) MHPS segment Items that can be reclassified into profit or loss The parent company’s non-restricted equity is EUR unaudited special purpose carve-out financial information for 34 Cash flow hedges -5.3 30.1 940,141,378.51, of which the net income for the year is EUR the financial year 2016 (adjusted for non-recurring items such Exchange differences on translating foreign operations -19.2 0.8 65,162,549.32. The Group’s non-restricted equity is EUR as restructuring costs and impairments of goodwill and trade16 Share of associates’ other comprehensive income 0.0 -3.8 1,176,766,000. marks) according to USGAAP. The corporation allocations of 11.3 Income tax relating to items that can be reclassified into profit or loss 1.1 -6.0 According to the Finnish Companies Act, the distributable Terex Group have been adjusted in MHPS income statement to Items that cannot be reclassified into profit or loss funds of the company are calculated based on the parent illustrate the situation as the Group had been combined at the 28 Re-measurement gains (losses) on defined benefit plans -1.1 -11.9 company’s non-restricted equity. For the purpose of deterbeginning of 2016. 11.3 Income tax relating to items that cannot be reclassified into profit or loss 0.7 3.0 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax -24.0 12.2 mining the amount of the dividend, the Board of Directors has Since the financial information for MHPS has been prepared assessed the liquidity of the parent company and the economic on a carve-out basis, this does not necessarily reflect what TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE PERIOD 201.0 49.8 circumstances subsequent to the end of fiscal year. the results of its operations would have been had MHPS Based on such assessments, the Board of Directors operated as an independent company and had it presented Total comprehensive income attributable to: proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of EUR stand-alone financial information under IFRS during the period Shareholders of the parent company 202.7 49.8 1.20 be paid on each share and that the remaining non-reprovided. Moreover, the carve-out financial information may Non-controlling interest -1.7 0.0 stricted equity is retained in shareholders’ equity. not be indicative of the MHPS’s future performance of the The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. operating activities aggregated within Konecranes. Espoo, February 8, 2018 Konecranes is unable to present a reconciliation of the Konecranes Plc comparable combined company financial information as the Board of Directors MHPS’ financials have been calculated according to USGAAP and using different accounting principles than Konecranes, and because Terex has categorized MHPS as a discontinued operation in 2016. 80 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 81 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS (1,000,000 EUR) ASSETS Dec 31 2017 Dec 31 2016 (1,000,000 EUR) EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Dec 31 2017 Dec 31 2016 Note: Note: Non-current assets Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 13 Goodwill 905.3 86.2 Share capital 30.1 30.1 14 Intangible assets 633.3 98.1 Share premium 39.3 39.3 15 Property, plant and equipment 270.4 128.1 Paid in capital 752.7 66.5 Advance payments and construction in progress 11.5 17.4 34 Fair value reserves 10.8 15.0 16 Investments accounted for using the equity method 69.8 8.9 Translation difference 2.6 20.8 Other non-current assets 1.0 1.0 Other reserve 37.6 31.7 17 Deferred tax assets 118.3 57.0 Retained earnings 158.2 204.4 Total non-current assets 2,009.6 396.6 Net profit for the period 225.7 37.6 23 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 1,256.9 445.4 16 Non-controlling interest 22.5 0.1 Current assets Total equity 1,279.4 445.5 18 Inventories 545.0 281.8 19 Accounts receivable 538.2 379.3 Liabilities 20 Other receivables 43.4 23.2 Income tax receivables 20.9 12.1 Non-current liabilities 6 Receivable arising from percentage of completion method 78.9 83.8 27,32 Interest-bearing liabilities 600.8 54.2 32 Other financial assets 37.7 31.1 28 Other long-term liabilities 278.7 40.0 21 Deferred assets 56.2 29.1 24 Provisions 23.0 17.1 22 Cash and cash equivalents 233.1 167.4 17 Deferred tax liabilities 150.1 12.5 Total current assets 1,553.3 1,007.8 Total non-current liabilities 1,052.6 123.8 4.1. Assets held for sale 0.0 125.5 Current liabilities 27,32 Interest-bearing liabilities 157.9 269.5 TOTAL ASSETS 3,562.9 1,529.9 6 Advance payments received 299.8 170.6 Progress billings 0.9 1.5 Accounts payable 201.2 99.1 24 Provisions 129.3 40.5 25 Other short-term liabilities (non-interest-bearing) 49.8 31.4 32 Other financial liabilities 6.8 18.2 Income tax payables 57.0 14.7 Accrued costs related to delivered goods and services 177.1 125.2 25 Accruals 151.1 95.6 Total current liabilities 1,230.9 866.2 Total liabilities 2,283.5 990.0 4.1. Liabilities directly attributable to assets held for sale 0.0 94.4 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 3,562.9 1,529.9 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 82 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 83 Consolidated statement of changes in equity – IFRS Consolidated cash flow statement – IFRS Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company (1,000,000 EUR) Jan 1–Dec 31 2017 Jan 1–Dec 31 2016 Share Trans­ NonNote: Share premium Paid in Cash flow lation Other Retained controlling Total (1,000,000 EUR) capital account capital hedges difference reserve earnings Total interest equity Cash flow from operating activities Balance at January 1, 2017 30.1 39.3 66.5 15.0 20.8 31.7 242.0 445.4 0.1 445.5 Profit for the period 225.0 37.6 Share issue 686.2 0.0 686.2 686.2 Adjustments to net profit for the period Dividends paid to equity holders -82.3 -82.3 -0.5 -82.9 Taxes 50.6 24.5 Financial income and expenses 46.0 34.6 Equity-settled share based payments (note 29) 4.9 0.0 4.9 4.9 Share of associates' and joint ventures' result -3.3 -11.8 Acquisitions 0.0 0.0 24.7 24.7 Dividends income 0.0 0.0 Profit for the period 225.7 225.7 -0.7 225.0 Depreciation and impairments 117.0 53.7 Other comprehensive income -4.2 -18.2 -0.5 -23.0 -1.0 -24.0 Profits and losses on sale of fixed assets -217.5 3.4 Total comprehensive income -4.2 -18.2 225.2 202.7 -1.7 201.0 Other adjustments 0.7 5.5 Balance at December 31, 2017 30.1 39.3 752.7 10.8 2.6 36.6 384.8 1,256.9 22.5 1,279.4 Operating income before change in net working capital 218.4 147.4 Balance at 1 January, 2016 30.1 39.3 66.5 -9.1 20.1 29.9 279.1 455.9 0.1 456.0 Change in interest-free current receivables 15.1 -50.3 Dividends paid to equity holders -61.7 -61.7 -61.7 Change in inventories -3.4 61.3 Equity-settled share based payments (note 29) 1.8 0.0 1.8 1.8 Change in interest-free current liabilities 104.9 29.8 Acquisitions -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 Change in net working capital 116.6 40.9 Profit for the period 37.6 37.6 37.6 Other comprehensive income 24.1 0.8 -12.7 12.2 0.0 12.2 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS BEFORE FINANCING ITEMS AND TAXES 335.0 188.3 Total comprehensive income 24.1 0.8 24.9 49.8 0.0 49.8 Balance at December 31, 2016 30.1 39.3 66.5 15.0 20.8 31.7 242.0 445.4 0.1 445.5 10 Interest received 14.6 8.8 10 Interest paid -43.4 -19.3 10 Other financial income and expenses -18.7 -38.5 11 Income taxes paid -38.2 -29.6 Financing items and taxes -85.6 -78.6 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 249.4 109.6 Cash flow from investing activities 4 Acquisition of Group companies, net of cash -733.2 -0.2 4 Divestment of businesses, net of cash 213.4 0.0 Proceeds from disposal of associated company 2.8 47.8 Capital expenditures -28.7 -27.3 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and other 3.7 1.5 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES -542.0 21.7 Cash flow before financing activities -292.6 131.4 Cash flow from financing activities Proceeds from non-current borrowings 1,602.0 0.0 Repayments of non-current borrowings -1,050.0 -4.6 Proceeds from (+), payments of (-) current borrowings -140.7 47.5 Change in loan receivables 11.6 0.0 4 Acquired non-controlling interest 0.0 -0.3 Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent company -82.3 -61.7 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests -0.5 0.0 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES 340.0 -19.1 Translation differences in cash -8.6 1.1 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 38.9 113.4 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period*) 194.1 80.8 4.1. Cash and cash equivalents in assets held for sale at the end of period 0.0 26,8 22 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 233.1 167.4 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 38.9 113.4 *) Includes cash and cash equivalents of Stahl CraneSystems business which was divested on January, 2017 The effect of changes in exchange rates has been eliminated by converting the beginning balance at the rates current on the last day of the year. The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 84 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1. Corporate information Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights or joint venture. Any premium over net assets paid to acquire the goodwill is allocated. The recoverable amounts of all mateKonecranes Plc (“Konecranes Group” or “the Group”) is a result in control. To support this presumption and when the an interest in an associate or joint venture is recognized as rial intangible assets and property, plant and equipment have Finnish public limited company organized under the laws of Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar rights of goodwill within the same line as the underlying investment. also been based on their value in use. The impairment testing Finland and domiciled with its principal place of business in an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and circumThe statement of profit or loss reflects the Group’s share of of goodwill is based on numerous judgmental estimates of the Hyvinkää. The company is listed on the NASDAQ Helsinki. stances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, the results of operations of the associate or joint venture. Any present value of the cash flows which effect the valuation of the Konecranes is a world-leading manufacturer and servicer of including: change in OCI of those investees is presented as part of the cash generating units (CGU) pertaining to the goodwill. Cash cranes, lifting equipment and machine tools, serving a broad • The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders of the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there has been a change recogflow forecasts are made based on CGU specific historical data, range of customers, including manufacturing and process investee nized directly in the equity of the associate or joint venture, the order book, the current market situation and industry specific industries, shipyards, ports and terminals. Konecranes oper• Rights arising from other contractual arrangement Group recognizes its share of any changes, when applicable, in information of the future growth possibilities. These assumptions ates internationally, with its products being manufactured in • The Group’s voting rights and potential voting rights the statement of changes in equity. Unrealized gains and losses are reviewed annually as part of management’s budgeting and North and South America, Europe, Africa, the Middle East, and resulting from transactions between the Group and the assostrategic planning cycles and can be subject to significant adjustAsia and sold worldwide. Konecranes has three reportable The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee ciate or joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest ment as arising from the development of the global economy, segments, which it calls Business Areas: Business Area Service if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to in the associate or joint venture. pressure from competitors’ products as well as changes in and Business Area Industrial Equipment and Business Area Port one or more of the three elements of control. Consolidation of After application of the equity method, the Group determines raw material prices and operating expenses. The value of the Solutions. a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over the whether it is necessary to recognize an impairment loss on its benefits and savings from the efficiency improvement programs subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the investment in its associate or joint venture. At each reporting already announced and included in certain cash flow estimates subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsiddate, the Group determines whether there is objective evidence are also subjective and based on management’s best estimate 2. Accounting principles iary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in that the investment in the associate or joint venture is impaired. of the impact. The fair value of the CGUs is determined using a the consolidated financial statements from the date the Group If there is such evidence, the Group calculates the amount of derived weighted average cost of capital as the rate to discount 2.1. Basis of preparation gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount estimated future cash flows. The discount rate used may not be The consolidated financial statements of Konecranes Plc subsidiary. of the associate or joint venture and its carrying value, and then indicative of actual rates obtained in the markets in the future. have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive recognizes the loss as Share of profit of an associate and a See note 13. Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. income (OCI) are attributed to the equity holders of the parent joint venture in the statement of profit or loss. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, even if this Business Combinations on a historical cost basis, except for items that are required by results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisiIFRS to be measured at fair value, principally certain financial When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial state2.2. Use of estimates and judgments tion method according to which the acquired company’s identifiinstruments. ments of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at The consolidated financial statements including notes with the Group’s accounting policies. All intra-group assets and Estimates fair value on the date of acquisition. The excess of the considerathereto are presented in millions of euros and all values are liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with tion transferred for the business combination over the acquirer’s rounded to the nearest million (€000,000) except when othertransactions between members of the Group are eliminated in IFRS requires management to make estimates and judgments interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities wise indicated. full on consolidation. that affect the valuation of reported assets and liabilities and and contingent liabilities is recorded as goodwill. The measureDue to the rounding, some totals might differ from the sum A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a other information, such as contingent liabilities and recognition ment of fair value of the acquired net assets is based on market of individual figures as calculations are done originally in thouloss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. of income and expenses in the statement of income. These value of similar assets (property, plant and equipment), or an sands of euros. If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognizes assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on manageestimate of expected cash flows (intangible assets). The valuThe financial statements were approved for issuance by the the related assets (including goodwill), liabilities, non-controlling ment’s historical experience, best knowledge about the events ation, which is based on prevailing repurchase value, expected Board of Directors on February 7, 2018. interest and other components of equity while any resultant and other factors, such as expectations on future events, which cash flows or estimated sales price, requires management judgegain or loss is recognized in profit or loss. Any investment the Company assess to be reasonable in the given circumment, estimates and assumptions. See note 4. Principles of consolidation retained is recognized at fair value. stances. Although these estimates and judgments are based The consolidated financial statements comprise the consolon the management’s best understanding of current events and Recognition of deferred taxes idated balance sheet of Konecranes Plc and its subsidiaries Investment in associates and joint ventures circumstances, actual results may differ from the estimates. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent as at December 31, 2017 and 2016 and the consolidated An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant Changes in estimates and assumptions are recognized in the upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods statements of income and cash flows for the periods ended influence. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial period the estimate or assumption is changed. in which those temporary differences become deductible or in December 31, 2017 and 2016. Control is achieved when the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is The most important items in the consolidated financial statewhich tax losses can be utilized. The tax effect of unused tax Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its not control or joint control over those policies. ments, which require management’s estimates and that involve losses is recognized as a deferred tax asset when it becomes involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the complex and subjective judgments and the use of assumptions, probable that the tax losses will be utilized. In making assessreturns through its power over the investee. Specifically, the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to some of which may be for matters that are inherently uncertain ments regarding deferred tax assets, management considers Group controls an investee if, and only if, the Group has: the net assets of the joint venture. Joint control is the contracand susceptible to change are impairment testing, recognition the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, projected future • Power over the investee (i.e., existing rights that give it the tually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists of deferred taxes, measurement of the fair value of assets and taxable income and tax planning strategies. The actual current current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee) only when decisions about the relevant activities require unaniactuarial assumptions in defined benefit plans, and percentage tax exposure is estimated together with assessing temporary • Exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement mous consent of the parties sharing control. of completion revenue recognition in long term projects. differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as with the investee The Group’s investments in its associates and joint depreciation, provisions and accruals, for tax and accounting • The ability to use its power over the investee to affect its ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Under Impairment testing purposes. When recording the deferred tax assets judgment returns this method, the consolidated financial statements show the The recoverable amount for goodwill has been determined based have been based on the estimates of the taxable income in each Group’s investment in and share of net assets of the associate on value in use of the relevant cash generating unit to which subsidiary and country in which Konecranes operates, and the 86 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 87 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements period over which the deferred tax assets will be recoverable Percentage of completion revenue b) The entity retains neither continuing managerial involvement that it will be available for use or sale. based on the estimated future taxable income and planned tax recognition in long term projects to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective • Its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the asset. strategies to utilize these assets. The amount of deferred tax Konecranes applies the percentage of completion method (cost control over the goods sold; • How the asset will generate future economic benefits. assets considered realizable could however be reduced in subseto cost) for recognizing revenue from long term large crane c) The amount of revenue can be measured reliably; • The availability of resources to complete the asset. quent years if estimates of future taxable income during their projects in accordance with IAS 11 Construction Contracts. The d) It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the • The ability to reliably measure the expenditure during developcarry forward periods are reduced, or rulings by the tax authoripercentage of completion is based on the cost-to-cost method. transaction will flow to the entity; and ment. ties are unfavourable. Estimates are therefore subject to change Under this method, progress of contracts is measured by actual e) The costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transacdue to both market related and tax authorities related uncertaincosts incurred in relation to management’s best estimate of total tion can be measured reliably. Amortization of capitalized development costs begins when ties, as well as Konecranes’ own future decision matters such estimated costs at completion, which are reviewed and updated The transfer of risk takes place either when goods are shipped development is complete and the asset is available for use. as restructuring. Konecranes is unable to accurately quantify routinely for contracts in progress. The cumulative effect of any or made available to the buyer for shipment, depending on the the future adjustments to deferred income tax expense that may change in estimate is recorded in the period in which the change terms of the contract. Adjusted EBITA occur as a result of these uncertainties. See note 17. in estimate is determined. Revenue from services is recognized when the outcome of Adjusted operating profit before amortization and impairment The percentage-of-completion method of accounting involves the transaction can be estimated reliably and by reference to of purchase price allocations (a non-GAAP measure) represents Actuarial assumptions in defined benefit plans the use of assumptions and projections, principally relating to the stage of completion based on services performed at the earnings from continuing operations before income taxes (a The net pension liability and expense for defined benefit plans is future material, labor and project-related overhead costs. As end of the reporting period. The assessment of the stage of GAAP measure), excluding restructuring, transaction and related based on various actuarial assumptions such as the assumed a consequence, there is a risk that total contract costs will completion is dependent on the nature of the contract, but will asset impairment costs as well as other adjusting items, amordiscount rate, expected development of salaries and pensions exceed those originally estimated and the margin will decrease generally be based on costs incurred to the extent these relate tization and impairment of purchase price allocations and finanand mortality rates. Significant differences between assumptions or the contract may become unprofitable. This risk increases to services performed up to the reporting date or by written cial income and expense. See also note 3. and actual experience, or significant changes in assumptions, as the duration of a contract increases because there is a customer acknowledgement. may materially affect the pension obligations. The effects of higher probability that the circumstances upon the estimates The outcome can be estimated reliably when all of the Earnings per share actual results differing from assumptions and the changing of were originally based will change, resulting in increased costs following criteria are satisfied: Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing income from assumptions are included in Remeasurement gains/loss on that may not be recoverable. Factors that could cause costs to a) The amount of revenue can be measured reliably; continuing operations, income from discontinued operations defined benefit plans in other comprehensive income. Discount increase include: unanticipated technical problems with equipb) It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the and net income, all attributable to ordinary shareholders by rates are determined annually based on changes in long-term, ment supplied or developed by us which may require us to incur transaction will flow to the entity; the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the high quality corporate bond yields. additional costs to remedy, changes in the cost of components, c) The stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the year. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by assuming Decreases in the discount rates results in an increase in the materials or labor, project modifications creating unanticipated reporting period can be measured reliably; and conversion or exercise of all potentially dilutive share-based defined benefit obligation and in pension costs. Conversely, an costs, suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform, and d) The costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to payment plans. increase in the discount rate results in a decrease in the defined delays caused by unexpected conditions or events. By recogcomplete the transaction can be measured reliably. benefit obligation and in pension costs. Increases and decreases nizing changes in estimates cumulatively, recorded revenue Dividend distribution in mortality rates have an inverse impact on the defined benefit and costs to date reflect the current estimates at the stage of Revenue from large crane construction contracts is recogThe company recognizes a liability to make dividend distribuobligation and pension costs. Increases and decreases in salary completion for each project. Additionally, losses on long-term nized according to the percentage of completion (POC) method tions to equity holders when the distribution is approved by the and pension growth rates have a direct correlating impact on the contracts are recognized in the period when they are identified described in IAS 11 as those contracts are specifically negotishareholders. A corresponding amount is recognized directly in defined benefit obligation and pension costs. and are based upon the anticipated excess of contract costs ated for the construction of an asset or a combination of assets equity. The assumed discount rate, which is based on rates observed over the related contract revenues. that are closely interrelated or interdependent in terms of their at the end of the preceding financial year may not be indicative design, technology and function or their ultimate purpose or Employee benefits of actual rates realized. The actual development for salaries Judgments use. The stage of completion of a contract is determined by Konecranes companies have various pension plans in accordand pensions may not reflect the estimated future development There have been no changes in judgments throughout the years the proportion that the contract costs incurred for the work ance with local conditions and practices. Pensions are generally due to the uncertainty of the global economy and various other 2017 and 2016. performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs managed for the Group companies by outside pension insurfactors. Konecranes uses generational mortality tables to esti(cost-to-cost method) at completion. When the final outcome of ance companies or by similar arrangements. These pension mate probable future mortality improvements. These tables 2.3. Summary of significant accounting policies a project cannot be reliably determined, the costs arising from plans are classified either as defined contribution or defined assume that the trend of increasing life expectancy will continue, the project are expensed in the same reporting period in which benefit plans. Under defined contribution plans, expenses resulting in pension benefit payments to younger members being Revenue recognition they occur, but the revenue from the project is recorded only to are recognized for the period the contribution relates to. The likely to be paid for longer time periods than older members’ Revenue is recognized to the extent that it is probable that the extent that the Group will receive an amount corresponding Group has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further pensions, given that assumed retirement ages are those defined the economic benefits will flow to the Company, that revenue to actual costs. An expected loss on a contract is recognized contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay in the rules of each plan. can be reliably measured, and that collectability is reasonably immediately in statement of income. Revenue in respect of employee benefits. The Konecranes Group accounts for the The funded status, which can increase or decrease based assured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the considervariations to the contract scope and claims is recognized when Finnish system under the Employees’ Pensions Act (TyEL) within on the performance of the financial markets or changes in ation received or receivable. The creditworthiness of the buyer it is probable that it will be received and is capable of being insurance system as a defined contribution plan. our assumptions, does not represent a mandatory short-term is assessed before engaging into a sale. However, if a risk of measured reliably. Under defined benefit plans, a liability recognized in the cash obligation. Instead, the funded status of a defined benefit non-payment arises after revenue recognition, a provision for balance sheet equal to the net of the present value of the pension plan is the difference between the defined benefit obliganon-collectability is established. The specific recognition criteria Research and development costs defined benefit obligation (calculated using the Projected Unit tion and the fair value of the plan assets. See note 28. described below must also be met before revenue for the sale of Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development Credit Method) less the fair value of the plan assets at the goods is recognized: expenditures on an individual project are recognized as an balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized a) The entity has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and intangible asset when the Group can demonstrate: in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income rewards of ownership of the goods; • The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so as remeasurement items when they occur. Remeasurement 88 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements recorded in other comprehensive income is not recycled. Past Cash-settled transactions assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at Management must be committed to the disposal expected service cost is recognized in the statement of profit or loss in The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured initially at the closing rate. within one year from the date of the classification. the period of plan amendment. Net-interest is calculated by fair value at the grant date using a binomial model. This fair Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are not applying the discount rate to the net defined liability or asset. value is expensed over the period until the vesting date with Income tax depreciated or amortized once classified as held for sale. AddiIndependent actuaries calculate the defined benefit obligarecognition of a corresponding liability. The liability is remeasTaxes shown in the consolidated statement of income include tional disclosures are provided in Note 4.1. tion by applying the Projected Unit Credit Method. The Group ured to fair value at each reporting date up to, and including income taxes to be paid on the basis of local tax legislations, presents service cost, past-service cost, gains and losses the settlement date, with changes in fair value recognized in tax adjustments from previous years as well as the effect of Intangible assets on curtailments and settlements and net interest expense or Personnel cost – Other personnel expenses in the statement of the annual change in the deferred tax liability and deferred tax Intangible assets include service contracts, patents and tradeincome as Personnel cost – Pension costs: Defined benefit income (see Note 8). balances. Taxes are calculated using rates enacted or substanmarks as well as software licenses and implementation costs. plans in the statement of income (see Note 8). tively enacted at the balance sheet date. Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial Foreign currency translation Deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets are calculated recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in A liability for termination benefit is recognized at the earlier The Group’s consolidated financial statements are reported in on all temporary differences arising between the tax basis and a business combination is their fair value at the date of acquiof when the entity can no longer withdraw the offer of the euros, which is the Group’s presentation currency. Each entity the book value of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax is not sition. Intangible assets with definite useful life are amortized termination benefit and when the entity recognizes any related in the Group determines its own functional currency and items recognized for non-deductible goodwill on initial recognition on the straight-line basis over expected useful lives, which may restructuring costs. included in the financial statements of each entity are measand temporary differences in investments in subsidiaries to vary from 5 to 20 years with service contracts and patents and ured using that functional currency. the extent that they probably will not reverse in the foreseeable trademarks and from 4 to 7 years with software licenses. They Share based payments future. The main temporary differences arise from unused tax are assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication Employees (including senior executives) of the Group and its Transactions and balances losses, depreciation differences, provisions, defined benefit that the intangible asset may be impaired. subsidiaries receive remuneration in the form of share-based Transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional pension plans, inter-company inventory margin and derivative Intangible assets with indefinite useful life are not amortized, payments, whereby employees render services as consideration currency (foreign currencies) are recognized by the Group entifinancial instruments. In connection with an acquisition, the but they are tested annually for impairment in a manner equivfor equity instruments (equity-settled transactions) or receive ties at their respective functional currency rates prevailing at Group records provisions for deferred taxes on the difference alent to that for testing goodwill. The assessment of indefinite settlement in cash (cash-settled transactions). the date of the transaction. At the end of each reporting period, between the fair values of the net assets acquired and their tax life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at the funcbases. A deferred tax asset is recognized to the extent that it is continues to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life Equity-settled transactions tional currency spot exchange rate in effect at the reporting probable that it can be utilized. from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. The cost of equity-settled transactions is determined by the fair date. The resulting foreign currency exchange differences are value at the date when the grant is made using an appropriate recorded in the statement of income with the exception of Business combinations Impairment testing of goodwill valuation model. differences that arise on monetary items that provide an effecAcquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisiGoodwill acquired in a business combination is tested for That cost is recognized, together with a corresponding tive hedge for a net investment in a foreign operation (such tion method according to which the acquired company’s identifiimpairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumincrease in other reserves in equity, over the period in which the as intragroup loans where settlement is neither planned nor able assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at stances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverperformance and/or service conditions are fulfilled in Personnel likely to occur in the foreseeable future). These are recognized fair value on the date of acquisition. The excess of the considerable. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired cost – Other personnel expense in the statement of income. in other comprehensive income until the disposal of the net ation transferred for the business combination over the acquirin a business combination is, from the acquisition date, The cumulative expense recognized for equity-settled transacinvestment, at which time they are recognized in the income er’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units that tions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the statement. Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange liabilities and contingent liabilities is recorded as goodwill. For are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Group’s differences on those monetary items are also recorded in other each acquisition the non-controlling interest in the acquiree, whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ulticomprehensive income. if any, can be recognized either at fair value or at the non-conto those units. If the carrying amount for a CGU exceeds its mately vest. The expense or credit recorded in the statement Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical trolling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net recoverable amount, an impairment loss equal to the differof income for a period represents the movement in cumulative cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange assets. If the purchase consideration is less than the fair value ence is recognized. Konecranes uses a discounted cash flow expense recognized as at the beginning and end of that period. rates as of the date of the initial transaction. Non-monetary of the Group’s share of the net assets acquired, the difference analyses to assess the fair value of goodwill. In assessing No expense is recognized for awards that do not ultimately items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are transis recognized directly through the profit and loss. Direct acquisivalue-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to vest, except for equity-settled transactions for which vesting is lated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value tion transaction costs are expensed as incurred. their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition. These are is determined. current market assessments of the time value of money and treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or Asset held for sale the risks specific to the asset. The Group bases its impairment non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other perforForeign operations The Group classifies non-current assets and disposal groups calculation on detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which mance and/or service conditions are satisfied. The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered prinare prepared separately for each of the Group’s CGUs to which When the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, the into euros at the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting cipally thorough a disposal rather than through the continuing the individual assets are allocated. These budgets and forecast minimum expense recognized is the expense had the terms date and their income statements are translated at average use. Such non-current assets and disposal groups classified as calculations cover a period of five years. A previously recognized not been modified, if the original terms of the award are met. exchange rates for the period. The exchange differences arising held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount impairment loss on goodwill is not reversed even if there is a An additional expense is recognized for any modification that on the translation are recognized in other comprehensive and fair value less costs to sell. significant improvement in circumstances having initially caused increases the total fair value of the share-based payment transincome. On disposal of a foreign operation, the component of The criteria for held for sale classification is regarded as the impairment. action, or is otherwise beneficial to the employee as measured other comprehensive income relating to that particular foreign met only when the sales are highly probable and the asset or at the date of modification. operation is recognized in the income statement. disposal group is available for immediate disposal in its present Property, plant and equipment Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operacondition. Actions required to complete the disposal should indiProperty, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumution and any fair value adjustments to the carrying amounts of cate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the disposal lated depreciation and any impairment losses. Depreciation assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition are treated as will be made or that the decision to dispose will be withdrawn. 90 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful Fair value measurement income is transferred to profit or loss for the period. Provisions economic life of the assets as follows: Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments Provisions are recognized in the balance sheet when the Group • Buildings 10–40 years or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognized in the has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past • Machinery and equipment 3–10 years market participants. The Group categorizes assets and liabilistatement of income as they arise. event and it is considered probable that an outflow of resources ties measured at fair value into one of three levels depending The Group does not apply fair value hedging. embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obliNo depreciation is recorded for land. on the ability to observe inputs employed in their measuregation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the Expectations made for existing property, plant and equipment. Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for Financial liabilities obligation. Provisions may arise from restructuring plans, onerous ment that will provide future economic benefit are capitalized identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 inputs are inputs that are Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at fair contracts, guarantees and warranties, among other events. Obliand depreciated over the remaining useful life of the asset. observable, either directly or indirectly, other than quoted prices value through profit or loss; derivatives designated as hedging gations arising from restructuring plans are recognized when the included within level 1 for the asset or liability. Level 3 inputs instruments in an effective hedge; or as financial liabilities detailed and formal restructuring plans have been established, the Impairment of assets subject to amortization and depreciation are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability reflecting measured at amortized cost, as appropriate. Financial liabilities personnel concerned have been informed and when there is a valid The carrying values of intangible assets subject to amortization, significant modifications to observable related market data or include trade and other payables, finance debt and derivative expectation that the plan will be implemented. The warranty proviproperty, plant and equipment and investments in associates Konecranes’ assumptions about pricing by market participants. financial instruments. The Group determines the classification sion is based on the history of past warranty costs and claims on and joint ventures are reviewed for impairment whenever events of its financial liabilities at initial recognition. The measurement delivered products under warranty. Additionally, warranty provisions and changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as follows: can be established on a case by case basis to take into consideraof an asset may not be recoverable. If such an indication exists, The Group’s global operations expose it to currency risk and to a tion the potentially increased risks. the recoverable amount of the assets will be estimated. lesser extent interest rate risk. Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss When the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimThe recoverable amount is the higher of the assets fair value The Group uses derivative financial instruments, primarily Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are carried bursed, for example, under an insurance contract, the reimburseless selling costs and value in use which is the present value forward contracts and interest rate swaps, to hedge its risks on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recogment is recognized as a separate asset, but only when the reimof the cash flows expected from the asset’s use and eventual associated with foreign currency fluctuations relating to certain nized in the income statement. Derivatives, other than those bursement is virtually certain. disposal. An impairment loss is recognized in the statement of commitments and forecasted transactions and interest rate designated as effective hedging instruments, are classified as income when the recoverable amount of an asset is less than risks. Derivative financial instruments are used for hedging held for trading and are included in this category. Leases its carrying amount. Impairment losses on these assets are purposes in accordance with the Group’s hedging policy and Lease contracts, in which the Group assumes substantially reversed if their recoverable amounts subsequently increase. not for speculative purposes. These instruments are initially Derivatives designated as hedging all risks and rewards of ownership, are classified as finance recognized at fair value at the derivative contract date, and are instruments in an effective hedge leases. In finance leases, the assets are recognized in property, Valuation of inventories re-measured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates. DerivThese derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value. plant and equipment at the lower of fair value or the present Raw materials and supplies are valued at the acquisition cost atives are presented as financial assets when the fair value is The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluation is value of the minimum lease payments as determined at the or, if lower, at the net realizable value. Net realizable value is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative. described above in the accounting policy for derivative financial inception of the lease. The value capitalized is amortized on a the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, For certain large crane projects, the Group applies hedge instruments and hedging accounting. straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease period or the less estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs accounting. The Group applied also hedge accounting to the useful economic life of the asset. The corresponding lease oblinecessary to make the sale. Semi-manufactured goods are USD denominated purchase price of MHPS acquisition. The Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost gations are included in interest-bearing liabilities. valued at variable production costs including a share of producGroup designates hedges of the foreign currency risk of firm All other financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value. Other lease contracts are classified as operating leases tion overheads based on normal capacity. Work in progress of commitments and highly probable forecasted transactions to a For interest-bearing loans and borrowings this is the fair value where the lease payments of these leases are recognized as uncompleted orders includes direct labor and material costs, cash flow hedge. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial of the proceeds received net of issue costs associated with rental expenses in the statement of income on a straight-line as well as a proportion of overhead costs related to production instruments that are designated as effective hedges of future the borrowing. After initial recognition, other financial liabilities basis over the lease term. and installation. Raw materials and supplies are valued using cash flows are recognized directly in other comprehensive are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effecthe first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis or weighted average cost. The income, while the ineffective portion is recognized immediately tive interest method. Amortized cost is calculated by taking Cash flow statement inventory stock obsolescence provision is based on the best in the income statement. See note 34. into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on The cash flow statement has been prepared in accordance with estimate of slow-moving and obsolete inventory at the balance Amounts recognized as OCI are transferred to profit or loss settlement. Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlethe indirect method. In the cash flow statement a distinction sheet date. The estimates are based on frequent review and when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss, such as ment or cancellation of liabilities are recognized respectively is made between cash flows from operating, investing and evaluation of inventory ageing and composition. when the hedged financial income or financial expense is recogin interest and other income and finance costs. This category financing activities. Currency differences on cash and cash nized or when a forecast sale occurs. When the hedged item of financial liabilities includes accounts payables and interest equivalents are recognized separately in the cash flow stateAccount and other receivables is the cost of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the bearing liabilities. ment. Revenue and expenses for income tax are recognized Account and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value amounts recognized as OCI are transferred to the initial carrying under Cash flows from operating activities. Interest costs and after which they are subsequently measured at amortised cost. amount of the non-financial asset or liability. Offsetting of financial instruments interest revenues are recognized under Cash flows from operProvisions are made for doubtful receivables on individual If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net ating activities. Cash flows as a result of the acquisition or assessment of potential risks. The effect is recognized in the or exercised without replacement or rollover (as part of the amount reported in the consolidated statement of financial posidisposal of financial interests (subsidiaries and interests) are statement ­­of income. hedging strategy), or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, tion if, and only if, there is a currently existing, legally enforcerecognized under Cash flows from investing activities, taking or when the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge able, unconditional right of offset that applies to all counterparinto account the cash, cash equivalents and repaid third party Cash and cash equivalents accounting, any cumulative gain or loss previously recognized ties of the financial instruments in all situations, including both debts present in these interests. Dividends paid out, as well as Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call in OCI remains separately in equity until the forecast transacnormal operations and insolvency. obtained loans, are recognized under Cash flows from financing deposits with banks and other liquid investments with origtion occurs or the foreign currency firm commitment is met. If activities. inal maturities of three months or less. Bank overdrafts are a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net included in current interest-bearing liabilities. cumulative gain or loss recognized in the other comprehensive 92 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2.4. Application of new and amended IFRS of credit losses, for their accounts receivable to reflect releby reference to the stage of completion based on services The disclosure requirements in IFRS 15 will be more extenstandards and IFRIC interpretations vant information about current conditions and reasonable and performed at the end of the reporting period. The assessment sive than in the present IFRS standards. Based on analysis The relevant new or revised IFRSs that Konecranes has adopted supportable forecasts about the future. Based on analysis of the stage of completion is dependent on the nature of the and transition adjustment calculations, the effect of IFRS 15 from January 1, 2017 are the following: and transition adjustment calculations, IFRS 9 will not have a contract, but will generally be based on costs incurred to the to the sales of 2017 is approximately EUR +0.7 million, to EBIT IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative – Amendments to IAS 7, which material effect on the level of provision for credit losses. The extent these relate to services performed up to the reporting EUR +0.4 million and to net result EUR +0.4 million. The effect require entities to provide disclosures about changes in their effect in the provision is approximately EUR +1.2 million, EUR date or by written customer acknowledgement. IFRS 15 does to the 1.1.2017 retained earnings is approximately EUR -1.1 liabilities arising from financing activities, including both +0.4 million in the deferred tax assets and EUR -0.8 million in not have any material impact on the Group’s profit and loss million and to the 1.1.2018 retained earnings approximately changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes (such the retained earnings at the end of 2017. statement for revenue recognition of installation and mainteEUR -0.6 million. as foreign exchange gains or losses). The amendments are IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers recognance services. IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January nizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods Sales contracts could give customers the option to Payment Transactions – Amendment to IFRS 2 address three 2017. or services to a customer in an amount that reflects the purchase additional goods, which may be priced at a discount. main areas: the effects of vesting conditions on the measThe relevant new or revised IFRSs that Konecranes has not consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in These kind of options are considered to be separate perforurement of a cash-settled share-based payment transaction; yet adopted are the following: exchange for those goods or services. Revenue is recognized mance obligations and the revenue can be recognized if it the classification of a share-based payment transaction with Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and when, or as, the customer obtains control of the goods or provides a material right to the customers. The right is material net settlement features for withholding tax obligations; and its Associate or Joint Venture, Amendments to IFRS 10 and services. IFRS 15 also includes guidance on the presentation if it results in a discount that the customer would not receive accounting where a modification to the terms and conditions of IAS 28 requires Konecranes to recognize gains and losses of contract balances, that is, assets and liabilities arising without entering into the contract. If the discounted price in a share-based payment transaction changes its classification on such sales or contributions only to the extent they relate from contracts with customers, depending on the relationthe option reflects the stand alone selling price, it is deemed form cash settled to equity settled. to the interest in the Associate or Joint Venture that does not ship between the entity’s performance and the customer’s to be more a marketing offer than a material right. According On adoption, entities are required to apply the amendments constitute a business and that is held by investors other than payment. In addition, the new standard requires a set of to analyses there might be a few these kinds of options in without restating prior periods. The amendments are effective Konecranes. The gain or loss resulting from the sale or contriquantitative and qualitative disclosures to enable users of the contracts that will have some effect on the timing of the for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, but bution to an Associate or a Joint Venture of assets that constithe Group’s consolidated financial statements to understand revenue recognition. Current practise is to recognise the not yet endorsed by EU. The Group has performance share tute a business as defined in IFRS 3 is recognised in full. The the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and revenue when the customer is utilizing the option. plans in which the share-based payment transaction with net standard has been effective from January 1, 2016 but not yet cash flows arising from contracts with customers. IFRS 15 Currently Group recognizes revenue from the sale of goods settlement features for withholding tax obligations. According endorsed by EU. supersedes IAS 11, Construction Contracts and IAS 18, measured at the fair value of the consideration received or to IFRS 2 amendment, the existing plans at 1.1.2018 are not IFRS 9 Financial Instruments introduces a single approach Revenue as well as related interpretations. The standard is receivable, net of estimated probable returns and allowances, divided anymore into two components (cash-settled and equifor the classification and measurement of financial assets effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, trade discounts and volume rebates. Such provisions give rise ty-settled) but are classified in their entirety as equity-settled according to their cash flow characteristics and the business 2018; early application is permitted. Konecranes is not using to variable consideration in IFRS 15 and will be required to be share-based payment transactions. Based on analysis and model they are managed in, and provides a new impairment the early application option and applies the full retrospective estimated at contract inception. Contracts with customers that transition adjustment calculations, the effect of IFRS 2 amendmodel based on expected credit losses. IFRS 9 also includes approach in transition. provide right of return, trade discounts or volume rebates are ment to the equity at the end of 2017 is approximately EUR new regulations regarding the application of hedge accounting Revenue recognition from contracts with customers, in rarely used by the Group, thus their effect to the revenue recog+1.5 million, to non-interest bearing liabilities EUR -5.3 million to better reflect an entity’s risk management activities espewhich sale of equipment is generally expected to be the only nition is immaterial. and to deferred assets EUR -3.8 million. cially with regard to managing non-financial risks. The new performance obligation, is not expected to have any impact In project business the contracts usually have clauses for IFRS 16 Leases replaces IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Deterstandard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on on the Group’s profit and loss. The Group expects the revenue penalties of late deliveries or penalties if the delivery cannot mining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, SIC-15 or after January 1, 2018, while early application is permitted. recognition to occur at a point in time when control of the take place in time due to the customer reason. The penalties Operating Leases – Incentives and SIC -27 Evaluating the Konecranes is not using the early application option. asset is transferred to the customer. Goods sold as installed for late deliveries are currently accounted as provisions for Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal form of a Lease. The new hedging model may lead to more economic hedging are considered to be one performance obligation and the cost when their probability is more likely than not to occur. The IFRS 16 sets out the principles for the recognition, measurestrategies meeting the requirement for hedge accounting. revenue recognition takes place once the commissioning penalty payments received from customers have been recogment, presentation and disclosure of leases and requires Konecranes believes that all existing hedge relationships that has been done and approved by the customer. This standard nised as sales when the penalty clauses in the contract have lessees to account for all leases under a single on-balance are currently designated in effective hedging relationships may impact revenue recognition of long term projects as the been satisfied. Such penalties will be treated as a variable sheet model similar to the accounting for finance lease under will still qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS 9. The Group criteria for recognizing the revenue over time (percentage of consideration in IFRS 15 and will be required to be estimated IAS 17. The standard includes two recognition exemptions for continues measuring at fair value all financial assets currently completion method) will change and be based on the fact that at contract inception. According to analyses this will reduce the lessees – leases of low-value assets and short-term leases measured at fair value. Accounts receivable are held to collect at any time during the contract term, Konecranes must be Group’s recognized revenue to some extent when the penalties (with a lease term of 12 months or less). At the commencecontractual cash flows and are expected to rise from cash entitled to an amount that at least compensates the Group accounted for costs are to be deducted from sales according ment date of a lease, a lessee will recognise a liability to flows representing solely payments of principal and interest. for performance completed to date, even if the customer can to IFRS 15. make lease payments and an asset representing the right to Thus, the Group expects that these will continue to be initially terminate the contract for reasons other than our failure to The Group provides for warranties related to general repairs use the underlying asset during the lease terms. Lessees will recorded at fair value through profit or loss after which they perform as promised. and product liability. According to the preliminary analyses be required to separately recognise the interest expense on are subsequently measured at amortised cost under IFRS 9. The Group provides installation and maintenance services prepared some contracts might include extended warranties the lease liability and the depreciation expense on the rightThe Group applies the simplified approach to record expected within the service segment. These services are sold either on over the normal industry standard warranty period as well as of-use asset. Lessees will be also required to remeasure credit losses on its accounts receivable. The Group will estitheir own service contracts or bundled together with the sale service-type warranties and thus can effect on the timing of the lease liability upon the occurrence of certain events (for mate credit losses in the future by using a provision matrix of equipment to a customer. Currently Group accounts for the the revenue recognition. Current practise has been to make a example, a change in lease term or a change in future lease where accounts receivable are grouped based on different equipment and service as separate deliverables and recognise provision for this warranty liability. Most of the warranties will payments resulting from a change in an index or rate used to customer bases and different historical loss patterns. Under the revenue separately according to the stand-alone selling still be assurance type warranties which will continue to be determine those payments). The lessee will generally recognize the simplified model, companies could adjust the historical prices and continues to recognize the service revenue when accounted for under IAS 37 consistent with Group’s current the amount of the remeasurement of the lease liability as an provision rates, which are an average of historical outcomes the outcome of the transaction can be estimated reliably and practice. adjustment to the right-of-use asset. 94 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Lessor accounting under IFRS 16 is substantially unchanged Business Area Service provides maintenance and installation 3.1. Operating segments from today’s accounting under IAS 17. IFRS 16 also requires services of industrial equipment, Business Area Industrial EquipCorporate Industrial functions and lessees and lessors to make more extensive disclosures than ment produces industrial cranes and their components to variety Service Equipment Ports solutions unallocated items Eliminations Total under IAS 17. The standard is effective for annual periods of industries and Business Area Port Solutions produces lifting 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 beginning on or after 1 January 2019. A lessee can choose equipment for ports and provides services for port equipment. Sales to apply the standard using either a full retrospective or a Some business units have been aggregated to form the above Sales to external customers 1,136.3 874.2 1,035.5 712.4 964.1 531.8 0.6 0.0 3,136.4 2,118.4 modified retrospective approach. The standard’s transition reportable operating segment due to the similar economic charInter-segment sales 41.7 40.6 83.2 117.7 11.9 11.4 5.8 0.0 -142.6 -169.7 0.0 0.0 provisions permit certain reliefs. The Group plans to assess acteristics with respect to the nature of the production process, Total sales 1,178.0 914.8 1,118.7 830.1 976.0 543.2 6.4 0.0 -142.6 -169.7 3,136.4 2,118.4 the potential effect of IFRS 16 on its consolidated financial product type and class of customers for their products. statements during 2018. It is however expected that the right The above reportable segments are based on the Group’s Adjusted EBITA 160.9 100.2 34.6 15.7 44.7 50.5 -29.5 -21.5 5.5 0.0 216.2 144.8 of use assets and corresponding liabilities will be increased management reporting and organizational structure. Konecranes % of net sales 13.7% 11.0% 3.1% 1.9% 4.6% 9.3% 6.9% 6.8% significantly after the standard is implemented. Group’s chief operating decision maker is the Board of Directors. Segment performance is evaluated based on profit or loss and Purchase price allocation amortization -12.9 -1.3 -14.7 -1.2 -10.9 -1.5 -38.6 -4.0 3. Segment information is measured consistently with profit or loss in the consolidated For management purposes, the Group is organized into business financial statements. However, the performance of the investees Adjusted operating profit 148.0 98.9 19.9 14.5 33.8 49.0 -29.5 -21.5 5.5 0.0 177.6 140.8 units based on its products and services and had three reportaccounted for using the equity method is evaluated using propor% of net sales 12.6% 10.8% 1.8% 1.7% 3.5% 9.0% 5.7% 6.6% able segments in 2017, which it calls Business Areas: Business tionate consolidation. Adjustments to operating profit Area Service, Business Area Industrial Equipment and Business The assets and liabilities of the reportable segments include Transaction costs -4.9 -47.0 -4.9 -47.0 Area Port Solutions. In 2016 Konecranes had two Segments: only items directly connected with the business as well as the Restructuring costs -6.8 -8.7 -21.1 -8.5 -19.5 0.0 -18.2 -2.0 -65.6 -19.2 Business Area Service and Business Area Equipment. In 2017 goodwill related to them. Also the tax and financial income and Insurance indemnity and returned Business Area Equipment was divided to two new segments expenses are managed on Group level and are not allocated to funds related to identity theft 0.0 10.2 0.0 10.2 Business Area Industrial Equipment and Business Area Port segments. Release of MHPS purchase price allocation in inventories -1.8 0.0 -2.8 0.0 -2.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 -7.3 0.0 Solutions. In addition Ports Service and Lift truck Service was Konecranes reports also three geographical areas, which are Gain on disposal of Stahl transferred from Business Area Service to Business Area Port the main market areas: EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa), CraneSystems 218.4 0.0 218.4 0.0 Solutions. The segment information of 2016 has been restated AME (Americas) and APAC (Asia-Pacific). Sales are reported by Total adjustments -8.7 -8.7 -23.8 -8.5 -22.2 0.0 195.3 -38.7 140.7 -55.9 in the notes according to the new segments. the customer location and assets and capital expenditure by the location of the assets. Operating profit 139.3 90.2 -4.0 6.0 11.6 49.0 165.8 -60.3 5.5 0.0 318.3 84.9 % of net sales 11.8% 9.9% -0.4% 0.7% 1.2% 9.0% 10.1% 4.0% Share of associates and joint ventures result (note 16) 3.3 11.8 3.3 11.8 Financial income 39.8 1.0 39.8 1.0 Financial expenses -85.8 -35.6 -85.8 -35.6 Profit before tax 275.6 62.1 Segment assets 1,287.1 380.3 880.5 571.3 840.6 227.5 3,008.3 1,179.1 Investment accounted for using the equity method (note 16) 69.8 8.9 69.8 8.9 Cash and cash equivalents 233.1 194.1 233.1 194.1 Deferred tax assets 118.3 69.8 118.3 69.8 Income tax receivables 20.9 12.1 20.9 12.1 Other unallocated and corporate function level assets 112.6 65.8 112.6 65.8 Total assets 1,287.1 380.3 880.5 571.3 840.6 227.5 554.6 350.8 3,562.9 1,529.9 Segment liabilities 204.3 149.9 336.3 312.2 398,0 175.6 938.6 637.7 Interest-bearing liabilities 758,6 323.7 758.6 323.7 Deferred tax liabilities 150.1 15.7 150.1 15.7 Income tax payables 57.0 14.8 57.0 14.8 Other unallocated and corporate function level liabilities 379.1 92.6 379.1 92.6 Total liabilities 204.3 149.9 336.3 312.2 398.0 175.6 1,344.9 446.8 2,283.5 1,084.5 Other disclosures Capital expenditure 11.3 10.9 14.4 16.3 10.0 6.7 35.7 33.8 Personnel 7,206 5,749 6,024 4,353 3,067 789 74 60 16,371 10,951 96 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3.2. Geographical areas As MHPS was acquired on January 4th, 2017 the full year sales 4.1. Assets held for sale in 2016 2017 EMEA*) AME APAC Total of acquiree were EUR 1,204.5 million and EBIT (including restrucOn November 30, 2016 Konecranes signed an agreement External sales*) 1,633.7 980.0 522.8 3,136.4 turing costs) EUR 70.1 million. The amount of goodwill that is with Columbus McKinnon Corporation (“Columbus McKinnon”) Assets*) 2,682.1 480.1 400.7 3,562.9 expected to be deductible for tax purposes was EUR 45,6 million. regarding the divestment of the STAHL CraneSystems busiCapital expenditure 32.2 1.2 2.3 35.7 ness (“STAHL Divestment”). On January, 2017, Konecranes Plc Personnel 9,920 3,205 3,246 16,371 Disposals in 2017 (“Konecranes”) completed the divestment. *) External sales to Finland EUR 105.6 million. Non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets) in Finland: EUR 191.1 million and in other countries: EUR 1,700.1 million. The assets and liabilities of STAHL CraneSystems have been Disposal of Stahl CraneSystems reported in the consolidated balance sheet 2016 separately 2016 EMEA *) AME APAC Total On November 30, 2016 Konecranes signed an agreement as held for sale from 15.9.2016 onwards when the extraorExternal sales*) 1,001.4 802.5 314.5 2,118.4 with Columbus McKinnon Corporation (“Columbus McKinnon”) dinary general meeting of Konecranes approved the resoluAssets*) 883.1 387.9 258.9 1,529.9 regarding the divestment of the STAHL CraneSystems busitions required for the completion of the MHPS Acquisition. Capital expenditure 26.4 3.0 4.5 33.8 ness (“STAHL Divestment”). On January 31, 2017, Konecranes The disposal group (assets and liabilities relating to STAHL Personnel 5,842 2,704 2,405 10,951 completed the STAHL Divestment. Konecranes received cash CraneSystems business) was valued at carrying amounts, which *) External sales to Finland EUR 178.6 million. Non-current assets (excluding deferred tax assets) in Finland: EUR 135.4 million and in other countries: EUR 204.2 million. proceeds of EUR 232.2 million from the transaction. Additionally, is lower than the fair value less costs to sell and assets have There are no single customers which have over 10% of Group’s sales. Columbus McKinnon assumed unfunded pension liabilities that no longer been depreciated since classified as held for sale. were at EUR 67 million as of December 31, 2016. Konecranes 4. Acquisitions and divestments reported a pre-tax capital gain of EUR 218.4 million from the Assets Dec 31 2016 Fair value STAHL Divestment in 2017 in other operating income. Intangible assets 31.7 Intangible assets Acquisitions in 2017 STAHL CraneSystems is a global supplier of hoisting technology Property, plant and equipment 6.9 Clientele 245.0 and crane components. The business is well-known for its capaDeferred tax assets 12.8 Technology 104.1 Material Handling & Port Solutions segment Trademark 227.6 bility to build engineered system solutions. Its customers include Inventories 21.8 acquisition from Terex Corporation Other intangible assets 11.1 distributors, crane builders as well as EPC companies. STAHL Accounts receivable 24.3 On May 16, 2016, Konecranes signed an agreement (the Property, plant and equipment 175.4 CraneSystems is headquartered in Künzelsau, Germany. Other receivables 1.3 “Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement”) to acquire from Terex Investments accounted for using the equity method 63.2 Cash and cash equivalents 26.8 Corporation (“Terex”) its Material Handling & Port Solutions Other disposals Assets held for sale 125.5 Inventories 283.3 (“MHPS”) segment (the “Acquisition”) against consideration Accounts receivable 224.3 Konecranes agreed on March 7, 2017 to divest Sanma Hoists consisting of cash and shares. On January 4, 2017, Konecranes & Cranes Co., Ltd. (“Sanma”) to Jingjiang Hongcheng Crane Liabilities Dec 31 2016 Other assets 112.5 completed the Acquisition and paid EUR 795.8 million in cash Components Manufacturing Works. The agreement included Defined benefit obligation 67.3 Cash and cash equivalents 62.6 and in 19.6 million newly issued Konecranes class B shares. Interest-bearing liabilities 0.1 Total assets 1,509.1 Sanma’s manufacturing machinery for CD/MD hoists and Deferred tax liabilities 3.2 MHPS is a leading supplier of industrial cranes, crane related inventory. Konecranes reported a pre-tax capital gain Accounts payable 4.3 components and services under the Demag brand, as well Non-controlling interest 24.6 of EUR 0.1 million in 2017 in other operating income. With this Accruals and other liabilities 19.5 as port technology with a broad range of manual, semi-autoDeferred tax liabilities 151.0 divestment, Konecranes streamlined its product and brand portLiabilities directly attributable to assets held for sale 94.4 mated and automated solutions under several brands, such Defined benefit plans 241.0 folio in Chinese market. as Gottwald. According to unaudited special purpose carve-out Other long-term liabilities 10.5 On December 21, 2017, Konecranes divested Morris Middle Majority of assets and liabilities were reported in Industrial Equipment segment. financial information (USGAAP), the sales of MHPS were USD Accounts payable and other current liabilities 429.5 East Ltd, including the 49-percent shareholding in Eastern 1,418 million (EUR 1,280 million) and the adjusted EBITDA was Total liabilities 856.6 Morris Cranes Ltd held by the company, to Columbus McKinnon Amounts included in accumulated Other Comprehensive USD 104 million (EUR 94 million) in 2016. Corporation. The transaction was related to the earlier divesIncome Dec 31 2016 The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Net assets 652.6 titure of Stahl CraneSystems. Konecranes received cash Translation difference 2.3 the acquired MHPS businesses at the date of Acquisition are proceeds of EUR 2.8 million from the transaction and did not Re-measurement losses on defined benefit plans -21.8 summarized below. The purchase price consideration paid in Purchase consideration transferred 1,482.0 record any loss or profit from this disposal. Deferred taxes relating to re-measurement losses on defined benefit plans 6.4 cash includes the post-closing adjustments for cash, debt and Goodwill 829.5 Total -13.1 working capital as well as the effect of the hedging of MHPS Acquisitions and divestments in 2016 Cash flow on acquisition purchase price. The non-controlling interest is recognized at the In February 2016, Konecranes purchased an additional 5% of Purchase consideration, paid in cash 795.8 5. Specification of sales non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s the minority shareholding of its subsidiary, Zaporozhje Kran Transactions costs 1) 69.1 2017 2016 net assets. The acquisition offers significant industrial and Holding, which is located in Ukraine. After the purchase of the Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies -62.6 Sale of goods 2,378.9 1,466.9 operational synergies such as scale benefits through procureadditional shareholding, Konecranes now owns 100% of the Net cash flow arising on acquisition 802.3 Rendering of services 755.0 649.5 ment volumes, optimization in operations and SG&A, a better subsidiary. The purchase price for the additional 5% amounted Leasing of own products 2.2 1.7 capacity utilization and scale benefits in our R&D capacity, to EUR 0.3 million. Purchase consideration: Royalties 0.3 0.3 which are reflected in Goodwill. In September 2016, Konecranes sold its small Moroccan Purchase consideration, paid in cash 795.8 Total 3,136.4 2,118.4 service company Techniplus S.A. The disposal of the company Purchase consideration, paid in shares 686,2 resulted EUR 0.8 million loss reported in the other operating Total purchase consideration 1,482.0 expenses of the statement of income. Transaction costs of EUR 4.9 million in 2017, EUR 47.0 million in 2016 and EUR 1)  17.2 million in 2015 have been expensed and are included in other operating expenses. 98 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 6. Percentage of completion method 7.1. Audit and non-audit fees to Group auditor 10. Financial income and expenses 11.2. Reconciliation of income before and advances received 2017 2016 taxes with total income taxes Audit 4.2 4.1 10.1. Financial income 2017 2016 6.1 Percentage of completion method Non-audit services 0.6 0.6 2017 2016 Profit before taxes 275.6 62.1 2017 2016 Tax calculated at the domestic corporation Total 4.8 4.7 Interest income on bank deposits and loans 3.9 0.9 The cumulative revenues of non-delivered tax rate of 20.0% (2016: 20.0%) 55.1 12.4 projects 389.8 376.7 Fair value gain on derivative financial Effect of different tax rates of foreign Advances received netted 310.9 290.3 instruments 29.9 0.0 subsidiaries 27.3 1.2 Progress billings netted 0.0 2.6 8. Personnel expenses and number of personnel Other financial income 6.1 0.1 Taxes from previous years -1.0 -2.3 Receivable arising from percentage of Total 39.8 1.0 Tax effect of non-deductible expenses and completion method, net 78.9 83.8 tax-exempt income -53.1 0.0 8.1. Personnel expenses Tax effect of unrecognized tax losses of the Gross advance received from percentage of 2017 2016 10.2. Financial expenses current year 10.4 6.9 completion method 395.9 323.5 Tax effect of utilization of previously Wages and salaries 799.5 513.6 2017 2016 unrecognized tax losses -2.2 -0.7 Advances received netted 310.9 290.3 Pension costs: Defined benefit plans 11.1 5.1 Interest expenses on liabilities 35.2 10.9 Tax effect of recognition of previously Advances received from percentage of Pension costs: Defined contribution plans 60.7 50.6 Net loss on financial instruments at fair unrecognized tax losses -0.8 -0.9 completion method (netted) 85.0 33.2 value through profit or loss 0.0 14.6 Tax effect of impairment of previously Other personnel expenses 132.9 89.1 recognized deferred tax assets -0.2 5.3 Exchange rate loss 23.8 3.3 Net sales recognized under the percentage of completion method Total 1,004.2 658.3 Tax effect of recognizing the controlled Other financial expenses 26.8 6.7 temporary difference from investment in amounted EUR 377.7 million in 2017 (EUR 268.9 million in 2016). subsidiaries 3.7 1.2 Total 85.8 35.6 Receivable arising from percentage of completion method 8.2. Average personnel Tax effect of tax rate change 11.8 0.3 relate to construction contracts. Net asset balances are 2017 2016 Financial income and expenses net -46.0 -34.6 Other items -0.4 1.1 balances where the sum of contract costs, recognized profits Average number of personnel 15,519 11,398 Total 50.6 24.5 and recognized losses exceed progress billings. ConstrucNumber of personnel as at December 31 16,371 10,951 The company applies hedge accounting on derivatives used tion contracts, here and as follows, include service contracts Number of personnel as at December 31 in to hedge cash flows in certain large crane projects as well as Effective tax rate % 18.4% 39.5% Finland 1,814 1,780 accounted for under the percentage of completion method. to the USD nominated purchase price of MHPS acquisition. Where progress billings exceed the sum of contract costs, The cash flow hedges of the expected future cash flows are Effect of different tax rates of foreign subsidiaries includes the recognized profits and recognized losses these liabilities are 8.3. Personnel by Reportable Segment at the end of period assessed to be highly effective and a net unrealized effect of calculatory tax from STAHL divestment and the tax effect of included in the line item Advance received from percentage of 2017 2016 EUR 10.8 million (EUR 15.0 million in 2016) with deferred taxes non-deductible expenses and tax-exempt income includes the completion method (netted). Service 7,206 5,749 of EUR -2.7 million (EUR -3.8 million in 2016) relating to the adjustment of tax free portion of STAHL divestment. Industrial Equipment 6,024 4,353 hedging instruments is included in equity. The hedged operative The Company evaluates regularly the net realizable value of 6.2. Advance payments received Port Solutions 3,067 789 cash flows are expected to occur during the next 3–18 months its deferred tax assets. Effective tax rate 2016 was affected 2017 2016 Group Staff 74 60 while the hedged cash flow for the MHPS acquisition occurred by impairment of previously recognized deferred tax assets in Advance received from percentage of Total 16,371 10,951 in January 2017. The realized and recycled currency differences certain Chinese group companies. completion method (netted) 85.0 33.2 from these hedges recorded in the statement of income were A new tax legislation came into effect in the USA, which Other advance received from customers 214.8 137.4 EUR -1.1 million in 2017 (EUR -10.3 million in 2016). includes, among other things, a reduction in the U.S. federal Total 299.8 170.6 9. Depreciation, amortization and impairments corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent from 11. Income taxes the beginning of the tax year 2018 and one-time tax expense for 7. Operating expenses 9.1. Depreciation and amortization undistributed profits on overseas assets for US companies. The 2017 2016 2017 2016 11.1. Taxes in statement of income changes are recognized in the balance sheet as deferred taxes Change in work in progress -18.6 40.1 Intangible assets 60.3 25.2 2017 2016 and a corresponding tax expense in the income statement as Production for own use -0.6 -1.5 Buildings 9.0 3.5 Local income taxes of group companies 68.0 31.9 change in deferred taxes. Material and supplies 1,167.5 742.5 Machinery and equipment 41.5 21.4 Taxes from previous years -1.0 -2.3 Subcontracting 261.0 198.5 Total 110.8 50.1 Change in deferred taxes -16.4 -5.1 11.3. Tax effects of components in other comprehensive income Materials, supplies and subcontracting 1,409.2 979.7 Total 50.6 24.5 2017 2016 9.2. Impairments Cash flow hedges 1.1 -6.0 Wages and salaries 799.5 513.6 2017 2016 Re-measurement gains (losses) on defined benefit plans 0.7 3.0 Pension costs 71.8 55.7 Property, plant and equipment 3.8 2.8 Total 1.7 -3.0 Other personnel expenses 132.9 89.1 Intangible assets 2.4 0.7 Personnel cost 1,004.2 658.3 Total 6.2 3.5 12. Earnings per share Other operating expenses 515.0 356.2 The nature of the impairments is described in the disclosures of Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net Total operating expenses 2,928.5 1,994.2 goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment income attributable to the shareholders of the parent company Research and development costs recognized as an expense in (see notes 14 and 15). by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during other operating expenses amount to EUR 36.0 million in the the year. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by adjusting year 2017 (EUR 22.3 million in 2016). the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year for the dilutive effect of the shares issued under the stock option plans. Weighted average number of shares is excluding the number of treasury shares. 100 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2017 2016 The forecasts have been made based on the CGU specific Agilon would have been impaired by EUR 2.9 million. Sensitivity current discount rate indicated that the goodwill in CGU Machine Net profit attributable to shareholders of the historical data, order book, the current market situation and test for compound annual growth rate for the sales (-2% points) Tool Service would have been impaired by EUR 1.4 million, goodwill parent company 225.7 37.6 industry specific information of the future growth possibilities. with the current discount rate indicated that the goodwill in Agilon in Industrial Equipment would have been fully impaired and goodThese assumptions are reviewed annually as part of managewould have been impaired by EUR 1.6 million. The recoverable will in Agilon would have been impaired by EUR 1.7 million. The Weighted average number of shares outstanding (1,000 pcs) 78,273 58,748 ment’s budgeting and strategic planning cycles. Calculations amount of EUR 5.9 million of Agilon would be the same as the recoverable amount of EUR 15.4 million of Machine Tool Service Weighted average number of shares are prepared during the fourth quarter of the year. carrying amount if the discount rate would be 0.6% points higher, would be the same as the carrying amount if the discount rate outstanding, diluted (1,000 pcs) 78,273 58,748 The discount rate applied to cash flow projections is the or if the present value of the cash flows would be 7.5% lower. The would be 5.7% points higher, or if the present value of the cash weighted average (pre-tax) cost of capital and is based on risk forecasts of Agilon include also a specific key assumption for flows would be 45.4% lower. The recoverable amount of EUR 186.4 Earnings per share, basic (EUR) 2.88 0.64 Earnings per share, diluted (EUR) 2.88 0.64 free long term government bond rates and market and industry a decrease of fixed costs. The recoverable amount of EUR 5.9 million of Industrial Equipment would be the same as the carrying specific risk premiums. These risk premiums are derived based million of Agilon would be the same as the carrying amount if the amount if the discount rate would be 1.0% points higher, or if the on the business portfolio of companies which operate in a EBITDA % would be 0.8% points lower. There was no indication of present value of the cash flows would be 12.0% lower. The recovThere have been no transactions involving ordinary shares or similar industry. impairment of goodwill for any other CGU from the sensitivity tests. erable amount of EUR 6.8 million of Agilon would be the same potential ordinary shares between the reporting date and the The key assumptions, being the average compound annual as the carrying amount if the discount rate would be 1.2% points date of authorization of these financial statements. growth rate for the sales of the five years forecasted and the 2016 higher, or if the present value of the cash flows would be 12.0% discount rate are as follows: The recoverable value of CGU Machine Tool Service was EUR 7.0 lower. The forecasts of Machine Tool Service, Industrial Equipment 13. Goodwill and goodwill impairment testing million higher, the recoverable value of CGU Industrial Equipment and Agilon include also a specific key assumption for a decrease Compound annual was EUR 22.4 million higher and the recoverable value of CGU of fixed costs. The recoverable amount of EUR 15.4 million of growth rate Discount rate 13.1. Goodwill Agilon was EUR 0.8 million higher than the carrying value of the Machine Tool Service would be the same as the carrying amount if Industrial Cranes 3% 12.2% 2017 2016 assets under impairment testing. Sensitivity tests using both the EBITDA % would be 1.8% points lower, the recoverable amount Agilon*) 47% 19.7% Acquisition costs as of January 1 100.9 122.3 higher discount rate (+5% points) and lower cash flow estimates of EUR 186.4 million of Industrial Equipment would be the same Industrial Crane Service 6% 12.4% Additions 829.5 0.0 (-10%) indicated that Machine Tool Service would have been as the carrying amount if the EBITDA % would be 0.4% points lower Machine Tool Service 3% 10.3% Decrease -1.0 0.0 impaired by EUR 0.3 million, the goodwill in Industrial Equipand the recoverable amount of EUR 6.8 million of Agilon would be Lift trucks 4% 10.8% Transfer to asset held for sale 0.0 -21.1 ment would have been fully impaired and the goodwill in Agilon the same as the carrying amount if the EBITDA % would be 1.1% Port Cranes 8% 10.9% Translation difference -9.4 -0.3 *) The growth rate in CGU Agilon is 47% (57% in 2016) as the CGU is in start-up phase. would have been impaired by EUR 2.8 million. Sensitivity test for points lower. There was no indication of impairment of goodwill for Acquisition costs as of December 31 920.0 100.9 compound annual growth rate for the sales (-2% points) with the any other CGU from the sensitivity tests. Accumulated impairments as of January 1 -14.7 -14.7 The average compound growth rate for the gross profit is Impairments for the financial year 0.0 0.0 consistent with that of sales. Furthermore for all the CGUs a 1% Total as of December 31 905.3 86.2 terminal growth rate has been applied. 13.2. General principles Impairment charges Management monitors the performance of the Group through The impairment testing performed in 2017 and 2016 did not the monthly meetings and monthly reporting that take place on result in any impairments being recognized. a business unit level. Impairment testing is done at the lowest level of the Group at which goodwill is monitored internally. Sensitivity analyses In addition to impairment testing using the base case assump13.3. Total goodwill in reportable segments after impairments tions, four separate sensitivity analyses were performed for 2017 2016 each CGU: Industrial Cranes 140.6 44.3 1) A discount rate analysis where the discount rate was increased Agilon 3.9 3.9 by 5% points. Goodwill in Industrial Equipment total 144.5 48.2 2) A Group management adjustment to the future profitability. The cash flow of each CGU was analyzed by the Group Industrial Crane Service 558.0 10.7 management. Based on the CGU specific historical data and Machine Tool Service 4.1 4.4 future growth prospects the cash flows were decreased by Goodwill in Service total 562.1 15.1 10% in each year including terminal year. 3) A higher discount rate (+5% points) analysis combined with Port Cranes 161.4 10.7 lower (-10%) cash flows as mentioned above. Lift trucks 37.2 12.1 4) A decrease in the compound annual growth rate for the sales Goodwill in Port Solutions total 198.6 22.8 for the each five forecasted years (-2% points) combined with Total goodwill in reportable segments as of December 31 905.3 86.2 the current discount rate. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined based 2017 on value in use calculations using the discounted cash flow The recoverable value of CGU Agilon was EUR 0.5 million higher method. The forecasting period of cash flows is five years and it than the carrying value of the assets under impairment testing. is based on financial forecasts of the management responsible Sensitivity tests using both higher discount rate (+5% points) and for that CGU, and adjusted by Group management if needed. lower cash flow estimates (-10%) indicated that the goodwill in 102 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 14. Intangible assets Patents and Intangible 15. Property, plant and equipment 2017 trademarks Software Other assets total Acquisition costs as of January 1 19.1 141.0 122.1 282.3 Machinery & Property, plant and Additions 0.0 19.5 0.1 19.6 2017 Land Buildings Equipment equipment total Disposals -1.2 -1.3 -12.0 -14.5 Acquisition costs as of January 1 6.4 72.4 224.6 303.4 Business combinations 227.6 1.1 359.1 587.8 Additions 0.0 2.8 32.6 35.4 Transfer within assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Disposals -0.3 -0.8 -13.9 -15.0 Impairment 0.0 0.0 -2.4 -2.4 Business combinations 26.0 69.2 79.0 174.2 Translation difference -0.3 0.0 -1.4 -1.7 Transfer within assets 0.0 0.8 -0.7 0.0 Acquisition costs as of December 31 245.2 160.3 465.5 871.0 Impairment 0.0 -0.3 -3.5 -3.8 Accumulated amortization as of January 1 -15.3 -74.6 -94.3 -184.2 Translation difference -0.7 -3.3 -4.0 -8.0 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.4 Acquisition costs as of December 31 31.4 140.7 314.2 486.3 Accumulated amortization relating to disposals 1.2 1.3 3.9 6.4 Accumulated depreciation as of January 1 0.0 -21.4 -154.0 -175.3 Amortization for financial year -0.8 -23.4 -36.1 -60.3 Translation difference 0.0 0.1 0.3 0.3 Total as of December 31 230.3 63.5 339.5 633.3 Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 0.0 0.0 9.5 9,5 Depreciation for financial year 0.0 -9.0 -41.5 -50.5 Total as of December 31 31.4 110.4 128.5 270.4 Patents and Intangible 2016 trademarks Software Other assets total Acquisition costs as of January 1 29.4 131.6 108.9 269.9 Machinery & Property, plant and 2016 Land Buildings Equipment equipment total Additions 0.0 11.7 14.0 25.7 Acquisition costs as of January 1 7.3 69.9 258.5 335.6 Disposals 0.0 -0.1 -0.2 -0.3 Additions 0.0 7.8 18.1 25.9 Transfer to assets held for sale -10.4 -2.2 0.0 -12.5 Disposals -0.8 -1.4 -15.9 -18.1 Impairment 0.0 0.0 -0.7 -0.7 Transfer to assets held for sale 0.0 -1.5 -34.8 -36.3 Translation difference 0.1 0.0 0.2 0.2 Impairment -0.1 -1.8 -0.9 -2.8 Acquisition costs as of December 31 19.1 141.0 122.1 282.3 Translation difference 0.0 -0.5 -0.3 -0.8 Accumulated amortization as of January 1 -14.5 -57.0 -89.7 -161.2 Acquisition costs as of December 31 6.4 72.4 224.6 303.4 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 -0.2 -0.2 Accumulated depreciation as of January 1 0.0 -19.6 -173.5 -193.1 Accumulated amortization relating to disposals 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 -0.2 -0.2 Transfer to assets held for sale 0.0 2.1 0.0 2.1 Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 0.0 0.8 12.6 13.4 Amortization for financial year -0.8 -19.8 -4.6 -25.2 Transfer to assets held for sale 0,0 1.1 28.4 29.5 Total as of December 31 3.8 66.4 27.9 98.1 Depreciation for financial year 0.0 -3.5 -21.4 -24.9 Total as of December 31 6.4 51.0 70.6 128.1 The category Other consists mainly of customer lists and techindefinite useful life. The carrying amounts of these assets are There were no buildings capitalized under finance lease at the end of year 2017 and 2016. nology acquired in business combinations. They are stated at tested on a yearly basis in connection with the goodwill impairThe carrying amount of machinery and equipments under finance lease as of December 31, 2017 is EUR 22.1 million (EUR 6.0 cost and amortized on a straight-line basis over their expected ment testing. On December 31, 2016, the intangible assets million in 2016). useful lives. The normal amortization period of intangible having indefinite useful life consisted of the Stahl trademark of Mainly due to the restructuring actions of the Group during the year land, buildings, machinery and equipment were written off in assets varies from 4 to 20 years. The amortization of intangible EUR 10.4 million, which was reported under asset held for sale. 2017 by EUR 3.8 million (EUR 2.8 million in 2016). assets is included in the depreciation and impairments line in The addition of EUR 19.6 million (EUR 25.7 million in 2016) the consolidated statement of income. On December 31, 2017, mainly consisted of capitalized development costs of the the intangible assets having indefinite useful life consisted of Group’s ERP systems. the Demag and Gottwald trademarks of EUR 167.0 million and Due to the reorganization of the business intangible assets EUR 51.0 million. As there is no foreseeable limit on the period of EUR 2.4 million (old customer relations) were written off in over which the asset is expected to generate net cash inflows 2017 (EUR 0.7 million in 2016). for the entity, it is classified as intangible assets having an 104 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 16. Interests in other entities and 16.3. Joint operations non-controlling interests Konecranes has classified the interest in AS Konesko (domiciled in Estonia) as a joint operation based on the joint arrangement agreement. AS Konesko is a strategic supplier of components used in Konecranes products. Konecranes has the exclusive right to 16.1. Investments accounted for using the equity method purchase certain motors and end carriages from AS Konesko at a price to be agreed upon with Konesko A/S. However Konecranes Associated Companies 2017 2016 retains ownership of the current motor designs and the trademark rights to the end carriages. Acquisition costs as of January 1 0.9 43.9 Konecranes owns as of December 31, 2017 49.5% in AS Konesko. Share of associated companies' result after Konecranes has recognized and accounted for the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to its interest in AS Konesko taxes*) 0.2 4.2 in accordance with IFRS 11. Share of associates' other comprehensive income 0.0 -4.7 Disposals 0.0 -41.8 16.4. Subsidiaries with material non-controlling interest Dividends received 0.0 -0.8 Profit/ Accumuloss after Acquisitions 0.8 0.0 lated NonNonNontax from Total Total as of December 31 1.8 0.9 controlling current Current current Current continuing comprehen2017 Interest Goodwill assets assets liabilities liabilities Revenue operations sive income *) Including adjustments from purchase price allocation. Noell Cranes Systems (China) Ltd (NCI 30 %) 11.5 0.0 26.6 66.6 0.0 58.5 81.6 -5.6 -5.6 Other non-controlling interests 11.1 0.0 47.8 30.9 2.3 46.7 20.9 -0.6 -0.6 Joint Ventures 2017 2016 Total 22.5 0.0 74.4 97.5 2.3 105.2 102.5 -6.2 -6.2 Acquisition costs as of January 1 8.0 6.3 Share of joint ventures' result after taxes 3.1 1.8 NCI = Non-controlling Interest. Assets and liabilities as well as revenue and profit/loss values represent the total company values Disposals -2.8 0.0 including purchase price allocations. See also the company list for the ownership and principal place of business of the subsidiaries. Dividends received -2.7 -0.1 Acquisitions 62.5 0.0 17. Deferred tax assets and liabilities includes, among other things, a reduction in the U.S. federal Total as of December 31 68.0 8.0 corporate income tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent from 17.1. Deferred tax assets the beginning of the tax year 2018 and one-time tax expense 16.2. Investments in Associated Companies and Joint Ventures 2017 2016 for undistributed profits on overseas assets for US compaThe following table illustrates the summarized financial information of the Group’s investments and reconciliation with the carrying Employee benefits 42.9 9.3 nies. The change in tax rate reduced Konecranes’ deferred tax amount of the investments in consolidated financial statements. Provisions 23.1 20.8 assets by EUR 11.6 million in financial year 2017. The impact Unused tax losses 8.6 13.6 of tax expense for undistributed profits on overseas assets for Profit/ Other temporary differences 43.6 13.2 Konecranes Group was EUR 2.9 million in financial year 2017. Carrying loss after Total amount NonNontax from compreTotal 118.3 57.0 of the current Current current Current continuing hensive Dividends 17.3. Tax losses carried forward 2017 investment assets*) assets*) liabilities*) liabilities*) Revenue *) operations*) income*) received MHE-Demag (S) Pte Ltd Group (joint Other temporary differences include timing differences arising At the end of year 2017, Konecranes recorded a deferred tax venture) 62.8 30.1 109.5 1.3 56.8 165.0 6.0 6.0 2,5 for example from accrued costs, advances received and unreasset of EUR 8.6 million (EUR 13.6 million in 2016) related to Other Investments in associated companies and joint ventures 7.0 4.2 38.3 0.5 19.6 43.2 0.3 0.3 0.1 alized currency differences that are not deductible in taxation unused tax losses on the carry-forward losses of EUR 221.2 Total 69.8 34.3 147.8 1.8 76.3 208.2 6.3 6.3 2.7 until they occur. million (EUR 201.4 million in 2016) in total. The tax losses, for which no deferred tax assets are recognized due to the uncer17.2. Deferred tax liabilities tainty of the utilization of the losses, amounted to EUR 181.9 Profit/ 2017 2016 million in the year 2017 (EUR 158.3 million in 2016). Carrying loss after Total amount NonNontax from compreIntangible and tangible assets 141.8 8.6 EUR 101.6 million of these carry-forward tax losses available of the current Current current Current continuing hensive Dividends Other temporary difference 8.3 3.9 have unlimited expiry, EUR 54.4 million expire later than in five 2016 investment assets*) assets*) liabilities*) liabilities*) Revenue *) operations*) income*) received Investments in associated companies and Total 150.1 12.5 years and EUR 65.2 million expire in five years. joint ventures 8.9 3.1 52.7 2.5 26.7 59.4 2.0 2.0 0.9 Part of carry-forward losses relates to Morris Material Total 8.9 3.1 52.7 2.5 26.7 59.4 2.0 2.0 0.9 The deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities have been Handling, Inc., USA, which was acquired in 2006. The overall *) Asset and liability values, revenue and profit/loss represent values according to the latest published financial information. netted on a juridical company level when there is a legally carry-forward losses of Morris Material Handling, Inc. amounted enforceable right to offset income tax receivables against to EUR 31.3 million (EUR 38.9 million in 2016). The Group has Disposal of the shares in Kito Corporation income tax payables related to income taxes levied by the same recorded a deferred tax asset amounting to EUR 5.1 million On September 26, 2016, Konecranes announced that Konecranes and Kito Corporation (“Kito”) decided to dissolve the strategic allitax authority. The gross amount of deferred tax assets in 2017 (EUR 9.2 million in 2016) of Morris Material Handling, Inc. ance signed on March 23, 2010, between the companies. On September 27, 2016, Konecranes sold 5,873,900 Kito shares to Kito and were EUR 119.5 million (EUR 62.1 million in 2016) and deferred based on the tax losses estimated to be utilized during the during December, 2016 Konecranes sold the remaining 76,100 Kito shares in Tokyo Stock Exchange. tax liabilities EUR 155.2 million (EUR 17.3 million in 2016). years 2018–2027 amounting to EUR 22.8 million. For the Konecranes has not recognized the temporary differences in amount of EUR 8.5 million tax loss carry-forwards deductible investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they probably will over the period 2028–2031 no deferred tax asset has been not reverse in the foreseeable future. In 2016 it has repatriated recognized due to uncertainties and limitations on deductible the profit from Konecranes Canada Inc and has recognized annual amounts. current tax expenses for the repatriated profit and deferred tax During 2016, Konecranes recorded EUR 5.2 million impairliability for distributable profits. ment of previously recognized deferred tax assets in certain A new tax legislation came into effect in the USA, which Chinese entities. 106 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements To assess if the convincing evidence threshold per IAS 12 was met Konecranes has prepared tax forecasts for future periods 19. Ageing analysis of accounts receivable in which it has given effect to the restructuring done and the tax planning opportunities that were being implemented at that time. 2017 2016 The taxable income in these forecasts has led management to recognize the deferred tax assets for The Netherlands and Austria. Not overdue 365.2 244.9 1–30 days overdue 85.7 54.7 Tax losses carried forward and related deferred tax assets on December 31 by the most significant countries as following: 31–60 days overdue 29.5 25.5 Tax losses Potential deferred Deferred tax assets Deferred 61–90 days overdue 21.3 18.2 2017 carried forward tax assets not recorded tax assets more than 91 days overdue 36.6 36.0 India 37.6 12.2 12.2 0.0 Total 538.2 379.3 France 36.2 12.1 12.1 0.0 USA 34.2 7.1 1.9 5.2 The carrying amount of accounts receivable approximates to their fair value. Accounts receivable are subject to only minor credit China 22.4 5.5 5.5 0.0 risk concentrations due to the Group’s extensively diversified customer portfolio. Credit losses recognized for the financial year Austria 22.3 5.6 4.3 1.2 totaled EUR 4.1 million (EUR 4.9 million in 2016). South-Africa 10.0 2.8 2.8 0.0 Japan 9.3 2.9 2.9 0.0 Balance at Balance at Italy 8.6 2.4 2.4 0.0 the beginning Translation Business Utilized during Provision not the end of Spain 7.9 2.0 1.2 0.8 2017 of the year difference combinations the period needed Additions the year Brazil 6.8 2.3 2.3 0.0 Provision for doubtful accounts 18.0 -1.1 7.3 4.1 7.8 13.0 25.2 Other 25.9 6.2 4.8 1.4 Total 221.2 61.0 52.4 8.6 Balance at Transfer to Balance at the beginning Translation Utilized during Provision asset held the end of Tax losses Potential deferred Deferred tax assets Deferred 2016 of the year difference the period not needed for sale Additions the year 2016 carried forward tax assets not recorded tax assets Provision for doubtful accounts 17.9 0.0 4.8 3.5 -1.6 10.0 18.0 India 37.6 12.2 12.2 0.0 France 10.9 3.3 3.3 0.0 USA 38.9 14.5 5.7 9.2 The release of the provision for doubtful accounts relates to the 23. Equity China 18.0 4.5 4.5 0.0 cash received from individual receivables which were historically Austria 21.7 5.4 4.2 1.2 provided for due to management’s uncertainty of their collecta23.1. Shareholders’ equity South-Africa 10.5 2.9 2.9 0.0 bility. Number of Japan 10.2 3.1 3.1 0.0 Number of treasury Italy 3.0 0.9 0.9 0.0 shares shares Spain 4.1 1.0 0.0 1.0 20. Other receivables As of January 1, 2016 58,732,429 4,539,913 Brazil 11.2 3.8 3.8 0.0 2017 2016 Share subscriptions with share awards 18,580 -18,580 Other 35.5 9.3 6.9 2.1 Notes receivable 7.8 4.6 As of December 31, 2016 58,751,009 4,521,333 Total 201.4 60.9 47.3 13.6 Value added tax 35.7 18.6 Total 43.4 23.2 Share issue 19,600,000 Comparables in 2016 exclude the divested Stahl CraneSystems business for which the tax losses carried forward were EUR 3.3 Cancellation of treasury shares -3,950,436 million, potential deferred tax assets EUR 0.9 million and deferred tax assets not recorded EUR 0.9 million. 21. Deferred assets Share subscriptions with share awards 405,136 -405,136 As of December 31, 2017 78,756,145 165,761 2017 2016 18. Inventories Interest 1.7 0.7 2017 2016 The total shareholders’ equity consists of share capital, share Prepaid expenses 16.0 12.0 Raw materials and semi-manufactured goods 196.5 111.8 premium, paid in capital, cash flow hedges, translation differUnbilled revenue 0.8 1.0 Work in progress 283.6 140.3 ence, and retained earnings. Consistent with local legislation Other 37.6 15.4 Finished goods 44.3 20.0 Konecranes’ share has no nominal value. Due to the MHPS Total 56.2 29.1 Advance payments 20.6 9.7 acquisition in January 2017 in which part of the acquisition Total 545.0 281.8 price was paid by issuing 19,600,000 new class B shares to 22. Cash and cash equivalents Terex, which were later converted to A shares by the time Terex 2017 2016 sold them. All issued shares are fully paid and listed on Nasdaq Balance at Balance at Short-term deposits 9.9 18.6 Helsinki. the beginning Translation Business Utilized during Provision not the end of 2017 of the year difference combinations the period needed Additions the year Cash in hand and at bank 223.1 148.8 Share premium includes the value of shares, which exceeds Provision for obsolete inventory 23.7 -1.5 45.0 12.6 3.4 16.2 67.4 Total 233.1 167.4 the accounting par value of the shares, for shares issued before September 1, 2006. Cash flow hedges include changes in the Short-term deposits have a maturity of three months or less. fair values of derivative financial instruments used to hedge Balance at Transfer to Balance at Cash and cash equivalents are carried at nominal value, which operational cash flows. Translation differences comprise the the beginning Translation Utilized during Provision not asset held the end of 2016 of the year difference the period needed for sale Additions the year corresponds to their fair value. differences arising from translating non-euro functional currency Provision for obsolete inventory 28.2 -0.1 8.4 0.8 -1.4 6.2 23.7 entities to euro, which is the Group’s presentation currency. Other reserve includes the credit for equity settled share based payment cost. The paid in capital includes the portion 108 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of shares’ subscription price, which is not recorded to share capital or to liabilities according to IFRS. The paid in capital includes 25.2. Other current liabilities (non-interest bearing) On January 4, 2017, Konecranes raised loans of EUR 1,052 also other capital contributions to the Group, which are not recorded to some other reserve within the equity. The paid in capital 2017 2016 million related to the MHPS Acquisition. This included a syndiincludes also the possible amount of share capital decrease, which is not netted against accumulated losses or is not distributed Value added tax 24.0 16.4 cated EUR 300 million term loan with a tenor of three years, to shareholders. Payroll tax liability 15.6 6.6 EUR 600 million amortizing term loan with a tenor of five years Dividend proposal per share was for 2017 1.20 euro and dividend for 2016 1.05 euro. Other short-term liabilities 10.1 8.4 and a EUR 152 million bridge term loan. Upon completion of Total 49.8 31.4 the STAHL CraneSystems divestment on January 31, 2017, 23.2. Distributable earnings Konecranes repaid in advance term loans of EUR 198 million See page 139/Board of Director’s Proposal to the Annual General Meeting. 26. Lease liabilities including the full repayment of the bridge term loan. In the course of 2017 Konecranes refinanced and repaid the 24. Provisions 26.1. Finance leases acquisition related term loans fully. On April 4th, Konecranes 2017 2016 repaid the acquisition related three-year loan by EUR 100 Pension Minimum lease payments million utilizing cash at hand. On June 7th Konecranes repaid 2017 Warranty Restructuring commitments Other Total within 1 year 8.3 2.2 the acquisition related five-year loan by EUR 150 million utilizing Total provisions as of January 1 31.1 5.6 8.3 12.6 57.6 1–5 years 12.3 2.9 cash at hand. On June 9th Konecranes issued a five-year bond Translation difference -0.4 -0.2 -0.9 -1.0 -2.5 over 5 years 2.9 0.4 of EUR 250 million with proceeds were fully utilized for repaying Increase through business combination 14.9 44.8 0.1 16.4 76.3 Total 23.5 5.5 the three-year loan of EUR 200 million and the five-year loan for Additional provision in the period 33.3 34.9 1.6 24.0 93.7 EUR 50 million. On November 17th Konecranes raised EUR 150 Utilization of provision 22.0 22.2 1.2 11.1 56.5 Present value of finance lease million Schuldschein loan and on 22nd November Konecranes Unused amounts reversed 3.6 9.2 0.1 3.3 16.3 within 1 year 8.1 2.2 raised a five-year EUR 150 million bilateral term loan. The Total provisions as of December 31 53.4 53.6 7.7 37.6 152.3 1–5 years 12.1 2.9 proceeds from the Schuldschein loan and bilateral term loan over 5 years 2.2 0.0 was utilized for fully repaying the acquisition related five-year Pension Total 22.4 5.1 2016 Warranty Restructuring commitments Other Total EUR 600 million term loan. Total provisions as of January 1 26.2 4.3 8.5 13.9 52.9 Konecranes has finance leases mainly for vehicles with an At the end of December 2017, the outstanding long term Translation difference 0.1 -0.1 0.2 0.2 0.3 average of four years leasing time. loans were: EUR 150 million five-year term loan, EUR 50 million Additional provision in the period 20.8 6.4 1.1 8.4 36.6 R&D loan, EUR 150 million Schuldschein loan and EUR 250 Utilization of provision 10.4 4.7 1.5 5.9 22.6 27. Interest-bearing liabilities million bond. The Schuldschein loan contains floating and fixed Transfer to liabilities directly attributable to assets held for sale -2.8 -0.1 0.0 -0.1 -3.0 rate tranches with maturities of four and seven years. The Unused amounts reversed 2.6 0.3 0.0 3.8 6.7 27.1. Non-current term loan and the R&D loan bear a floating six months interest Total provisions as of December 31 31.1 5.6 8.3 12.6 57.6 2017 2016 period and the bond yield is fixed with annual coupon payment. Loans from financial institutions 335.3 49.9 The weighted average interest rate for these loans and the bond The provision for warranties covers the expenses due to the repair or replacement of products during their warranty period. The Bonds 248.4 0.0 is currently 1.36% per annum. The company is in compliance warranty liability is based on historical realized warranty costs for deliveries of standard products and services. The usual warranty Finance lease liabilities 14.3 3.5 with the quarterly monitored financial covenant (interest-bearing period is 12 months. For more complex contracts, mainly including long-term projects, the warranty reserve is calculated contract Other long-term loans 2.7 0.7 net debt/equity) for the loans. No specific securities have been by contract and the warranty period can be significantly longer. The restructuring provision is recognized when the Group has Total 600.8 54.2 given for the loans. The Company continues to have healthy prepared a detailed reorganization plan and begun implementation of the plan or announced the matter. Pension commitments Interest-bearing net debt / equity ratio of 41.1% (31.12.2016: include provisions for local pension schemes. 27.2. Current 29.1%). Other provisions include provisions for claims, litigations and provisions for loss contracts in which the amount is not provided 2017 2016 The Group has an INR denominated debt relating to short for as part of work in progress or percentage of completion receivable of the loss making project. Loans from financial institutions 20.7 26.0 term working capital needs and with a portion remaining for Finance lease liabilities 8.1 2.2 capital expenditure for the Indian crane factory. In addition the Restructuring costs Commercial papers 100.0 214.9 Group has certain revolving facilities the details of which can be Konecranes has recorded EUR 65.6 million restructuring costs during 2017 (EUR 19.2 million in 2016) of which EUR 5.8 million Other short-term loans 3.8 0.4 found in Note 33.3. has been impairment of assets (EUR 2.8 million in 2016). Overdraft 25.4 26.1 The average interest rate of the non-current liabilities portTotal 157.9 269.5 folio at December 31, 2017 was 1.42% (1.37% in 2016) and 25. Current liabilities that of the current liabilities portfolio was 1.78% (1.54% in 2016). The effective interest rate for EUR-loans varied between 25.1. Accruals 0.01%–6.00% (0.00 %–3.50% in 2016). 2017 2016 Wages, salaries and personnel expenses 98.7 65.4 Pension costs 7.7 6.0 Interest 10.1 2.2 Other items 34.5 22.0 Total 151.1 95.6 110 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 27.3. Maturity tables of financial liabilities and liquidity risk 27.4. Maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities The following table reflects the maturity of interest bearing liabilities. The following table reflects the maturity of all financial liabilities. 2017 Maturity 2017 Maturity of financial liabilities Avg. Avg. Less than Amount Currency duration rate % 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years MEUR Amount Less than Liability type drawn 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years EUR 4.0 years 1.24 120.8 363.0 226.4 710.2 Loans from financial institutions 356.0 20.7 108.9 226.4 INR 0.7 years 8.81 16.1 0.0 0.0 16.1 Bonds 248.4 0.0 248.4 0.0 CNY 0.2 years 3.93 4.8 0.0 0.0 4.8 Finance lease liabilities 22.4 8.1 14.3 0.0 USD 1.2 years 2.78 14.3 11.0 0.0 25.3 Commercial paper program 100.0 100.0 0.0 0.0 Others 0.3–0.9 years 3.10–8.20 1.8 0.4 0.0 2.2 Other long-term debt and short-term loans 6.4 3.8 0.0 2.7 Total 1.49 157.9 374.3 226.4 758.6 Overdraft 25.4 25.4 0.0 0.0 Derivative financial instruments 6.8 6.8 0.0 0.0 2016 Maturity Account and other payables 257.3 251.0 6.3 0.0 Avg. Avg. Less than Amount Total 1,022.8 415.7 378.0 229.1 Currency duration rate % 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years MEUR EUR 0.9 years 0.67 220.4 54.0 0.0 274.4 INR 0.1 years 9.43 23.1 0.0 0.0 23.1 2016 Maturity of financial liabilities CNY 0.2 years 3.92 17.7 0.0 0.0 17.7 Amount Less than Liability type drawn 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years Others 0.0–1.3 years 0.00–8.38 8.3 0.2 0.0 8.5 Loans from financial institutions 76.0 26.0 49.9 0.0 Total 1.51 269.5 54.2 0.0 323.6 Finance lease liabilities 5.6 2.2 3.5 0.0 Commercial paper program 214.9 214.9 0.0 0.0 27.3b Liquidity risk, containing undiscounted cash flows of non-derivative financial liabilities by currency Other long-term debt and short-term loans 1.1 0.4 0.7 0.0 The following table reflects all contractually fixed pay-offs for settlement, repayments and interest resulting from recognized finanOverdraft 26.1 26.1 0.0 0.0 cial liabilities, excluding derivatives. The amounts disclosed are undiscounted net cash outflows for the respective upcoming fiscal Derivative financial instruments 18.2 18.2 0.0 0.0 years, based on the earliest date on which Konecranes could be required to pay. Cash outflows for financial liabilities (including Account and other payables 137.5 130.5 6.9 0.0 interest) without fixed amount or timing are based on the conditions existing at December 31. Total 479.3 418.2 61.1 0.0 2017 Maturity 27.5. Change in Group’s liabilities arising Avg. Avg. Less than Amount from financing activities Currency duration rate % 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years MEUR EUR 4.0 years 1.24 129.2 391.3 229.0 749.5 Non-current INR 0.7 years 8.81 17.0 0.0 0.0 17.0 interest bearing Non-current Current interest Current finance Financial 2017 loans finance leases bearing loans leases derivatives Total CNY 0.1 years 3.93 4.9 0.0 0.0 4.9 Total liabilities as of January 1 50.7 3.5 267.3 2.2 18.2 341.9 USD 1.2 years 2.78 14.9 11.4 0.0 26.3 Cash flows 551.8 0.0 -140.5 -2.3 0.0 409.0 Others 0.7–1.5 years 1.5–9.5 2.0 0.4 0.0 2.4 Acquisitions and disposals 0.0 0.0 23.7 0.0 0.0 23.7 Total debt 1.49 168.0 403.1 229.0 800.1 Foreign exhange movement 0.0 0.0 -3.9 0.0 0.0 -3.9 Other financial liabilities 251.0 6.3 0.0 257.3 Change in fair values 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 -11.3 -11.3 Total financial liabilities 419.0 409.4 229.0 1,057.4 New leases 0.0 19.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 19.0 Other -16.1 -8.3 3.2 8.3 0.0 -12.9 Total provisions as of December 31 586.5 14.3 149.7 8.1 6.8 765.5 2016 Maturity Avg. Avg. Less than Amount Currency duration rate % 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years MEUR 28. Other long-term liabilities Germany and Switzerland as well as individually insignificant EUR 1.0 years 0.67 221.3 55.4 0.0 276.7 plans in other countries. Companies in many countries have INR 0.2 years 9.43 23.4 0.0 0.0 23.4 2017 2016 also other long term employee benefits such as part time CNY 0.1 years 2.72 17.8 0.0 0.0 17.8 Employee benefits 268.0 33.1 pension benefits and jubilee benefits which are reported as Others 0.1–1.5 years 0.00–12.7 8.4 0.3 0.0 8.7 Other non-interest-bearing long-term liabilities 10.7 6.9 defined benefit plans. Total debt 1.51 270.9 55.7 0.0 326.7 Total 278.7 40.0 The UK defined benefit plan is administered by an independent Other financial liabilities 130.5 6.9 0.0 137.5 trustee company that is legally separated from the Group. The Total financial liabilities 401.5 62.7 0.0 464.1 28.1. Employee benefits investments are managed by a professional and independent The Company and most of its subsidiaries offer retirement Fiduciary Manager who is appointed by the trustees. The Fiduciary plans which cover the majority of employees in the Group. Many Manager appoints Investment Managers as they see fit in order of these plans are defined contribution, where Konecranes’ to achieve the Trustees’ stated objectives for the scheme funding contribution and resulting charge is fixed at a set level or is a level and taking into account the agreed risk appetite. The Fiduset percentage of employees’ pay. However the Group has a ciary Manager has trigger points set in conjunction with the Trussignificant defined benefit pension plan in the United Kingdom, tees which when reached allows them to make changes to the 112 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements investments to repatriate the gains to achieve full funding posi28.2. Amounts recognized in the balance sheet 28.4. Movements of the present value and mortgage loans. There is almost no exposure to alternative tion. The UK plan is subject to the UK’s pensions legislation, is 2017 2016 of defined benefit obligation investments. The Company can only indirectly and partially deterregulated by the UK Pensions Regulator and is exempt from most Present value of obligation wholly unfunded 262.8 30.0 2017 2016 mine the asset allocation through the 50/50 employer/employee UK taxation through its registered status. The UK plan was closed Present value of obligation wholly or partly Obligation as of January 1 105.7 151.8 representation in the board of Trustees. The actual return on plan funded 99.6 75.7 to new members in 2005. Under the UK plan the employees are Translation difference -6.2 -9.7 assets was EUR 3.0 million (EUR 14.0 million in 2016). Defined benefit plan obligations 362.4 105.7 entitled to post-retirement installments calculated as an average Business combinations 267.2 0.0 Fair value of plan assets -94.5 -72.6 annual basic salary from the best three years within the last ten Reclassification of pension liabilities -0.1 5.7 28.6. Defined benefit plan: the main actuarial assumptions Total net liability recognized 268.0 33.1 years. The net liability in the United Kingdom was EUR 0.0 million Transfer to liabilities directly attributable to With the objective of presenting the assets and liabilities of the assets held for sale 0.0 -67.8 (EUR 0.0 million in 2016). defined benefit plans at their fair value on the balance sheet, Settlements and curtailments -0.1 0.4 In Germany the defined benefit pension plans are direct 28.3. Components of defined benefit plan Current service cost 6.9 2.8 assumptions under IAS 19 are set by reference to market pension promises which are unfunded and administered by recorded in comprehensive income Interest cost 6.4 4.4 conditions at the valuation date. Qualified independent actua service provider. The payments to plan participants start 2017 2016 Past service cost -0.2 0.0 aries have updated the actuarial valuations under IAS 19 of the after retirement or in case of disability or death. Benefits are Service cost: Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising from major defined benefit schemes operated by the Group to 31 based on the number of years worked and the final salary. The Current service cost 6.8 2.8 changes in demographic assumptions -0.7 -0.3 December 2017. The assumptions used by the actuaries are Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising from commencement of pension payments depends on the beginNet interest cost 4.5 2.3 changes in financial assumptions 3.0 24.1 chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions which, ning of the state-pension, which is the earliest at age 63 in Past service cost -0.2 0.0 Benefits paid -19.5 -5.9 due to the long-term nature of the schemes, may not necescase of early retirement and otherwise 65 for old age pension. Components of defined costs recorded in sarily be borne out in practice. The actuarial assumptions used profit or loss 11.1 5.1 Obligation as of December 31 362.4 105.7 The biggest defined benefit pension plan in Demag Cranes to calculate the benefit liabilities therefore vary according to the & Components GmbH is the Mannesmann Leistungsordnung Remeasurement on the net defined benefit country in which the plan is situated. The following table shows (MLO), which is closed to new employees. The monthly pension liability: Movements of the fair value of plan assets the assumptions, weighted by liabilities, used to value the prinbenefit provided by this plan is calculated as the ratio Individual The return on plan assets (excluding cipal defined benefit plans. amounts included in the net interest 2017 2016 pay/Average pay, times the years of service, times 3.07, and expense) gains (-) / losses (+) -1.2 -12.0 Fair value of plan assets as of January 1 72.6 63.2 2017 2016 has to be at least equal to 2.10 times the years of service. The Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising from Translation difference -5.0 -9.4 Germany changes in demographic assumptions -0.7 -0.3 net liability in Germany was EUR 236.1 million of which the MLO Business combinations 26.2 0.0 Discount rate % 1.58 1.80 Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) arising from plan was EUR 148.1 million. changes in financial assumptions 3.0 24.1 Reclassification of plan assets 0.7 5.6 Expected development of salaries % 2.36 2.10 Components of defined benefit plan costs Transfer to liabilities directly attributable to Expected development of pensions % 1.65 1.50 The Swiss pension plans are administered via pension recorded in other comprehensive income 1.1 11.9 assets held for sale 0.0 -0.4 Mortality table: Richttafeln 2005 G von funds, which are legally separated from the Group. The board Klaus Heubeck Interest income 1.9 2.1 of Trustees of the pension funds are equally composed of Total (income (-) / expense (+)) 12.2 17.0 Employee contributions 0.6 0.2 representatives of both the employer and employees. The TrusEmployer contributions 3.0 1.7 UK tees are required by law to act in the interest of all relevant The actuarial losses in 2017 and 2016 were mainly caused Discount rate % 2.50 2.70 Settlements 0.0 0.0 Expected development of pensions % 3.10 3.30 beneficiaries and are responsible for the investment policy with by the change of discount rates in the defined benefit plans of The return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in the net interest Mortality table: SAPS base table of S2PA, applied at year of birth, and CMI 2014 regard to the assets and the administration and financing of Germany, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. expense) 1.2 12.0 (2016: CMI 2014) projections with a long term improvement parameter of 1.5% (2016: 1.5%) per annum the benefits. The plans function in and comply with a large reguBenefits paid -6.8 -2.4 latory framework and comply with the local minimum funding Fair value of plan assets as of December 31 94.4 72.6 Switzerland requirements. The plans are open to new members. Both the Discount rate % 0.60 0.40 Company and employees pay contributions to fund the plans. 28.5. Major categories of plan assets at Expected development of salaries % 1.00 1.00 The pension plans qualify as defined benefit plan for IFRS the end of the reporting period Mortality table: BVG 2015 Generational and improvement factors CMI LTR purposes, because accruals are by law subject to a minimum 1.50%. 2017 2016 guaranteed rate of return and the plan has to guarantee a Equity instruments 32.5 23.1 Other certain legal minimum level of benefits. There is hence a risk Debt instruments 50.9 37.5 Discount rate % 1.04–12.00 1.50–12.00 that the Company may have to pay additional contributions. Insurances 1.0 0.0 Expected development of salaries % 0.89–8.50 1.50–8.00 Under the plans, participants are also insured against the Real estate 8.4 2.8 Expected development of pensions % 1.62–6.00 1.50–6.00 financial consequences of old age, disability and death. The net Others 1.6 9.1 liability in Switzerland was EUR 6.8 million of which the pension Total plan assets 94.4 72.6 The below table shows the % effect of a change in the signifiplan was EUR 6.5 million. cant actuarial assumptions used to determine the retirement The defined benefit plans typically expose the Company The plan assets do not contain any Konecranes shares or assets. benefits obligations in our main defined benefit pension obligato actuarial risks such as: investment risk, interest rate risk, Virtually all equity and debt instruments have quoted prices tion countries. The effect shows the increase or decrease in the longevity risk and salary risk. The investment risk is being in active markets. The plan assets originate from the United liability. In the calculation of the sensitivity of the discount rate mitigated by investing the funds both to equity and debt instruKingdom, Switzerland, Germany and India. It is the policy of the any effect from the return of plan assets has been ignored. ments. UK fund to invest approximately 40–50% to growth assets such The following tables summarize the components of net as equity instruments as well as property and growth funds and Sensitivity analysis Increase Decrease benefit expense recognized in the statement of profit or loss 50–60% to risk reducing assets such as corporate bonds and 0.5% points change in the discount rate -7.1% 8.0% and the funded status and amounts recognized in the balance fixed or index-linked gilts. The Swiss pension funds have a policy 0.5% points change in the expected development of salaries 0.4% -1.0% sheet for the respective plans: of investing their assets approximately for 40–60% in Swiss 0.5% points change in the expected bonds, about 15-35% in equities, and 15–25% in Swiss property development of pensions 5.5% -4.5% 114 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based tax-related costs after the performance periods or vesting Performance Share Plan 2017. The CEO will not be entitled to 29.2.Changes in the number of share on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions periods. As a rule, no reward will be paid if a plan participant’s sell shares paid as reward through the Performance Share Plan rewards in Performance Share Plan occurring at the end of the reporting period and may not be employment or service ends before the reward payment. The 2017–2021 for the CEO or the Performance Share Plan 2017 2017 2016 representative of the actual change. It is based on a change Performance Share Plan includes three performance periods, until he owns Konecranes shares worth EUR 750,000 in total. Number of Number of shares shares in the key assumption while holding all other assumptions calendar years 2017–2019, 2018–2020 and 2019–2021. The As of January 1 1,878,000 1,849,000 constant. A linear extrapolation of these amounts based on Board of Directors will resolve on the performance criteria and Ownership Obligations Share rewards granted 1,018,000 692,000 alternative changes in the assumptions as well as an addition on the required performance levels for each criterion at the A member of the Group Executive Board or the Senior ManageShare rewards awarded*) -766,688 0 of combined changes in the individual assumptions is not beginning of each performance period. ment must hold a minimum of 50 per cent of any net shares Share rewards expired -470,820 -523,000 possible. During the performance period 2017–2019, the plan offers given on the basis of these plans, until the member’s shareShare rewards forfeited -53,492 -140,000 There are no changes in the way the sensitivity analyses the key employees a possibility to earn reward based on holding in the company in total corresponds to the value of the Total as of December 31 1,605,000 1,878,000 were performed compared to the previous years. achieving the required performance levels based on the member’s annual salary and the member’s membership in the *) ­Performance Share Plan 2016 earning was 667,508 gross shares and of this The average duration of the defined benefit obligation Konecranes Group’s cumulative adjusted Earnings per Share Group Executive Board or the Senior Management continues. 334,239 net shares were delivered in 2017. weighted by the present value of the defined benefit obligation (EPS) during the financial years 2017–2019. Adjustments to The delivered shares are under transfer restriction until 31 December 2018. is 16 years (17 years in 2016). the EPS include defined restructuring costs, transaction costs The fair value of the equity-settled portion of the share rights The Group expects to contribute EUR 2.6 million to the above related to the MHPS acquisition, purchase price allocation granted is estimated at the date of grant using a Monte-Carlo defined benefit pension plans in 2018 (Employer contribution). amortization and other unusual items reported as adjustments simulation model, taking into account the terms and conditions 29.3. Changes in the number of share rewards by the company. The adjusted EPS includes the gain on the upon which the share rights were granted. The model simulates in Employee Share Savings Plan 29. Share based payments disposal of STAHL CraneSystems. The rewards to be paid on the the TSR and compares it against the group of principal compet2017 2016 basis of the performance period 2017–2019 correspond to an itors. It takes into account historical and expected dividends, Number of Number of shares shares Performance Share Plan approximate maximum total of 880,000 Konecranes Plc class A and the share price fluctuation covariance of the Group and its Outstanding as of January 1 137,474 142,081 The Board of Directors of Konecranes Plc resolved in 2015 on shares including also the proportion to be paid in cash. The plan competitors to predict the distribution of relative share perforShare rewards granted 34,800 46,420 a Performance share plan, which consisted of one three-year is directed to approximately 260 key employees, including the mance. Fair value of the cash-settled portion is measured at Share rewards awarded -41,691 -36,984 discretionary period. Earning during the three-year discretionary members of the Group Executive Board and the Senior Manageeach reporting date using a binomial option pricing model taking Share rewards expired 0 0 period beginning on 1 January, 2015 is based on the Konecranes ment during the performance period 2017–2019. The Board of into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruShare rewards forfeited -9,267 -14,043 Group’s cumulative EPS excluding restructuring costs and certain Directors will be entitled to reduce the rewards payable on the ments were granted and the current likelihood of achieving the Outstanding as of December 31 121,316 137,474 other one time items. The potentially earned reward will be paid basis of the performance period 2017–2019 if certain reward specified target. in spring 2018. If a key employee’s employment or service ends value cap is reached. before the end of the discretionary period, no reward will be Employee Share Savings Plan 29.4. Assumptions made in determining the fair value of paid on the basis of such a discretionary period. Restricted Share Unit Plan The Group has launched an Employee Share Savings Plan (ESSP) Performance Shares Plan The Board of Directors of Konecranes Plc resolved in 2016 to The Restricted Share Unit Plan is directed to selected key in which each participant will receive one free matching share for The fair value for the cash settled portion is remeasured at establish a share-based incentive plan directed to the Group key employees in Konecranes. The vesting periods will last for 12 every two acquired savings shares. Matching shares will be deliveach reporting date until the possible share delivery. The fair employees. The long-term incentive plan consists of one discreto 36 months. The prerequisite for reward payment is that a ered to a participant if the participant holds the acquired shares value of the liability will thus change in accordance with the tionary period, calendar year 2016. The reward from the plan key employee’s employment or service continues until the end from the plan until the end of the designated holding period. The Konecranes Plc share price. is based on the continuation of a key employee’s employment of the vesting period. The rewards to be allocated on the basis matching shares will be paid in Konecranes shares and partly in For the 2015–2017 vesting periods granted in 2015 and for or service and on the Konecranes Group’s adjusted earnings of the entire plan will amount to a maximum total of 200,000 cash. The expenses of the plan are recognized over the vesting the 2017–2019 vesting periods granted in 2017, the fair value before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA). Konecranes Plc class A shares including also the proportion period based on the quarterly acquired savings share amounts. for the equity settled portion based on non market vesting The rewards to be paid on the basis of the plan correspond to an to be paid in cash. The restricted share unit plan was not alloThe fair value of the equity-settled portion of the share options condition (adjusted EPS) and for the 2016–2018 vesting approximate maximum total of 700,000 Konecranes Plc shares cated during 2017. granted is estimated at the date of grant using a binominal option periods granted in 2016, the fair value for the equity settled including also the proportion to be paid in cash. The reward from pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon portion based on non market vesting condition (EBITDA) the fair the plan has been paid partly in Konecranes shares and partly in Performance Share Plan 2017–2021 for the CEO which the share options were granted. Fair value of the cash-setvalue for the equity settled portion based on non market vesting cash after the discretionary period, at the end of August 2017 to The CEO long-term incentive plan consists of one five-year tled portion is measured at each reporting date using a binomial condition has been determined at grant using the fair value of be used for taxes and tax-related costs arising from the reward performance period, calendar years 2017–2021. The potential option pricing model taking into account the terms and conditions Konecranes share as of the grant date and expected dividend to the key employees. The shares paid as reward may not be reward from the CEO Plan will be based on the Konecranes upon which the instruments were granted and the current likeliyield. transferred during a restriction period established for the shares. Group’s cumulative adjusted Earnings per Share (EPS) during hood of achieving the specified target. The restriction period begun from reward payment and will end on the financial years 2017–2019 and cumulative Earnings December 31, 2018. per Share (EPS) during the financial years 2020–2021. The 29.1. Expenses for employee service The Board of Directors of Konecranes Plc has resolved in rewards to be paid on the basis of the CEO Plan correspond to 2017 2016 2017 to establish a long-term incentive plans for the Group key a maximum total of 200,000 Konecranes Plc class A shares Expense arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions 5.0 1.8 employees and the President and CEO. The new share-based including also the proportion to be paid in cash. However, Expense arising from cash-settled incentive plans are a Performance Share Plan 2017 for the the shares paid and to be paid as reward, on the basis of the share-based payment transactions 8.6 3.7 Group key employees, a Restricted Share Unit Plan 2017 for performance periods of the Performance Share Plan 2017, Total expense arising from share-based payment transactions 13.6 5.5 selected Group key employees and a Performance Share Plan will be deducted from the payable reward. The CEO will have 2017–2021 for the President and CEO. The potential rewards a possibility to earn a total of 48,000 Konecranes Plc class The carrying amount of the liability arising from cash settled from the incentive plans will be paid partly in Konecranes Plc A shares including also the proportion to be paid in cash, on portion was EUR 6.3 million (EUR 6.9 million in 2016). class A shares and partly in cash to be used for taxes and the basis of the first performance period 2017–2019 of the 116 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements CEO LTI 2017 plan 2017 plan 2016 plan 2015 plan Total compensation to the Board of Directors Share price at grant, EUR 37.03 38.45 25.74 29.50 Number of Value of Compensation Total shares as part of compensation paid in cash, compensation, Share price at reporting period end 31.12., EUR 38.18 38.18 38.18 38.18 2017 compensation in shares, EUR EUR EUR Expected volatility, %*) 30.6% 33.7% 34.0% 29.0% Chairman of the Board 903 34,994 123,006 158,000 Risk-free interest rate, % 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Board members 2,900 112,361 483,639 596,000 Expected dividend per share, pa , EUR 1.1 1.0 1.0 1.0 Total 3,803 147,355 606,645 754,000 Expected contractual life in years 4.9 2.7 1.0 0.3 Weighted average fair value of the share rewards at the grant date 32.70 35.64 24.75 26.51 Number of Value of Compensation Total shares as part of compensation paid in cash, compensation, Model used Black-Scholes Black-Scholes Black-Scholes Black-Scholes 2016 compensation in shares, EUR EUR EUR Chairman of the Board 0 0 111,750 111,750 *) Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Konecranes share using monthly observations over corresponding maturity. Board members 0 0 500,902 500,902 Total 0 0 612,652 612,652 30. Related party transactions The related parties of Konecranes include subsidiaries (see ends before the closing of the Annual General Meeting in President and CEO Company list), associated companies, joint ventures and joint 2018, he or she is entitled to the prorated amount of the The Human Resources Committee reviews the President and CEO’s performance. Based on this review and relevant facts, the operations, pension fund in the United Kingdom and the key annual remuneration calculated on the basis of his or her Board sets the total compensation package for the President and CEO. management personnel of the Group and major shareholders. actual term in office. In addition, compensation of EUR 1,500 2017 2016 The key management personnel of the Group is comprised of was approved per meeting for attendance at Board committee Salary and benefits, EUR 664,836 467,071 the Board of Directors, the CEO and the Group Executive Board. meetings (EUR 1,500 in 2016). However, the chairman of Annual variable pay, EUR 575,500 143,500 audit committee is entitled to a compensation of EUR 3,000 Total 1,240,336 610,571 30.1. Key Management compensation (EUR 3,000 in 2016) per meeting for attendance at audit committee meetings. Expense of statutory pension plans 184,438 85,114 Board of Directors According to the proposal, 50% of the annual remuneration is Expense of voluntary pension plans 130,662 142,456 The remuneration packages for Board members are resolved by to be used for acquiring shares in the company. The remuneraTotal 315,100 227,570 the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on proposal by the Nomination may also be paid by transferring treasury shares based on tion Committee. The AGM 2017 confirmed an annual fee of EUR the authorization given to the board of directors by the general Shareholding in Konecranes Plc (number of shares)*) 28,315 16 140,000 for the Chairman of the Board (EUR 140,000 in 2016), meeting. In case such purchase of shares cannot be carried EUR 100,000 for the Vice Chairman of the Board (EUR 100,000 out due to reasons related either to the company or to a board Performance share rights allocated (number of share rights) 248,000 144,000 in 2016), and EUR 70,000 for other Board members (EUR member, the annual remuneration shall be paid entirely in cash. Share-based payment costs, EUR 934,340 457,545 70,000 in 2016). In case the term of office of a Board member Travel expenses will be compensated against receipt. Retirement age 63 years 63 years Period of notice 6 months 6 months 18 months salary 18 months salary Severance payment and fringe benefits and fringe benefits *) includes 24,000 shares, which are under transfer restriction until December 31, 2018 Group Executive Board & Senior Management Team In 2017 Konecranes had a two-tier operative management The Human Resources Committee of the Board will, based structure consisting of the Group Executive Board (GXB) and the upon a recommendation by the President and CEO, make Senior Management (SM). The GXB convenes as frequently as a proposal to the Board concerning the approval of the necessary, normally on a monthly basis. Business Areas have base compensation review and incentive levels for GXB their own management teams that convene on a regular basis. members. Only the GXB is classified to key management personnel due to The retirement age of the Finnish members of the Group Execthe decision making power. utive Board (excluding the President and CEO) is set according to The Group Executive Board consists of the following the Employees Pensions Act (TyEL). The Finnish members of the members: Group Executive Board also participate in the contribution-based • President and CEO group pension insurance scheme offered to key personnel in • Chief Financial Officer, Deputy CEO Finland. The defined contribution payment by the company is 1% • Executive Vice President, Business Area Service of annual salary excluding performance based compensation • Executive Vice President, Industrial Equipment (annual or long term incentives). The Finnish Group Executive • Executive Vice President, Port Solutions Board members also have life insurance and disability insur• Executive Vice President, Technologies, Chief Digital Office ances. Non-Finnish members have local insurances. • Executive Vice President, Strategy • Senior Vice President, Human Resources • Senior Vice President, General Counsel 118 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Group Executive Board excluding the President and CEO 31. Guarantees, lease commitments and contingent for such claims, the available insurance coverage and the reserves made, that the outcome of such actions, claims and other 2017 2016 liabilities proceedings, if unfavorable, would not have a material, adverse impact on the financial condition of the Group. Salary and benefits, EUR 2,297,895 2,047,243 Annual variable pay, EUR 1,895,783 498,009 2017 2016 32. Financial assets and liabilities Total 4,193,678 2,545,252 For own commercial obligations Guarantees 499.7 447.0 32.1. Carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities Expense of statutory pension plans 439,853 237,208 Operating lease liabilities (note 31.1) 121.6 110.5 2017 2016 Expense of voluntary pension plans 34,684 9,155 Other 19.8 0.2 Financial Financial Financial Financial assets / Financial Total 474,536 246,364 Total 641.0 557.6 Financial assets / assets / assets / liabilities assets / assets / liabilities liabilities liabilities at fair liabilities liabilities at fair value measured Carrying at fair value measured Carrying Shareholding in Konecranes Plc 31.1. Operating leases at fair value through at amounts value through at amounts (number of shares)*) 229,727 170,921 through income Loans and amortized by balance through income Loans and amortized by balance 2017 2016 Financial assets OCI statement receivables cost sheet item OCI statement receivables cost sheet item Minimum lease payments Current financial assets Performance share rights allocated (number of share right) 258,000 318,000 within 1 year 39.8 34.7 Account and other receivables 0.0 0.0 581.9 0.0 581.9 0.0 0.0 402.8 0.0 402.8 Share-based payment costs, EUR 2,157,687 485,868 1–5 years 49.6 67.4 Derivative financial instruments 17.1 20.6 0.0 0.0 37.7 3.0 28.1 0.0 0.0 31.1 *) Includes 60,000 shares, which are under transfer restriction until December over 5 years 32.2 8.4 Cash and cash equivalents 0.0 0.0 233.1 0.0 233.1 0.0 0.0 167.4 0.0 167.4 31, 2018. Total 121.6 110.5 Total 17.1 20.6 814.9 0.0 852.6 3.0 28.1 570.1 0.0 601.3 There were no loans outstanding to the Group Executive Board at end of the period 2017 and 2016. Operative rental expenses during the year 41.3 38.8 Financial liabilities There are no guarantees on behalf of the Group Executive Non-current financial liabilities Board in year 2017 and 2016. The Konecranes Group has major operating lease agreements Interest-bearing liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 600.8 600.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 54.2 54.2 The employee benefits to the key management personnel of factory and office buildings in Hyvinkää and Hämeenlinna. Other payables 0.0 0.0 0.0 10.5 10.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 6.9 6.9 Current financial liabilities of the Group were in total EUR 10.1 million in year 2017 (5.2 Finland. They are valid for 10–12 years unless the lessee million in year 2016). extends the lease period by five years. The lessee is entitled to Interest-bearing liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 157.9 157.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 269.5 269.5 exercise the 5-year extending option three consecutive times. Derivative financial instruments 5.8 1.0 0.0 0.0 6.8 11.0 7.2 0.0 0.0 18.2 30.2. Transactions with associated companies and joint The Group has various other operating leases for office equipAccount and other payables 0.0 0.0 0.0 251.0 251.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 130.5 130.5 arrangements ment, vehicles and premises with varying terms and renewal Total 5.8 1.0 0.0 1,020.1 1,027.0 11.0 7.2 0.0 461.1 479.3 2017 2016 rights. Leasing contracts comply with normal practices in the Additional information on financial instruments is presented in Note 34. Sales of goods and services with associated countries concerned. companies and joint arrangements 37.7 14.6 From time to time Konecranes provides customers with 32.2. Fair values Sales of goods and services with significant shareholders (Terex Corporation 4.1.– guarantees that guarantee Company’s obligations pursuant to Set out below is a comparison, by class, of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities: 24.5.2017) 13.1 0.0 the applicable customer contract. In sales of investment goods Carrying amount Fair value Receivables from associated companies and joint arrangements 11.1 5.5 (machinery) the typical guarantees are the following: Financial assets 2017 2016 2017 2016 Note • tender guarantees (bid bonds) given to the customer to secure Current financial assets Purchases of goods and services the bidding process Account and other receivables 581.9 402.8 581.9 402.8 19,20 from associated companies and joint arrangements 45.7 48.1 • advance payment guarantees given to the customer to secure Derivative financial instruments 37.7 31.1 37.7 31.1 34.1 Purchases of goods and services from their down payment for project Cash and cash equivalents 233.1 167.4 233.1 167.4 22 significant shareholders (Terex Corporation 4.1.–24.5.2017) 0.7 0.0 • performance guarantees to secure customers over the Total 852.6 601.3 852.6 601.3 Liabilities to associated companies and Company’s own performance in customer contracts, and joint arrangements 4.3 4.3 • warranty period guarantees to secure the correction of defects Financial liabilities Sales to and purchases from related parties are concluded during the warranty period. Non-current financial liabilities using terms equivalent to arm’s length transaction. Interest-bearing liabilities 600.8 54.2 608.3 54.2 27.1 Contingent liabilities relating to litigation Derivative financial instruments 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 34.1 Other payables 10.5 6.9 10.5 6.9 30.3. Transactions with Pension Fund in the United Kingdom Various legal actions, claims and other proceedings pend Current financial liabilities 2017 2016 against the Group in various countries. These actions, Interest-bearing liabilities 157.9 269.5 157.9 269.5 27.2 Employer contributions 1.4 1.4 claims and other proceedings are typical of this industry and Derivative financial instruments 6.8 18.2 6.8 18.2 34.1 consistent with a global business offering that encompasses Account and other payables 251.0 130.5 251.0 130.5 25.2 a wide range of products and services. These matters involve Total 1,027.0 479.3 1,034.6 479.3 contractual disputes, warranty claims, product liability (including design defects, manufacturing defects, failure to warn and The management assessed that cash and short-term deposits, trade receivables, trade payables, bank overdrafts and other asbestos legacy), employment, vehicles and other matters current liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments. involving claims of general liability. The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a While the final outcome of these matters cannot be predicted current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. Long-term fixed-rate and variable-rate borrowwith certainty, Konecranes has the opinion, based on the inforings are evaluated by the Group based on parameters such as interest rates and the risk characteristics of the loan. mation available to date and considering the grounds presented 120 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements IFRS 7 requires that the classification of financial instruments at fair value be determined by reference to the source of inputs 33. Management of financial risks Foreign exchange risk used to derive the fair value. This classification uses the following three-level hierarchy: The nature of Konecranes’ business and its global presence The Group’s global business operations generate foreign • Level 1 – quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments exposes it to a range of financial risks. These risks include exchange risk. However, most of the business units only have • Level 2 – inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the financial instrument, either directly (i.e. (i) market risks, which include potential unfavorable changes transactions in their own currency, i.e. these units have their as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodities (ii) sales and costs as well as internal funding from Konecranes • Level 3 – inputs for the financial instrument that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs) liquidity risk and (iii) credit and counterparty risk. Finance Corporation in their local home currency. Only 20 out of some 130 Group companies operate regularly in a foreign 33.1. Market risk currency. These companies hedge their foreign exchange risk 32.3. Hierarchy of fair values The responsibility of identifying, evaluating and controlling with Group Treasury. Depending on the business area and the The following table allocates financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value to the three levels of the fair value the financial risks arising from the Group’s global business probability of the cash flows, the hedging covers operative cash hierarchy. operations is divided between the business units and the flows for the next 1–24 months and is done by using internal Group Treasury. However, the Group uses an approach in foreign exchange forward contracts. In this way, Konecranes 2017 2016 which most of the management of financial risks is centralFinance Corporation can manage the foreign exchange risk Financial assets Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 ized to Konecranes’ Group Treasury. The Group Treasury funcof the whole Group. The foreign currency funding of the other Derivative financial instruments tions within the legal entity Konecranes Finance Corporation. Group companies and possibly some external foreign currency Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.0 37.7 0.0 0.0 4.7 0.0 By centralization and netting of internal foreign currency cash funding can net some of these foreign currency items. The Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 26.3 0.0 flows, the Group’s external hedging needs can be minimized. residual net exposure can be covered with commercial banks Fuel oil derivate 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 Konecranes Finance Corporation is not a profit center in the using foreign exchange forward contracts or currency options. Total 0.0 37.7 0.0 0.0 31.1 0.0 sense that it would pursue to maximize its profits. The Company Currency derivatives belonging to hedge accounting are aims to serve the operating companies of the Group in reducing managed in a separate portfolio than derivatives hedging other Other financial assets their financial risks. commercial flows and funding and cannot thus be netted out Cash and cash equivalents 233.1 0.0 0.0 167.4 0.0 0.0 The Group’s global business operations involve market risks against other internal items. These instruments are used when Total 233.1 0.0 0.0 167.4 0.0 0.0 in the form of currency, interest rate, commodity, credit and the hedging effect cannot be obtained through internal netting Total financial assets 233.1 37.7 0.0 167.4 31.1 0.0 liquidity risks. The Group’s objective is to increase the shortand matching of cash flows within the Group. term stability of the financial environment for the business operThe business units’ commercial bids in a foreign currency Financial liabilities ations by reducing the negative effects caused by price fluctuacan be hedged by using currency options or exchange forwards, Derivative financial instruments tions and other uncertainties in the financial markets. but, in general, using currency clauses covers the risk. Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.0 6.7 0.0 0.0 18.0 0.0 Business units hedge their risks internally with the Group For certain large crane projects, the Group applies hedge Currency options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Treasury. As a result of this, most of the financial risks of the accounting under IAS 39. Hedges are done by using foreign Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Group are concentrated into one company, Konecranes Finance exchange forward contracts. Currently, only USD denominated Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 Corporation, and can be evaluated and controlled in an efficient projects are included in the hedge accounting. The hedge Total 0.0 6.8 0.0 0.0 18.2 0.0 way. accounting portfolio comprises both USD sales and purchases Almost all funding, cash management and foreign exchange where gross flows are hedged separately. At the end of 2017, Other financial liabilities with banks and other external counterparties are centralized to the hedge accounting net cash flows totaled USD 214 million Interest bearing liabilities 0.0 758.6 0.0 0.0 323.6 0.0 Konecranes Finance Corporation in accordance with the Group’s (USD 265 million in 2016). Other payables 0.0 0.0 6.3 0.0 0.0 6.9 Total 0.0 758.6 6.3 0.0 323.6 6.9 Treasury Policy. In a few special cases, when the local central The following table shows the transaction exposure of Total financial liabilities 0.0 765.5 6.3 0.0 341.8 6.9 bank regulation prohibits using group services in hedging Konecranes Finance Corporation as of December 31, 2017, and funding, this must be done directly between an operating and December 31, 2016 (in EUR millions): There were no significant changes in classification of fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities in the period 2016 to company and a bank under the supervision of the Group 2017. There were also no significant movements between the fair value hierarchy classifications. Treasury. The level 3 valuations in other payables are contingent consideration liabilities resulting from business combinations or the Konecranes Finance Corporation uses a treasury system, acquisition of non-controlling interest and the cash settled share based payment liability. which enables practically a real-time processing of transactions and in-depth records of activities and performance. The standard reporting is done on a weekly basis and it covers group-level commercial and financial cash flows, foreign currency transaction exposure, debt positions, portfolio of derivatives and counterparty credit exposure for financial transactions. In addition, all Group companies participate in the monthly managerial and statutory reporting. 122 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2017 2016 See Note 34 for the notional and fair values of derivative Approximately 94% of the Group’s interest-bearing liabilities are 33.2. Credit and counterparty risks AUD 5 8 financial instruments. denominated in euro (85% in 2016). See note 27.3 for the currency Credit risk arises from the potential failure of a commercial BRL 1 2 Changes in currency rates can affect the profitability and split of outstanding debt. counterparty to meet its commercial payment obligations. CAD 8 -6 equity of the Group. The US dollar has the biggest impact, as The portion of the Group’s long term debt of total debt is To limit this risk, the Group applies a conservative credit CHF -2 0 many of the large crane projects outside the United States are related to the Group’s gearing ratio. The higher the ratio is, the policy towards customers. It is Konecranes practice to review CLP 0 1 denominated in USD and because the Group has a lot of local bigger the share of long term debt is of the total loan portfolio customers carefully before entering into formal business relaCNY -3 5 business operations in the United States. A depreciation of the in line with principles set in the capital structure management. tionships and to require credit reports from new customers. CZK -6 0 USD would have a negative impact. The interest rate risk related to long term loans may be hedged Customer credit risks are mitigated with advance payments, DKK -2 0 with interest rate derivatives such as interest rate swaps for The following table shows the theoretical effects that letters of credits, payment guarantees and credit insurance GBP -6 -5 changes in the EUR/USD exchange rate would have on the which hedge accounting is applied. Other instruments that can where applicable. With these actions and careful monitoring of IDR 0 5 Group’s annual EBIT and equity. A decline of the average rate be used for which no hedge accounting is applied are forward the customer payments credit risks can be mitigated. JPY 3 0 of US dollar against euro for 10% increases EBIT by EUR 35.2 rate agreements, interest rate futures and interest rate options. The business units manage credit risks related to their NOK 1 2 million (25.6 million in 2016) and decreases equity by EUR 3.5 A change of one percentage point in interest rates in the commercial flows. There is currently no significant concentration PLN 1 1 million (increase 1.2 million in 2016). The below table provides Group’s long term debt portfolio would have the following effect of credit risk regarding the commercial activities, as the number SEK -118 -46 a sensitivity analysis over the past two years: on the Group’s income statement and equity: of customers is high and their geographic distribution is wide. SGD -14 4 It is the Group’s policy not to fund its customers beyond regular THB 3 4 Change in 2017 2017 2016 2016 2017 2016 payment terms. See note 19 for a table of an aging analysis USD 248 328 EUR/USD rate EBIT Equity EBIT Equity Change in Income 2017 Income 2016 interest rates statement Equity statement Equity of accounts receivable. The theoretical maximum credit risk ZAR 0 1 +10 % -28.8 +2.9 -20.9 -1.0 +1 -2.7 +0.0 -0.0 +0.0 equals the carrying amount of all receivables. -10 % +35.2 -3.5 +25.6 +1.2 The following table shows the translation exposure, which -1 +0.1 -0.0 +0.0 -0.0 Counterparty risk arises from the potential failure of a represents the equity of the Group in a local currency as of The EBIT effect comprises transaction exposure for euro financial institution to meet its payment obligations regarding December 31, 2017, and December 31, 2016 (in EUR millions): based companies having frequent sales in USD and the transThe effect on income statement is comprised of the Group’s financial instruments. All credit risks related to other financial lation exposure from EBIT generated in USD translated into floating long term debt which is recognized through the stateinstruments than the regular accounts receivable are managed 2017 2016 euros. The transaction position is estimated for 2017 as the ment of income. The effect on equity is comprised of the by Konecranes Group Treasury. There is no substantial concenAED 11 7 USD positions changes from one year to another and these changes in fair value of interest rate swaps which are hedging tration of credit risk regarding the financial instruments, since AUD 5 6 changes are mainly due to timing of major ports projects and the debt portfolio. The effect of one percentage point decline is investments are rare and hedging instruments are done with BRL 10 5 currencies used in them. The estimate of the effects is based calculated with a 0% interest rate floor. The proportion of fixed a number of banks. Additionally, counterparties for financial CAD 11 29 on the assumption that the USD denominated transactions interest loans in the loan portfolio can be increased by means instruments are limited to the core banks of the Group. These CHF 4 1 are not hedged. In practice, however, all large projects with of interest rate derivatives. As a consequence of this treasury are all major banks with good credit ratings. The majority of all CLP 18 15 long maturities generating a substantial portion of the annual policy, the Group’s average interest rate level, in general, can be financial instruments are of short-term nature, with maturity of CNY 126 68 changes in the transaction position are hedged and subject to higher than the market level of short-term interest rates when less than one year. There are no significant deposits or loans CZK 9 0 project specific pricing. The change in equity is the translation low rates prevail and, on the other hand, lower than the market granted with external counterparties. DKK 4 1 exposure on the Group’s equity in USD. level when high rates prevail. The Group has counterparty risk in form of cash holdings GBP 20 -1 Appreciating US dollar has a positive impact on Group’s in several banks around the world. Despite the active cash HKD -3 0 operating margin when it impacts the revenues and costs Commodity risk management structures the Group has in place, cash holdings HUF 4 4 reported in euros asymmetrically. This is due to the fact globally with several banks are needed to ensure the liquidity of By using electricity derivatives, the Group strives to reduce INR 7 7 that the exchange rate change impacts mostly both Group’s the negative effect caused by electricity price fluctuation. The Group companies. The Group Treasury follows closely the expoIDR -5 -5 revenues and costs and partly only either of these. If the overall importance of the energy price risk is small compared to sure in the Group according to principles set out in the Treasury JPY -8 -8 EBIT generated in USD based entities as well as cash flows other financial risks and cannot be described as significant. Policy and takes necessary actions for reducing the risk. KRW -1 0 from long lasting projects, as they are subject to project See note 34 for the notional and fair values of derivative A credit risk is run on the financial assets of the Group, MAD 1 0 specific pricing which in practice may be adjusted to reflect financial instruments (including electricity forwards). which consist of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and MXN 5 4 the currency rate changes, are excluded from the sensitivity Steel prices are fixed as a normal part of the procurement certain derivatives arising from default of the other party, with MYR 1 1 analysis the effect on EBIT is estimated to be approximately a process. Price changes naturally affect the future procurement, a maximum risk equal to the carrying amount of these instruNOK -3 3 EUR 9 million increase (EUR 6 million in 2016) when the dollar but these changes can be taken into consideration in the price ments. PEN 4 4 appreciates 10 percent. quotes to the end customers. PHP 1 1 PLN 5 2 In large crane projects, the steel structures are sub-con33.3. Liquidity risks RUB 6 10 Interest rate risk tracted and as a normal part of the sub-contracting process, Liquidity risks concern the availability of liquid assets or SAR 12 15 Changes in market interest rates have an impact on the Group’s the steel is included in the price of the sub-contracting (i.e. the funding. Lack of funding might jeopardize normal business operSGD 13 27 net interest expenses and the market value of interest rate price is fixed with the sub-contractor). ations and eventually might endanger the ability to fulfill daily SEK -17 26 derivatives. The objective for interest rate risk management is The Group can procure steel and steel components and thus payment obligations. THB -1 -1 to reduce the volatility impact the market interest rate changes may have an inventory of those. Market price fluctuation of steel For managing the liquidity risks, the Group has established UAH -14 -16 cause by optimizing the allocation between fixed and floating can impact the profitability of customer projects or cause invenEUR 400 million committed revolving credit facility with an interUSD -30 12 interest rates according to principles set in capital structure tory obsolescence. national loan syndication (2017–2023). At the end of 2017 the VND -1 0 management. facility was unutilized. To cover the short-term funding needs, ZAR 5 1 Konecranes Finance Corporation can borrow from institutional 124 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements investors through domestic commercial paper program (totaling value is recognized in the consolidated statement of income. The cash flow hedges in 2017 and 2016 for the expected EUR 500 million). In addition, business units around the world When the derivative is designated as a cash-flow hedge (hedge future sales and purchases were assessed to be highly have overdraft facilities totaling some EUR 200 million to cover accounting) the effective part of the change in fair value is effective and a net unrealized loss, with a deferred tax asset the day-to-day funding needs. recognized in other comprehensive income. Any ineffective part relating to the hedging instruments, is included in OCI. The It is the Group’s policy under normal conditions to keep a is recognized in the consolidated statement of income. The amounts recognized in OCI are shown in the table below and minimum amount of cash in the balance sheet as deposits foreign exchange forward contracts are measured based on the the reclassifications to profit or loss during the year are as or any other liquid assets to maximize the return of capital closing date’s observable spot exchange rates and the quoted shown in the consolidated statement of income. employed. Cash and cash equivalents totalled EUR 233.1 yield curves of the respective currencies. Interest rate swaps million at the end of 2017 (EUR 194.1 million in 2016). are measured based on present value of the cash flows, which 34.2. Fair value reserve of cash flow hedges See note 27.3 for the maturity profile of the Group’s financial are discounted based on the quoted yield curves. 2017 2016 liabilities. Balance as of January 1 15.0 -9.1 34.1. Nominal and fair values of Gains and losses deferred to equity (fair value reserve) -5.3 30.1 33.4 Capital structure management derivative financial instruments Change in deferred taxes 1.1 -6.0 The primary objective of the Group’s capital structure manage2017 2017 2016 2016 Nominal Fair Nominal Fair Balance as of December 31 10.8 15.0 ment is to ensure that it maintains a good credit status and a value value value value healthy capital ratio to support its business operations. At the Foreign exchange forward contracts 1,006.1 31.0 878.1 -13.2 same time, the Group also aims to maximize shareholder value Currency options 0.0 0.0 1,571.8 26.3 by effective use of capital. Interest rate swaps 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 The Group manages its capital structure and fine-tunes it Fuel oil derivative 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.1 to adjust to probable changes in economic conditions. These Electricity forward contracts 0.5 -0.1 0.8 -0.2 actions may include adjusting the dividend payment to shareTotal 1,006.6 30.9 2,451.2 12.9 holders, buying back own shares or issuing new shares. The Group monitors its capital structure using gearing ratio. See note 32.3. for the fair values of the derivatives recognized This is calculated as a ratio of interest-bearing liabilities less in assets and liabilities liquid assets less loans receivable to total equity. At the end of 2017, the gearing ratio was 41.1% (29.1% in 2016). Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments The Group has a quantitative target for the capital structure The Group enters into other foreign exchange and electricity in which the interest-bearing net debt to equity ratio (gearing) forward contracts or currency options with the intention of should be below 80%. reducing the risks of expected sales and purchases, these The Group decides on the split between long-term and shortother contracts are not designated in hedge relationships and term debt in relation to the gearing ratio level. The following are measured at fair value through profit or loss. table shows the rough guidelines for the portion of long-term debt of total debt under different gearing ratio levels: Cash flow hedges Gearing ratio level Portion of long–term of total debt Foreign currency risk Under 50% Under 1/3 Foreign exchange forward contracts and options measured at fair Between 50–80% Between 1/3 and 2/3 value through OCI are designated as hedging instruments in cash Over 80% Over 2/3 flow hedges of forecast sales and purchases in US dollar. These forecasted transactions are highly probable, and they comprise The Group monitors the gearing ratio level on a weekly basis. about 45.2% of the Group’s total hedged transaction flows. During 2017, the Group introduced the above mentioned quanThe foreign exchange forward contract balances vary with titative target for net debt to equity ratio. In previous year, the the level of expected foreign currency sales and purchases optimal interest-bearing net debt to equity ratio (gearing) was and changes in foreign exchange forward rates. considered to be 50-80%. No other changes have been made in At the inception of these deals the Company assesses the objectives, policies or processes concerning the past year. whether the critical terms of the foreign currency forward The objectives of the Group’s capital management have been contracts match the terms of the expected highly probable met in recent years. forecast transactions. On a quarterly basis the Company performs a quantitative effectiveness test using the dollar 34. Hedge activities and derivatives value method approach by comparison of past changes in Derivatives are initially recorded in the balance sheet at fair the cash flows of the hedged item that are attributable to the value and subsequently measured at fair value at each balance hedged risk with past changes in the cash flows of the hedging sheet date. All derivatives are carried as assets when fair value instrument and reviews whether the actual results of the is positive and liabilities when fair value is negative. Derivahedge are within a range of 80–125%. As a result, no hedge tive instruments that are not designated as hedges (hedge ineffectiveness arose that would require recognition through accounting) are measured at fair value, and the change in fair profit or loss. 126 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 127 Konecranes Group 2013–2017 Calculation of key figures Business development 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Net profit for the period Return on equity (%): X 100 Orders received MEUR 3,007.4 1,920.7 1,965.5 1,903.5 1,920.8 Total equity (average during the period) Order book MEUR 1,535.8 1,038.0 1,036.5 979.5 893.5 Net sales MEUR 3,136.4 2,118.4 2,126.2 2,011.4 2,099.6 Income before taxes + interest paid + other financing cost of which outside Finland MEUR 3,030.8 1,939.8 2,050.7 1,942.5 2,025.1 Return on capital employed (%): X 100 Total amount of equity and liabilities non-interest bearing debts Export from Finland MEUR 655.6 792.7 633.4 621.3 653.7 Personnel on average 15,519 11,398 11,934 11,920 11,987 (average during the period) Personnel on December 31 16,371 10,951 11,887 11,982 11,832 Capital expenditure MEUR 35.7 33.8 49.3 60.0 65.7 Current assets Current ratio: as % of net sales % 1.1% 1.6% 2.3% 3.0% 3.1% Current liabilities Research and development costs MEUR 36.0 22.3 28.7 28.9 25.6 as % of Group net sales % 1.1% 1.1% 1.4% 1.4% 1.2% Shareholders' equity Equity to asset ratio (%): X 100 Profitability Total amount of equity and liabilities advance payment received Net sales MEUR 3,136.4 2,118.4 2,126.2 2,011.4 2,099.6 Interest-bearing liabilities liquid assets loans receivable Interest-bearing net debt / Equity (%): X 100 Total equity Operating profit (including restructuring costs) MEUR 318.3 84.9 63.0 115.8 84.5 as % of net sales % 10.1% 4.0% 3.0% 5.8% 4.0% Net profit for the shareholders of the parent company Earnings per share: Income before taxes MEUR 275.6 62.1 55.4 107.4 75.5 Average number of shares outstanding as % of net sales % 8.8% 2.9% 2.6% 5.3% 3.6% Net profit for the shareholders of the parent company Net income (incl. non-controlling interest) MEUR 225.0 37.6 30.8 74.6 49.4 Earnings per share, diluted: Average fully diluted number of shares outstanding as % of net sales % 7.2% 1.8% 1.4% 3.7% 2.4% Key figures and balance sheet Equity attributable to the shareholders of the parent company Equity per share: Number of shares outstanding Equity (incl. non-controlling interest) MEUR 1,279.4 445.5 456.0 449.2 444.5 Balance Sheet MEUR 3,562.9 1,529.9 1,484.9 1,477.4 1,482.0 Return on equity % 26.1 8.3 6.8 16.7 10.9 Net cash flow from operating activities Cash flow per share: Return on capital employed % 23.7 10.3 9.5 17.0 11.6 Average number of shares outstanding Current ratio 1.3 1.1 1.1 1.3 1.2 Equity to asset ratio % 39.2 32.9 34.8 35.2 34.0 Dividend per share Net working capital MEUR 325.2 304.3 317.4 263.7 289.4 Effective dividend yield (%): X 100 Interest-bearing net debt MEUR 525.3 129.6 203.2 149.5 187.3 Share price at the end of financial year Interest-bearing net debt / Equity % 41.1 29.1 44.6 33.3 42.1 Share price at the end of financial year Shares in figures Price per earnings: Earnings per share Earnings per share, basic EUR 2.88 0.64 0.53 1.28 0.85 Earnings per share, diluted EUR 2.88 0.64 0.53 1.28 0.85 Equity per share EUR 15.96 7.58 7.79 7.75 7.56 Non interest-bearing current assets + deferred tax assets Cash flow per share EUR 3.19 1.87 0.67 2.56 2.08 Net working capital: (excluding Purchase Price Allocation) Non interest-bearing current liabilities Dividend per share EUR 1.20*) 1.05 1.05 1.05 1.05 deferred tax liabilities (excluding Purchase Price Allocation) provisions Dividend / earnings % 41.7 164.1 199.8 81.7 123.4 Effective dividend yield % 3.1 3.1 4.6 4.4 4.1 Interest-bearing net debt: Interest-bearing liabilities (non current and current) cash and Price / earnings 13.3 52.8 43.6 18.5 30.4 cash equivalents loans receivable (non current and current) Trading low / high**) EUR 31.52/42.64 17.92/36.89 20.98/34.98 18.63/27.60 20.45/28.89 Average share price **) EUR 36.72 25.38 27.73 23.47 25.30 Share price on December 31**) EUR 38.18 33.78 22.90 23.82 25.86 Year-end market capitalization: Number of shares outstanding multiplied by the share price Year-end market capitalization MEUR 3,006.9 1,984.6 1,345.0 1,380.2 1,495.4 at the end of year Number traded***) (1,000) 161,890 138,110 141,080 111,667 105,051 Stock turnover % 205.6 235.1 240.2 192.7 181.7 Average number of shares outstanding, basic (1,000) 78,273 58,748 58,542 57,909 57,684 Average number of personnel: Calculated as average of number of personnel in quarters Average number of shares outstanding, diluted (1,000) 78,273 58,748 58,542 58,034 57,877 Number of shares outstanding, at end of the period (1,000) 78,756 58,751 58,732 57,944 57,828 Number of shares outstanding: Total number of shares treasury shares *) The Board’s proposal to the AGM **) Source: Nasdaq Helsinki ***) Source: Fidessa 128 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 129 Company list Company list (1,000 EUR) Subsidiaries owned by the Group Book value of shares Group’s share, % Subsidiaries owned by the parent company Book value of shares Parent company’s share, % Group’s share, % Hungary: Konecranes Kft. 889 100 Finland: Konecranes Finance Oy 46,448 100 100 Konecranes Supply Hungary Kft. 3,899 100 Konecranes Finland Oy 17,163 26.02 100 India: Konecranes Private Limited 31,693 100 Konecranes Global Oy 102,391 100 100 Voima Cranes & Components Pvt. Ltd. 65 100 Indonesia: Pt. Konecranes 0 100 Italy: Demag Cranes & Components S.r.l. 13,997 100 Subsidiaries owned by the Group Book value of shares Group’s share, % Donati Sollevamenti S.r.l. 2,561 100 Australia: Konecranes Pty. Ltd. 176 100 Konecranes S.r.l. 2,490 100 Austria: Konecranes Ges.m.b.H. 22,557 100 MHPS Italia S.r.l. 0 100 Demag Cranes & Components GesmbH 19,219 100 Japan: Konecranes Company, Ltd. 5,141 100 Bangladesh: Konecranes (Bangladesh) Ltd. 99 100 Latvia: SIA Konecranes Latvija 2 100 Belgium: S.A. Konecranes N.V. 6,150 100 Lithuania: UAB Konecranes 139 100 Brazil: Konecranes Demag Brasil Ltda. 32,689 100 Luxembourg: Materials Handling International S.A. 300 100 Canada: 3016117 Nova Scotia ULC 0 100 Malaysia: Konecranes Sdn. Bhd. 750 100 Hydramach ULC 0 100 Mexico: Konecranes Mexico S.A. de C.V. 2,188 100 Kaverit Cranes and Service ULC 0 100 Morocco: Port Equipment Maghreb S.a.r.l. 50 100 Konecranes Canada Inc. 893 100 The Netherlands: Konecranes B.V. 4,201 100 MHE Canada ULC 0 100 Konecranes Holding B.V. 313,851 100 Overhead Crane Ltd. 0 100 Port Software Solutions B.V. 43,080 69.78 Chile: Konecranes Chile SpA 1 100 TBA B.V. 3,678 100 China: Cranes and Parts Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 6,397 100 Norway: Konecranes AS 5,227 100 Dalian Konecranes Company Ltd. 1,922 100 Konecranes Norway Holding AS 3,588 100 Demag Cranes & Components (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 36,204 100 Peru: Konecranes Peru S.R.L. 0 100 Demag Weihua (Liaoning) Material Handling Machinery Co., Ltd. 6,410 51 Philippines: Konecranes Philippines Inc. 449 100 Fantuzzi Group (Shanghai) Ltd. 0 100 Poland: Konecranes Sp. z o.o. 810 100 Konecranes (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 0 100 Terex Materials Handling Sp. z o.o. 549 100 Konecranes (Shanghai) Company Ltd. 4,015 100 Portugal: Konecranes MHPS, Lda. 2,704 100 Konecranes Manufacturing (Jiangsu) Co., Ltd. 26,941 100 Qatar: Arabian Cranes & Services Qatar LLC *) 0 49 Konecranes Port Machinery (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 7,077 100 Republic of Korea: MHPS Cranes Korea Co., Ltd 48 100 Morris Crane Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 0 100 Romania: S.C. Konecranes S.A. 98 100 Noell Crane Systems (China), Ltd. 11,777 70 S.C. TBA RO s.r.l. 10 100 SWF Krantechnik Co., Ltd. 632 100 Russia: AO Konecranes 160 100 Czech Republic: Konecranes CZ s.r.o. 1,168 100 OOO Demag MHPS Rus 919 100 Konecranes and Demag s.r.o. 1,655 100 Saudi Arabia: Saudi Cranes & Steel Works Factory Co. Ltd. 12,951 100 Denmark: Konecranes Demag A/S 14,159 100 Singapore: KCI Cranes Holding (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 49,117 100 Estonia: Konecranes Oü 0 100 Konecranes Pte. Ltd. 1,937 100 Finland: Nosturiexpertit Oy 10 100 SWF Krantechnik Pte. Ltd. 156 100 Permeco Oy 113 100 Slovakia: Konecranes Slovakia s.r.o. 200 100 Suomen Teollisuusosa Oy 5,811 100 Slovenia: Konecranes, d.o.o. 200 100 France: KCI Holding France S.A. 461 100 South Africa: Konecranes Pty. Ltd. 3,356 100 Konecranes (France) SAS 15,531 100 Terex MHPS (Pty) Ltd 79 100 MHPS Cranes France SAS 63,323 100 Terex Port Equipment Southern Africa (Pty) Ltd 1,655 100 Noell Reggiane France SARL 1,610 100 Spain: Demag Cranes & Components S.A.U. 17,534 100 Verlinde SAS 10,720 100 Konecranes Iberica S.L.U. 31,799 100 Germany: Demag Cranes & Components GmbH 1,093,110 100 Sweden: Konecranes AB 1,389 100 Eurofactory GmbH 1,239 100 Konecranes Lifttrucks AB 23,605 100 Konecranes GmbH 482,300 100 Konecranes Sweden Holding AB 1,682 100 Konecranes Holding GmbH 315,262 100 Ulvaryd Fastighets AB 1,320 100 Konecranes Lifting Systems GmbH 804 100 Switzerland: Demag Cranes & Components GmbH 15,486 100 Konecranes MHPS Real Estate GmbH Co. & KG 33,652 94 Konecranes AG 1,719 100 Konecranes Real Estate Verwaltungs GmbH 0 100 Thailand: Konecranes (Thailand) Ltd.*) 105 49 Kranservice Rheinberg GmbH 8,926 100 Turkey: Konecranes Ticaret Ve Servis Limited Sirketi 93 100 Noell Crane Systems GmbH 15,680 100 Ukraine: Konecranes Ukraine PJSC 2,048 100 SWF Krantechnik GmbH 15,500 100 PJSC Zaporozhje Kran Holding” 636 100 Greece: Konecranes Hellas Lifting Equipment and Services S.A. 60 100 PJSC Zaporozhcran 168 90.43 Hong Kong: Konecranes Hong Kong Limited 0 100 130 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 131 Company list Parent company statement of income – FAS Subsidiaries owned by the Group Book value of shares Group’s share, % (1,000 EUR) Jan 1–Dec 31 2017 Jan 1–Dec 31 2016 United Arab Emirates: Demag Cranes & Components Holding Ltd. 0 100 Note: Konecranes Middle East FZE 1,774 100 Sales 0 0 Terex Material Handling (Middle East) FZE 13,360 100 Other operating income 0 2,500 United Kingdom: Demag Cranes and Components Guarantee Ltd. 0 100 Demag Cranes & Components Holdings Ltd. 10,078 100 2 Depreciation and impairments -54 -51 KCI Holding UK Ltd. 13,656 100 3 Other operating expenses -32,125 -39,807 Konecranes Demag UK Limited 6,385 100 Lloyds Konecranes Pension Trustees Ltd. 0 100 Operating profit -32,179 -37,359 Morris Material Handling Ltd. 6,045 100 TBA Doncaster Limited 1,030 53.03 4 Financial income and expenses 61,542 24,757 TBA Leicester Limited 9,481 62.8 UKMHPS Limited 51,112 100 Income before appropriations and taxes 29,362 -12,601 U.S.A. Demag Cranes & Components Corp. 56,634 100 KCI Holding USA Inc. 53,901 100 5 Appropriations 42,983 60,450 Konecranes, Inc. 44,434 100 6 Income taxes -7,183 -4,278 Konecranes Nuclear Equipment & Services, LLC 0 100 MMH Americas, Inc. 0 100 Net income 65,163 43,570 MMH Holdings, Inc. 0 100 Morris Material Handling, Inc. 59,566 100 PHMH Holding Company 0 100 R&M Materials Handling, Inc. 6,837 100 Vietnam: Konecranes Vietnam Co., Ltd 0 100 *) Konecranes Group has majority representation on the entity's board of directors and approves all major operational decisions and thereby Konecranes consolidates the entity in the Group's financial statements. Other shares and joint operations Assets value Group’s share, % Estonia: AS Konesko 4,448 49.46 Finland: Kiinteistöosakeyhtiö Kuikantorppa 261 50 Investments accounted for using the equity method Assets value Group’s share, % China: Guangzhou Technocranes Company, Ltd. 784 25 Jiangyin Dingli Shengshai High Tech Industrial Crane Company, Ltd. 527 30 Shanghai High Tech Industrial Crane Company, Ltd. 2,185 28 Finland: Fantuzzi Noell Baltic Oy 837 25 France: Boutonnier Adt Levage S.A. 336 25 Levelec S.A. 220 20 Manulec S.A. 212 25 Manelec S.A.R.L. 79 25 S.E.R.E. Maintenance S.A. 143 25 Germany: AQZ Ausbildungsund Qualifizierungszentrum Düsseldorf GmbH 0 30 Singapore: MHE-Demag Pte. Ltd. 62,822 50 Switzerland: Demag IP Holdings GmbH 50 50 United Arab Emirates: Crane Industrial Services LLC 1,647 49 Available-for-sale investments Book value of shares Group’s share, % Finland: East Office of Finnish Industries Oy 50 5.26 Fimecc Oy 120 5.69 Levator Oy 0 19 Vierumäen Kuntorinne Oy 345 3.3 France: Heripret Holding SAS 53 19 Malaysia: Kone Products & Engineering Sdn. Bhd. 13 10 Venezuela: Gruas Konecranes CA 20 10 Others: 224 Total: 825 132 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 133 Parent company balance sheet – FAS Parent company balance sheet – FAS (1,000 EUR) Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 (1,000 EUR) Dec 31, 2017 Dec 31, 2016 Note: Note: ASSETS SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 11 EQUITY NON-CURRENT ASSETS Share capital 30,073 30,073 Tangible assets Share premium account 39,307 39,307 7 Machinery and equipment 302 361 Paid in capital 767,074 68,691 Advance payments 229 0 Retained earnings 107,905 146,678 531 361 Net income for the period 65,163 43,570 1,009,521 328,318 8 Investments Investments in Group companies 153,040 153,040 APPROPRIATIONS Other shares and similar rights of ownership 170 170 Depreciation difference 74 58 153,210 153,210 LIABILITIES Total non-current assets 153,741 153,572 Non-current liabilities CURRENT ASSETS Other long-term liabilities 248,432 0 Long-term receivables 248,432 0 Loans receivable from Group companies 1,012,298 122,695 1,012,298 122,695 Provisions 67 0 Short-term receivables Current liabilities Accounts receivable 1 1 Accounts payable 245 3,715 Amounts owed by Group companies Liabilities owed to Group companies Accounts receivable 4,072 2,683 Accounts payable 373 406 10 Deferred assets 97,687 62,047 12 Accruals 2 3,868 Other receivables 156 509 Other short-term liabilities 87 101 10 Deferred assets 71 10,315 12 Accruals 9,228 15,360 101,987 75,556 9,936 23,450 Cash in hand and at banks 3 3 Total liabilities 258,435 23,450 Total current assets 1,114,288 198,254 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,268,030 351,825 TOTAL ASSETS 1,268,030 351,825 134 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 135 Parent company cash flow – FAS Notes to the parent company’s financial statement (1,000 EUR) Jan 1–Dec 31, 2017 Jan 1–Dec 31, 2016 1. Accounting principles 4. Financial income and expenses The financial statements of the company have been prepared 2017 2016 Cash flow from operating activities in euro and in accordance with accounting principles generally Financial income from long-term investments: Operating income -32,179 -37,359 accepted in Finland. Dividend income from Group companies 35.5 29.0 Adjustments to operating profit Dividend income total 35.5 29.0 Depreciation and impairments 54 51 Statement of income Group contributions from subsidiaries 60,500 25,000 (1,000,000 EUR) Interest income from long-term receivables: Operating income before changes in net working capital 28,375 -12,307 From Group companies 21.5 0.3 2. Depreciation and impairments Other interest income 7.2 0.0 Change in interest-free short-term receivables 2,143 893 2017 2016 Interest income from long-term receivables Change in interest-free short-term liabilities -16,335 2,278 total 28.7 0.3 Machinery and equipment 0.1 0.1 Change in net working capital -14,192 3,171 Total 0.1 0.1 Financial income from long-term investments total 64.2 29.3 Cash flow from operations before financing items and taxes 14,182 -9,136 3. Other operating expenses and personnel Costs and expenses in the Statement of Income were as Interest and other financial income 0.2 0.2 Interest received 7,634 308 follows: Interest and other financial income total 0.2 0.2 Interest paid -4 -2 2017 2016 Other financial income and expenses -191 -4,531 Wages and salaries 6.5 2.9 Interest expenses and other financial Income taxes paid -6,787 -1,402 expenses: Pension costs 0.6 0.2 Financing items and taxes 652 -5,627 Other financial expenses 2.9 4.8 Other personnel expenses 0.2 0.0 Interest expenses and other financial Other operating expenses 0.8 0.2 expenses total 2.9 4.8 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 14,835 -14,764 Total 8.0 3.3 Financial income and expenses total 61.5 24.8 Cash flow from investing activities Capital expenditure and advance payments to intangible assets -229 -209 Wages and salaries in accordance with the Statement of Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 6 0 Income 5. Appropriations Dividends received 10,520 129,000 2017 2016 2017 2016 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES 10,296 128,791 Remuneration to Board 0.8 0.7 Difference between planned and untaxed depreciations 0.0 -0.1 Other wages and salaries 5.6 2.2 Group contributions received from Cash flow before financing activities 25,131 114,027 Total 6.5 2.9 subsidiaries 43.0 60.5 Total 43.0 60.4 Cash flow from financing activities The average number of personnel 5 5 Proceeds from options excercised and share issues 698,383 312 6. Income taxes Repayments of long-term receivables -889,603 -52,651 Auditors fees 2017 2016 Repayments of long-term liabilities 248,432 0 Audit 0.9 3.0 Taxes on appropriations 8.6 12.1 Dividends paid -82,343 -61,689 Other services 0.1 0.2 Taxes on ordinary operations -1.4 -8.3 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES -25,131 -114,027 Total 1.0 3.2 Taxes from previous years 0.0 0.5 Total 7.2 4.3 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 0 0 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 3 3 Balance sheet Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 3 3 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 0 0 7. Machinery and equipment 2017 2016 Acquisition costs as of January 1 0.5 0.1 Increase 0.0 0.4 Acquisition costs as of December 31 0.4 0.5 Accumulated depreciation January 1 -0.1 0.0 Accumulated depreciation -0.1 -0.1 Total as of December 31 0.3 0.4 136 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 137 Notes to the parent company’s financial statement Board of Director’s Proposal to the Annual General Meeting 8. Investments The parent company’s non-restricted equity is EUR 940,141,378.51 of which the net income for the year is EUR 65,162,549.32. 2017 2016 Distributable equity 2017 2016 Acquisition costs as of January 1 153.2 153.2 The Group’s non-restricted equity is EUR 1,176,766,000. Total as of December 31 153.2 153.2 Paid in capital as of December 31 767.1 68.7 Retained earnings as of December 31 107.9 146.7 According to the Finnish Companies Act, the distributable funds of the company are calculated based on the parent company’s Investments in Group companies Net income for the period 65.2 43.6 non-restricted equity. For the purpose of determining the amount of the dividend the Board of Directors has assessed the liquidity 2017 2016 Total 940.1 258.9 of the parent company and the economic circumstances subsequent to the financial year-end. Domicile Book value Book value Konecranes Finance Corp. Hyvinkää 46.4 46.4 12. Accruals Based on such assessments the Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of EUR 1.20 will be Konecranes Finland Corp. Hyvinkää 4.2 4.2 2017 2016 paid on each share and that the remaining non-restricted equity is retained in shareholders’ equity. Konecranes Global Corp. Hyvinkää 102.4 102.4 Income taxes 2.5 2.1 Total 153.0 153.0 Wages, salaries and personnel expenses 1.2 0.9 Other items 5.6 16.2 Other shares and similar rights of ownership Total 9.2 19.2 2017 2016 Espoo, February 7, 2018 East Office of Finnish Industries Oy 0.1 0.1 13. Contingent liabilities and pledged assets Dimecc Oy 0.1 0.1 2017 2016 Christoph Vitzthum Ole Johansson Total 0.2 0.2 For obligations of subsidiaries Chairman of the Board Board member Group guarantees 1,018.8 772.0 9. Treasury shares 2017 2016 Leasing liabilities Janina Kugel Bertel Langenskiöld Number of shares as of January 1 4,521,333 4 539,913 Next year 0.6 0.5 Board member Board member Decrease -4,355,572 -18,580 Later on 2.4 0.3 Number of shares as of December 31 165,761 4,521,333 Total 3.0 0.9 Ulf Liljedahl Malin Persson 10. Deferred assets Leasing contracts mainly have a maturity of three years and Board member Board member 2017 2016 they have no terms of redemption. Group contributions 43.0 60.5 Payments which will be realized during the 2017 2016 Panu Routila next financial year 33.7 11.8 Total by category President and CEO Interest 21.1 0.0 Guarantees 1,018.8 772.0 Total 97.8 72.4 Other liabilities 3.0 0.9 Total 1,021.9 772.9 11. Equity 2017 2016 Share capital as of January 1 30.1 30.1 14. Nominal and fair values of derivative financial instruments Share capital as of December 31 30.1 30.1 2017 2017 2016 2016 Fair value Nominal value Fair value Nominal value Share premium account January 1 39.3 39.3 Foreign exchange Share premium account as of December 31 39.3 39.3 forward contracts 0.0 3.9 0.0 6.9 Paid in capital as of January 1 68.7 68.4 Increase 698.4 0.3 Derivatives are used for currency rate hedging only. Paid in capital as of December 31 767.1 68.7 The derivative financial instruments are recognized according to KPL 5:2a at fair value in the parent company financial stateRetained earnings as of January 1 190.2 208.4 ments and the company does not apply hedge accounting for Dividend paid -82.3 -61.7 these derivatives. Retained earnings as of December 31 107.9 146.7 Net income for the period 65.2 43.6 Shareholders' equity as of December 31 1,009.5 328.3 138 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 139 Auditor's Report Auditor's Report To the Annual General Meeting of Konecranes Plc applicable in Finland and are relevant to our audit, and we have Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with Material Handling & Port Solutions (MHPS) business combination Report on the Audit of Financial Statements these requirements. We refer to note 2.2 Use of estimates and judgments, note 2.3 In our best knowledge and understanding, the non-audit Summary of significant accounting policies and note 4. Opinion services that we have provided to the parent company and We have audited the financial statements of Konecranes plc group companies are in compliance with laws and regulations The Group acquired the MHPS business during the financial year. Our audit procedures included amongst other: The acquisition date was determined to be January 4, 2017. The • Assessing the acquisition date and the consideration transferred (business identity code 0942718-2) for the year ended 31 applicable in Finland regarding these services, and we have not purchase consideration of 1,482 million euro was paid partly in cash • Assessing together with our valuation specialists the valuation December, 2017. The financial statements comprise the consolprovided any prohibited non-audit services referred to in Article and partly in Konecranes’ shares. processes and methodologies to identify acquired assets and idated balance sheet, income statement, statement of compre5(1) of regulation (EU) 537/2014. The non-audit services that Assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed liabilities and to determine the fair value of these. hensive income, statement of changes in equity, statement we have provided have been disclosed in note 7.1 to the consolin a business combination are measured at acquisition-date fair value. • Assessing the disclosures in respect of business combinations. of cash flows and notes, including a summary of significant idated financial statements and note 4 to the parent company Management judgment relates specifically to determining the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities, in particular determining the fair accounting policies, as well as the parent company’s balance financial statements. values of separately identifiable intangible assets such as customer sheet, income statement, statement of cash flows and notes. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficontracts and trademarks. cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The significant business combination is a key audit matter as it In our opinion involves valuation processes and methods, and judgments made by • the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view Key Audit Matters management. of the group’s financial position as well as its financial perforKey audit matters are those matters that, in our professional mance and its cash flows in accordance with International judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the finanFinancial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. cial statements of the current period. These matters were • the financial statements give a true and fair view of the parent addressed in the context of our audit of the financial stateRevenue recognition of long-term contracts and related provisions company’s financial performance and financial position in ments as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we Refer to note 2.2 Use of estimates and judgments, note 2.3 Summary accordance with the laws and regulations governing the prepado not provide a separate opinion on these matters. of significant accounting policies, note 5, note 6 and note 24. ration of financial statements in Finland and comply with We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Audistatutory requirements. tor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements In accordance with its accounting principles, Konecranes applies the Our audit procedures to address the risk of material misstatement in section of our report, including in relation to these matters. percentage of completion (PoC) method for recognizing revenue from respect of the long-term fixed price contracts included among others: long term fixed-price crane projects. The percentage of completion • Assessing the Group’s accounting policies over revenue recognition Our opinion is consistent with the additional report submitted to Accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures is based on a cost-to-cost method. The percentage-of-completion of long-term fixed price contracts; the Audit Committee. designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of matemethod of accounting involves the use of significant management • Gaining an understanding of the PoC revenue recognition process; rial misstatement of the financial statements. The results of assumptions, estimates and projections, principally relating to future • Examination of the project documentation and testing the PoC Basis for Opinion our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to material, labor and project-related overhead costs and the estimated calculations and inputs of estimates in the calculations and We conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing pracaddress the matters below, provide the basis for our audit stage of completion. In year 2017, approximately 11 percent of the comparing the estimates to actuals; sales of 3.1 billion euro were recognized under the PoC method. • Analytical procedures; tice in Finland. Our responsibilities under good auditing practice opinion on the accompanying financial statements. Revenue recognition of long-term contracts is a key audit matter and • Assessing the significant judgments made by management based are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the We have also addressed the risk of management override of a significant risk of misstatement as defined by EU statute 537/2014 on an examination of the associated project documentation and Audit of Financial Statements section of our report. internal controls. This includes consideration of whether there 10. Article 2c. discussion on the status of projects under construction with We are independent of the parent company and of the group was evidence of management bias that represented a risk of Konecranes makes several types of provisions related to risks finance and project managers of the Company; and companies in accordance with the ethical requirements that are material misstatement due to fraud. associated with long-term project contracts and PoC accounting. • Assessing the Group’s disclosures in respect of revenue These PoC related provisions require high level of management judgrecognition. ment and are a key audit matter due to that reason. We have designed our audit procedures to be responsive to this specific audit area and our procedures included among others: • Gaining an understanding of the PoC related provisions process; • Testing the provision calculations and the inputs of estimates in these calculations and comparing estimates to actuals; and • Performing inquiries with management with regards to any significant events or legal matters that could affect the provisions. 140 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 141 Auditor's Report Auditor's Report Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and opinion on the effectiveness of the parent company’s or the the Managing Director for the Financial Statements group’s internal control. Revenue recognition Refer to note 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies and note 5. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are respon• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used sible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related According to the Group’s accounting policies revenue is recognized when Our audit procedures to address the risk of material misstatement that give a true and fair view in accordance with International disclosures made by management. the entity has transferred risks and rewards of ownership of the goods in respect of correct timing of revenue recognition included among others: Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, and • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ to the buyer. When the outcome of a transaction involving the rendering • Analytical procedures; of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordand the Managing Director’s use of the going concern basis of of services can be estimated reliably, revenue associated with the transaction is recognized by reference to the stage of completion of the trans• Assessing the Group’s accounting policies over revenue recognition ance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation accounting and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether action at the end of the reporting period. The terms and conditions of compared to applicable accounting standards; of financial statements in Finland and comply with statutory a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions sales contracts vary by market and, in addition, the local management • Assessing the revenue recognition process and methodologies and requirements. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director that may cast significant doubt on the parent company’s or the might feel pressure to achieve the revenue targets set. testing controls; • Testing revenue cut-off with substantive analytical procedures are also responsible for such internal control as they determine group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude Revenue recognition is a key audit matter and a significant risk of and by testing sales transactions before and after the date of the is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw material misstatement as defines by EU statute 537/2014 10. Article 2c due to the significant risk relating to an incorrect timing of recognifinancial statements; that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures tion of revenue. • Assessing the Group’s disclosures in respect of revenues. or error. in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadeIn preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors quate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the Valuation of goodwill Refer to note 2.2 Use of estimates and judgments, note 2.3 Summary and the Managing Director are responsible for assessing the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. of significant accounting policies and note 13. parent company’s and the group’s ability to continue as going However, future events or conditions may cause the parent concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going company or the group to cease to continue as a going concern. The value of goodwill at the date of the financial statements amounted Our audit procedures included, among others, involving valuation concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the to 905.3 million euro representing 25 % of total assets and 71 % of specialists to assist us in evaluating the assumptions and methodolofinancial statements are prepared using the going concern financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether equity (2016: 86.2 million euro, 6% of the total assets and 19 % of gies used by the Group, in particular those relating to the discount rate. equity). We specifically focused on the cash generating units for which reasonbasis of accounting unless there is an intention to liquidate the the financial statements represent the underlying transactions Valuation of goodwill is tested annually through goodwill impairment ably possible changes in assumptions could cause the carrying value to parent company or the group or cease operations, or there is no and events so that the financial statements give a true and fair test. The annual impairment test is a key audit matter because exceed its recoverable amount. We also assessed the historical accurealistic alternative but to do so. view. • The assessment process is complex and is based on numerous racy of managements’ estimates. We assessed the Group’s disclosures • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the judgmental estimates; in note 13 in the financial statements about the assumptions to which Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of Financial Statements financial information of the entities or business activities within • It is based on assumptions relating to market or economic the outcome of the impairment tests were more sensitive. conditions; and Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance on whether the group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial • Of the significance of the goodwill to the balance sheet total. the financial statements as a whole are free from material statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responValuation of goodwill is a significant risk of misstatement as defined by auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assursible for our audit opinion. EU statute 537/2014 10. Article 2c. ance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that Konecranes has allocated goodwill to cash generating units ( CGUs) which is the level for goodwill impairment test. The recoverable an audit conducted in accordance with good auditing practice We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, amount of a cash generating unit is based on value in use will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit calculations, the outcome of which could vary significantly if different Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered and significant audit findings, including any significant deficienassumptions were applied. There are a number of assumptions used material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be cies in internal control that we identify during our audit. to determine the value in use of the cash generating units, including expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on We also provide those charged with governance with a staterevenue growth, development of fixed costs, the operating margin and the discount rate applied. Changes in the above-mentioned the basis of the financial statements. ment that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements assumptions may result in an impairment of goodwill. As part of an audit in accordance with good auditing practice, regarding independence, and communicate with them all relationwe exercise professional judgment and maintain professional ships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear Income taxes skepticism throughout the audit. We also: on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. Refer to note 2.2 Use of estimates and judgments, note 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies, note 11 and note 17. • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the From the matters communicated with those charged with financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design governance, we determine those matters that were of most The Group operates in a number of jurisdictions around the world, with As part of our audit procedures: and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and significance in the audit of the financial statements of the differing tax regimes, resulting in different subjective and complex • We included both local and international tax specialists to analyze obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We interpretation of local tax laws and is therefore open to assessment and assess the assumptions used to determine tax positions and provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or from multiple tax authorities. In the normal course of business the corroborating the assumptions with supporting evidence. Group makes judgments and estimates in relation to tax issues and • We tested the amounts recognized as current and deferred tax, material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or exposures resulting in the recognition of other taxes. Income taxes including the assessment of judgmental tax positions. In this area one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a is a key audit matter as the future actual outcome of the decisions our audit procedures included, among others, assessment of the intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of matter should not be communicated in our report because concerning these tax exposures may result in material higher or lower impact of the Group’s correspondence with relevant tax authorities internal control. the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be amounts than accrual included in the financial statements. and the evaluation of tax exposures. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such • In addition with respect to deferred tax assets we assessed management’s assumptions to determine the probability that audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate communication. deferred tax assets recognized in the statement of financial in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an position will be recovered through taxable income in future years, and available tax planning strategies. We assessed the Group’s disclosures in notes 11 and 17 in the financial statements. 142 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 143 Auditor's Report share and shareholders Other Reporting Requirements statements and the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. Shares and shareholders Information on our audit engagement If, based on the work we have performed on the other We were first appointed as auditors by the Annual General information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s Meeting on March 8, 2006, and our appointment represents a report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of total period of uninterrupted engagement of 12 years. this other information, we are required to report that fact. We Shares and share capital Treasury shares have nothing to report in this regard. As of December 31, 2017, Konecranes Plc’s fully On December 31, 2017, Konecranes Plc was Other information paid-up share capital entered in the Trade Register in the possession of 165,761 own shares The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responOpinions based on assignment of the Audit Committee was EUR 30,072,660, divided into 78,921,906 (4,521,333), which corresponds to 0.2 percent of sible for the other information. The other information comprises We support that the financial statements should be adopted. shares (63,272,342 in 2016). Konecranes has the total number of shares having a market value the report of the Board of Directors and the information The proposal by the Board of Directors regarding the use of the two classes of shares. of EUR 6.3 million on that date. included in the Annual Report, but does not include the financial distributable equity shown in the balance sheet for the parent On January 5, 2017, the 19,600,000 new class On February 28, 2017, 20,959 treasury shares statements and our auditor’s report thereon. We have obtained company is in compliance with the Limited Liability Companies B shares issued to Terex were registered with the were conveyed without consideration to the the report of the Board of Directors prior to the date of this Act. We support that the Members of the Board of Directors Finnish Trade Register and Euroclear Finland Ltd. employees as a reward payment for the Savings auditor’s report, and the Annual Report is expected to be made and the Managing Director of the parent company should be The shares were issued as the share considerPeriod 2013–2014 of the Konecranes Employee available to us after that date. discharged from liability for the financial period audited by us. ation in addition to the cash consideration payable Share Savings Plan. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the to Terex for the purchase of the Terex's MHPS On March 15, 2017, 49,938 treasury shares other information. business. The subscription price for a class B were conveyed without consideration to the key In connection with our audit of the financial statements, Helsinki, February 7, 2018 share was EUR 35.01. Following the completion of employees as a reward payment for the perforour responsibility is to read the other information identified sales of class B shares held by Terex on February mance period 2014–2016 of the Konecranes above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information Ernst & Young Oy 15, May 23 and September 5, 2017, all class B Performance Share Plan 2012. is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our Authorized Public Accountant Firm shares were converted to class A shares in accorOn June 12, 2017, The Board of Directors knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be dance with § 20 of the Articles of Association. resolved to cancel 3,950,436 class A treasury materially misstated. With respect to report of the Board of On December 31, 2017, the number of listed shares held by the company. The cancellation Directors, our responsibility also includes considering whether class A shares totaled 78,921,906 while the of the treasury shares was registered with the the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in number of unlisted class B shares was zero Finnish Trade Register on June 13, 2017. accordance with the applicable laws and regulations. as Terex Corporation ceased to own any class On August 8, 2017, 334,239 treasury shares In our opinion, the information in the report of the Board Kristina Sandin B shares following the share sale executed on were conveyed without consideration to the of Directors is consistent with the information in the financial Authorized Public Accountant September 5, 2017. key employees as a reward payment for the Each share entitles its holder to one vote at the Konecranes Performance Share Plan 2016. Annual General Meeting and an equal dividend. Konecranes’ shares are registered in the Finnish Market capitalization and share trading book entry system. As of the end of 2017, the total market capitalization of Konecranes Plc on Nasdaq Helsinki was Monthly price and volume on the Nasdaq Helsinki 2013–2017 EUR Number of shares, million 50 40 30 Konecranes price Nasdaq Helsinki Industrial 20 Goods & Services Index 10 10 5 OMX Helsinki Cap Index 0 0 Konecranes volume 13 14 15 16 17 144 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 145 shares and shareholders shares and shareholders Changes in the share capital and the number of shares Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on cipating in the plan in accordance with the terms Change in March 23, 2016. and conditions of the plan. The decision on the number of Total number Change in Share The Annual General Meeting held on March 23, directed share issue was based on the authorishares of shares share capital capital EUR 2017, authorized the Board of Directors to decide zation granted to the Board of Directors by the 1999 March 11, conversion of share capital into euros 15,000,000 30,000,000 on the repurchase of the Company’s own A or B Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on December 20, invalidation of shares held by the company 2002 and reduction of share capital -691,370 14,308,630 -1,382,740 28,617,260 shares and/or on the acceptance as pledge of March 23, 2017. 2004 New shares subscribed for with the 1997 stock options 1,400 14,310,030 2,800 28,620,060 the Company’s own A or B shares. The amount of The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to New shares subscribed for with the 1997, 1999A, 1999B, own shares to be repurchased and/or accepted decide on a directed issuance of A shares without 2005 2001A and 2003A stock options 176,000 14,486,030 352,000 28,972,060 2006 New shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A and as pledge based on this authorization shall not payment needed for the continuation of the Share pre-split 2003A stock options 286,700 14,772,730 573,400 29,545,460 exceed 6,000,000 shares in total. The authorizaSavings Plan that the Annual General Meeting 2006 March 17, share split 1:4 44,318,190 59,090,920 0 29,545,460 tion is effective until the end of the next Annual 2012 decided to launch. The number of new A 2006 New shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A, General Meeting, however no longer than until shares to be issued or own shares held by the post-split 2003A and 2003B series stock options 986,800 60,077,720 493,400 30,038,860 February, new shares subscribed for with 2003B stock September 22, 2018. The Board of Directors did Company to be transferred may in the aggregate 2007 options 67,600 60,145,320 33,800 30,072,660 not use this authorization in 2017. amount to a maximum total of 500,000 shares. March-December, new shares subscribed for with 1997, The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to The authorization concerning the share issue is 2007 1999B, 2001A, 2001B, 2003B and 2003C stock options 833,460 60,978,780 0 30,072,660 decide on the issuance of shares as well as on valid until March 22, 2022. The Board of Directors February-December, new shares subscribed for with 1997, 2008 1999B, 2001B, 2003B and 2003C stock options 633,540 61,612,320 0 30,072,660 the issuance of special rights entitling to shares did not use this authorization in 2017. February-December, new shares subscribed for with 2001B referred to in Chapter 10 of Section 1 of the 2009 and 2003C stock options 260,600 61,872,920 0 30,072,660 Finnish Companies Act. The amount of shares to Performance share plans February-May, new shares subscribed for with 2001B stock 2010 options 129,200 62,002,120 0 30,072,660 be issued based on this authorization shall not In 2015, the Board of Directors resolved to impleJanuary, share issue directed to the shareholders of KCR exceed 6,000,000 shares. The issuance of shares ment a performance share plan according to 2011 Management Oy 281,007 62,283,127 0 30,072,660 and of special rights entitling to shares may be which earning reward is based on attainment February-May, new shares subscribed for with 2007A and 2011 2007B stock options 958,300 63,241,427 0 30,072,660 carried out in deviation from the shareholders’ of target determined by the Board of Directors. May-June, new shares subscribed for with 2009A stock pre-emptive rights (directed issue). The authorizaThe performance criterion for the discretionary 2012 options 30,915 63,272,342 0 30,072,660 tion can also be used for incentive arrangements, period 2015–2017 is the cumulative Earnings per January 5, new class B shares issued to Terex Corporation 2017 related to the MHPS acquisition 19,600,000 82,872,342 0 30,072,660 however, not more than 1,000,000 A shares Share (EPS) excluding restructuring costs for the 2017 June 13, cancellation of treasury shares -3,950,436 78,921,906 0 30,072,660 in total together with the authorization in the respective years. The potentially earned reward following paragraph. The authorization is effective will be paid in spring 2018. The target group of until the end of the next Annual General Meeting, the plans consists of approximately 180 people. but no longer than until September 22, 2018. The rewards to be paid on the basis of the discreHowever, the authorization for incentive arrangetionary period correspond to the value of an ments is valid until March 22, 2022. The Board of approximate maximum of 700,000 Konecranes Plc EUR 3,006.9 million (1,984.6), excluding treasury reward payment for the Savings Period 2013– Directors did not use this authorization in 2017. shares, which corresponds to 0.9 percent of all shares. 2014 of Konecranes Employee Share Savings The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to of the company’s shares. If the target determined Konecranes’ shares closed the year at EUR Plan. In the share issue, 20,959 own shares held decide on the transfer of the company’s own A by the Board of Directors is attained, the reward 38.18 (33.78) on Nasdaq Helsinki. The volumeby the company were conveyed without considershares. The authorization is limited to a maximum payout will be a half of the maximum reward. The weighted average trading price for the year ation to the employees participating in the plan in of 6,000,000 A shares. The transfer of shares maximum reward payout requires that the target is was EUR 36.72. The highest quotation for the accordance with the terms and conditions of the may be carried out in deviation from the shareclearly exceeded. Konecranes share was EUR 42.64 in October and plan. The decision on the directed share issue holders’ pre-emptive rights (directed issue). The In 2016, Board resolved to establish a new the lowest was EUR 31.52 in March. was based on the authorization granted to the authorization can also be used for incentive share-based incentive plan directed to the Group The traded volume of Konecranes’ shares totaled Board of Directors by the Annual General Meeting arrangements, however, not more than 1,000,000 key employees. In 2017, 334,239 treasury shares some 61.4 million on Nasdaq Helsinki. In monetary of Shareholders held on March 23, 2016. A shares in total together with the authorization were conveyed without consideration to the key terms, this was valued at EUR 2,252.5 million. The On March 1, 2017, the Board of Directors in the previous paragraph. This authorization is employees as a reward payment for the plan. The daily average trading volume was 244,456 shares, decided on a directed share issue related to the effective until the next Annual General Meeting shares paid as reward may not be transferred representing a daily average turnover of EUR 9.0 reward payment for the performance period 2014– of Shareholders, but no later than September 22, during a restriction period established for the million. In addition, approximately 100.5 million 2016 of the Konecranes Performance Share Plan 2018. However, the authorization for incentive shares. The restriction period began from reward Konecranes’ shares were traded on other trading 2012. In the share issue, 49,938 Konecranes arrangements is valid until March 22, 2022. On payment and will end on December 31, 2018. venues (e.g. multilateral trading facilities and bilatPlc shares held by the company were conveyed August 2, 2017, the Board of Directors decided In 2017, Board of Directors resolved to estaberal OTC trades) in 2017 according to Fidessa. without consideration to the key employees partion a directed share issue related to the reward lish new long-term incentive plans for the Group cipating in the plan in accordance with the terms payment for the Konecranes Performance Share key employees and the President and CEO. The Board authorizations and conditions of the plan. The decision on the Plan 2016. In the share issue, 334,239 own class new share-based incentive plans are Performance On February 22, 2017, the Board of Directors directed share issue was based on the authoriA shares held by the company were conveyed Share Plan 2017 for the Group key employees, decided on a directed share issue related to the zation granted to the Board of Directors by the without consideration to the key employees partiRestricted Share Unit Plan 2017 for the selected 146 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 147 shares and shareholders shares and shareholders Group key employees and Performance Share For a more detailed description of the perforto be transferred under the terms and conditions Notifications of major shareholdings Plan 2017–2021 for the President and CEO. mance share plan, see Note 29 on page 116 of of the plan may be a maximum total of 25,243 In January-December 2017, Konecranes received During the performance period 2017–2019 of the Financial Statements. shares. the following notifications of major shareholdings. the Performance Share Plan, the plan offers the The sixth plan period began on July 1, 2017 key employees a possibility to earn reward based Employee share savings plan and will end on June 30, 2018. The maximum Shareholders on the achievement of required performance levels Konecranes Plc’s AGM 2012 approved the savings amount per participant during one month Konecranes had 19,988 (19,523) shareholders established for the Konecranes Group’s cumulaKonecranes Employee Share Savings Plan. The is 5 percent of gross salary and the minimum is on December 31, 2017. At year-end 2017, 58.9 tive adjusted Earnings per Share (EPS) during the third plan period began on July 1, 2014 and EUR 50. Each participant will receive one free (53.2) percent of the company’s shares were financial years 2017–2019. The rewards to be paid ended on June 30, 2015. Each participant will matching share for every two acquired savings nominee registered. More information on the on the basis of the performance period 2017– receive one free matching share for every two shares. Matching shares will be delivered to a breakdown of share ownership and board and 2019 correspond to an approximate maximum acquired savings shares. Matching shares will participant if the participant holds the acquired management interests can be found in the Shares total of 880,000 Konecranes Plc class A shares be delivered to a participant if the participant shares from the Plan Period until the end of the and Shareholders section on page 151 of the including also the proportion to be paid in cash. holds the acquired shares from the plan period designated holding period, February 15, 2021, Financial Statements. The plan is directed to approximately 260 key until the end of the designated holding period, and if his or her employment has not ended employees. The Board of Directors will be entitled February 15, 2018, and if his or her employbefore this date for reasons attributable to the Konecranes Plc share trading information to reduce the rewards payable on the basis of the ment has not ended before this date for reasons employee. The total amount of all savings of the • Date of listing on Nasdaq Helsinki: March 27, performance period 2017–2019 if certain reward related to the employee. Approximately 1,550 commencing plan period may not exceed EUR 1996 value cap is reached. Konecranes employees signed up for the plan 8.5 million. Approximately 2,100 Konecranes • Segment: Large Cap The Restricted Share Unit Plan is directed that commenced July 1, 2014. The number of employees signed up for the Plan Period that • ICB classification: Industrials, Industrial Goods to the selected key employees in Konecranes. new shares to be issued or own shares held by commenced on July 1, 2017. & Services, Industrial Engineering, Commercial The vesting periods will last from 12 to 36 the company to be transferred under the terms For a more detailed description of the Vehicles & Trucks 2753 months. The prerequisite for reward payment is and conditions of the plan may be a maximum employee share savings plan, see Note 29 on • ISIN code: FI0009005870 that the key employee’s employment or service total of 36,605 shares. page 116 of the Financial Statements. • Trading code: KCR continues until the end of the vesting period. The fourth plan period began on July 1, 2015 The rewards to be allocated on the basis of and ended on June 30, 2016. Each participant the entire plan will amount to a maximum total will receive one free matching share for every two of 200,000 Konecranes Plc class A shares acquired savings shares. Matching shares will be including also the proportion to be paid in cash. delivered to a participant if the participant holds The CEO long-term incentive plan consists of the acquired shares from the plan period until the one five-year performance period, calendar years end of the designated holding period, February 2017–2021. The potential reward from the CEO 15, 2019, and if his or her employment has not Plan will be based on the Konecranes Group’s ended before this date for reasons attributable to cumulative adjusted Earnings per Share (EPS) the employee. Approximately 1,550 Konecranes during the financial years 2017–2019 and the employees signed up for the Plan Period that cumulative Earnings per Share (EPS) during the commenced on July 1, 2015. The number of new financial years 2020–2021. The rewards to be shares to be issued or own shares held by the paid on the basis of the CEO Plan correspond company to be transferred under the terms and to a maximum total of 200,000 Konecranes Plc conditions of the plan may be a maximum total of class A shares including also the proportion to be 48,286 shares. paid in cash. However, the shares paid and to be The fifth plan period began on September 1, paid as a reward on the basis of the performance 2016 and ended on June 30, 2017. Each particperiods of the Performance Share Plan 2017 will ipant will receive one free matching share for be deducted from the payable reward. The CEO every two acquired savings shares. Matching will have the possibility to earn a total of 48,000 shares will be delivered to a participant if the Konecranes Plc class A shares including also the participant holds the acquired shares from proportion to be paid in cash, on the basis of the plan period until the end of the designated the first performance period 2017–2019 of the holding period, February 15, 2020, and if his or Performance Share Plan 2017. The CEO will not her employment has not ended before this date be entitled to sell the shares paid as a reward for reasons related to the employee. Approxithrough the Performance Share Plan 2017–2021 mately 1,300 Konecranes employees signed for the CEO or the Performance Share Plan 2017 up for the Plan Period that commenced on until he owns the Konecranes shares worth EUR September 1, 2016. The number of new shares 750,000.00 in total. to be issued or own shares held by the company 148 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 149 shares and shareholders shares and shareholders Changes in share capital and number of shares Shares and options owned by the members of the Board of Directors % of shares and and of the Group Executive Board on December 31, 2017 % of shares voting rights Change in Number of % of shares and voting through financial shareholding in 2017 shares owned and votes Date Shareholder Threshold rights instruments Total, % Total, shares Board of Directors -12,566 26,069 0.0% January 5, 2017 Terex Deutschland GmbH Above 20% 23.65 23.65 19,600,000 Group Executive Board 87,105 258,042 0.3% January 5, 2017 HTT KCR Holding Ab Below 10% 8.29 8.29 6,870,568 Total 74,539 284,111 0.4% January 5, 2017 Polaris Capital Management LLC Below 5% 4.34 4.34 3,597,639 January 5, 2017 BlackRock, Inc. Below 5% n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. January 6, 2017 Sanderson Asset Management LLP Below 5% 3.86 3.86 3,201,628 January 6, 2017 Terex Deutschland GmbH Below 5% 0 0 0 0 January 6, 2017 Terex Corporation Above 20% 23.65 23.65 19,600,000 Breakdown of share ownership by number of shares owned on December 31, 2017 February 15, 2017 Terex Corporation Below 15% 14.66 14.66 12,150,000 February 15, 2017 BlackRock, Inc.1) Above 5% 6.58 1.67 8.25 6,844,696 Number of Number of shares Shares shareholders % of shareholders and votes % of shares and votes February 22, 2017 BlackRock, Inc.2) Above 5% 7.69 0.74 8.44 6,997,433 1–100 10,090 50.5% 465,351 0.6% May 24, 2017 Terex Corporation Below 10% 6.21 6.21 5,150,000 101–1,000 8,453 42.3% 2,927,453 3.7% May 24, 2017 BlackRock, Inc. Above 10% 9.76 1.36 11.13 9,224,969 1,001–10,000 1,274 6.4% 3,534,391 4.5% May 26, 2017 BlackRock, Inc. Above 10% 10.00 1.16 11.17 9,257,643 10,001–100,000 130 0.7% 3,849,802 4.9% June 12, 2017 Konecranes Plc Below 5% 0.63 0.63 500,000 100,001–1,000,000 27 0.1% 7,763,776 9.8% June 15, 2017 BlackRock, Inc.3) Above 10% 10.64 1.11 11.75 9,278,033 Over 1,000,001 5 0.0% 13,916,680 17.6% June 21, 2017 BlackRock, Inc.4) Below 10% 10.77 1.07 11.85 9,354,430 Registered shareholders total 19,979 100.0% 32,457,453 41.1% September 6, 2017 Terex Corporation Below 5% 0 0 0 0 Nominee registered shares 9 0.0% 46,464,453 58.9% September 6, 2017 BlackRock, Inc.5) Above 10% 12.36 1.41 13.77 10,871,199 Total 19,988 100.0% 78,921,906 100.0% October 3, 2017 BlackRock, Inc. Above 15% 13.44 1.69 15.14 11,949,513 October 26, 2017 BlackRock, Inc. Below 15% 13.68 1.29 14.97 11,821,806 October 31, 2017 BlackRock, Inc. Above 15% 13.74 1.28 15.02 11,859,461 November 1, 2017 BlackRock, Inc. Below 15% 13.51 1.10 14.62 11,540,128 Breakdown of share ownership by shareholder category on December 31, 2017 1) T he disclosure obligation arose due to total holding in Shares and Voting rights for BlackRock, Inc. going above 5%. Addtionally, % of shares and votes the disclosure obligation also arose due to Shares and Voting rights for BlackRock, Inc. going above 5%. Furthermore, the disclosure obligation also arose due to total holding in Shares and Voting rights for BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Private companies 15.9% Limited going above 5%. Financial and insurance institutions 3.9% 2) The disclosure obligation arose due to Shares and Voting rights for BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited going above 5%. Public sector organizations 5.6% 3) The disclosure obligation arose due to total holding in Shares and Voting rights for BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited going above 10%. Households 11.1% 4) The disclosure obligation arose due to total holding in Shares and Voting rights for BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Non-profit organizations 3.7% Limited going below 10%. Foreigners 1.0% 5) The disclosure obligation arose due to total holding in Shares and Voting rights for BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Nominee registered shares 58.9% Limited going above 10%. Additionally, the disclosure obligation arose due to shares and voting rights for BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Limited going above 10%. Total 100.0% Source: Euroclear Finland Oy, December 31, 2017. Largest shareholders on December 31, 2017 Number of shares % of shares and and votes votes 1 HTT KCR Holding Oy Ab 7,381,238 9.4% 2 Solidium Oy 3,275,389 4.2% 3 Gustavson Stig and family*) 2,193,955 2.8% 4 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1,190,275 1.5% 5 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 962,217 1.2% 6 The Local Government Pensions Institution, KEVA 931,042 1.2% 7 OP Funds 905,898 1.1% 8 Evli Funds 562,514 0.7% 9 Samfundet Folkhälsan i Svenska Finland 535,600 0.7% 10 The State Pension Fund 480,000 0.6% Ten largest registered shareholders' total ownership 18,418,128 23.3% Nominee registered shares 46,464,453 58.9% Other shareholders 13,873,564 17.6% Shares held by Konecranes Plc 165,761 0.2% Total 78,921,906 100.0% *) Konecranes Plc has on December 28, 2011 received information according to which the Chairman of the company’s Board of Directors Stig Gustavson has donated all of his shares in Konecranes Plc to his near relatives retaining himself for life the voting rights and right to dividend attached to the donated shares. The donation encompasses in total 2,069,778 shares. 150 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 151 investor information INVESTOR RELATIONS • Nordea Markets Financial reports in 2018 • Pohjola Bank • Financial Statements for 2017: February 8, IR principles • SEB 2018 The main objective of Konecranes’ Investor • UBS • Interim report, January–March: April 26, Relations function is to assist in the correct 2018 valuation of the company’s shares by providing Konecranes takes no responsibility for the • Half year financial report, January–June: July capital markets with information on its opinions expressed by analysts. More informa25, 2018 operations and financial position. Konecranes tion on Konecranes as an investment can be • Interim report, January–September: October pursues an open, reliable, and up-to-date found at www.konecranes.com > Investors. 25, 2018 disclosure policy, aimed at giving all market participants access to correct and consistent INFORMATION FOR Konecranes’ annual and interim reports are information regularly and equitably. SHAREHOLDERS published in English, Finnish, and Swedish. Investor Relations is responsible for investor The Annual Report is available in pdf format communications and daily contacts. The PresiAnnual General Meeting on the company web site and in print. Copies dent and CEO, together with the Chief Financial Konecranes Annual General Meeting 2018 are mailed to shareholders on request and Officer, participate in IR activities and are reguwill be held on Tuesday, March 27, 2018 at orders can be placed through the company larly available for meetings with capital market 10 am. at Hyvinkääsali, Jussinkuja 1, 05800 website www.konecranes.com > Investors representatives. The function regularly gathers Hyvinkää, Finland. > Reports and result presentations > Order and analyzes market information and investor Shareholders registered no later than March annual report. feedback for use of top management and the 15, 2018 in the company’s list of shareholders All press and stock exchange releases Board of Directors. maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd. are are available on the company’s website entitled to attend the AGM. (www.konecranes.com) and can be received by Silent period Holders of nominee-registered shares e-mail by subscribing at www.konecranes.com Konecranes observes a silent period prior intending to participate in the AGM shall notify > Investors > Releases > Order releases. to the publication of its financial statements their custodian well in advance of their intenSales and service locations and interim reports starting at the end of tion and comply with the instructions provided Shareholder register the quarter in question. During this time, by the custodian. Konecranes shares are covered by the Finnish company representatives do not comment on A shareholder wishing to participate in the Book Entry Securities System. Shareholders Konecranes’ financial position. AGM must notify the company of his/her particshould notify the relevant holder of their book ipation no later than March 22, 2018: entry account about changes in address or Corporate Regional Investor relations in 2017 account numbers for the payment of dividends Headquarters Headquarters In 2017, Konecranes participated in five Internet: www.konecranes.com/agm2018 and other matters related to their holdings. E-mail: agm2018@konecranes.com Konecranes Plc Americas investor seminars and held 23 roadshow days. All in all, we took part in approximately Fax: +358 20 427 2105 (from abroad) P.O. Box 661 (Koneenkatu 8) Konecranes, Inc. 230 investor meetings and conference calls or 020 427 2105 (Finland) IMPORTANT DATES FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland 4401 Gateway Blvd. in Boston, Chicago, Edinburgh, Frankfurt, Phone: +358 20 427 2017 (from abroad) or Record date of the AGM: March 15, 2018 Tel: +358 20 427 11 Springfield, OH 45502, U.S.A. Geneva, Helsinki, London, Madrid, New York, 020 427 2017 (Finland) Registration for the Tel: +1 937 525 5533 Paris, Stockholm and Zurich. Mail: Konecranes Plc, Laura Kiiski, P.O. Box AGM closes: March 22, 2018 Corporate 661, FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland The AGM: March 27, 2018 responsibility Europe, Middle East and Africa Investor contact Dividend ex-date: March 28, 2018 For corporate responsibility Konecranes Region EMEA Eero Tuulos, Vice President, Investor Relations Shareholders are requested to inform the Dividend record date: March 29, 2018 P.O. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) matters please contact: Tel: +358 20 427 2050 company of any proxies for the AGM in connecDividend payment date: April 10, 2018 FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland corporate-responsibility@konecranes.com E-mail: eero.tuulos@konecranes.com tion with their registration. A sample proxy can Tel: +358 20 427 11 be found on the company’s web site. Equity research Asia-Pacific The following banks, investment banks, and Payment of dividend Konecranes Pte. Ltd. equity research providers cover Konecranes: The Board of Directors will propose to the 8 Admiralty Street, #06-11 Admirax Annual General Meeting of Shareholders that Singapore 757438 • Carnegie Investment Bank a dividend of EUR 1.20 per share will be paid Tel: +65 6 861 2233 • Commerzbank for 2017. The dividend will be paid to share• Credit Suisse holders who are registered on the record date • Danske Markets in the company’s shareholders’ register main• DNB Markets tained by Euroclear Finland Ltd. • Handelsbanken Capital Markets • Record date of dividend payment: March 29, • HSBC 2018 • Inderes • Date of dividend payment: April 10, 2018 Konecranes is a world-leading group of Lifting Businesses™, serving a broad range of customers, including manufacturing and process industries, • Kepler Cheuvreux shipyards, ports and terminals. Konecranes provides productivity-enhancing lifting solutions as well as services for lifting equipment of all makes. The Group has 16,400 employees at 600 locations in 50 countries. Konecranes is listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki (symbol: KCR). 152 Konecranes Annual Report 2017 We are motivated both by the tremendous potential benefits from this transformation, and the fact that they are well within our grasp. Performance driven. Panu Routila, President and CEO
