with you as our destination Corporate Responsibility Report Contents 04 44 VI. EMPLOYEES Ι. ΜESSAGE FROM THE CEO 1. Human Resources and Employment 46 2. Health and Safety 49 3. Equality and Diversity 51 06 4. Training and Development 53 5. Achievements 2017 and Future Objectives 56 ΙΙ. OVERVIEW 58 08 VII. CUSTOMERS 1. Safety and Security 60 ΙΙΙ. ATTICA GROUP 2. Responsible Communication 64 1. The Passenger Shipping Industry 9 3. Quality and Satisfaction 65 2. About Attica Group 11 4. Achievements 2017 and Future Objectives 69 18 70 ΙV. MANAGEMENT VIII. ENVIRONMENT 1. Corporate Governance 20 1. Air Quality and Energy 72 2. Corporate Responsibility 24 2. Raw Materials and Solid Waste 76 3. Materiality and Stakeholders 26 3. Water and Liquid Waste 79 4. Achievements 2017 and Future Objectives 31 4. Achievements 2017 and Future Objectives 81 32 82 V. SOCIETY 1. Economic Growth 34 IX. SUMMARY 2. Society Support 36 1. About this Report 82 3. Responsible Procurement 41 2. Summary Data 83 4. Achievements 2017 and Future Objectives 43 3. Global Compact, Sustainable Development Goals, 97 ISO26000 and GRI Tables 4. Glossary 102 5. Feedback Form 103 ATTICA GROUP 3 I ΜESSAGE FROM THE CEO 4 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Dear Reader, The year 2017 was challenging for the passenger shipping industry, with a gradual recovery in demand for domestic shipping services, following the previous years’ decline. On the other hand, the continuous increase in fuels prices is an issue of concern, while degraded port infrastructure and intense competition continue to have a negative impact on the industry’s prospect. Despite the difficult conditions in the Greek economic and On the other hand, during 2017 the unfortunate grounding social environment, there are also positive developments in incident of Blue Star Patmos in shallow waters at the port of the passenger shipping industry, as the expected economic Ios took place. Despite the fact that we managed to effectively recovery and increase in tourist arrivals shape a favorable respond to our indisputable obligation to protect our passengers’ growth prospects for the industry. safety, as there were no injuries among the vessel’s passengers and crew members, the incident was the cause and reason to For all of us in Attica Group, achieving our business objectives evaluate and modify certain corporate procedures. Needless to has been and remains directly associated with our generic say, we immediately responded to the incident and proceeded objective to create and maintain a solid trust relationship with with all required actions to fully repair the vessel to perform its our Stakeholders. As Corporate Responsibility is a primary scheduled journeys. principle of our operation, we focus on the areas of Management, Society, Employees, Customers and Environment, where we Our aim is to remain committed to the Corporate Responsibility managed to achieve significant results for yet another year. principles we have adopted and set challenging future More specifically, we: objectives, in order to achieve responsible operation and   Communicated Regulation of Professional Behavior to all our support the society in which we operate. Within this context, employees and had no violation cases concerning our main we were the first passenger shipping company worldwide principles and rules of professional behavior. to develop a Corporate Responsibility Report in accordance   Remained fully committed to support and develop local with the Global Reporting Initiative's Sustainability Reporting communities and the country in general and distributed over Standards. Continuing this effort, this year we make reference €300 million in economic value to our Stakeholders, while at to 74 GRI indicators and present 210 quantitative indicators in the same time increased the total value of societal support our 9th Corporate Responsibility Report. activities by 14.3%, through provision of discount tickets and social programs, such as the ‘Agoni Grammi Gonimi’. At the same time, the foundation of Corporate Responsibility   Intensified our efforts to cultivate a workplace focused within Attica Group is based on the fact that accountability for on respect, equality, safety and merit, employed 100% of our responsible operation lies on all our employees, as we inform our employees with full time employment contracts and and train them to operate responsibly within the workplace and conducted internal drills on Health and Safety issues to all as citizens, rather than solely being our Top Management’s or marine employees. Corporate Responsibility Team’s responsibility. As a closing   Continued our initiatives for our passengers’ safety and remark, I would like to thank all our employees and Group inspections to ensure safety of our products and services partners who contribute decisively to our successful operation onboard our vessels, as indicated by 45 food hygiene and and support our long-term commitment to operate responsibly. safety vessel inspections from local authorities, with no recorded non-compliance incidents. Have a pleasant reading, Continued our efforts to implement environmentally friendlier   business practices and reduce our environmental footprint, as we informed all our employees on environmental protection Spyridon Paschalis issues. Chief Executive Officer Attica Group ATTICA GROUP 5 II OVERVIEW ATTICA GROUP 22 years of continuous We operate 12 modern vessels We increased our journeys in We handled 3,213,847 reservations presence in our Seas in the Eastern Mediterranean Domestic and Adriatic Sea lines by in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea Sea (and 2 more on the Morocco 3.4% and 2.6% respectively (and 182,252 more on the Morocco Spain route) Spain route), through our central reservation systems MANAGEMENT We have No violation cases No corruption incidents We were subjected No non-compliance We increased by 2.8% communicated concerning our main occurred to 83 external incident was recorded the number of GRI Regulation of principles and rules Management during audits of indicators and by Professional Behavior of professional No bribery incidents Systems’ audits, our contractors’ 5% the number of to 100% of our behavior occurred related to our employees with no recorded Management Systems quantitative indicators employees occurred non-compliance we make reference incident to within the Report SOCIETY We distributed over €300 million in We increased We increased the We collected We welcomed We increased economic value: over €61.6 million the total number total value of our 289 blood units 739 young people the percentage to employees (for salaries, benefits of discount societal support through our from schools and of procurement and insurance payments), €49.4 tickets offered activities by 14.3% voluntary blood universities visiting expenditure to local million for taxes (including VAT by 7.3% donation programs our facilities suppliers to 92.9% and port taxes), €34.7 million to We allocated 55% in the last four providers of capital (for interest and of sponsorships years We allocated 89.2% return payments), €15.2 million to and donations to of total procurement agents (for commissions), €130.7 local communities expenditure to small million to suppliers (for purchases and medium-sized of goods and services), €1.6 million enterprises (up to to society (for discount tickets, 250 employees) implemented programs, sponsorships and donations) and €7.1 million for investments 6 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 EMPLOYEES We employ 100% of our No complaints or 100% of our We conducted internal The entry level wage employees with full time grievances regarding employees received drills on Health and Safety of office employees employment contracts our marine employees’ their annual leave, issues (such as response is higher than the living conditions as planned to emergency situations) legal minimum wage 100% of employees were filed to 100% of marine by 19.5% in Director positions employees are Greek CUSTOMERS We conducted We were subjected We maintain 4 corporate We increased the We dispatched 2,504 We kept our vessels’ internal drills to 45 inspections websites, with over 2.8 number of SMS notifications to serve departure time in over and trainings on from local authorities million unique visitors messages sent to our passengers with 90% of our scheduled passenger safety for food hygiene and annually and handle 3 customers by 32.6% particular requirements journeys procedures to safety, with mobile applications with to our vessels, out 100% of marine no recorded over 107,000 downloads We increased our of which 269 concerning employees non-compliance loyalty and reward passengers with incidents The average score of program members reduced mobility and 9 evaluations registered by 21.4% concerning passengers through dedicated devices with sensitivity to onboard our vessels allergens reached 3.8 (good), on a 5 point scale ENVIRONMENT We informed 100% 80% of monitors and We use refrigerants We reduced We transported of our employees on 60% of personal and that do not affect the consumption of plastic from Islands freeenvironmental protection laptop computers we ozone layer (such bags in our offices by of-charge over 79 issues use have energy-saving as R134a, R404a, 25% tonnes of materials specifications R407a) in 100% of for recycling We informed refrigerators and We used 24.4% approximately 1.2 freezers onboard our recycled paper and million customers on vessels 79.3% recycled toners/ Corporate Responsibility ink cartridges issues, such as environmental protection ATTICA GROUP 7 III ATTICA GROUP The leader in passenger and freight maritime transportation in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea and the fastest growing company in the Morocco Spain route WE ARE 22 4.1 635.8 300.6 12 1.3 1,205 years of million passengers thousand private thousand freight units modern vessels million miles employees presence in annually in the vehicles annually annually in the Eastern in the Eastern annually (62 our seas Eastern Mediterranean in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea Mediterranean times around Sea (and 537 Mediterranean (and 39.7 thousand Sea (and 2 more the Earth) thousand in the Sea (and 123.8 in the Morocco Spain in the Morocco Morocco Spain thousand in the route) Spain route) route) Morocco Spain route) WE OFFER We serve over 40 destinations in Greece and Italy, through our Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries brands, which are known for their high level of service, as well as the Morocco – Spain route, through our Africa Morocco Links (AML) brand. 8 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 1. The Passenger Shipping Industry Coastline and Greek Islands Greece has the 11th largest coastline worldwide (13,676 km), just behind China (with a coastline of 14,500 km). This unusual extent is attributed to its unique geographical relief and morphology, which includes 6,000 islands and islets scattered in the Aegean and Ionian Seas. With over 1,500,000 registered inhabitants in 227 islands (approximately 12.3% of the country’s population), Greek islands:  Contribute 11.6% to the Greek Gross Domestic Product (GDP).  Support over 13.4% of total job positions.  Are traditionally one of the most popular tourist destinations, both for Greek citizens and foreign visitors.  Have approximately 60%-65% of the country’s hotel beds. About the Industry Seasonality of Passengers and Vehicles Transportation Passenger shipping is one of the most important industries in the Greek economy, as the use of passenger and car-passenger 9 vessels is required to connect islands with the mainland, as 9 well as to connect Greece with Italy. Based on a 2016 study Q1 21 13 conducted by the Foundation for Economic and Industrial 8 Research (IOBE) published in 2017:   Greece has the highest number of ports for maritime 24 passenger transport and Piraeus port has the largest 22 Q2 27 passenger transportation volume among the 28 European 31 Union countries. 24   The number of transported passengers and vehicles in domestic lines reached approximately 16 million and 3 53 million respectively, increased by 1.6% and 13% respectively 56 Q3 30 (approximately 255,000 passengers and 341,000 vehicles) 34 compared to 2015, mainly due to the increased tourism in 55 Greece. However, despite the 8% increase compared to 2012, 14 passenger transportation volume in 2016 was lower by 21.2% 14 and 15.8% compared to 2007 and 2009 respectively. Q4 22   The number of transported passengers and vehicles in 23 Adriatic Sea lines reached approximately 1.5 million and 12 688,000 respectively, reduced by 12.6% and 14% respectively Passengers (%) Private vehicles (%) (approximately 220,000 passengers and 112,000 vehicles) Freight units (%) compared to 2015 or by 33% and 20% respectively compared Buses (%) Source: Hellenic Statistical Authority Motorbikes (%) to 2009.  Passenger shipping industry contributes approximately €16.1 billion in the Greek economy (9.2% of the country’s GDP) and supports approximately 349,000 job positions, without including short domestic routes and cruise lines. The industry demonstrates intense seasonality regarding transportation of passengers and private vehicles, as there is higher transportation volume during July to September and The Greek Passenger Shipping Industry contributes reduced transportation volume during January to March. On 9.2% to the Greek GDP and 9.7% to the total job the other hand, there is lower seasonality regarding positions in Greece transportation of freight units, as their transportation volume is equally distributed throughout the year. Nonetheless, domestic passenger shipping companies maintain adequate and consistent shipping services throughout the year, in cooperation with local authorities and the relevant Ministry. ATTICA GROUP 9 Arrivals and Spending Average Spending from Abroad Visitors Based on Bank of Greece’s data, the number of 2017 non-resident arrivals in Greece reached approximately 2005 746 30.2 million, 7.4% more than 2016, while travel revenues and average spending per trip also increased by 10.8% 2006 746 and 3.2% respectively compared to 2016, reaching €14.6 billion and €485 respectively. 2007 700 2008 730 However, the average spending per trip continues to remain significantly lower than previous years, which can 2009 697 be partially attributed to the increased ticket prices due to the cumulative VAT increase by 11 percentage points 2010 640 during 2015-2016 and Greece currently has the second 2011 639 highest VAT in domestic lines in Europe (24%) according to European Union’s data, which is significantly higher 2012 616 than the 6%-10% VAT in countries with high domestic passenger transportation volume (e.g. Sweden, Italy, 2013 604 Finland). According to the Foundation for Economic and Industrial Research’s (IOBE) estimates, reduction of VAT 2014 552 at 14% and 6%, fully passed on ticket prices for the period 2017-2018 would have resulted to the increase of: 2015 541  Revenues for domestic passenger shipping companies 2016 470 by €95 million and over €190 million respectively.  Transported passengers by 12% and 28% respectively. 2017 485  Revenues from additional visitors to island economies by €778 million and €1.6 billion respectively. Average spending per trip (€)  Island economies’ GDP by €1 billion and €2.5 billion respectively.  Job positions by 18,000 and 42,000 respectively. Source: Bank of Greece 10 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 2. About Attica Group Who we are Our Group is active in the passenger shipping industry and operates on the Cyclades, Dodecanese, North-East Aegean islands and Crete domestic routes and on the Greece – Italy routes, through our subsidiaries and commercial brands Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries respectively. Furthermore, we participate with 49% share in ‘AFRICA MOROCCO LINKS’ (AML), which connects Morocco with continental Europe. The Group is listed on the Athens Stock Exchange, is a member of the international investment holding company Marfin Investment Group (MIG) and its offices are located in Kallithea, Athens. Shareholder Structure Shareholder Share* MIG Shipping S.A. 77.8% Marfin Investment Group 11.6% Other Shareholders 10.6% *Data refer to 31/12/2017. GREECE 100% North Aegean ADRIATIC SEA Piraeus Cyclades MEDITERRANEAN AEGEAN SEA SEA Dodecanese Crete Venice 100% Ancona ITALY Bari GREECE Igoumenitsa Patra 49% SPAIN Algeciras Almeria Tangier Med MOROCCO Nador ATTICA GROUP 11 Our culture VISION ‘To strengthen the Group’s leading position and value, through profitable expansion into new markets and activities, as well as provide high quality services which exceed market expectations’ MISSION ‘Attica Group is an international Shipping Group, which offers high quality shipping services with innovative and aesthetic vessels. The Group's activities generate added value for shareholders and employees, reduce where feasible our environmental footprint and operate for our partners’ and local communities’ benefit’. STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT PRINCIPLES  Being customers’ first choice.  Offer reliable services and continuously improve our products’ quality.  Create solid and long-term relationships with customers, our partners and local communities.  Manage responsibly our resources and actively contribute to our Group’s healthy, sustainable and profitable growth. VALUES Corporate Responsibility Integrity Quality Transparency Reliability Innovation 12 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Our history 1918 Incorporated as ‘General Company of Commerce and Industry of Greece’ 1918-1992 1924 Listed on the Athens Stock Exchange Change of ownership and name to ‘Attica Enterprises S.A.', 1992  later renamed to ‘Attica Enterprises Holding S.A.' Establishment of subsidiary ‘Attica Maritime S.A.’, later renamed 1993 to ‘Superfast Ferries Maritime S.A.’ Order of the first Superfast ferries in Germany, being the first fast car-passenger vessel worldwide 1995 Delivery and routing of Superfast I and Superfast II in 1995-1998 the Patra Ancona route, reducing sailing time by up to 40% 1998 Launch of Patra-Igoumenitsa-Bari route 1999 Acquisition of ‘Strintzis Lines Shipping S.A.’ and rebranded to Blue Star Ferries 2001 Launch of operations in the Baltic Sea market between Germany and Finland. Sailing time reduced to 22h from 32-34h 2001-2005 2002 Launch of the North Sea route between Scotland and Belgium 2005 Entrance in the RoRo market with the acquisition and routing of two RoRo vessels between Germany and Finland Marfin Investment Group (MIG) acquires majority shareholding 2007 stake of Attica Group Sale of RoRo vessels and exit from the Baltic and North Sea 2008 market Superfast ANEK Joint Venture for Ancona and Herakleio routes (2011) expanded to Bari, Venice and Chania (2014) 2011-2014 Expanded JV Initial JV Superfast Ferries celebrated 20 years 2015 since its first journey Entrance in Africa Europe market with the establishment of 2016 Africa Morocco Links Relocation of main offices to new address Restructure of Group organizational structure 2017 Agreement to acquire 98.83% of Hellenic Seaways’ share capital 22 years of continuous presence in our Seas ATTICA GROUP 13 Our fleet The way we operate Our fleet consists of 12 car-passenger (ro-pax) vessels in the We utilize products and services from our suppliers, both for Eastern Mediterranean Sea and 2 more in the Morocco – Spain the operation of our offices (materials, equipment, services and route, out of which 13 are privately-owned and one is on longknow-how), as well as for our vessels (fuels, materials, term contract. It must be noted that: foodstuffs and equipment). At the same time, we closely  10 of our 13 privately-owned vessels are tailor-designed by collaborate with port authorities and the local communities in our Group for the specific routes we operate and have been the departure and arrival ports of our vessels. built in first-class European and South Korean shipyards, in accordance with the highest shipbuilding standards. Customers purchase travel services through our extensive  13 vessels are registered in the Greek ship registry. sales network, which includes:  The average age of our vessels in the Eastern Mediterranean   The corporate websites www.bluestarferries.com, www. Sea is 14.5 years. superfast.com and www.aml.ma, as well as mobile  5 vessels jointly operate with ANEK LINES’s vessels, within applications. the context of the ‘ANEK S.A. SUPERFAST ENDEKA (HELLAS)  30 Premium Sales Agents and 42 Port agents for Blue Star INC. & Co. Joint Venture’, specifically for the Crete and Adriatic Ferries and Superfast Ferries, as well as 13 Premium Sales Sea routes. Agents and 2 Port agents for AML.  Two central reservation systems, with over 10,000 on-line connected travel agencies.   The members of the International Union of Railways (UIC) for maritime transportation of passengers from trains (200 members from 100 countries in 5 continents). We operate 12 modern vessels in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea (and 2 more on the Morocco Spain route) Vessel Capacity Superfast Blue Star AML Total Vessels (number) 4 8 2 14 Passengers (number) 5,518 13,981 2,070 21,569 Beds (number) 2,169 2,812 442 5,423 Garage lane length (meters) 8,840 8,999 1,389 19,228 Transportation Volume 2014 2015 2016 2017 Difference 2017-16 Eastern Mediterranean Sea Passengers (million) 4.13 4.50 4.04 4.13 +2.2% Private vehicles 537.65 576.76 601.72 635.83 +5.6% (thousand) Freight units 263.96 270.39 290.43 300.61 +3.5% We handled 3,213,847 reservations in the Eastern (thousand) Mediterranean Sea (and 182,252 more on the Morocco Spain Morocco Spain route), through our central Passengers (million) 187.08 537.00 +187% reservation systems Private vehicles 42.05 123.83 +194.5% (thousand) Freight units 3.82 39.78 +941.3% (thousand) We increased our journeys in Domestic and Adriatic Sea lines by 3.4% and 2.6% respectively 14 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Our Sales Network RUSSIA UNITED KINGDOM HOLLAND POLAND BELGIUM GERMANY CHECH REPUBLIC AUSTRIA FRANCE SWITZERLAND PRISTINE BULGARIA KOSSOVO ITALY F.Y.R.O.M. TURKEY SPAIN GREECE CYPRUS MOROCCO ISRAEL MYTILENE PSARA CHIOS PIRAEUS In order to provide our services in 2017, we used: TINOS   8 vessels in the Domestic lines to connect Piraeus with MYCONOS PATMOS Cyclades, Dodecanese, Crete (Chania and Heraklion) and N.E. SYROS NAXOS DONOUSA LEIPSOI Aegean islands. PAROS KOUFONISIA LEROS  3 privately-owned vessels in the Adriatic Sea lines (Patra – SCHINOUSSA KALIMNOS IRAKLIA Igoumenitsa – Ancona and Patra – Igoumenitsa – Bari, with AMORGOS KOS an intermediary approach in the port of Corfu during the IOS ASTYPALAIA NISYROS SANTORINI SYMI summer months), while we also served the Patra – TILOS ANAFI Igoumenitsa – Venice route with the vessel Asterion, which is RHODES chartered to ANEK LINES, under the ANEK-Superfast Joint CHANIA Venture. HERAKLION   2 vessels in the Morocco – Spain route (Tangier Med – Algeciras and Nador – Almeria) and 2 vessels chartered KASTELLORIZO during summer months for AML. ATTICA GROUP 15 Our Value Chain Main Offices Materials Equipment Travel Services Services Know-how Information Systems Local Suppliers Customers Ports Communities Information Travel Systems Services Sales Network Fuels Materials Foodstuffs Equipment 16 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 ATTICA GROUP 17 IV MANAGEMENT Incorporate Responsibility into our daily management practices WE ARE 5 11 Core 55 74 pillars of Stakeholder in accordance option future objectives GRI indicators Corporate groups of Report with the in the Report in the Report Responsibility GRI Standards WE COMMIT TO Adopt responsible policies and practices in our operations and to harmoniously cooperate with our Stakeholders, in order to create mutual long-term value. WE FOLLOW Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact 10 Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery WE ACHIEVED We have communicated Regulation of Professional Behavior to 100% of our employees. No violation cases concerning our main principles and rules of professional behavior occurred. No corruption incidents occurred. No bribery incidents related to our employees occurred. We were subjected to 83 external Management Systems’ audits, with no recorded non-compliance incident. No non-compliance incident was recorded during audits of our contractors’ Management Systems. We increased by 2.8% the number of GRI indicators and by 5% the number of quantitative indicators we make reference to within the Report. 18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 WE FOCUS Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials & Solid Waste Water & Liquid Waste State Environment NGOs ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Human Resources & Employment EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS Safety & Security PASSENGER SAFETY Health & Safety Customers Employees Responsible Communication RESPONSIBLE Sales Network Equality & Diversity MANAGEMENT Media Quality & Satisfaction Shareholders Training & Development SOCIETY SUPPORT Citizens Associations and Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Growth Societal Support Responsible Procurement ATTICA GROUP 19 1. Corporate Governance  At the moment, there are no consultation processes between Stakeholders and the BoD on sustainability issues. However, it must be noted that there were no critical concerns communicated to the BoD within 2017.  The BoD is responsible for the Chief Executive Officer’s performance evaluation.  The Chief Executive Officer evaluates managers’ performance on an annual basis. Evaluation criteria include achievement of their objectives, their contribution to cultivate an excellent workplace and their personal characteristics.  Remuneration for executive members is associated with the Trust corporate strategy and achievement of pursued objectives, while remuneration for non-executive members is associated According to a survey conducted to 2,600 people in 2017, with their employment time and responsibilities, without 93% of respondents who travelled with us believe we are a being directly associated with business performance, in order trustworthy company. to encourage freedom of opinion regarding taking increased business risks. We operate based on Corporate Governance practices  The Board of Directors is supported by the Audit Committee which is elected from the General Meeting of shareholders and Attica Group has developed and implements a Corporate consists of two independent non-executive members and one Governance Code, in accordance with the applicable legislation executive member, who meet at least quarterly, in order to: and the Hellenic Capital Market Commission’s directives. Attica - Oversee compliance with legislation and regulatory Group’s Board of Directors (BoD) is responsible to decide on all requirements. strategic aspects, manage corporate issues and approve the -E  nsure transparency of corporate operations. Group’s long-term strategy and consists of the following - Evaluate the effectiveness of internal control and risk members (data as of 31/12/2017): management systems. - Monitor, review and evaluate the process of compiling Kyriakos Mageiras President, Executive member financial information. Michael Sakellis Vice-President, Independent Non-Executive member Spyridon Paschalis Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Executive member Dependency Relationships for BoD Members Hercules Simitsidellis Executive member George Efstratiadis Non-Executive member According to our Corporate Governance Code, we consider Panagiotis Throuvalas Non-Executive member that a dependency relationship exists for candidate and Emmanouil Xanthakis Independent, Non-Executive member actual independent, non-executive BoD members, when the member:  Maintains business or other professional relationship with the Group or an affiliated company, which affects Corporate Governance Code its business activity, especially in cases of being a major supplier or customer of the Group. According to our Internal Regulation Code, the Corporate  Is BoD President or manager within the Group, or has the Governance Department is responsible to adhere to, update above described attributes, or is an executive BoD member and implement the Corporate Governance Code. in an affiliate company, or has any form of employment or paid relationship with the Group or an affiliated company.   The Board of Directors consists between three to nine  Has up to second-degree relationship or is a spouse of an members, who are elected by the General Meeting of executive BoD member or a manager or a shareholder who shareholders for two years, with the current BoD’s term end holds the majority share capital of the Group or an affiliated date on 30/06/2018. company.  BoD members elect the President, Vice-President and Chief Executive Officer, as well as the Authorized Director, if deemed necessary.   Responsibilities of the President and the Chief Executive Officer are separate. 20 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 It must be noted that:  All employees with permanent and fixed term employment Conflicts of Interests contracts are obliged to follow the Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business Ethics and Employee Guidebook. According to our Corporate Governance Code, BoD members   We consider non-compliance with their principles as an and any other person with delegated BoD responsibilities occupational misconduct which may lead to termination of are prohibited to pursue personal interests which conflict employment or even legal sanctions. with business interests. In case such personal interests  We impose sanctions stated in our Codes of professional exist, they shall inform other members for actual or behavior in cases where safety rules and marine law potential conflict of interests while performing their duties. regulations or Group regulations are violated. The General Meeting of shareholders is responsible to  We require provision of undisputable evidence to confirm approve any action of BoD members and managers on their reports against any employee. behalf or on behalf of third parties or participate as equal  All employees can seek advice or guidance from the Human partners in companies which pursue objectives similar to Resources Department or directly to the Group’s management, those pursued by our Group. in case they consider that there might be a conflict of interest. No such cases have been reported within 2017.   We prohibit any manager-employee personal relationship within the same Department. Instead, we recommend that We apply Principles and Regulation of Conduct related employees or with any other personal relationship are employed in different Departments. Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business Ethics: We have communicated our revised Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business Ethics to all office employees via e-mail, which is also placed on their computer desktop. The Code is also part of the introductory material provided to all new hired employees, who sign for its receive and acceptance, and We have communicated Regulation of Professional outlines the principles and rules which govern our business Behavior to 100% of our employees activities on the following topics:  Confidentiality – Privacy.  Information Security – Insider Information.  Personal Data and Information. Reporting Violations  Professional Behavior: Behavior towards customers, behavior Any office employee who becomes aware of any violation among colleagues. of the Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business  Professional Appearance. Ethics (such as fraud, theft or any other illegal activity),  Health & Safety. should report the incident to his/her supervisor who  Conflict of interests. informs the Human Resources Department or the Internal  Engaging with Other Work Activities. Audit Department, in cases of fraud or incident that can  Transparency of Activities. lead to financial damage. At the same time, marine  Respect for Property and Provided Resources. employees can report potential violations concerning the  Group Representation in Media – Publications – Public Views. Employee Guidebook through the established procedure  Report of Illegal Activities and Violations. for submitting complaints and additionally can contact the  Corporate Responsibility. competent authorities directly for any violations. All reports have to be submitted by name, while marine employees Employee Guidebook: At the same time, we have communicated can anonymously submit any complaint through the the ‘Improving the Best’ information guidebook to all marine personal interviews conducted during the Maritime Labour employees, who have signed the acceptance of the main Convention’s (MLC) external inspections. principles of professional behavior towards colleagues and customers described within the guidebook, as well as crew duties, relevant regulations, professional appearance guidelines and general information about the Group and its vessels. No violation cases concerning our main principles and rules of professional behavior occurred ATTICA GROUP 21 We apply internal control and risk management Risks systems Description Internal Control: We apply an internal control system, in order to ensure our efficient operation and provide reliable financial 1 Reduced passenger and freight transportation volume. information. The Board of Directors monitors, assesses and 2 Competition from shipping companies and airlines. ensures the adequacy of the internal control system (including 3 Risk of Greece being considered as an unsafe tourist destination financial statements), through: with consequent decrease in tourist flow.  The Audit Committee. 4 Decreased financial results due to purchase price increases or  The Internal Audit Department, which reports directly to the changes in the Euro-US dollar exchange rate. BoD and is supervised by the Audit Committee. We have 5 Risk from new activities, such as possibility of new market activities’ slow acceptance, difficulties in entering abroad lines due to developed control systems and adhere to appropriate intense competition from local companies, market price wars. processes for its operation as an independent body, which 6 Risk of strikes. enables the Department to audit our functions and procedures, 7 Loss of customer revenues due to economic recession (agents as well as monitor the Internal Regulation Code’s and transporters). implementation and enforcement. 8 Risks from decisions that may affect our business activity, such  The Internal Regulation Code, which defines: as ports’ privatization, establishing fares in public service routes, - Departments’ structure, their responsibilities and the subsidies, unsafe and uninterrupted operation of shipbuilding relationship with the Group’s management. zones. Responsibilities of BoD members. - Recruitment and performance evaluation process for managers. Monitoring of transactions from BoD members, managers Ensuring Business Continuity and and persons with insider information. Cybersecurity Public disclosure of significant transactions. Principles for transactions between affiliated companies. In order to ensure our infrastructures and computer systems’ uninterrupted operation, we:  Operate an Alternative Information Systems and Stock Trading Monitoring Procedure Telecommunications Center.  Implement a specific on-site and off-site backup policy. According to the relevant legislation, we have compiled a Furthermore, we have established cybersecurity processes list of people with access to privileged information, which is to maintain a secure online environment, in which we provided to the Hellenic Capital Market Commission upon define our actions to protect office and vessel information request. We inform each person in the list for its obligations, systems from risks, such as: as well as potential sanctions in case of information misuse.  Computer viruses and malware.  Internal attacks.  Important data destruction due to employee negligence. Risk Management: Within the context of our risk management  External attacks (such as hacking and phishing). system, we maintain and update annually our Risk Registry in  Attacks to disrupt services when connected to the cooperation with Directors and the Group’s management, where Internet (Denial of Service – DOS). records are assessed and prioritized according to risks that can affect our business plan. Based on the Registry’s latest update, we have identified the following risks that may affect our operations depending on their significance. 22 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 We contribute to anti-corruption Within the context of our efforts to combat and eradicate corruption, we:  Have accepted and signed the UN Global Compact’s ‘Call for No bribery incidents related to our employees occurred Action’ initiative and commit to implement policies and practices to effectively tackle corruption incidents.   Have started to develop our Anti-corruption Regulation We follow fair competition rules addressing our main professional integrity and business ethics practices. We recognize the importance and our responsibility to follow  Have placed our anti-corruption policies and procedures on all fair competition rules and do not adopt anti-competitive our office employees’ computer desktop. practices. Within this context:  Submit our positions regarding issues of public interest at  We do not make negative comments about our competitors national and international level either individually or through publicly. INTERFERRY (the international shipping association which  We do not engage in illegal partnerships or price fixing represents the ferry industry worldwide) and SEEN (the Greek agreements, market sharing or entering new markets and Shipowners Association for Passenger Ships), in order to customer segments. transparently express our views and positions. Indicatively,  We do not allow our employees to reveal confidential our opinion regarding fire protection of car-passenger (ro-pax) information regarding our activities, relationships with our vessels’ open decks was expressed during a European customers or their personal and financial data, as well as Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA) meeting in Lisbon within discuss future plans that are not publicly known or salary 2017. issues.  We conduct briefings on legislative competition issues for our It must be noted that within 2017: Management Executives.  We made no donations to political parties in Greece.   There were no corruption incidents or pending lawsuits Within 2017: related to corruption or relevant sanctions imposed by  There was a lawsuit filed by the Pharmaceutical Association respective authorities. of Cyclades claiming abuse of dominant position, for which  There were no legal accusations of corruption filed or pending clarifications were submitted at Kallithea Magistrates' Court accusations of corruption or fines imposed. during the preliminary examination, with the case file still before in the Public Prosecutor of the Athens Misdemeanours Court.  There were no relevant fines or other sanctions imposed by the respective authorities.  Regarding a previous complaint filed to the Hellenic Competition Commission for anti-competitive behavior of a No corruption incidents occurred Company of the Group from a travel agent who the Company decided not to cooperate with, following a formal letter additionally submitted to the Greek Competition Commission in response to the complaint, the Competition Commission Accepting Gifts rejected the complaint, while the Multimember Court of First Instance of Kos rejected the agent's respective lawsuit due to According to our Regulation of Professional Conduct vagueness of pleadings. The agent’s appeal against the & Business Ethics, employees are strictly prohibited to decision by the Multimember Court of First Instance of Kos is directly or indirectly engage in any kind of bribery (such expected to be discussed within 2018. as giving or receiving any gift, financial incentive, loan, commission, reward or other incentive) towards or from We comply with regulatory framework any person, as an incentive to conduct their tasks in a nonappropriate manner. We closely monitor the regulatory and legal framework related to our activities, in order to apply its relevant provisions. It must be noted that within 2017, there were no written notices regarding compliance issues by respective authorities, while no significant relevant fines (over €20,000) or other sanctions were imposed. ATTICA GROUP 23 2. Corporate Responsibility Global Compact Principles Our Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business Responsible Company Ethics reflects our commitment to the 10 Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact, as it includes their According to a survey conducted to 2,600 people in 2017, acknowledgement and acceptance. 83% of respondents travelled with us believe that we operate responsibly as a company. Sustainable Mobility Corporate Responsibility Since 2011, we have signed the International Union of Our approach to Corporate Responsibility aims to align Railways’ (UIC) Declaration on Sustainable Mobility and our business operations with the needs of society and Transport, which is aligned with the United Nations’ the environment. Therefore, we design and implement Global Compact and constitutes a public commitment initiatives to prevent potential negative impacts due to to implement and report on sustainable development our operations and respond to opportunities through practices through regular and transparent progress reports. interaction with our Stakeholders. Furthermore, we are members of UIC’s Sustainable Mobility Group to strengthen sustainability in the transportation We utilize appropriate organizational structures sector and participated in the ‘UIC Sustainability Survey: Good Practice Examples’ on good practices related to To manage topics related to our responsible operation, we have sustainable development. created an organizational structure, as described in the figure below. This organizational structure is also used to collect data, which are used internally to evaluate our performance, and Stakeholders to do the same. ‘European Enterprise Manifesto 2020’ Managing Corporate Responsibility Since 2015, we have signed the European Enterprise Manifesto 2020, part of the joint initiative ‘Enterprise 2020’ of the Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility Level ATTICA GROUP (CSR Hellas), the European Business Network for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR Europe) and 42 CSR Networks Board across Europe. The Manifesto promotes cooperation and of Directors Chief Executive Officer initiatives in three strategic areas:  Enhance employability and social inclusion. Management Corporate Responsibility Team:  Promote new sustainable production and consumption Legal & Corporate methods, as well as improve living conditions. Affairs Department  Increase transparency and respect for human rights. Commercial Department Human Resources Training on Corporate Responsibility Department Marine Operations In order to further manage Corporate Responsibility in a Department systematic way, during 2017 we organized:  A two-hour training seminar for all Top Management  At Board level, the Chief Executive Officer has the overall members and Directors (21 executives) on the definition responsibility for Corporate Responsibility issues, including and importance of Corporate Responsibility, as well as principles, policies and objectives. respective trends.  At Management level, the Corporate Responsibility Team is  Two training courses with a total duration of 8 hours for responsible to coordinate our overall Corporate Responsibility 4.5% and 7.1% of Managers and Directors respectively on strategy. The Team consists of executives from the Legal & Corporate Responsibility and Sustainable Development Corporate Affairs Department, the Commercial Department, issues. the Human Resources Department and the Marine Operations Department and cooperates with other Departments, in order to diffuse practices related to responsible operation. It must be noted that we have already included the Corporate Responsibility Team’s responsibilities within one of its members’ formal job descriptions. 24 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Corporate Responsibility Strategy In 2017, we initiated a process to develop our Corporate Responsibility Strategy & Action Plan 2018-2020, in order to improve our performance. Within this context, we utilized an online tool to quantitatively measure our Group's current Corporate Responsibility maturity level in:  7 Areas (Management, Owners, Employees, Suppliers, Customers, Communities and Environment).  41 sub-Areas. We operate based on Management Systems  4 Dimensions (Policies, Processes, Performance and Perception). We use the following certified Management Systems for our business operations: Based on replies to over 1,000 potential questions based  International Safety Management (ISM) Code. on criteria from internationally recognized systems (such  International Vessel and Port Facility Security (ISPS) Code. as GRI, AA1000, ISO26000 and EFQM) and good practices  Maritime Labour Convention (MLC). from leading organizations worldwide, we quantitatively  ISO 9001 Quality Management System. assessed our Corporate Responsibility maturity and  ISO 14001 Environmental Management System. identified the Areas and Dimensions with the lowest scores  ISO 22000 Food Safety Management System (contractors). where we have to focus. The results were presented during a half-day Strategy Workshop to approximately 60 management executives, including the Chief Executive Officer, Top Management members, Directors and Managers from all departments. We were subjected to 83 external Management After the presentation, participants determined which Systems’ audits, with no recorded non-compliance Areas, sub-Areas and Dimensions we should focus on, and incident defined the quantitative targets for each Area, forming the Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2018-2020. In 2018, we aim to define the future actions to develop our Corporate Responsibility Action Plan 2018-2020, within the framework of our Corporate Responsibility Strategy, No non-compliance incident was recorded during actions which will be decided by each department. audits of our contractors’ Management Systems We are members in national and international organizations We are members in the following institutions and organizations:  INTERFERRY.  Greek Shipowners Association for Passenger Ships (SEEN). The Vice-President of BoD and the Chief Executive Officer are President of BoD and Vice-President of International Routes in the BoD of SEEN.  Hellenic Chamber of Shipping (HCS). The Vice-President of BoD and the Chief Executive Officer are BoD Members of HCS.  Greek Tourism Confederation (SETE).  Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR Hellas).  Hellenic Marine Environment Protection Association (HELMEPA).  Travel Technology Initiative.  International Union of Railways (UIC).  International Rail Transport Committee (CIT).  EURAIL Group GIE.  United Nations’ Global Compact.  Hellenic-Italian Chamber of Commerce. ATTICA GROUP 25 Our efforts are recognized We consider the recognition of our efforts related to Corporate Responsibility as an important moral award, which also highlights our commitment to continue our relevant practices and initiatives. In 2017, we were proud to receive:  The ‘True Leader’ award in ICAP Group’s TRUE LEADERS for the 3rd consecutive year, as among the leading companies in our industry based on turnover and profitability and as one of the business groups with the highest number of employees.   The Gold Award in Supply Chain Institute’s and Boussias Communications’ Transport & Logistics AWARDS 2017 in the category ‘Passenger Transportation’, section ‘Innovative Passenger Transport Services' for the Eurail and Interrail Greek Islands Pass cards, which combine train and vessel transportation and allow their holders to pay a single fare and travel to successive destinations. 3. Materiality and Stakeholders We identify Material Topics Corporate Responsibility Framework We have created the following Corporate Responsibility Framework, as a result of an internal analysis and interaction with our Stakeholders, in order to systematically organize and manage Corporate Responsibility issues. In each one of the areas of Corporate Responsibility, we focus on Material Topics, identified through a respective Materiality Analysis, during which:  We identified potential topics, based on the industry’s regulatory framework, current global conditions and practices and future trends, developing a pool of over 90 topics to be considered.  We analyzed the associated risk for each topic, based on: - Their potential impact (for our Stakeholders). Their probability of occurrence.  We utilized our Stakeholders’ expectations as far as our responsible operation is concerned, where available, taking into consideration Stakeholder engagement input from various sources (e.g. relevant surveys).  We combined the associated risk and Stakeholders’ expectations for each topic, taking into consideration the Group's Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2018-2020 and the identified Areas where we should focus more during the Corporate Responsibility Strategy Workshop (see section IV-2). 26 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 The Materiality Analysis was approved by the Corporate Responsibility Team and the Chief Executive Officer, who also approved the Corporate Responsibility Report. Through this Analysis, we have identified the following Material Topics for 2017 (all Topics that were not deemed Material are not referenced in detail): Corporate Responsibility Materiality Analysis High Passenger Safety Sea Pollution Accident Impact  Responsible Communication & Sales Energy Use Responsible Buying Vessel Responsible Buying CO2 Emissions Vessel Work Conditions Fuel Spills & Leakages Effluent Handling at Sea Waste Handling Local Buying Labor Relations Products & Services Quality Supplier Assessment for Labor Products & Services Affordability Risk (impact on Materiality) Practices  Anti-competitive Behavior Hazardous Waste Investments Equality & Fairness Supplier Human Rights Assessment Vessel Health & Safety Discharges at Sea Rippling Water Consumption Material Consumption Corporate Responsibility  Customer Satisfaction Corporate Governance SO2, NOX & PM Emissions Labor Practices Grievances Supplier Environment Assessment Job Security Products & Services Health & Safety Effluent Handling at Land Community Impact Sea Biodiversity Office Health & Safety Donation & Sponsoring Environmental Investment Corporate Volunteering Land Biodiversity & Land Use Noise Pollution & Air Quality Training & Development Refrigerants Use (ODP) Office Work Conditions Environmental Grievances Environmental Compliance Environmental Training & Awareness Management Society Employees Customers Environment Low Material Topics of high importance Material Topics of medium importance Material Topics of moderate importance Non-Material Topics Low Expectation (concern to Stakeholders) High ATTICA GROUP 27 We interact with Stakeholders Focus of Domestic Passenger Shipping Companies The way we operate, as well as our decisions, affect a wide range of people, groups and organizations, who comprise our According to a survey results conducted in 2017, domestic Stakeholders. The following table describes our Stakeholder passenger shipping companies should mainly focus by groups, which influence or are influenced by our operations, the priority to: methods we apply to continuously communicate and interact  Provide quality services. with them, the main topics raised by them, as well as the  Care for their employees. sections within our Report, where we respond to these topics.  Reduce their environmental impact. Within 2017, we identified our Stakeholders’ expectations  Contribute to economy. related to our responsible operation, mainly through surveys  Support society. that included:   A Qualitative Equity Survey, with group discussions and interviews to 53 passengers in the Domestic lines, as well as 5 passengers and 14 professional drivers in the Adriatic Sea lines.  A Greek Domestic Lines Survey, with personal interviews to 2,600 people in selected areas (Attica, Crete, Dodecanese, Cyclades and North Aegean islands). Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Methods of interaction through continuous Main issues of interest activities (unless indicated otherwise) (reference in Report) DIRECT   Job Security (VI-1)   Training & Development (VI-4)   Employee Opinion Survey (annually)   Vessel Health & Safety (VI-2)   Performance Appraisal (annually)   Office Health & Safety (VI-2)   Events / Meetings   Vessel Work Conditions (VI-1-4) Employees   Training   Equality & Fairness (VI-3)   Negotiations with Employee Unions (through Greek   Labor Practices Grievances (VI-3) Shipowners Association for Passenger Ships – SEEN)   Office Work Conditions (VI-1-4)   Employee Training In Human Rights (VI-4, V-2)   Labor Relations (VI-3)   Passenger Safety (VII-1)  General Meeting of Shareholders (annually)   Community Impact (V-2)  Websites   Corporate Responsibility (IV-2) Shareholders  Meetings   Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1)   Corporate Governance (IV-1)   Investments (VI-3)  Passenger Safety (VII-1)  Qualitative Equity Survey (annually)  Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3)  Greek Domestic Lines Survey (annually)  Products & Services Health & Safety (VII-1)  Customer Services Division  Products & Services Affordability (VII-3) Customers  Websites  Responsible Communication & Sales (VII-2)  Satisfaction / Complaints Questionnaires  Customer Satisfaction (VII-3)  Social media  Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1)  Information leaflets  Environmental Training & Awareness (VIII-1)  Anti-competitive Behavior (IV-1)  Events / Meetings  Passenger Safety (VII-1)  Information systems  Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3) Sales Network  Travel agents’ online portal  Responsible Communication & Sales (VII-2)  Websites  Customer Satisfaction (VII-3)  Anti-competitive Behavior (IV-1)  Responsible Buying (V-3)  Supplier evaluation  Local Buying (V-3) Suppliers  Meetings  Vessel Responsible Buying (V-3)  Contracts  Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices (V-3)  Supplier Human Rights Assessment (V-3)  Supplier Environmental Assessment (V-3) 28 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Stakeholder Methods of interaction through continuous Main issues of interest activities (unless indicated otherwise) (reference in Report) INDIRECT   Passenger Safety (VII-1)  Discussion with representatives at local  Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) State and national level  Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3) (e.g. Ministries, Local  Meetings / Presentations  Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1) Authorities, Public Services,  Participation in organizations and associations  Corporate Governance (IV-1) Port Authorities)  Vessel inspections  Anti-competitive Behavior (IV-1)  Formal communication  Rippling (VIII-3, V-2) Associations and   Participation in associations  Passenger Safety (VII-1) Unions   Meetings / Presentations  Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3) (e.g. Industry Associations,   Discussion with representatives at local and national level  Products & Services Affordability (VII-3) Hoteliers’ Associations)   Formal communication  Anti-competitive Behavior (IV-1)  Community Impact (V-2)  Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3)  Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3)  CO2 Emissions (VIII-1)  Effluent Handling (VIII-3)  Waste Handling (VIII-2)   Qualitative Equity Survey (annually)  Discharges at Sea (VIII-2, 3) Local Communities   Greek Domestic Lines Survey (annually)  Hazardous Waste (VIII-3) (e.g. islands)   Meetings / Presentations  SO2, NOΧ & PM Emissions (VIII-1)   Local events and programs  Noise Pollution & Air Quality (VIII-1)  Environmental Grievances (VIII-1)  Environmental Compliance (VIII-1)  Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1)  Donation & Sponsoring (V-2)  Corporate Volunteering (V-2)  Rippling (VIII-3, V-2)  Passenger Safety (VII-1)  Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3)  Energy Use (VIII-1)  Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3)   Qualitative Equity Survey (annually)  Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3)   Greek Domestic Lines Survey (annually) Citizens   Websites  CO2 Emissions (VIII-1)  Environmental Training & Awareness (VIII-1)   Social media  Material Consumption (VIII-2)  Products & Services Affordability (VII-3)  Responsible Communication & Sales (VII-2)  Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1)  Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3)  Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3)  Effluent Handling (VIII-3)  Waste Handling (VIII-2)  Discharges at Sea (VIII-2, 3)  Water Consumption (VIII-3)  Sea Biodiversity (VIII-3)  Land Biodiversity & Land Use (VIII-3)  Noise Pollution & Air Quality (VIII-1)  Refrigerants Use (ODP) (VIII-1) Non-Governmental   Collaborations  Environmental Grievances (VIII-1) Organizations  Meetings / Presentations  Environmental Compliance (VIII-1) (NGOs)  Vessel Health & Safety (VI-2)  Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1)  Vessel Work Conditions (VI-1-4)  Equality & Fairness (VI-3)  Office Work Conditions (VI-1-4)  Labor Practices Grievances (VI-3)  Office Work Conditions (VI-1-4)  Rippling (VIII-3, V-2)  Labor Relations (VI-3)  Investments (VI-3)  Passenger Safety (VII-1)  Products & Services Quality (VII-1, 3)  Community Impact (V-2)  Press releases  Sea Pollution (VIII-2, 3) Media  Press conferences  Fuel Spills & Leakages (VIII-3)  Websites  Products & Services Affordability (VII-3)  Responsible Communication & Sales (VII-2)  Accident Impact (V-2, VII-1)  Donation & Sponsoring (V-2) ATTICA GROUP 29 STATE Le ve l of Co NGOs nt ro ENVIRONMENT l EMPLOYEES CITIZENS LOCAL SALES NETWORK CUSTOMERS COMMUNITIES SHAREHOLDERS SUPPLIERS MEDIA ASSOCIATIONS ΑΝD UNIONS We focus on quantitative data and results Quantitative Data within the Corporate Responsibility Report We focus to continuously include and publish more quantitative indicators and objectives, in order to respond to our 210 Stakeholders’ requirement for greater transparency and their 56 need to be able to evaluate our performance. Aiming to 2017 18 systematically report on our performance, within 2017 we 55 completed the process to record our Corporate Responsibility 200 Report’s quantitative indicators and forwarded them to the 58 respective Departments to modify accordingly, in order to 2016 14 configure our Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. 33 185 56 2015 10 24 We increased by 2.8% the number of GRI indicators 115 35 and by 5% the number of quantitative indicators we 2014 0 make reference to within the Report 0 Quantitative indicators (number) Fully covered GRI indicators (number) Partially covered GRI indicators (number) Objectives (number) 30 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 4. Achievements 2017 and Future Objectives We committed Progress We aim By To improve our overall performance on Corporate Responsibility issues by 24%. 2020 To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility issues related to Owners by 10%. 2020 To improve our performance related to Management of Corporate Responsibility issues 2020 by 25%. To conduct a Stakeholder Engagement process To conduct a Stakeholder Engagement process on issues related to Corporate Responsibility 25% on issues related to Corporate Responsibility. 2019 (by 2018). To include Corporate Responsibility Team’s To include Corporate Responsibility Team’s responsibilities within its members’ formal 25% responsibilities within its members’ formal 2018 job descriptions. job descriptions. To conduct trainings or briefings related to the To conduct trainings or briefings related to the Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business 0% Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business 2018 Ethics. Ethics. To develop an Anti-Corruption Code. 25% To develop an Anti-Corruption Code. 2018 To include our Corporate Responsibility Report’s To include our Corporate Responsibility Report’s quantitative indicators in our SAP ERP (by 2018). 25% quantitative indicators in our SAP ERP. 2018 To develop a Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Action Plan 2018-2020, based on quantitative 2018 assessment and target setting. To integrate the Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2018-2020’s target assessment score within the overall Group Strategy. 2018 To include the Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2018-2020’s quantitative assessment score as target in the formal appraisal process for Top Management members and at least one Board of 2019 Directors member. To develop a process to identify, prioritize and include Corporate Responsibility issues in local and international investment agreements. 2018 To establish a comprehensive Business Continuity Plan to ensure continuation of our operations following unexpected events. 2020 To include perception measurement questions regarding our Corporate Responsibility performance (e.g. responsible promotion of products and services, personal data protection, society support) 2018 in our market surveys. ATTICA GROUP 31 V SOCIETY We support prosperity of Society WE ARE €271.5 €300.3 €1.6 48,052 70 million turnover million economic million social discount tickets blood units from value distributed contribution volunteer blood donators WE COMMIT TO Combine our business success with our country’s and partners’ development, as well as support local communities affected by our operations, in order to contribute to improving the quality of life and prosperity of our society in general. WE FOLLOW Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact 1 Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2 Ensure not to be complicit in human rights abuses 4 Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5 Abolish effectively child labour 8 Promote greater environmental responsibility WE ACHIEVED  We distributed over €300 million in economic value: over €61.6 million to employees (for salaries, benefits and insurance payments), €49.4 million for taxes (including VAT and port taxes), €34.7 million to providers of capital (for interest and return payments), €15.2 million to agents (for commissions), €130.7 million to suppliers (for purchases of goods and services), €1.6 million to society (for discount tickets, implemented programs, sponsorships and donations) and €7.1 million for investments. We increased the total number of discount tickets offered by 7.3%. We increased the total value of our societal support activities by 14.3%. We allocated 55% of sponsorships and donations to local communities. We collected 289 blood units through our voluntary blood donation programs in the last four years. We welcomed 739 young people from schools and universities visiting our facilities. We increased the percentage of procurement expenditure to local suppliers to 92.9%. We allocated 89.2% of total procurement expenditure to small and medium-sized enterprises (up to 250 employees). 32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 WE FOCUS Economic Growth Societal Support Responsible Procurement Citizens Associations and Unions Suppliers Local Communities SOCIETY SUPPORT Human Resources & Employment EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS Safety & Security PASSENGER SAFETY Health & Safety Customers Employees Responsible Communication RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT Sales Network Equality & Diversity Media Quality & Satisfaction Shareholders Training & Development ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT State Environment NGOs Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials & Solid Waste Water & Liquid Waste ATTICA GROUP 33 1. Economic Growth The deviations in operating costs, EBITDA and profits after Economic Growth taxes compared to 2016 can primarily be attributed to the additional €22 million paid due to the average annual increase According to a survey conducted to 2,600 people in 2017, of over 27% in the prices of marine fuels. 17% of respondents believe that a domestic passenger shipping company should focus on contributing to economic It must be noted that during 2017, the total financial growth. compensation received from the Greek State and grants from the European Union amounted to €11.69 million, compared to €13.48 million in 2016, due to public service contracts awarded, as Blue Star Ferries participated in open public tenders by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy to operate shipping routes which connect remote islands with the mainland. Turnover per Market 2017 68 32 2016 68.1 31.9 2015 71.4 28.6 Domestic routes (%) Adriatic Sea routes (%) Revenue Structure We achieve financial results 4.3% 3.6% Holding a leading position in the provision of maritime 4.3% transportation services, we achieve positive financial results, 40% 11% which are indicatively presented below for the period 2014-2017 (additional financial information can be found in our Annual Financial Reports at www.attica-group.com). Financial Results 2014 2015 2016 2017 Revenues from passengers 36.8% Turnover (total sales with VAT) Revenues from freight units (million €) 266.66 277.63 268.61 271.54 Revenues from private vehicles Revenues from compensation Operating costs (million €) 214.06 183.5 187.76 211.52 for public services Earnings before interest, taxes, 42.35 80.7 70.03 50.36 Revenues from onboard sales depreciation and amortization Other revenues (EBITDA) (million €) Profits after taxes (million €) 4.27 33.18 20.25 1.25 Corporate taxes (thousand €) 148 69 745 307 Total taxes (including corporate 38.36 45.95 48.68 49.43 taxes, VAT and port taxes) (million €) Payments to providers of capital 93.47 23.45 60.94 34.7 (million €) Payments to suppliers 144.41 116.23 145.1 130.75 (million €) Cost of employees (including 55.42 58.7 60.59 61.61 salaries, benefits and insurance payments) (million €) Commissions to agents (million €) 16.09 15.67 14.91 15.27 Investments (million €) 37.73 1.15 4.06 7.18 34 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 We contribute to economic growth We help our sales network develop Our business operations ensure we return significant economic The current challenging economic situation makes every effort value back to our Stakeholders, mostly through purchases to create direct and indirect job positions particularly important. (towards our suppliers), commissions (towards our agents), Therefore, we contribute to our network’s commercial success salaries, benefits and insurance payments (towards our by developing their employees’ skills, through: employees), taxes (towards the State) and investments, while  Training on issues, such as: we transport food products and materials to islands, in order to Customer management. develop local economies and tourism. - Familiarization with new features of existing reservation programs. Economic Value Distribution Familiarization with new reservation programs.  Presentations-briefings for new products and services. Taxes** €49.4 million Capital Agents Providers €15.2 million €34.7 million Distributed Employees* Economic Value Suppliers €61.6 million €300.3 million €130.7 million Investments Society*** €7.1 million €1.6 million * The amount refers to gross salaries, benefits and insurance payments. ** The amount refers to total taxes, including VAT and port taxes. *** The amount refers to value of discount tickets, implemented programs, sponsorships and donations. We distributed over €300 million in economic value: Sales Network Training over €61.6 million to employees (for salaries, benefits 72 and insurance payments), €49.4 million for taxes 2017 248 (including VAT and port taxes), €34.7 million to providers of capital (for interest and return payments), 74 2016 €15.2 million to agents (for commissions), €130.7 1,584 million to suppliers (for purchases of goods and services), €1.6 million to society (for discount tickets, 2015 83 implemented programs, sponsorships and donations) 1,744 and €7.1 million for investments Employees trained (number) Training hours (hours) Besides trainings conducted to the Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries sales network, we trained 17 employees of AML’s sales network, for a total duration of 1,204 training hours, compared to 42 employees and 3,360 training hours in 2016. ATTICA GROUP 35 2. Society Support We support society Society Support* Within the context of our societal contribution, we supported over 60 charitable and non-charitable organizations in 2017, 1,599,360 2017 focusing on local communities of islands we serve, through: 48,052  Provision of discount tickets.  Donations to charitable organizations through collection 1,398,436 boxes in our vessels. 2016 44,747  Social programs to improve the life of residents in islands.  Monetary sponsorships and donations. 1,524,245 2015 60,663 It is estimated that during 2017, we offered over €155,000 to various social groups, organizations and sport associations, 1,363,167 out of which €4,730 were infrastructure investments to local 2014 communities, with the following indicative examples being the: 63,259  Holy Diocese of Chios-Psara-Oinousses. Value of societal support activities (€)  Program ‘Agoni Grammi Gonimi’. Discount tickets (number)  Music School ‘The great School of Markos’ in Syros.  Heraklion Sailing Club. *  alue of societal support activities and number of discount tickets for V 2014 and 2015 have been restated.  Football Clubs Association of Lasithi.  Sport association Foinikas Syrou.  Sport association Kolossos Rhodes.   Olympic sailing team P. Mantis – P. Kagialis. Social Contribution We increased the total number of discount tickets 2014 2015 2016 2017 offered by 7.3% Value of discount 1,285,445 1,453,509 1,296,656 1,436,386 tickets (€)* Value of donations 4,641 3,634 3,371 2,605 from passengers to charitable rganizations through collection boxes in vessels (€) Value of implemented 15,446 11,000 0 4,730 social programs (€) Value of sponsorships and donations (€) 57,635 56,102 98,409 155,639 * Value of discount tickets for 2014 and 2015 has been restated. Furthermore, we donate surplus equipment to schools and charitable organizations, and more specifically in 2017: We increased the total value of our societal support  13 desktop computers to a school in Attica Prefecture. activities by 14.3%  4 office desks to the Association of Parents, Guardians and Friends of Autistic Children ‘SOS’ to cover needs of the Center of Therapeutic Special Education ‘SOS’. Sponsorships and Donations  500 woolen blankets to the Lyreio children's institution ‘Agioi Anargyroi’ – ‘Orthodox village’, as well as in the parishes of Ag. 22.2% Ioannou Marathon Attica and Ag. Georgiou Dionysou Attica. 7.1% Cultural 70.7% Sports Social 36 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Provision of Discount Tickets Donations to Charitable Organizations We offer discount tickets to various NGOs, associations, As part of our societal contribution, we support various local authorities and local communities, in order for them to charitable organizations which: attend sport, cultural or educational activities outside their  Are committed to support children. islands or local activities and events, as well as in cases of  Have limited resources. emergency. Indicative examples include:  30% discount to passenger and private vehicles and Therefore, we place collection boxes at the Reception motorcycle tickets for those with at least four overnight desks onboard our vessels with the name of the supported stays in Lesvos, Chios, Leros and Kos (see section VII-3). organization indicated, in order to collect donations from  50% discount for passenger and private vehicle tickets for passengers. Each month, we gather these donations those travelled to and from Lesvos and Kos to visit their and deposit them into the organization’s bank account. families and attend their properties due to the devastating Within this context, we supported the following charitable earthquakes in June and July. organizations in 2017:  50% discount for newly enrolled students in higher  Smile of the Child. education institutions and their families for their first trips  Amnesty International. to register and find a home.  30%-100% discount for 160 residents in Cyclades, Furthermore, we collaborate with the 2 Blue Tomatoes Dodecanese and N.E. Aegean islands and 34 residents in company to sell t-shirts in vessel shops, which feature Crete who travel regularly due to health issues. unique and original printed stamps to promote local traditional foods and recipes. The total value of 121 units It is estimated that during 2017, we offered over 48,000 sold in vessel shops reached approximately €2,300 and 2 discount tickets for sport, cultural and educational Blue Tomatoes offered part of their revenues to support activities and additionally benefitted thousands of citizens the non-profit organization ‘Desmos’ (www.desmos.org) to who participated or attended those events and activities. create sustainable solidarity networks and cultivate social and humanitarian responsibility. First Aid Training Courses In 2014, we initiated our First Aid training program in Aegean islands, through which the Volunteer Crisis Rescue Team (VCRT) of Amorgos was created in 2015 and has been involved in various rescue operations, in order to:  Provide First Aid assistance in cases of injuries.  Respond to emergency situations.  Create local rescue teams composed of permanent local residents. During 2017, we continued our support for training programs implemented by the VCRT of Amorgos, with 100 people ‘Agoni Grammi Gonimi’ trained in Koufonisia, Schinoussa, Iraklia and Donousa. To ensure participation of small island residents in educational and cultural events, we supported the ‘Agoni Grammi Gonimi’ program for the 11th consecutive year, which is the largest educational and cultural program of remote Aegean islands. The program featured over 10 creative workshops (such as Robotics, Pottery, Puppet Theatre, Jewelry, Kung Fu, Guitar, Piano, Violin, Cinema Workshop and Festival, Creative Writing and Comics, Pilates and Hip Hop) in Koufonisi, Astypalaia, Naxos, Donousa, Thirasia, Tilos and Schinoussa, with the participation of approximately 161 children and 56 adults, compared to 263 children and 45 adults in 2016. ATTICA GROUP 37 At the same time, we participated in efforts by the Greek Support to Underprivileged Social Groups government and non-governmental organizations to assist refugees, as we:  Transported free-of-charge 47 humanitarian aid shipments. We strive to support various social groups in need, in  Transported free-of-charge over 1,300 packages, boxes, collaboration with NGOs, specialized authorities and parcels and pallets with items and materials to support organizations. Since September 2012, we support the refugees. Holy Diocese of Chios-Psara-Oinousses to provide meals  Utilized scheduled and unscheduled vessel journeys to to sensitive social groups, by purchasing required raw transport free-of-charge shelter sheds to provide housing for materials for food rations. refugees.  Provided 413 free tickets to NGO ‘Metadrasi’, which aims to Provision of Meals to Underprivileged Citizens protect unaccompanied minors and provide interpretation 14,791 and intercultural mediation services. 2017 21,752 We cultivate the importance of volunteer contribution 13,586 2016 We believe that it is our responsibility to cultivate the importance 19,979 of volunteer contribution to our employees, in order to integrate 15,000 the concept of responsibility in their behavior. Within this 2015 22,000 context, we participated in the 1st charity race ‘No Finish Line’ with a team of 78 volunteer runners to support the association 16,250 ‘Together for Children’ and covered a total distance of 776 km. 2014 23,900 Overall, over 6,200 runners participated in the race and covered a total distance of approximately 51,000 km to financially Value of raw materials purchased (€) support of poor families with children. Corresponding food rations (number) We allocated 55% of sponsorships and donations to local communities ‘I Write My Story’ Within 2017, we launched the initiative ‘I Write My Story’ and invited passengers, visitors and residents of Aegean Employee Participation in Societal Support Activities Islands to describe their own experiences and memories with colors, images and feelings inspired by travel and life 165 on the islands. For this reason, we created the microsite 2017 13.7 www.bsfistories.gr and invited visitors to share their 186 memorable stories, in order to strengthen the Greek identity and island nature and emphasize on islands’ visitors and 121 residents. 2016 8.9 121 148 2015 11.6 178 138 2014 11.5 312 Employee volunteers (number) Employee volunteers participation (%) Employee volunteering (hours) 38 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 We support professional growth of young people ‘Blood Ties’ We focus on educational contribution and supporting Since 2009, we implement a voluntary blood donation professional growth of young people, as we: program called ‘Blood Ties’, in order to respond to   Welcome school and university students to inform them needs of remote Greek island residents and to personal about career prospects in the shipping industry and emergencies of our employees and their families. Within employment opportunities in the passenger shipping industry, 2017, we implemented our 15th employee voluntary blood as well as promote their environmental awareness. donation at our offices and vessels, in cooperation with  Participate in periodic student internship programs of the the ‘G. Gennimatas’ General Hospital and gathered in total Merchant Navy’s Officer academies (for Engine and Deck 70 blood units, out of which 45 units were utilized for our cadets) who are required to successfully complete a one-year employees’ and their families’ needs and 4 units from local internship onboard a vessel prior to their graduation, as well community members. as in periodic field journey programs for Coast Guard students (Ensign cadets) to familiarize themselves with their future Voluntary Blood Donation duties.  Implement internship programs for university students and 2017 70 graduates to acquire professional experience and develop 2016 68 skills and competencies which advance their personal and professional development. 2015 82 Supporting Professional Growth 2014 69 Blood units (number) 739 2017 0 0 866 2016 124 108 We collected 289 blood units through our voluntary blood donation programs in the last four years 617 2015 118 Visiting school and university students (number) Students from Merchant Navy's academies (number) We care for the impact of our operations Coast Guard students (number) We strive to ensure that our operations have the least possible impact on local communities we operate in. For this reason:   We monitor and continuously assess our vessels’ Safety Management System.   We conduct security risk assessments when deemed We welcomed 739 young people from schools and necessary. universities visiting our facilities  We trained 33.3% of office security personnel on our human rights policies and procedures, which accounted for 35% of total training hours, without however yet conducting relevant trainings to marine security personnel.  We outline tasks related to security in job descriptions.   We have developed an Emergency Plan, which includes measures to deal with negative impacts (e.g. pollution) and regularly train marine employees on such issues.  We have developed a ‘Crisis Communication Plan’, in order to ensure seamless information flow during emergencies and responsible communication to interested parties, beyond what is already specified within our Safety Management System for crisis and emergencies management. ATTICA GROUP 39 Vessel Grounding During 2017, a grounding incident of Blue Star Patmos at  Collaborated with local authorities, which certified the the port entry of Ios took place, due to human error, without affected areas’ full restoration and decontamination. however causing any injury among the 205 passengers and  Undertook the necessary preventive protective measures 87 crew members who were onboard or any negative impact to avoid any pollution in adjacent coasts, in order to avoid on local communities of Ios and other islands we serve. any impact on coasts and the marine environment of Ios Due to our crew's immediate response and coordinated and nearby islands. implementation of our Safety Management System and  Chose to repair the vessel damages in Perama and Elefsina corporate crisis management procedures, all passengers shipyards by Greek shipbuilders and craftsmen, in order to and crew members who were not required to remain onboard contribute to preserving the Greek shipbuilding industry. were safely disembarked on land. The vessel was fully repaired in February 2018 and currently performs its scheduled journeys. It must be noted that we:   Conducted internal audits and thoroughly investigated  Forwarded all passengers to their destinations on our own the incident, in order to evaluate our Safety Management arrangements and rerouted other vessels of our fleet to System’s effectiveness and apply appropriate preventive serve the passenger transportation volume, for the duration actions. of the vessel’s detach and repair operations.  Were subjected to additional inspections from the vessel’s  Hired and collaborated with specialized rescue teams, in classification society, the Ministry of Shipping and Island order to immediately take the required safety measures to Policy’s Merchant Vessels Inspection, as well as insurers, reduce vessel damages. who ascertained our Safety Management System’s  Collaborated with a specialized contractor to remove all effectiveness and adequate operation. fuel from the vessel’s tanks.   Collaborated with an experienced company in dealing with maritime oil pollution incidents to immediately and effectively respond to a limited oil spill of approximately 5 square meters in Ios (entrapped within inflatable booms deployed around the vessel) and approximately 400 square meters in Perama (a controlled pollution was created with fuel residues entrapped in cracked tanks, while the vessel was within the floating tank). 40 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 3. Responsible Procurement We give priority to local suppliers Allocation of Purchases per Region* Our suppliers are 1,110 throughout Greece and abroad, with 2017 7 90.2 2.8 83.9% of them being local suppliers. Based on their turnover, we consider 82 of them as major suppliers, out of which 63 are 2016 17.7 65.5 16.8 local suppliers. For 2017:  The average supplier payment time was 57 days. 2015 25.7 62.5 11.8  100% of payments for undertaken contractual obligations were made according to the terms in our contract agreements, 2014 18.9 79 2.1 as in 2016. Abroad (%) Local Urban (%) Supplier Categories Local Rural (%) 6.7% 11% *  ercentages for 2017 refer to the procurement expenditure of all P suppliers, while percentages for 2016 refer to the number of significant 9.3% 2.2% suppliers. Shipping fuels and lubricants Vessel repairs, spare parts and 17.9% consumables Agency services Port services General services and products Insurance services 52.9% Suppliers and Procurement Expenditure 1,110 2017 932 92.9 1,202 2016 986 90.4 1,130 2015 924 We responsibly select our suppliers 71.2 2,100 As our suppliers influence our responsible operation, we fully 2014 849 acknowledge our moral obligation to positively influence our 28.3 supply chain and promote the principles of Corporate Responsibility to our suppliers. So far, we have not identified Suppliers (number) any suppliers with significant actual or potential negative Local suppliers (number) Procurement expenditure to local suppliers (%) environmental, labor practices and human rights impacts or impacts on society. Furthermore, since March 2016 we evaluate our new suppliers’ performance with an annual spending of over €10,000. The performance evaluation process utilizes specific criteria in five We increased the percentage of procurement areas, based on which we approve our suppliers: expenditure to local suppliers to 92.9%  Quality  Cost  Availability  Service – Support – Adaptability We allocated 89.2% of total procurement expenditure  Credit Policy to small and medium-sized enterprises (up to 250 employees) ATTICA GROUP 41 Within 2017, we evaluated 7% of our total vessels’ hotel services and office purchases suppliers based on the above criteria, which Responsible Vessel Buying included 3 new suppliers with an annual spending of over €10,000 (100% of new suppliers in the specific supplier categories), as well We follow the most recent safety regulations during buying as a selected sample of additional 17 suppliers. and building of our vessels, without however ignoring potential future safety regulations, which may affect their It must be noted that: operation. At the same time, we focus on vessels’ energy  We started to develop a single Procurement Process, a Code of efficiency and strive to implement innovative technologies. Conduct for Suppliers and a Policy for our Contractors’ Suppliers.  For each tender we require at least three offers, except for direct selection cases, either because they exactly match our technical specifications or only one unique supplier exists.  We assess new suppliers’ performance prior to our collaboration, according to available and applicable criteria. Within 2017, we initiated collaboration with 58 new suppliers with over €1,000 procurement spending.  We evaluate the exclusive representatives of manufacturing companies based on all above criteria, although there is no option to substitute them, due to their exclusivity.  We inform suppliers with low scores they need to improve their performance, in order to continue our collaboration, as they will otherwise be rejected, without however any relevant suppliers within 2017.  We immediately re-evaluate a supplier’s performance and proceed with appropriate measures in case a supplier provides unsuitable or dangerous products, demonstrates unethical behavior or does not fulfill our cooperation agreement. It must be noted that within 2017, we did not discontinue our collaboration with any supplier as a result of actual or potential compliance issues, such as anti-competitive behaviour, environmental protection, product health and safety and labour practices.  We select suppliers for materials or services among approved suppliers, based on the performance evaluation conducted. It must be noted that we send product samples to a certified laboratory depending on the materials and needs (e.g. we send samples of marine fuels 10 times per vessel per year), in case we cannot determine whether product specifications match the ones agreed with the supplier, in order to analyze and verify their specifications. 42 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 4. Achievements 2017 and Future Objectives We committed Progress We aim By To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility issues related to Community by 10%. 2020 To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility issues related to Suppliers by 180%. 2020 To consolidate/review the various procurement To consolidate/review the various procurement processes per Department and establish a single 50% processes per Department and establish a single 2018 Procurement Process (by 2018). Procurement Process. To develop a Policy for our Contractors’ Suppliers (by 2019). 25% To develop a Policy for our Contractors’ Suppliers. 2019 To develop a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, To develop a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, 75% including selection criteria to become a supplier. 2018 including selection criteria to become a supplier. To integrate contractual clauses for Corporate Responsibility issues into contracts with significant 2019 suppliers. To integrate Corporate Responsibility issues in selection criteria to become a supplier. 2019 To increase sales network employees’ To increase sales network employees’ training training hours by 5%. 0% hours by 5%. 2018 To apply a process to identify and define needs of local communities in products, services or donations, as well as support the activities of 2018 organizations with a charitable purpose. To support the activities of charitable organizations To support the activities of charitable organizations and NGOs. 100% and NGOs. 2018 To implement at least 2 volunteer activities To implement at least 2 volunteer activities with the participation of our employees. 100% with the participation of our employees. 2018 To design and implement 5 programs / activities to address local communities needs in the areas of 2018 sport, culture, education or health. ATTICA GROUP 43 VI EMPLOYEES We establish positive Employment Conditions WE ARE 1,205 13.3% 100% 5,221 122 employees women of employees with training hours employees trained full time employment contracts WE COMMIT TO Cultivate a workplace focused on respect, equality, safety and merit, as well as offer training opportunities to our employees, in order to facilitate their personal and professional development. WE FOLLOW Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact 1 Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2 Ensure not to be complicit in human rights abuses 3 Recognize freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 4 Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5 Abolish effectively child labour 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation WE ACHIEVED We employ 100% of our employees with full time employment contracts. 100% of employees in Director positions are Greek. No complaints or grievances regarding our marine employees’ living conditions were filed. 100% of our employees received their annual leave, as planned. We conducted internal drills on Health and Safety issues (such as response to emergency situations) to 100% of marine employees. The entry level wage of office employees is higher than the legal minimum wage by 19.5%. 44 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 WE FOCUS Human Resources & Employment Health & Safety Equality & Diversity Training & Development Employees EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS Safety & Security ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Air Quality & Energy PASSENGER SAFETY State Customers Raw Materials & Solid Waste Responsible Communication RESPONSIBLE Environment MANAGEMENT Sales Network NGOs Media Water & Liquid Waste Quality & Satisfaction Shareholders SOCIETY SUPPORT Citizens Associations and Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Growth Societal Support Responsible Procurement ATTICA GROUP 45 1. Human Resources and Employment Human Resources* Employee Satisfaction 1,205 According to a survey conducted to 133 office employees 2017 216 in 2017, work security and stability was the primary factor of employee satisfaction with 44% and among top three 240 employee satisfaction factors for 25.9% of employees. 1,342 2016 138 145 Marine Employees 1,296 According to a survey conducted to 2,600 people in 2017, 2015 169 89% of respondents travelled with us believe we employ 263 friendly professionals onboard our vessels. 1,192 2014 105 We sustain job positions 134 Our business success is directly associated to our employees, Employees (number) therefore we strive to create job positions, as well as lessen Turnover (number)** New hires (number)** unemployment. Our activity also supports indirectly hundreds of job positions throughout our value chain and the passenger *  ata refer to 31/12/2017 for office employees and to the average of D 01/03/2017 and 01/07/2017 for marine employees. shipping industry in general. It must be noted there are seasonal ** New hires and turnover for 2016 and 2017 do not include university variations in employment numbers onboard our vessels, as the students and cadets in Merchant Navy’s Officer and Coast Guard academies onboard our vessels (who complete their internship under fixed number of marine employees during spring and summer term employment contracts), as well as our marine employees’ re-hiring months was higher by 16.9% compared to the autumn and within the same year (for whom a standardized dismissal and re-hiring winter months (1,080 employees compared to 924). process is in place). It must be noted that:  The average age of office and marine employees is 43.9 and 41.6 years respectively.  The average employment tenure for office and marine employees is 14 and 8 years respectively.  The turnover rate of office employees was 4% (out of which 3.5% redundancies and 0.5% resignations) and 20.7% for marine employees (out of which 16.2% redundancies and 4.5% resignations).  There was one office employee who left before completing 12 months of employment, while the respective turnover rate of marine employees was 8.8% (besides the cadets in Merchant Navy’s Officer and Coast Guard academies onboard our vessels, who complete their internship under fixed term employment contracts).  The turnover rate of female office and marine employees is lower by 87.5% and higher by 173.7% respectively compared to male office and marine employees.  The majority of our employees are from the prefecture of Attica, while there were no workers under freelance arrangements working within the Group during 2017. We employ 100% of our employees with full time employment contracts 100% of employees in Director positions are Greek 46 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Human Resources* Employment Type Permanent Fixed Term Full time Part time Employees (number) 993 212 (17.6%) 1,205 0 (21 women in total) (196 marine employees) Gender Female Male Employees (number) 161 1,044 Age <30 30-50 >50 Employees (number) 153 833 219 Categories Nationalities Disabilities Foreigners Number 2 0 4 Education Level Public School – High School Higher / Highest Education Postgraduate Education Employees (number) 975 208 22 New Hires** Female Male <30 30-50 >50 Employees (number) 34 206 110 111 19 Turnover** Female Male <30 30-50 >50 Employees (number) 29 187 77 110 29 Turnover** Resignations Redundancies Other Turnover reason (%) 21.3 78.7 0 Employment Tenure <5 years 5-10 years >10 years Employees (%) 35.4 21 43.6 Working Place Offices Vessels Employees (number) 201 1,004 Hierarchy Top Management*** Directors*** Employees Total Employees (number) 21 41 1,143 1,205 * Data refer to 31/12/2017 for office employees and to the average of 01/03/2017 and 01/07/2017 for marine employees. ** New hires and turnover for 2017 do not include university students and cadets in Merchant Navy’s Officer and Coast Guard academies onboard our vessels (who complete their internship under fixed term employment contracts), as well as our marine employees’ re-hiring within the same year (for whom a standardized dismissal and re-hiring process is in place). ***Top Management includes the Chief Executive Officer, Executive Directors and vessel Masters. Directors include office Directors, Staff Captains and Chief Engineers. We ensure proper living conditions for marine employees We recognize the importance to establish proper living conditions for our marine employees and their relation with a safe work environment and the crew’s psychology. Therefore, we:  Have placed crew cabins above the main deck, in order to reduce noise impact.  Ensure proper temperature, ventilation and lighting conditions in accommodation areas.  Provide individual cabins to vessel Masters and Officers.  Have created and equipped entertainment halls with various recreation means (library, TVs, film projectors, board games) in all vessels, which are accessible by all marine employees.  Systematically clean and sanitize accommodation areas. No complaints or grievances regarding our marine employees’ living conditions were filed ATTICA GROUP 47 We handle work-life balance We monitor our employees’ satisfaction Indicating our commitment to support our employees and In 2017, we conducted an Employee Opinion Survey to sustain maintain work-life balance, we: and further improve our working environment, through a  Ensure that all employees receive their entitled leaves. printed questionnaire distributed to all our employees to  Record and monitor work hours for all marine employees. participate voluntarily and anonymously. The Survey aimed to  Have defined rest hours for marine employees. identify our employees’ views on work conditions and  Ensure timely crew changes, in case it is required. relationships, as well as other important work-related issues,  Ensure that all fees provided allow decent livelihood. such as:  Compensate overtime work and do not force employees to  Relationships and communication with their supervisor. work overtime, under the threat of salary reduction, dismissal  Working conditions. or any other sanction.  Security and engagement.  Pay the entire wage to female employees in childbirth and  Relationships with colleagues. maternity leave without any deduction as a maternity bonus  Collaboration within the workplace. after their return to work, exceeding the relevant legislative  Development and professional advancement. requirements. With a 66.5% and 55.8% participation rate for office and marine Within 2017: employees respectively, the Survey results for office employees  100% of marine employees worked at least once beyond the indicatively highlighted that percentage of employees who typical work hours and there was no overtime work on behalf agree that: of our office employees.  The Group’s management respects meritocracy and  The average overtime work for marine employees was 1.2 employee fair treatment, was 41.3%. hours.  We have established suitable work conditions (e.g. lighting,  All 6 women who received their maternity leave, returned and air conditioning, noise, sufficient space), was 61.6%. continued their work within our Group.  6 women employees were granted reduced working hours due to raising a child. 100% of our employees received their annual leave, as planned We transparently inform our employees Regardless of their employment type, we inform all new hired office employees about:  Our organizational structure and culture.  Our Regulation of Professional Conduct & Business Ethics.  The Emergency Situations Response Plan for offices.  The terms and conditions of the Group Insurance program, which applies to employees with at least 6 months employment contracts.  Main work issues and procedures, such as leaves and absences, training, communication and performance appraisal.  Corporate Responsibility issues. Furthermore, it must be noted that:  Our employment contracts include documents which describe the way we expect employees to behave (e.g. corporate manuals).  Prior to their employment, all employees receive their employment contracts.   We have informed all employees at least once regarding Corporate Responsibility issues.  We conducted 6 internal communication activities regarding Corporate Responsibility issues to all employees in 2017, compared to 5 in 2016. 48 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 2. Health and Safety We ensure Health and Safety in offices Besides creating a safe work environment for marine employees, we are also committed to ensure Health and Safety for our office employees. Within this context, we:   Comply with the provisions of Law 1568/85 regarding employee Health and Safety.  Have developed a comprehensive Security Measures Plan.   Have created a Hygiene and Safety Division, which is responsible to properly implement security measures.  Maintain an Incident Book and record any accidents and incidents within workplace, in order to apply measures to prevent Health and Safety risks. We ensure Health and Safety onboard our vessels  Have communicated via e-mail and placed on all office Our main commitment is to create a safe work environment for employees’ computer desktop specific instructions for our marine employees. Therefore, we: emergency situations, such as:  Have established Safety Committees in all vessels, which Fire. Sabotage. consist of all supervisors and represent all work areas Earthquake. Arson. onboard vessels (departments). The Committees also Bomb threat. First Aid. discuss Health, Hygiene and Safety issues and notify the Robbery. Heat wave. Group regarding their findings. Hostage situation. Flood.  Do not include Health and Safety issues in our employment contracts, since respective issues are covered by national or  Have communicated instructions for emergency situations industry collective agreements and international hygiene, and preventive protection measures. Within this context, we accommodation and safety agreements, which have been trained 7 employees on Health and Safety issues, such as incorporated in the relevant national legislation, as well as emergency situations, First Aid and evacuation procedures, national or industry collective agreements, which are for a total duration of 180 training hours. available in our vessels.  Have defined and communicated office evacuation plan  Require marine employees to hold competency certificates with predetermined assembly points, in order to safely in training areas such as vessel safety, rescue equipment, evacuate office employees, visitors and external firefighting and first aid, prior to their employment onboard collaborators. our vessels, and oblige them to maintain valid certificates.  Have appointed Fire Safety Team and Emergency Care Team  Continuously train our marine employees on Health, Hygiene and clearly defined their members’ responsibilities. and Safety issues (such as response to emergency  Have installed loudspeaker system to signal evacuation in situations), during which 56 vessel Officers were trained in emergency situations. medical care and 729 marine employees attended a rescue  Ensure that emergency exits are clear of obstructions and and firefighting equipment training cycle within 2017. are clearly marked.  Provide the necessary personal protective equipment to all  Have installed anti-slip strips in staircases. marine employees and monitor its proper use.   Establish favorable employment conditions to support  Ensure proper employment conditions, such as temperature, susceptible office employee groups, such as pregnant ventilation, lighting and sanitation. employees and employees working in night shifts (for whom  Have equipped our vessels with the appropriate equipment we ensure additional security measures). and conduct audits on alcohol consumption to all marine  Ensure proper employment conditions, such as security, air employees. No such accidents of non-compliance have conditioning, ventilation, lighting and sanitation. occurred within 2017.  Ensure equal access from persons with disabilities to our   Record and monitor accidents and Health and Safety offices, via parking space with ramp, wheelchair and properly incidents, in order to take corrective actions and eliminate designed WC. respective risks.  Immediately replace injured and sick marine employees with other employees, in order not to have crew numbers lower than legal requirements. ATTICA GROUP 49 The following table summarizes our overall Health and Safety performance. It must be noted that:  There are no employees with high incidence or risk of disease associated with their work, while there were no occupational diseases among our employees.  There were only minor accidents with minor injuries involving our employees within 2017, without any accidents to office employees.  The total absenteeism rate for male office employees compared to female office employees is lower by 56%.  There were no complaints or legal actions for health and safety issues.  There were no relevant fines or other sanctions imposed by the respective authorities.  Regarding previous legal actions: -The Court issued a non-final decision for a serious marine employee injury in 2015 and ordered Supreme Naval Health Committee (ANYE) to consult on the plaintiff’s health status, with the case ultimately settled out of court. -Two marine employees’ lawsuits for alleged accident and minor injury respectively are expected to be discussed within 2018 and 2019 respectively. We conducted internal drills on Health and Safety issues (such as response to emergency situations) to 100% of marine employees Health and Safety 2014 2015 2016 2017 Employees’ fatal accidents (number) 0 0 0 0 Collaborators’ fatal accidents (number) NR 0 0 0 Accidents (number) 17 20 19 14 Men 16 19 19 14 Women 1 1 0 0 Accidents with absence >1 day (number) NR NR NR 12 Accidents with absence <3 days (number) NR 0 0 2 Accidents with absence >3 days (number) NR 20 19 12 Absence from work due to accidents (hours) NR 0 0 0 Average days of absence per injury (days) 51 51 41.9 23.5 Medical treatment cases (number) NR NR NR 68 Injury Rate (rate)* 1.4 1.31 1.07 0.78 Men 1.39 1.41 1.2 0.88 Women 1.66 0.56 0 0 Occupational Disease Rate (rate)** 0 0 0 0 Men 0 0 0 0 Women 0 0 0 0 Lost Days Rate due to injuries or occupational diseases (rate)*** 71.53 67.15 45 18.44 Men 70.83 72.23 50.44 20.66 Women 85 28.71 0 0 Absenteeism Rate due to injuries and occupational diseases (rate)**** 470.36 451.1 340.31 157.9 Men 465.75 480.41 376.49 177.72 Women 558.9 208.93 0 0 * Injury Rate (IR): Number of injuries x 200,000 work hours / Total work hours. ** Occupational Disease Rate (ODR): Number of occupational diseases x 200,000 work hours / Total work hours. *** Lost Days Rate due to injuries or occupational diseases (LDR): Total work days lost x 200,000 work hours / Total work hours. **** Absenteeism Rate due to injuries and occupational diseases (AR): Total absent work days x 200,000 work hours / Total work days. NR: Not reported 50 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 3. Equality and Diversity Percentage of Women Equal Treatment 13.3 According to our Regulation of Professional Conduct & 2017 Business Ethics, we apply equal treatment regarding our 4.9 recruitment practices and appraise our employees fairly and 11.5 objectively. 2016 4.7 We commit to meritocracy 12.6 2015 Our commitment towards meritocracy follows the principle to 2.3 treat all our employees equally, which enables their professional 2014 12.4 development to depend solely on their performance and skills. We do not allow any kind of discrimination due to gender, religion, age, ethnic group, social or national origin, disability, Women employees (%) Women in Director positions (%) beliefs, sexual orientation, or participation in employee unions, as we take into consideration each employee’s experience, personality, performance, skills and qualifications regarding It must be noted that no complaints or grievances regarding any work aspect (e.g. salaries, professional advancement). labor practices were filed and no discrimination incidents Furthermore, we do not allow any comments among employees occurred within 2017. for all issues above, in order to prevent any form of harassment (e.g. sexual). We do not tolerate child, forced and compulsory labor We respect the internationally recognized principles of human As a result of our focus on the equal treatment of women: rights, as described within the Universal Declaration of Human  The overall percentage of women in office and vessels is Rights and the ten Principles of the UN Global Compact we 53.2% and 5.3% respectively. have signed. At the same time, we are certified and audited  The percentage of female office and marine employees in according to the Maritime Labour Convention’s respective Director positions is 7.1% and 3.7% respectively, without any principles. Based on these principles, we are committed not to: female office and marine employees in Top Management  Employ any person below the legal age work limit. positions.  Encourage or tolerate any forced and compulsory labor in  The percentage of female office and marine employees with any of our premises. fixed term employment contracts compared to male office   Employ any person through organizations or agencies and marine employees is lower by 12.2% and higher by 25% involved in trafficking or other forms of forced labor. respectively.  The total training hours of female office and marine employees In 2017: compared to male office and marine employees are higher by  No areas or operations were assessed for child or compulsory 73% and lower by 97.3% respectively. labor risks.  There were no significant investment agreements and contracts with clauses on human rights.  There were no complaints or grievances regarding human rights violation. We respect the right of employees to participate in unions and strikes Although there is no employee union within our Group, we respect the right of employees to freedom of association and participate in employee unions, while no operations in which the respective rights may be at significant risk have been identified. It must be noted that: ATTICA GROUP 51  100% of marine employees participate in employee unions We offer competitive salaries related to their job position and through them to the We strive to maintain our employee salaries and wages above Panhellenic Seamen’s Federation (PNO). Also, one office the legal minimum wage and attract highly-skilled workforce, employee is an elected member of the Panhellenic Federation despite the recession of the Greek economy. At the same time, of Shipping and Tourism Employees (PASENT), to which all we compensate all employees within the agreed time period office employees belong. and we do not deduct salaries due to disciplinary offenses or  100% of employees are covered by individual agreements, other deductions except those stipulated by law. based on national or industry collective agreements.  The minimum notice period regarding operational changes It must be noted that in 2017: for marine employees is 3 days, with a minimum notice period of 24 hours for Domestic lines and 7 days for Adriatic  The minimum salary was in all cases higher than the defined Sea lines included in employment agreements. We follow, as legal minimum wage, except for two marine employees’ job a minimum, the relevant regulatory requirements regarding positions in Domestic lines, where the salary is equal to the operational changes for office employees. salary defined in the Collective Labor Agreement.  All our marine employees’ work was interrupted during the 3  The average salary for male office employees and managers strikes or lock-outs organized by the Panhellenic Seamen’s compared to female office employees and managers is Federation (PNO) within 2017, due to their opposition to the higher by 2.9% and 32.9% respectively, while the average tax and insurance revisions by the Greek government, with salary for males in office Top Management and Director the time lost due to strikes being 1,456 mandays. No office positions compared to females in office Top Management employees participated in any strike or lock-out within 2017. and Director positions is lower by 1.1%, due to factors such as professional experience, qualifications and expertise.  There are no differences between the average salary for male We ensure confidentiality of personal data and female marine employees in all job positions, as their salary solely depends on their specialization. We respect the right of employees to safeguard their personal  The ratio of annual total compensation for our highest-paid data and we are committed to implement a wide range of individual to the median of annual total compensation for all technical and organizational measures, which non-exhaustively office and marine employees (excluding the highest-paid include: individual) is 11.2:1 and 4.2:1 respectively.  Have authorized the use of specific surveillance systems to   The ratio of percentage decrease in annual total monitor crucial access areas to our offices (such as compensation for our highest-paid individual to the median staircases, outside perimeter, central cashier and parking percentage decrease in annual total compensation for all garage) and vessels according to the respective legislation office employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) is (such as garages), which include CCTV system with cameras 0.8:1 and 2.9:1 respectively. and security cards to monitor access to office areas such as servers and UPS, and we only allow employees from the Hygiene and Security Division to access the surveillance footage.  Do not monitor any office work areas and we monitor certain vessel work areas for security purposes (such as garages and engine room), without collecting any personal data.   Require written consent on behalf of employees, in case required to disclose personal data to any person with preferential relationship (such as doctors or lawyers).  Do not withhold personal documents (such as identification cards, passports or any other personal papers). As a result of our practices we did not receive any formal employee complaints in 2017 regarding privacy issues or personal data security. The entry level wage of office employees is higher than the legal minimum wage by 19.5% 52 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 We offer additional benefits Additional Benefits Marine Office We offer a number of voluntary benefits, which cover our office Employees Employees and marine employees. It must be noted that 98.5% of our office Expanded life insurance to all employees (except for employees with less than 6 months employees, their spouses employment contracts) are covered by private health insurance and their children √ program, with an additional retirement program for office Top Coverage against disability/ Management members and Directors, for which over €168,000 incapacitation √ were spend in 2017. Postgraduate program support √ Christmas cheques for every child up to 14 years old √ Annual Christmas festive event √ Provision of free passenger and private vehicle tickets and meals onboard our vessels (upon availability) √ √ Discount for passenger and private vehicle tickets for first-degree relatives (upon availability) √ √ Discount for certain items from vessel shops √ √ Food arrangement √ 4. Training and Development We develop our employees We deliver a wide range of training programs and seminars for our marine and office employees each year, which indicatively Internal Advancements: Our priority is to support our include: employees’ development and cover job openings from existing  Marine employees: employees. As a result of this policy, the percentage of Mobilization and motivation. permanent job openings in offices covered by internal Excellent customer service. candidates reached 5.5% within 2017, compared to 50% in Technical and sales skills. 2016. Safety and security issues. Response to pollution incidents. Job Rotation: We have established a job rotation program for Fire fighting. office employees, in order to keep them motivated and offer the Cleaning processes. opportunity to acquire additional knowledge and experience,  Office employees: without however any job rotations taking place within 2017. Shipping. Finance. Job Descriptions: In our attempt to ensure individual and Labor/Insurance issues. organizational effectiveness and maximize employee Management issues (e.g. human resources, internal audit, satisfaction, we have started to record in written job legal). descriptions and responsibilities for all employees. During 2017, Customer service. we started to update our office employees’ job descriptions, a Safety. process completed for 26% of office employees (up to Manager Corporate Responsibility (e.g. environmental protection). level), while a detailed job description is available for 100% of marine employees. The following data summarize the results of our training practices and overall performance. It must be noted that data We train our employees do not include internal drills conducted onboard our vessels. Training Program: To design our annual Training Plan, we Within 2017: consider:  We trained at least one time, over 32% and 5% of office and  Identified training needs. marine employees respectively, without any trainings on our  Responsibilities and requirements for every job position. human rights policies and procedures.  Changes in the shipping industry (e.g. legal framework).  We conducted training programs on Corporate Responsibility issues, with the participation of 1.6% of employees and 100% of Directors and Top Management members, as well as all BoD executive members. No relevant training programs were conducted to marine employees.  We trained 57 marine employees on management issues.  Total cost of training programs exceeded €38,000, compared to €84,600 in 2016. ATTICA GROUP 53 Employee Training* 17 2017 122 5,221 43 2016 591 5,964 40 2015 393 1,240 2014 883 Training programs (number) Skills Development Program Employees trained (number) Training hours (number) As part of continuous training provided to employees, we * T raining data for 2016 and 2017 include office employees and marine implemented the pilot ‘Skills Development Program’ to 22 employees who were trained on management issues; they do not include executives from all hierarchical levels and Departments, marine employees’ training to renew or receive new competency certificates (included in the training data for 2015) and/or internal drills conducted on through which we analyzed behaviors associated with: vessels.  Business perception.  Result orientation.  Customer-centric perception. Employee Training  Problem solving and taking initiatives.  People motivation and development. Averages 2014 2015 2016 2017  Teamwork / collaboration. Office employees Training per employee (hours) 3.3 5.5 14.5 24.8 Within this context, we collaborated with an external partner Training per male employee (hours) 3.9 8.1 17.4 19.4 to evaluate and develop participants' skills through: Training per female employee (hours) 2.8 3.2 11.9 29.5  Detailed individual interviews. Training per employee in Top Management NR 0 12.1 50.1 positions (hours)  Team role-playing exercises. Training per employee in management 3 9 20.7 34.5  Individual business scenarios simulation exercises. positions (hours)  Individual guidance exercises (e.g. guidance of Training per employee in administrative 3.4 10.8 20.1 29.6 subordinate employees, conflict management). positions (hours)  Individual Assessment Reports. Marine employees*  Feedback Reports following relevant individual meetings. Training per employee (hours) 0.2 1.4 2.4 0.2  Personal Development Plans. Training per male employee (hours) 0.2 1.2 2.3 0.2  Professional Development Aspirations Questionnaire. Training per female employee (hours) NR 0.2 2.6 0.1 Training per employee in Top Management NR 0 3 4 Through the program’s pilot implementation, we: positions (hours)  Identified customer-centric perception, result orientation Training per employee in management 1.3 0.9 5.8 0.3 and adherence to policies and procedures as wellpositions (hours) developed skills, while business perception, motivation Training per employee in administrative NR 1.5 2.9 0.5 and development of subordinate employees, as well positions (hours) as planning and prioritizing activities for better time management were identified as areas for further * A  verage training hours for marine employees refer to training on management issues and do not include marine employees’ training to renew improvement. or receive new competency certificates (included in the training data for  Identified specific training areas to meet relevant training 2015) and/or internal drills conducted on vessels. NR: Not reported needs and targeted employee development actions (e.g. use of Personal Development Plans).  Utilized and associated the program’s results with our Recognition and Talent Development Framework for office employees and our Succession System. 54 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 We appraise our employees At the same time, we appraise all Officers and marine employees (including employees whose employment tenure We implement a Performance Appraisal System for our office onboard our vessels has expired) four times per year, in order to and marine employees, with a three-phase Performance ensure efficient crew selection and proper vessel manning. The Appraisal System for office employees to identify their appraisal results are included in a relevant Report which is strengths and areas for improvement and improve their overall forwarded to the Marine Personnel Department and assesses performance: marine employees’ performance, skills and diligence throughout their service onboard our vessels. Performance Appraisal Performance Plan 0 STAGE 1 2017 0 100 0 Performance 2016 0 Management/ 100 Annual Guidance Assessment STAGE 2 53 STAGE 3 2015 60 100 The Performance Appraisal System for office employees 69 consists of 5 main areas: 2014 53 1. Performance Criteria. 100 P ersonal Objectives. Performance Standards (one of which is Compliance with Office employees appraised (%)* Office managers appraised (%)* Procedures). Marine employees appraised (%) Attributes (Common Attributes and Team Leading Position Attributes). * No performance appraisal for office employees took place within 2016 and 2017, as the Performance Appraisal System was under review. 2. Appraisal Summary. 3. Employee Professional Requirements. 4. Training and Development Activities. 5. Comments. ATTICA GROUP 55 5. Achievements 2017 and Future Objectives We committed Progress We aim By To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility issues related to Employees by 6%. 2020 To conduct performance appraisal for 100% To conduct performance appraisal for 100% of office employees with a new Performance 0% of office employees with a new Performance 2019 Appraisal System (by 2018). Appraisal System. To include specific Corporate Responsibility objectives in formal appraisal process for employees, Managers and at least one Board of 2018 Directors member. To include specific Corporate Responsibility objectives in Top Management members’ formal 2020 appraisal process. To conduct the Skills Development Program to 20 employees in all hierarchical levels. 2019 To conduct an Employee Satisfaction Survey. 100% To conduct an Employee Satisfaction Survey. 2019 To integrate Corporate Responsibility issues into To include Corporate Responsibility in the 100% the other categories of in-house training courses. 2019 information material of new hired employees. To define Managers formally responsible to manage Corporate Responsibility issues within 2018 their formal job description. To train all Managers on Corporate To train all Managers on Corporate Responsibility. 0% Responsibility. 2018 To conduct a Corporate Responsibility e-learning course for our office employees. 2018 To apply a process to monitor health and safety incidents (e.g. injuries, diseases, absences, fatal accidents) of subcontractors’ employees working 2019 in our offices. 56 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 ATTICA GROUP 57 VΙΙ CUSTOMERS We ensure our Passenger Safety WE ARE 5,200 45 548,977 878 242,483 journeys annually vessel inspections from calls to customer questionnaires members in the Loyalty & local authorities (for food service phone lines in vessels Reward program seasmiles hygiene and safety) WE COMMIT TO Safeguard the health and safety of our passengers and offer them the best possible travel experience, in order to meet their needs and expectations during their journey. WE FOLLOW Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8 Promote greater environmental responsibility WE ACHIEVED We conducted internal drills and trainings on passenger safety procedures to 100% of marine employees. W  e were subjected to 45 inspections from local authorities for food hygiene and safety, with no recorded non-compliance incidents. We maintain 4 corporate websites, with over 2.8 million unique visitors annually and handle 3 mobile applications with over 107,000 downloads. We increased the number of SMS messages sent to our customers by 32.6%.  e dispatched 2,504 notifications to serve passengers with particular requirements to our vessels, out of which 269 W concerning passengers with reduced mobility and 9 concerning passengers with sensitivity to allergens.  he average score of evaluations registered through dedicated devices onboard our vessels reached 3.8 (good), on a 5 T point scale. We kept our vessels’ departure time in over 90% of our scheduled journeys. W  e increased our loyalty and reward program members by 21.4%. 58 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 WE FOCUS Safety & Security Responsible Communication Quality & Satisfaction Customers Sales Network Media PASSENGER SAFETY Human Resources & Employment ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS Air Quality & Energy Health & Safety State Employees RESPONSIBLE Raw Materials & Solid Waste Environment MANAGEMENT NGOs Equality & Diversity Water & Liquid Waste Shareholders Training & Development SOCIETY SUPPORT Citizens Associations and Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Growth Societal Support Responsible Procurement ATTICA GROUP 59 1. Safety and Security Selection Criteria According to a survey conducted to 2,600 people in 2017, passenger safety is the No 1 vessel selection criterion and is We conducted internal drills and trainings on among the top three selection criteria for 60% of respondents. passenger safety procedures to 100% of marine employees We ensure passenger safety onboard our vessels We consider passenger health and safety onboard our vessels Emergency Response Team as our indisputable obligation. Therefore, we:  Were subjected to extensive vessel inspections from external We have created an Emergency Response Team to offer bodies (Merchant Vessels Inspection and classification guidance to vessels and communicate with third parties on societies) in 2017. their behalf (such as the Ministry of Shipping and Marine  Have established Safety Committees in all vessels, in order to Policy’s Search and Rescue Center, rescue teams, experts examine and assess health and safety issues. and Media), in order for vessels to focus on handling  Train our employees on passenger safety procedures. potential emergency situations. The Team consists of:  Comply with the International Convention for the Safety of  Τhe Chief Executive Officer. Life at Sea’s (SOLAS) standards regarding use of fire  The Marine Operations Executive Director. extinguishing equipment, such as fire extinguishing systems  The Marine Operations Director. in engines and all cabins, public areas and garages, and we  The Electrical / Electronic Support Director. train marine employees on the location and use of fire  The Legal Counsel. protection systems.  The Marine Personnel Director.  Carry out regular maintenance of rescue equipment.  Demonstrate use of lifejackets and display informative videos At the same time, we have established a substitute regarding use of lifejackets, assembly stations and rescue Emergency Response Team. In 2017, the Emergency equipment. Response Team handled the grounding incident of Blue  Ensure that fire doors are not blocked from luggage, chairs or Star Patmos (see section V-2), while the Team’s members other items. met for internal drills.  Have placed clear signs with fundamental safety information.  Have equipped all our vessels with the necessary medical and pharmaceutical equipment.  Have made the Cardio Express telemedicine support service available to all our vessels for the initial assessment of medical incidents at sea.  Prohibit transportation of explosives, flammable, combustible and hazardous materials in general, except those permitted by the relevant legislation.  S trictly prohibit smoking in areas such as cabins, elevators, warehouses and garages.  Allow staying in vessel garages only to marine employees responsible to facilitate vehicles’ loading and unloading.  Operate 2 reservation and ticketing systems, which are certified by the relevant authorities and ensure that the number of issued tickets do not exceed the respective maximum number. Within 2017: There were no complaints for overbooking and no relevant fines were imposed by respective authorities. - Regarding one previous writ of summons for a relevant violation on Blue Star Patmos in August 2013, for which a fine of €500 was imposed, the case is expected to be discussed within 2018. 60 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 We offer safe products and services We strive to provide quality and safe products and services, in order to ensure our long-term business success. Therefore:  Contractors comply with the requirements of ISO 9001 Quality Management System and ISO 22000 Food Safety Management System, in order to eliminate risks (such as materials or ingredients) that could potentially harm human health. Within this context, we are informed regarding regular audit results conducted by contractors and proceed with corrective actions if required.  Audit our Management Systems (Quality, Environmental and Food Safety Management Systems), as well as the quality of products and services itself.  Record audit findings and potential corrective actions with Addressing Infectious / Transmittable specific remediation time plan, which are communicated to all Diseases involved parties.  Are annually audited by ABS (American Bureau of Shipping) for According to an established procedure and the semiannual ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certificates, with respective audits to internal drills conducted onboard all vessels to address contractors for their ISO 22000 certificates taking place from incidents of infectious / transmittable diseases, we their own certification bodies. immediately notify and request assistance from the  Perform a ‘Mystery Passenger’ survey in 17 and 19 service respective port authorities and external authorities (e.g. categories in three stages of three visits per year onboard our Hellenic Center for Disease Control and Prevention) in case vessels in Domestic and Adriatic Sea lines respectively, in of respective incidents and lead the vessel to the nearest order to ensure effective vessel operation, quality services and port. The patient is then rushed to the vessel’s infirmary, prompt response to customer needs, without however where we record in detail personal information and medical conducting the survey within 2017. history and apply the necessary precautions for the crew or the doctor (such as hand disinfectant, surgical gloves Within 2017, there were no incidents of products and services and mask, disposable waterproof suit and apron, infectious non-compliance, during the external audits conducted by the waste disposal bags and laser thermometer). Upon arrival, relevant health and market authorities. the patient is escorted outside the vessel and handed over to the respective authorities (e.g. HCDCP), while we disinfect the cabins and areas visited by the patient and place all items handled in appropriate bags, which we hand over to an external specialized company, following the competent authorities’ agreement. No incident of patient with infectious / transmittable disease was reported in 2017. Missing Onboard Person Search Each vessel has developed a Missing Person Response Plan (SAA), in order to respond to confirmed cases of disappeared and missing persons. According to this procedure, we inform all passengers regarding an incident and set up a search team to search throughout vessel areas (initially cabins, lounges, decks and WCs and subsequently engine room, crew premises, garages and warehouses). In case the missing person is not found until the port of arrival, port authorities thoroughly check all passengers and search all vehicles during passenger disembarkation. No missing person incident was reported in 2017. ATTICA GROUP 61 Vessel Inspections from Local Authorities Besides ourselves inspecting our vessels, we are subjected to additional scheduled or unscheduled inspections from local authorities. These inspections address our vessels’ Hotel Operations & Customer Services Department for health issues or hygiene certificates, either when the vessel is docked or at sea. Upon inspection completion, we proceed with the required corrective actions, according to the results from the draft audit report, which is filed in the vessel’s inspection archive. We assess inspection results for each vessel twice a year, in order to:  Identify repeated comments or cases of non-compliance.  Assess corrective actions already taken.  Proceed with further corrective actions, if deemed necessary. Food hygiene and safety: We have defined specific food hygiene and safety procedures, in order to provide high quality products. Within this context, our food and catering contractors apply food safety management systems. More specifically, we:  Have the necessary cleaning/sanitation and food storage areas, as well as specific catering areas.  Provide employees with the necessary clothing during food preparation, such as uniforms and head caps.  Specify the use of disposable gloves to prepare cold kitchen meals (such as sandwiches and salads) and warm kitchen portions and we prohibit use of the same gloves to handle fresh and cooked foodstuffs, according to respective procedures.  Require employees to wash their hands before starting and finishing their work, and after waste handling, use of cleaners We were subjected to 45 inspections from local or chemicals, as well as after every contact with a phone, money, fresh foodstuffs or doorknobs, according to respective authorities for food hygiene and safety, with no procedures. recorded non-compliance incidents  Strictly prohibit smoking in food preparation areas.  Dining areas are daily inspected.  On average, audit compliance with our procedures and ‘PURE CABIN’ practices once per month per vessel. These inspections resulted in no findings or corrective actions taken within 2017, We were the world’s first passenger shipping company to as in 2016. introduce the ‘PURE CABIN’ category in one Adriatic Sea  Our contractor carried out 61 internal inspections during 2017 line vessel in 2010. Since 2011, we have expanded its use in areas of interest, such as kitchens and bars, compared to 50 in three additional vessels in Domestic lines and we added inspections in 2016, with no findings registered or corrective 4 cabins per vessel in two more vessels in 2017 (Blue Star actions being required, as was the case also in 2016. Delos and Blue Star Patmos). Approximately 2.4% of all Hotel services hygiene and safety: We focus to provide high cabins onboard our vessels are ‘PURE CABINS’ and 1% of quality hotel services onboard our vessels, since customer our overall passenger volume travel within such cabins, satisfaction is directly associated with their safe which are provided at an extra charge. ‘PURE CABINS’ accommodation. Therefore, we systematically sanitize public feature a state-of-the-art air and surface purifying system, and accommodation areas. in order to offer improved accommodation conditions to passengers sensitive to airborne particles. After each use, ‘PURE CABINS’ are purified and a cleaning certificate with the corresponding inspection date is issued. 62 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Within 2017, there were: Items and Luggage Found  No cases of non-compliance with regulations regarding product and service use or their health and safety impacts. According to a formally established lost and found items  A pending discussion for a lawsuit due to moral damage procedure, we keep small and high value items which were related to the cabin offered. found onboard a vessel for 21 and 30 days respectively.  A lawsuit due to injury onboard resolved out of court.  No recalls of products and services regarding health and More specifically, we: safety impacts.  Destroy various items after 21 days have elapsed, except  No significant relevant fines (over €20,000) or other sanctions for books (which are provided to the crew’s library), as imposed from respective authorities. well as foodstuffs, medicines and personal hygiene items (which are either immediately destroyed or after 3 days, We ensure protection of personal items depending on their type).  Keep travel and personal documents for 7 days and then Indicating our commitment to ensure our passengers’ safety, hand them over to port authorities. safeguard their personal items and offer a quality travel  After 30 days have elapsed for valuable items, we: experience, we: -Deposit monetary amounts to the charitable organization  Provide safe storage for any property, money and valuables supported by each vessel (see section V-2). whose value does not exceed €500 within each vessel’s -Send electronic equipment for recycling by the Purser Office. Information Technology and Telecommunications  Utilize loudspeaker announcements to inform about safety of Division, according to a specific procedure. There were personal items during their journey. over 70 electrical devices collected within 2017, with  Intensify inspections to luggage areas with additional marine their forwarding for recycling still pending. employees on routes with increased passenger volume.  Have established a formal procedure to handle lost and found items. We ensure protection of personal data  Compensate passengers in cases marine employees are responsible for damaged or ruined luggage or vehicle during boarding/disembarkation or during the journey. Protection of Personal Data According to our Regulation of Professional Conduct & Compensations Business Ethics, we collect, process, use and store personal 2014 2015 2016 2017 data only to the extent required for their intended purpose or Lost/found or damaged items 4,635 4,283 4,642 5,027 to fulfill our contractual obligations in accordance with our (number) policies and procedures, as well as the legal and regulatory Adriatic Sea lines (number) 526 235 525 291 framework which governs our operation. Domestic lines (number) 4,109 4,048 4,117 4,736 Compensations paid for luggage 24,502 47,644 33,777 52,438 and other damages (€)* We strive to ensure protection of our customers’ personal data, in Compensations paid for vehicle 38,796 357,587** 45,080 45,461 order to establish solid and concrete trust relationships. damages (€)* Therefore, we: * C  ompensations paid for luggage and other damages for 2014, 2015 and  Created a Project Team to properly and effectively respond to 2016, as well as compensations paid for vehicle damages for 2014 and the new European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation, 2016 have been restated. in order to establish protection measures for individuals related ** The increased compensations for 2015 were the result of damages equal to €326,573 in one vessel cargo, due to extreme weather conditions. to personal data processing and unconfined circulation.  Keep personal data collected from customers, professionals and website visitors in a secure database. Regarding previous customer lawsuits, within 2017:  Do not disclose any information to third parties, unless required  Two lawsuits for a lost luggage and a lost unaccompanied by law and/or competent authorities. parcel onboard our vessels in 2016 were discussed and the  Seek individual consent to process personal data, exclusively respective decisions have not yet been issued. for communication, statistical analysis and service  A lawsuit for a lost luggage was discussed at Kallithea County improvement purposes. Court, which decided a compensation of €733 to the plaintiffs.  Inform customers that incoming calls are recorded, prior to connect them with Customer Services and Call Center Divisions’ representatives. Within 2017, we did not receive any complaint regarding privacy issues or loss of personal data, while no relevant fines or other sanctions were imposed by respective authorities. ATTICA GROUP 63 2. Responsible Communication We responsibly advertise our products and services In 2017, there were:  Six social and environmental informative messages in every We aim to ensure our communication material is fair, legal, vessel, regarding: sincere, corresponds to reality, does not display or promote Water sports safety. stereotypes and respects people’s diversity. Therefore, we: Fire prevention.  Follow the principles of the Hellenic Code of Advertising & Ultraviolet radiation protection. Communication, issued by the Communication Audit Council. Voluntary blood donation.  Do not use texts, audio or images that promote stereotypes. 'Agoni Grammi Gonimi’ program.  Ensure use of proper communication and advertisements for The 2 Blue Tomatoes program. our products and services, in collaboration with the Marketing  No cases of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary and Sales Departments. codes concerning marketing, advertising, promotion, product  Have structured our Blue Star Ferries and Superfast Ferries and service information and labeling. websites, easily accessible by people with visual impairments.  No cases of campaigns being withdrawn.  Do not sell or provide any products and services which are  No relevant fines or other sanctions were imposed by either banned or disputed in foreign markets. respective authorities. Furthermore, we state applicable conditions on Blue Star We ensure prompt communication Ferries and Superfast Ferries websites regarding:  Regulations and boarding processes. We strive to promptly inform our customers in case of  Reservations. cancellation or delays in scheduled routes, in order to minimize  Ticket issuing and cancellation. their potential discomfort. Within this context, we utilize a wide  Transportation of pets. range of communication means, which include:  S torage of personal belongings.  The websites www.superfast.com, www.bluestarferries.com.  Radio.  Port authority representatives.  Various journal and information portals.  Communication via SMS (in case they have registered their mobile number). We maintain 4 corporate websites, with over 2.8  Electronic newsletters. million unique visitors annually and handle 3 mobile  Social media. applications with over 107,000 downloads  Phone calls.  E-mails. At the same time, we maintain one corporate website and Furthermore, we proceed with at least Greek and English manage a mobile application for AML, with over 203,000 informative audio announcements in case of delays during the unique visitors and 6,400 downloads. journey, which include their cause and the estimated delay time. Informative SMS Messages Labeling Allergens 2017 91,482 We require from prepackaged foodstuff suppliers to 2016 68,954 comply with the European Regulation for Food Labeling 1169/2011 and clearly display whether their products Informative SMS messages sent (number) contain specific ingredients included in the allergens list, according to Directive 2003/89/EC. At the same time, we have placed clear and detailed signs to inform consumers about allergens for every non-prepackaged meal within our vessels (such as gluten, eggs, soy and milk). We increased the number of SMS messages sent to our customers by 32.6% 64 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 3. Quality and Satisfaction We ensure equal treatment of all our customers, in order to Selection Criteria enhance our customer-centric orientation. More specifically, we: According to a survey conducted to 2,600 people in 2017,  Have equipped all our vessels and premises with the ticket price is the No 2 vessel selection criterion and among necessary infrastructure to facilitate access from people with the top three selection criteria for 52% of respondents. disabilities.  Do not impose extra charges on cabins for persons with disabilities. We ensure that our services are affordable  Are promptly informed about the number of passengers with disabilities on each route, in order to plan the availability of We recognize the unfavorable economic situation for thousands wheelchairs. of Greek households and we strive to provide affordable prices  Check that emergency switches in cabins for passengers with for our services, without however compromising their quality, in disabilities are fully operational before boarding. order to overcome the financial crisis and maintain  Require that food rations for persons with sensitivity to transportation volume. Depending on line and destination, we allergens are prepared with separate food preparation offer: equipment (such as frying pans, cutting boards, knives).  Early booking tickets, with up to 20% discount.  Have introduced procedures for clothing management and  Ticket packages, with significant discounts. protection of passengers from allergens.  Discounts in tickets for children, teenagers, young people and  Created 46 new pet accommodation facilities in 4 vessels. people above 65 years old.  Discounts in selected destinations throughout the year.  Discounts throughout the year (such as Super Economy, Special Economy, Supersaver Economy, Saver Economy, for passengers and private vehicles, for Naval and Coast Guard retirees, for combined Domestic and Adriatic Sea routes, for Officers and soldiers).  Discounts for members registered in our Loyalty and Reward program seasmiles. Supporting Tourism in Islands For the second consecutive year within 2017, we supported the effort to reverse the negative tourism trend and strengthen the transportation volume in Lesvos, Chios, We dispatched 2,504 notifications to serve Leros and Kos, caused by the refugee crisis. For this reason, passengers with particular requirements to our we offered a 30% discount to 5,646 passenger and 1,474 vessels, out of which 269 concerning passengers private vehicles and motorcycle tickets for those with at with reduced mobility and 9 concerning passengers least four overnight stays in these islands, in collaboration with sensitivity to allergens with local municipalities and hoteliers’ associations. Custom-made Vessel Design We ensure equal treatment of customers In order to facilitate passenger boarding, we have specifically tailor-designed the Blue Star Delos to address Equal Treatment the needs of its route, by introducing:  Wider boarding / disembarkation staircase with stair According to our Regulation of Professional Conduct & escalator, instead of two staircases on the vessel’s left Business Ethics, we require from employees to equally treat and right side. all customers and partners, without any exceptions, and  Two vehicle ramps, one larger than the other, in order behave with caution and care during our transactions with to select which one to use depending on the cargo vulnerable social groups. requirements and port infrastructure.  Ability to reach appropriate speed, to perform a shorttime journey. ATTICA GROUP 65 We ensure our customers’ travel experience We listen to our customers In order to effectively serve our customers, we have established mechanisms to communicate and receive comments and Family Cabins with Children Cartoons complaints, which are handled by our Customer Services Division. These mechanisms include: We have introduced family cabins marked with the  A call center and dedicated email address for customers. Bluestarino children cartoon and the Fasteritos children  Written communication from customers. cartoons in all Blue Star and Superfast vessels respectively,  Private meetings with customers. for families with small children who have booked a 4-bed  Comments form, complaints form, Pure Cabins questionnaire, external cabin. Upon availability, Reception desks offer A la Carte restaurants questionnaire, which are located in these specially decorated cabins to our child passengers various vessel areas, such as the Reception desk and the bar, free-of-charge. regarding quality, variety and service.  A specific form which is completed by the Reception desk, in case verbal complaints are received or incidents are noted.  The Complaints form, located in all vessels’ restaurants.  The dedicated devices in all our vessels to evaluate the services provided. Evaluations Onboard Vessels 271,674 2017 188,937 ‘We do local’ 69.5 Operating with respect for local communities is our main objective Total evaluations (number) and we strive to enhance the quality Positive evaluations (number) Positive evaluations to total evaluations (%) of services provided, while at the same time highlight local cultures’ unique features. Within this context, we certified Blue Star 2, Blue Galaxy and Superfast XI according to the ‘We do local’ standard, through which an organization:  Promotes local customs and culture. The average score of evaluations registered through  Presents local cuisine. dedicated devices onboard our vessels reached 3.8  Supports local producers. (good), on a 5 point scale  Operates with respect towards the environment. To this end, we implement the following indicative actions and initiatives: @sea Portal  Support local communities and cultural events and suggest In order to improve the visits to local sites and museums, as well as promote services offered to our cultural activities. customers, we have  Present local cuisine and support local producers of launched the interactive products such as talagani cheese from Mani, gruyere and multifunctional @sea cheese from Crete, maceata spaghetti from Folegandros, portal, where all Blue Star skioufichta spaghetti from Crete, ouzo from Mytilene, Greek and Superfast passengers feta cheese and caper leaves from Naxos, while we also can connect with any prepare Greek recipes in our vessels’ restaurants such as device (laptop, smartphone or tablet), via the onboard shrimps saganaki with feta cheese, Greek Salad, traditional WiFi network. Therefore, they can access free-of-charge Cretan dakos, octopus with split peas and barley with recreational material such as music, TV and games, as well seafood. as information about:  Respect the environment and implement environmental  Weather conditions. protection practices, such as paper and batteries recycling  Vessel location in real-time. corporate initiatives, as well as use of a photovoltaic unit  Restaurant and bar menus. onboard one vessel (see section VIII-1).  Ports and destination information.  Employ Greek employees and support local workforce.  Loyalty and Reward program seasmiles. 66 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Utilizing Questionnaires We have appointed a vessel Officer to collect and forward passenger questionnaires to the vessel’s Master, who reviews them before being sent by the appointed vessel Officer to the Customer Services Division, which documents observations in a ‘Passenger Observation Report’. The Report is forwarded monthly to our vessel Masters, the Divisions’ directors and the catering contractor within each vessel and is subject to meetings for all interested parties, in order to assess and define further corrective and preventive actions, if deemed necessary. We monitor our customers’ satisfaction Satisfaction from Vessels According to a survey conducted to 2,600 people in 2017, Customer Service 2014 2015 2016 2017 82% of respondents who travelled with us indicated they would recommend us to someone who would like to travel Formal response letters to comments, 533 563 726 619 complaints and requests (number) by vessel. Adriatic Sea lines 185 117 137 120 We recognize the importance and our responsibility to offer Domestic lines 348 446 589 499 reliable and responsible customer services, in order to ensure Formal thank-you letters (number) 127 163 190 179 our business success. Within 2017, we received over 548,000 Adriatic Sea lines 43 54 40 27 calls in all our corporate customer service telephone lines Domestic lines 84 109 150 152 (including unanswered calls), responding to 82.9% of incoming Questionnaires in vessels (number) 1,189 1,096 945 878 calls. Total calls to customer service NR NR NR 548,977 telephone lines (number) Calls to Customer Services 105,802** 219,700 107,123 66,318 Division (number)* Calls to Call Center Division (number) NR NR 176,456 162,813 Calls to Help Desk Division (number) NR NR NR 12,315 Calls to Loyalty Division (number) NR NR NR 49,728 Calls to Capacity Domestic / Adriatic NR NR NR 194,999 Division (number) Calls to Cargo Domestic / Adriatic NR NR NR 62,804 Division (number) * C  alls to Customer Services Division for 2014 and 2015 also include calls related to our Loyalty and Reward program seasmiles; calls for 2016 and 2017 do not include calls related to seasmiles. ** Calls to Customer Services Division for 2014 refer to May-December 2014. NR: Not reported ATTICA GROUP 67 Compensations In case of journey delay, compensations are defined according to the European Union legislation and the Greek Passenger Charter of Rights and Obligations, with compensation being related to the journey duration. Indicatively, passengers are entitled to compensation for delays:  Of at least 1 hour, for journeys of less than 4 hours.  Of over 2 hours, for journeys between 4 and 8 hours.  Of over 3 hours, for journeys between 8 and 24 hours. More specifically, in case the scheduled departure is delayed for over 90 minutes, passengers are entitled to compensation according to their ticket, or to:  Remain onboard and receive free light meals or We kept our vessels’ departure time in over 90% of refreshments until their destination is reached. our scheduled journeys  Receive a free meal for delays of over four hours, as well as free on vessel or hotel accommodation, when feasible and necessary. Seasmiles Program  Be compensated with 25% of the ticket value or other prior to agreement compensatory payment, in case they In 2011 we established the Loyalty and Reward program were forwarded to their destination with the same or seasmiles, which provides members with exclusive benefits, another company vessel. Compensation depends on the gifts, special offers, and high quality services, within three delay itself (e.g. 1 hour for journeys up to 4 hours), with card levels (Blue, Silver and Gold). Members collect points the compensation increasing to 50% of the ticket value, in for every ticket and product bought from bars, restaurants case the delay is double. and vessel stores, which are automatically registered in  Be compensated with 200% of the ticket value and their personal account and can be redeemed for future receive back the vehicle ticket value, in case on our own journeys, meals and drinks. It must be noted that on the responsibility they were not forwarded to their destination occasion of celebrating 200,000 members in the beginning with the same or another vessel within 24 hours from the of 2017, we offered 50% discount to all program members scheduled departure time. for all domestic routes. During 2017 there were:  6 Domestic route journeys with delayed arrival, for which Seasmiles Loyalty & Reward Program we received 7 compensation requests and offered 20% discount for future journey to one request, 30% to 3 2017 242,483 requests and 50% to 3 requests. 2016 199,673  3 Adriatic route journeys with a delay and one journey with mechanical failure, for which we received 9 compensation 2015 144,697 requests and offered 50% discount for future journey to 2014 121,650 one request and financial compensation of overnight stay to 8 requests. At the same time, we replaced the tickets for missed interconnections, while we offered breakfast Members in seasmiles program (number) and lunch to all passengers onboard the vessel with the mechanical failure.  Financial compensations of €79,986 and provision of free tickets to passengers onboard Blue Star Patmos due to the vessel grounding at the port of Ios (see section V-2). We increased our loyalty and reward program members by 21.4% 68 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 4. Achievements 2017 and Future Objectives We committed Progress We aim By To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility issues related to Customers by 17%. 2020 To create 40 new pet accommodation facilities in 5 vessels. 100% To establish a Customer Relationship Management To establish a Customer Relationship Management 0% system (CRM). 2020 system (CRM) (by 2020). To categorize complaints per category (e.g. delays, To categorize complaints per category (e.g. delays, price of tickets, price discrepancies) (by 2020). 0% price of tickets, price discrepancies). 2020 To advise customers on the responsible use of our services (e.g. environmental protection), through To systematically inform and train our customers 100% on Corporate Responsibility issues. 2018 various means (e.g. communication programs, vessel screens). To reorganize our Call Center. 100% To reduce unanswered calls from our Call Center To further reduce unanswered calls from our by 40%. 75% Call Center by 50%. 2018 To create a Project Team, in order to properly and efficiently respond to the new European Union’s 100% privacy requirements. To achieve an 'as scheduled' routes rate of over 90%. 100% To achieve an 'as scheduled' routes rate of over 90%. 2018 To certify 3 vessels according to the ‘We do local’ standard. 100% To increase communication with our customers To increase communication with our customers through SMS by 20%. 100% through SMS by 5%. 2018 To increase ‘PURE CABINS’ in 2 vessels, with 4 cabins per vessel. 100% To formalize our Responsible Communication Policy. 2018 To apply a Responsible Marketing and Communication Code in our business activities. 2018 To apply a process to monitor potential recalls of products or services from subcontractors due 2019 to possible health and safety issues. ATTICA GROUP 69 VΙΙΙ ENVIRONMENT We reduce our Environmental Impact WE ARE €1.9 million 9,827,535 4,380 GJ energy consumption KWh energy produced 760,919 tonnes eCO2 237,255 m3 water consumption environmental from renewable energy investment sources WE COMMIT TO Integrate sustainable development in our operations and apply environmentally friendlier business practices, in order to reduce, where feasible, our environmental impacts. WE FOLLOW Principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8 Promote greater environmental responsibility 9 Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies WE ACHIEVED We informed 100% of our employees on environmental protection issues. 80% of monitors and 60% of personal and laptop computers we use have energy-saving specifications. We use refrigerants that do not affect the ozone layer (such as R134a, R404a, R407a) in 100% of refrigerators and freezers onboard our vessels. We reduced consumption of plastic bags in our offices by 25%. We informed approximately 1.2 million customers on Corporate Responsibility issues, such as environmental protection. We used 24.4% recycled paper and 79.3% recycled toners/ink cartridges. We transported from Islands free-of-charge over 79 tonnes of materials for recycling. 70 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 WE FOCUS Air Quality & Energy Raw Materials & Solid Waste Water & Liquid Waste State Environment NGOs ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Human Resources & Employment EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS Safety & Security PASSENGER SAFETY Health & Safety Customers Responsible Communication Employees RESPONSIBLE Sales Network Equality & Diversity MANAGEMENT Media Quality & Satisfaction Shareholders Training & Development SOCIETY SUPPORT Citizens Associations and Unions Suppliers Local Communities Economic Growth Societal Support Responsible Procurement ATTICA GROUP 71 1. Air Quality and Energy We operate in a systematic way We are committed to operate responsibly regarding the  Have established a weekly drills and training plan for marine environment and to minimize the negative environmental employees, in order to prevent pollution incidents (e.g. sea impact, which inevitably originates from our operations. Within pollution) and train them to promptly and effectively respond this context, we: to such incidents.  Record our environmental performance.  Have sent letters and informed all office employees on  Implement an Environmental Management System and materials recycling. evaluate our environmental impact annually.  Have implemented and certified all our vessels according to ISO 14001, becoming the first group in the Greek passenger shipping industry to do so.  Were the first passenger shipping group in Greece to submit We informed 100% of our employees on environmental the Monitoring Plans and certify all vessels for the proper and protection issues systematic monitoring, recording and disclosure of carbon dioxide emissions, much earlier than the projected deadlines of the European Regulation EU MRV 757/2015. In 2017:  Have Energy Efficiency certificates issued for all our vessels.  We invested approximately €1.9 million for environmental  Demand an asbestos non-use certificate from our suppliers. protection programs (solid and liquid waste disposal  Have appointed vessel Officers with responsibilities on investments, materials and equipment to remediate pollution environmental practices on all our vessels. incidents, internal and external inspections and environmental  Discuss environmental protection issues during respective performance certificates), without including in this figure meetings of each vessel’s Safety Committee. related rehabilitation costs due to the grounding incident of  Train employees on environmental issues and conduct Blue Star Patmos. internal trainings for all marine employees, on issues such as  A fine of €26,000 was imposed and paid due to the limited waste management and responsible use of water. Within pollution incident caused by Blue Star Patmos (see section 2017, we conducted external trainings to 2 office employees V-2), while the Central Port Authority of Piraeus is currently in on environmental issues, for a total duration of 32 hours, progress to impose a second relevant fine, with no other compared to 3 office employees and 19 hours in 2016. respective significant fines (over €20,000) or other sanctions imposed, during the scheduled and ad-hoc audits conducted by relevant authorities. We manage our environmental footprint In order to identify the sources from which we can reduce our environmental impact, we calculate greenhouse gas emissions per energy source used, which include oil (both for marine fuels and onboard electricity generation, as well as for offices) and electricity (for office operations): Energy and Environmental Footprint* Source Consumption Energy Environmental Consumption Energy Environmental 2016 Consumption Footprint 2017 Consumption Footprint 2016 (GJ) 2016 (tn eCO2) 2017 (GJ) 2017 (tn eCO2) Scope 1 Oil (vessels) 236,466 tn 9,525,690 737,082.2 243,832 tn 9,821,683 760,015.5 MGO 7,903 tn 337,458 25,337 7,855 tn 335,409 25,183.1 LSHFO 187,656 tn 7,543,771 584,360.8 194,549 tn 7,820,869 605,825.6 HFO 40,907 tn 1,644,461 127,384.4 41,428 tn 1,665,405 129,006.8 Heating oil (offices) 5,950 lt 1,887 15.9 3,200 lt 1,015 8.6 Diesel (offices) 0 0 0 1,200 lt 44 3.2 Scope 2 Electricity (offices) 1,549,711 KWh** 5,579 1,006.4 1,331,453 KWh 4,793 892.1 TOTAL 9,533,156** 738,104.5** 9,827,535 760,919.4 * Data refer to our offices and the vessels we operated during 2017. ** Electricity for offices, total energy consumption and environmental footprint for 2016 have been restated. Sources of conversion factors: International Maritime Organization (MGO, LSHFO and HFO), GHG Protocol GHG emissions from stationary combustion Calculation Tool V 4.1 May 2015 (Heating oil), GHG Protocol GHG emissions from transport or mobile sources Calculation Tool V 2.6 May 2015 (Diesel), IEA CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion 2016 edition 1 (Electricity) 72 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 In order to manage our environmental footprint and achieve efficient energy consumption, we:  Have installed sunscreen films in our offices’ ground floor and mezzanine.  Installed solar absorption systems in selected areas of our offices to improve energy efficiency.  Have introduced automations into our offices’ BMS for efficient cooling / heating and implemented various interventions to increase energy management efficiency, such as installation of specialized control sensors and definition, schedule and communication of critical alarms, as well as scheduled timetables to reduce energy costs.  Have installed energy saving light bulbs (LED) in our offices with a 5-year warranty and we use LED light bulbs onboard vessels, except for security lights.  Ensure optimum efficiency level for vessel engines to be used in each journey, in order to both preserve engines and avoid unnecessary fuel consumption.  Utilize the exhaust gas heat of main engines to heat air circulating in public areas and hot water in sanitary areas.  Adjust electrical appliances (such as refrigerators and freezers) at optimum use and operation levels, according to Installing Photovoltaic Panels both legislation and manuals.  Deactivate electrical appliances when not in use. Since 2014, we have installed a pilot photovoltaic panel unit  Regularly clean vessel hulls and propellers for improved onboard Blue Star Delos, in order to reduce fossil fuels used energy efficiency. to generate electricity and gaseous pollutants in the long Lower or turn down air conditioning in empty cabins. term. During 2017, we continued its operation with positive  Purchase office equipment (such as computers and results, as we reduced the use of vessel power generators monitors) with ‘energy star’ specifications. for electricity and consequently prevented approximately  Replaced 76 advertising signs in our vessels with new LED 2,934 kgr of carbon dioxide emissions. advertising billboards and installed 5 new LED signs. Energy Produced from Renewable Energy Sources 2017 4,380 2016 4,380 2015 4,380 80% of monitors and 60% of personal and laptop computers we use have energy-saving specifications Electricity produced (KWh) ATTICA GROUP 73 We reduce our impact on the ozone layer Participation in Programs Buildings/Vessels: We require our suppliers not to use We strive to be continuously informed about environmental refrigerants which significantly affect the ozone layer (such as protection issues, as we participate actively in European R22) during maintenance activities in offices and vessels, and Union research programs and collaborate with internal instead use refrigerants that do not affect the ozone layer (such combustion engine manufacturers (WNSD) in joint as CO2, R134a, R404a, R407, R422). research projects to reduce emissions. At the same time, we participate in the European-funded programs Poseidon Refrigerators/Freezers: As part of our efforts to reduce our Med I and Poseidon Med II, which aim to explore the impact on the ozone layer, we have placed refrigerators and possibility to use environmentally friendlier marine fuels. freezers with environmentally friendlier refrigerants in our More specifically: vessels.  Poseidon Med I aimed to establish the legal framework and conditions to use Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) as a marine fuel in the Mediterranean and Adriatic Sea. The program featured 19 partners from 5 member-States (Greece, Cyprus, Italy, Croatia and Slovenia) and our Group We use refrigerants that do not affect the ozone layer was actively involved to submit pilot projects regarding (such as R134a, R404a, R407a) in 100% of vessel upgrading and building new vessels. refrigerators and freezers onboard our vessels  Poseidon Med II is a follow-up to ‘Poseidon Med I’ and ‘Archipelago-LNG’ programs and is funded by the European Union, with the participation of 26 partners At the same time, we replenish refrigerants and fire suppressant from three member-States (Greece, Italy and Cyprus), in materials (which inevitably leak) in our offices and vessels with order to utilize LNG in six main European ports (Piraeus, environmentally friendlier refrigerants, as their Ozone Depleting Patra, Heraklion, Venice, Igoumenitsa and Limassol) and Potential (R-11 equivalent) is zero. LNG station in Revithousa. The program features studies to introduce and use LNG as a marine fuel in Southeastern In 2017, the total quantity of refrigerants used was 3,278 kgr, Mediterranean Sea and design LNG supply network and compared to 3,124.5 kgr in 2016. related infrastructure on a broader scale. Refrigerants and CO2 Since 2016, we have signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the Public Natural Gas Supply Liquids 2015 2016 2017 Company (DEPA). Within this context, we continued our Stored Used Stored Used Stored Used collaboration during 2017 to jointly examine parameters (kgr) (kgr) (kgr) (kgr) (kgr) (kgr) and conditions for use of LNG in our vessels and we seek to Carbon 31,772.9 0 33,797 0 49,678 0 further develop our cooperation, based on the conclusions dioxide (CO2)* drawn. Refrigerants 0 0 0 0 0 0 with impact on the ozone layer (e.g. R11, R22) Refrigerants 9,446.2 2,577 9,446.2 3,124.5 9,394 3,278 without impact on the ozone layer Use of Liquefied Natural Gas (e.g. R134a, R404a, R407a) Natural gas is converted into liquid by cooling it to -162°C, TOTAL 41,219.1 2,577 43,243.2 3,124.5 59,072 3,278 which shrinks its volume by 600 times and allows efficient and safe transportation. Liquefied Natural Gas is odorless, non* S tored quantities include CO2 in fire extinguishing systems. Stored quantity toxic and non-corrosive and is considered the world’s cleanest for 2017 also includes CO2 stored in rescue equipment activation cylinders. fossil fuel, as it has no SO2 emissions and can achieve 95%100% lower particulate matter emissions (PM), 85% lower ΝΟx emissions and 25% lower CO2 emissions, compared to marine diesel oil. 74 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 We reduce our atmospheric impact Our air pollutants (except carbon dioxide, which is described above) mainly emanate from vessel engines during their operation. To manage their impact, we:  Use marine gas oil (MGO) with 0.1% sulphur content when vessels stay within ports for over 2 hours, as well as low We reduced consumption of plastic bags in our sulphur heavy fuel oil (LSHFO) with up to 1.5% sulphur content offices by 25% when vessels are in European waters.  Use machinery which complies with the legislative Customer awareness: We believe we are morally obliged to requirements regarding nitrogen oxides (NOX) and particulate raise customer awareness regarding environmental protection, matter (PM) emissions from vessel engines. not only during their journey, but also in their daily activities.   erform the necessary maintenance activities to ensure P Within this context, we: proper machinery function, as well as regular internal and external inspections to certify their proper function through  Publish information and our activities related to environmental relevant certificates (such as the International Air Pollution protection in our: Certificate). - Corporate websites www.attica-group.com, www. bluestarferries.com and www.superfast.com.  Proceed with corrective measures, if deemed necessary. -Corporate magazines ‘On Blue’ and ‘Route’. We monitor noise levels - Companies’ social media. - Relevant press releases. We strive to reduce noise pollution, since vessel docking and  Distribute our own climate change brochure to all passengers, operation can be a potential source of noise. Indicatively, we which suggests environmentally friendlier practices onboard, ensure the use of machinery and mechanical equipment, which at home, as well as during driving. comply with the required standards on noise levels, while it must  Have placed designated signs in all vessel cabins to encourage be noted that we did not receive any formal complaints regarding passengers to turn off lights when not in use. our vessels’ acoustic impact.  Promote alternative and environmentally friendlier forms of transportation and travel, and offer travel packages which We sensitize employees and customers combine ‘Train and Vessel’ transportation for domestic and European destinations. Employee awareness: We recognize the importance our  Participate in most Eurail & Interail Pass products and have employees to be aware about the environment, and therefore created our own Eurail/Interail Greek Islands Pass, which implement initiatives to adopt environmentally responsible offers 6 free train and vessel journeys to holders. practices within the workplace. Within this context, we have   Display on vessel screens information on how to prevent placed designated signs to remind all marine employees to turn forest fires, in cooperation with the General Secretariat for off any unnecessary lights. Civil Protection (GSCP), an agency within Ministry of Interior. . Reduce Consumption of Plastic Bags According to the Institute of Retail Research in Consumer Goods (IELKA), the annual consumption of plastic bags in Greece reaches approximately 4.3 billion or 400 per capita, which places Greece in the first place among the 28 European Union member-states. As we encourage our employees’ active participation through ideas related to environmental protection, we launched the initiative ‘I want to be full before I leave…’, which was proposed by an office employee to reduce the repercussions from the use of plastic bags. More specifically, in order to reduce our plastic bags consumption, which reaches approximately 140 plastic bags We informed approximately 1.2 million customers on a day, with a monthly and annual consumption of 4,000 and Corporate Responsibility issues, such as environmental 48,000 respectively from our approximately 200 office desks protection in our main offices, we distributed double-sided cards to all office employees with the inscription ‘Please, do not replace me… / I want to be full before I leave…’ and encouraged employees to place them over their individual office waste bin, in case the cleaning staff does not need to replace the bin’s plastic bag. ATTICA GROUP 75 2. Raw Materials and Solid Waste We manage raw materials We recognize that raw materials are not inexhaustible, but finite, and prioritize the use of natural resources as efficiently as possible. To achieve this, we implement programs to:  Monitor use of materials.  Reduce materials used.  Reuse materials.  Recycle materials.  Dispose materials properly. We used 24.4% recycled paper and 79.3% recycled toners/ink cartridges Reduce Impacts from Consumption of Materials Monitor Use of Materials Paper Use for Printing Reduce Reuse Recycle Dispose Materials Materials Materials Materials 57.4% Used Properly Paper with <70% recycled content Paper with >70% recycled We reduce materials used content 42.6% We implement initiatives to reduce use of materials, within the context of our efforts for efficient use of natural resources. Paper Use for Commercial Purposes Indicatively, we: 83.2  Entirely use multifunction printers and photocopiers at our 2017 offices, whose 93% of mechanisms, spare parts and 25.8 consumables are recycled and refurbished. Furthermore: 66.4 The percentage of recycled or certified paper and recycled 2016 18.8 toners/ink cartridges we used was 24.4% and 79.3% respectively. 38.8 2015 - Besides using recycled paper and recycled toners/ink 52.9 cartridges, we do not use any other recycled materials. 48.8  S tarted to purchase refurbished electronic equipment, with 2014 82 personal computers, 11 laptops, 2 servers and 1 printer 49.3 purchased for our offices and vessels during 2017.  Have installed air dryers in WCs of all our vessels, in order to Paper use (tn) Use of recycled or certified paper (%) reduce use of paper for hand drying.  Ensure the efficient use of spare parts and other supplies (such as consumables), in order not to store large quantities. We reuse materials  Have installed chemical dosimeters onboard our vessels and train marine employees on their proper use, in order to ensure We reuse consumables, where possible, as we: efficient use of cleaning chemicals.  Return loading pallets back to our suppliers, in order to reuse them.  Use clean damaged sheets, towels, pillowcases and other fabrics to clean various surfaces and as tows in the engine room. We recycle materials Waste associated with our activities is a direct result primarily of our vessel operations, and secondary a result of our office operations (i.e. paper, toners): 76 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Material Consumption and Recycling Material 2016 2017 Consumption Recycling Consumption Recycling Paper 80,821.1 kgr 7,100 kgr 100,761.3 570 kgr* Toners/ink cartridges for printers/ 1,589 units 180 kgr 1,524 units 79 units faxes/photocopying machines (771 were recycled) (249 units) (1,209 were recycled) Domestic batteries 128 kgr 128 kgr 353 kgr 25 kgr Vessel batteries 5,000 kgr 5,000 kgr 4,482 kgr 4,482 kgr UPS batteries 3,155 kgr 145 kgr 3,663.6 kgr (in use) 7.9 kgr 7.9 kgr (consumption) IT equipment (computers, 680 units 1,900 kgr from vessels 226 units 24 units from offices printers etc.) / electrical 27,575 light bulbs 5.5 m3 from vessels 27,934 light bulbs 7.4 m3 from vessels equipment and light bulbs (558 kgr) Cooking oils 61 tn 2,370 kgr from vessels 48,380 lt 28 m3 from vessels 25.2 m3 from vessels Lubricants 1,283,184 lt 235.6 m3 1,580,414 lt 286.3 m3 Medicines and pharmaceuticals 614 units 368 units 9,715 units 321 units from vessels Chemical substances 60,072 lt NR 130,230 lt NR * Due to technical reasons, the amount of paper recycling refers to end October until December 2017. NR: Not reported Hazardous waste: The total quantity of hazardous waste collected in 2017, which includes the various types of batteries Paper Recycling we use, was forwarded to specialized hazardous waste recycling companies, which comply with strict standards Paper recycling can significantly contribute to reduce regarding environmental protection and apply proper treatment consumption of raw materials and energy, as the use of one methods. tonne of recycled paper instead of one tonne of non-recycled paper: Various materials: As part of our efforts to effectively manage  Consumes approximately 40%-50% less energy and water. material consumption and recycling, we:  Reduces air pollution by 70%-75% and water pollution by  Have initiated a process to redesign management of all types 30%-40%. of waste produced due to our activities.  Prevents logging of 17-20 trees.  Have placed recycling bins in our offices and vessels to  Significantly reduces waste volume in landfills. collect and forward for recycling paper, packaging cardboard, toners, electronic equipment, fluorescent lamps, domestic batteries, as well as UPS / laptop / mobile phones batteries, Materials Recycling in order to promote recycling throughout daily activities of 2.8 employees and passengers. 18.1  Collect and forward for recycling used cooking oils from 7.1 vessels. 100 2017 100 5.2 3.3 100 37.2 18.4 100 2016 100 4.6 15.6 59.9 39 2015 24 100 100 Medicines and pharmaceutical materials: We forward expired Paper per employee (kgr/office employee) Lubricants (%) medicines to pharmacies that have joined the collection Domestic batteries (%) program, regardless whether these have been used. However, Vessel batteries (%) UPS batteries (%) we do not forward pharmaceutical materials such as syringes, Toners/ink cartidges (%) mercury thermometers, scalpels and serums. Medicines and pharmaceuticals (%) Cooking oils (%) ATTICA GROUP 77 We properly manage solid waste Sponsoring Recycling Activities We recognize our obligation to protect the environment from Within the context of our social contribution, we are the main solid waste and garbage, which mainly emanate from our sponsor of the Municipality of Leipsoi in Dodecanese and all vessels operations. Therefore, we: South Aegean Region islands, in order to transport recyclable  Train our marine employees on our ‘Waste Management materials from islands to the Hellenic Recovery Recycling Manual’, which describes our waste collection procedures Corporation (HE.R.R.Co) in Attica. The total quantity of freeand is accessible by all employees. of-charge transported materials (such as paper, plastic,  Do not allow any hazardous waste and garbage disposal at glass, aluminum, cans, vehicle tires, as well as electrical sea, even if allowed to be disposed at sea by relevant and electronic appliances) for recycling on behalf of the legislation. Municipality of Leipsoi through our vessels within 2017 was  Do not discharge food or any related garbage at sea. 79.2 tonnes.  Have placed designated signs to remind passengers and employees not to throw waste overboard.  Have determined specific collection points for waste generated onboard our vessels.  Deliver all garbage and solid waste from our vessels to appropriate reception facilities of licensed contractors within ports after each journey, exceeding the relevant legislative requirements, all of which is transported to landfills. Solid and Hazardous Waste 36,071 2017 9,000 100 28,836 We transported from Islands free-of-charge over 79 2016 7,150 tonnes of materials for recycling 30,446 2015 6,750 28,287 2014 6,850 Solid waste (m3) Solid waste indicator (m3 per million passengers) Hazardous waste recycling (%) 78 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 3. Water and Liquid Waste We monitor water consumption We aim to contribute to better manage water resources in the long-term, being aware of the responsible approach required on this issue. Therefore, we:  Use extensively seawater onboard vessels after appropriate treatment, for activities such as cooling engines and cleaning decks.  Perform only absolutely necessary external cleaning and washing activities, in cases of rainfalls or bad weather.  Have installed photocell-operated water faucets in public WCs onboard Blue Star Delos and Blue Star Patmos.  Have installed pilot flow control filters to conserve drinking water onboard Superfast I, Superfast II, Blue Star 1 and Blue Star 2.  Plan and select the minimum number of hydrants to be used during water supply. Drinking Water Quality Assurance  Check water meters before water supply has began and after it We have established a procedure to supply, manage safely has ended and have appointed a vessel Officer to monitor and and sample drinking water, in order to ensure the quality of confirm the actual water supply. water used and consumed onboard our vessels, according  Use pressure machinery, where possible, and ensure their to which we: proper maintenance.  Use separate water hose to supply water, which is solely  Ensure proper and regular maintenance of water production intended for this purpose and is kept away from any equipment and dictate immediate notification of any failures to potential sources of contamination. the Technical Division.  Ensure water hose runs for a few minutes prior to connect  Have placed designated signs to remind passengers and it to the drinking water supply tank, in order not to introduce employees to use water responsibly in accommodation, stagnant water or external materials to the supply tank, sanitary and catering areas. which could potentially pose health risks.  Train employees to use water more efficiently.  Regularly clean and sanitize drinking water tanks,  Proactively check and immediately respond to potential exceeding legislative requirements, and ensure continuous damages in our office water supply system. chlorination of drinking water.  Ensure that water leakages (such as in pipes, shower heads and flushers) or any other leakages are immediately managed,  Sanitize shower heads, sprinklers in bars and filters in washbasins located in cabins, public areas, bars and as well as perform all necessary maintenance activities on kitchen twice a month. vessel systems. Within 2017, there were no significant leakages of any material (e.g. oil or chemical substances  Collaborate with an external partner to collect drinking water samples. spills), with the exception of the Blue Star Patmos grounding incident (see section V-2).  Analyze water samples in accredited laboratories, which issue a respective report with results and suggest corrective actions, in case there are any problems. No such Water incidents occurred within 2017. 2014 2015 2016 2017 Water consumption (m3) 113,663 222,758 215,967 237,255 Vessels 111,437 221,508 214,125 235,331 Offices 2,226 1,250 1,842 1,924 Response to Pollution Incident Water sources (%) We have equipped all our vessels with ‘Shipboard Oil Pollution Public water supply NR 65.6 64.7 59.2 networks (146,583 m3) (139,792 m3) (140,365 m3) Emergency Plan’ (SOPEP) to effectively respond to any Seawater NR 34.2 35.3 40.8 pollution incident or risk of pollution, which may arise during (76,175 m3) (76,175 m3) (96,890 m3) the vessel’s fuel supply or due to an accident (e.g. collision, NR: Not reported grounding). According to SOPEP, we describe in detail and have specifically defined the employees responsible for immediate actions to reduce the impacts from a potential pollution incident. ATTICA GROUP 79 We manage liquid waste Marine Biodiversity: We recognize the importance of marine biodiversity and our obligation to reduce the risk of disrupting it. Being aware that uncontrolled liquid waste disposal at seas can Therefore, we: significantly affect the marine environment, we:  Abide to the relevant legislation concerning the abstraction  Do not dispose processed sewage water from sewage systems and use of seawater as ballast water in our vessels, in order to within ports, exceeding the respective legislation. avoid transfer of marine organisms into other non-native  Regularly monitor operation of wastewater treatment systems. ecosystems.  Comply with relevant regulations regarding bilge and ballast  Do not use the toxic substance tributyltin (TBT) in anti-fouling water management. paints for our vessels.  Deliver all liquid waste from our vessels (lubricants and fuel  Use exclusively environmentally friendlier cleaning agents waste) to licensed contractors within ports. during cleaning activities of garages, decks and exterior surfaces in general.  Promote beach cleaning by producing and distributing beach Liquid Waste ashtrays for free through our central agencies and vessels. Since 2007, we have distributed over 1.3 million ashtrays to 4,343 passengers and citizens. 2017 46 1,755 4,598 Vessel Rippling 2016 139 724 Vessel navigation while approaching or exiting ports, inevitably create rippling, which may affect: 4,651 2015  Commercial activities in coastal areas, such as business 56 activities in shores (e.g. bars/cafés, sun beds on beaches). 4,087  Bathers’ safety due to sudden appearance of waves. 2014 66 For this reason, we comply with legislation and adhere to the Liquid waste (m3) Sewage water (tn)* cruising speed limits defined by the relevant provisions, in Bilge water (m3)** order to minimize the respective impact. In 2017, there were:  3 complaints of alleged damages to smaller vessels, * Q  uantities of sewage water refer to cases where vessels are docked or during maintenance/cleaning activities to the sewage network. without any further development. ** Quantities of bilge water refer to quantities delivered to appropriate reception  No relevant legal actions or significant fines (over €20,000) facilities of licensed contractors within ports. imposed. We assess our impact on biodiversity Biodiversity As water covers 71% of our planet, preserving the balance of marine ecosystems and biodiversity are crucial for humankind. The intense growth of human activities and the associated environmental pollution have significantly degraded the natural environment within a very short period of time. Consequently, many organisms fail to adapt to these new conditions, with their survival being threatened. According to the United Nations’ ‘Millennium Ecosystem Assessment’ report, the extinction of species due to human intervention occurs 1,000 times faster than it would Land Biodiversity: We recognize the importance of biodiversity naturally and 1/4 of the planet’s mammals face extinction for the ecosystems’ balance and we do not conduct any activities in the coming years. The situation is even more critical for within protected areas, as our offices are located in an urban the marine environment, as it is estimated that 60% of coral environment, without any adjacent protected areas or areas of reefs will extinct by 2030, due to illegal fishing and pollution. high biodiversity value (even outside protected areas). 80 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 4. Achievements 2017 and Future Objectives We committed Progress We aim By To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility issues related to Environment by 2020 34%. To apply a process to monitor risks due to climate change and identify potential areas to 2018 implement energy conservation initiatives. To include environmental protection aspects as To replace 86 advertising signs in our vessels with 75% specifications in our products’ and services’ design 2019 new LED advertising billboards. phase (e.g. vessels). To add parameters to the BMS system for our offices’ effective depiction and technical support, 100% To upgrade our BMS system’s software. 2019 combined with more efficient energy cost management. To install solar absorption systems in low energy efficiency areas of our offices. 100% To implement a recycling system for paper, cartridges, IT equipment, batteries and organic 75% waste. To train our office employees on recycling To train our office employees on recycling issues. 50% issues. 2019 To further upgrade the photovoltaic panel unit To further upgrade the photovoltaic panel unit onboard Blue Star Delos (by 2020). 0% 2020 onboard Blue Star Delos. To reduce consumption of refrigerants by 2%. 0% To reduce consumption of refrigerants by 2%. 2019 To create an Eurail/Interail Greek Islands Pass 2019 for 5 destinations in Greece. ATTICA GROUP 81 ΙΧ SUMMARY 1. About this Report This is the 9th Corporate Responsibility Report published by Attica Group. Here in, we present the practices followed and the results achieved, through focusing on topics our Stakeholders are interested in and committing in the long-term towards responsible business operations. The Principles we follow The symbols we use The Report follows: For convenient reading of this Report, please pay attention to the   For structure and content, the guidelines ‘Sustainability following main symbols, which are widely used: Reporting Standards’ (version 2016) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Good Practice…  For principles, the UN’s Global Compact. Indicates examples of good practices implemented.   For presentation of quantitative data, the EFQM’s RADAR Card. Policy… Indicates sections from formal corporate Policies. The scope we refer to The Corporate Responsibility Report: Did you Know…  Refers to the period 1/1/2017-31/12/2017 (unless indicated Indicates information of particular interest. otherwise in certain points).   Addresses all activities of ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A. (Attica Briefing… Group), namely the provision of maritime transportation Indicates information related to operational issues. services for passengers, private vehicles and freight units in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea, with references to the Group’s Issue of Consideration… activities in the Morocco – Spain route in Chapter III (Attica Indicates issues of public interest and consideration. Group), which are not included in the scope of this Report.  Contains, as a norm, quantitative data for the period 2014View… 2017 for all quantitative indicators. Indicates Stakeholders’ view on various issues.  Contains data from direct measurement, while cases of data estimations that refer to Africa Morocco Links (AML) are Your Opinion… clearly indicated. Indicates results from surveys conducted.  Data presented have been collected internally, in order to be published in this Report. The limitations we recognize Development of Report We recognize limitations in the Report, which we intend to The Report has been developed by the Group’s Corporate handle in future publications, such as presentation of more Responsibility Team in cooperation with STREAM Management: quantitative data and objectives. Yiota Krassakopoulou General Counsel Director Legal & Corporate Affairs The in accordance option of our Report Christina Grigora This Report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Brand Marketing Manager Domestic lines Standards: Core option. Georgia Kokaliari Your feedback Recruting & Training Manager We welcome your thoughts, comments or proposals through Nikolaos Merkouris the feedback form at the end of this Report or at the following Internal Auditor of Management Systems address: www.stream-eu.com Corporate Responsibility Team Attica Group 1-7 Lysikratous & Evripidou Street, 17674 Athens E-mail: csr@attica-group.com 82 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 100% 75% 50% 25% 0% 2. Summary Data completion under progress off plan not achieved completion Section 2015 2016 2017 Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 Future Objectives MANAGEMENT We commit to adopt responsible policies To improve our overall and practices in our operations performance on and to harmoniously Corporate Responsibility cooperate with our issues by 24% Stakeholders, in order (by 2020). to create mutual long-term value. To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility issues related to Owners by 10% (by 2020). To improve our performance related to Management of Corporate Responsibility issues by 25% (by 2020). To develop a Corporate Responsibility Strategy and Action Plan 2018 Objectives in 24 33 55 2020, based the Report (number) on quantitative assessment and target setting. To integrate the Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2018-2020’s target assessment score within the overall Group Strategy. To include the Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2018-2020’s quantitative assessment score as target in the formal appraisal process for Top Management members and at least one Board of Directors member (by 2019). ATTICA GROUP 83 Section 2015 2016 2017 Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 Future Objectives To develop a process to identify, prioritize and include Corporate Responsibility issues in local and international investment agreements. To conduct a To conduct Stakeholder a Stakeholder Engagement process Engagement process on issues related to on issues related Corporate Responsibility to Corporate (by 2018). Responsibility (by 2019). To include Corporate To include Corporate Responsibility Team’s Responsibility responsibilities within Team’s responsibilities its members’ formal job within its members’ descriptions (by 2018). formal job descriptions. We increased by 2.8% the number of GRI GRI indicators in indicators and by 5% the Report 56 + 10 58 + 14 56 + 18 the number of (number, full + partially) quantitative indicators we make reference to within the Report. To include our To include our Corporate Responsibility Quantitative indicators Corporate Responsibility Report’s quantitative in the Report 185 200 210 Report’s quantitative indicators in our (number) indicators SAP ERP in our SAP ERP. (by 2018). To include perception measurement questions regarding our Corporate Responsibility performance (e.g. responsible promotion of products and services, personal data protection, society support) in our market surveys. Violation cases concerning We have communicated our main principles and rules Regulation of 0 0 0 of professional behavior Professional Behavior to (number) 100% of our employees. 84 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Section 2015 2016 2017 Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 Future Objectives No violation cases concerning our main principles and rules of professional behavior occurred. To conduct trainings To conduct trainings or briefings related or briefings related to the Regulation of to the Regulation of Professional Conduct Professional Conduct & Business Ethics. & Business Ethics. Office employees To develop an To develop an informed on anti-corruption 100 100 NR Anti-Corruption Code. Anti-Corruption Code. procedures (%) Corruption incidents No corruption incidents 0 0 0 (number) occurred. No bribery incidents related to our employees occurred. We were subjected to Non-compliance 83 external Management incidents recoded Systems’ audits, during external NR 0 0 with no recorded Management Systems’ non-compliance audits (number) incident. No non-compliance incident was recorded during audits of our contractors’ Management Systems. To establish a comprehensive Business Continuity Plan to ensure Significant fines (number) 0 0 1 continuation of our operations following unexpected events (by 2020). ATTICA GROUP 85 Section 2015 2016 2017 Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 Future Objectives SOCIETY We commit to combine our business success with To improve our our country’s and partners’ performance on development, as well as support Corporate Responsibility local communities affected issues related to by our operations, in order Community by 10% to contribute to improving the (by 2020). quality of life and prosperity of our society in general. To improve our performance on Corporate Responsibility issues related to Suppliers by 180% (by 2020). We distributed over €300 million in economic value: over €61.6 million to employees (for salaries, benefits and insurance payments), €49.4 million for taxes (including VAT and port taxes), €34.7 million to providers of capital Turnover (for interest and return (total sales with VAT) 277.63 268.61 271.54 payments), €15.2 (million €) million to agents (for commissions), €130.7 million to suppliers (for purchases of goods and services), €1.6 million to society (for discount tickets, implemented programs, sponsorships and donations) and €7.1 million for investments. Profits after taxes 33.18 20.25 1.25 (million €) Cost of employees (including salaries, benefits 58.7 60.59 61.61 and insurance payments) (million €) Payments to suppliers 116.23 145.1 130.75 (million €) Investments (million €) 1.15 4.06 7.18 To increase sales To increase sales Training of sales network 1,744 1,584 248 network employees network employees employees (hours) training hours by 5%. training hours by 5%. 86 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Section 2015 2016 2017 Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 Future Objectives To support the We increased the total To support the activities of charitable value of our societal activities of charitable Social contribution (€) 1,524,245* 1,398,436 1,599,360 organizations support activities by organizations and NGOs. 14.3%. and NGOs. To apply a process to identify and define needs of local communities in products, services or donations, as well as support the activities of organizations with a charitable purpose. To design and implement 5 programs/ We allocated 55% of activities to address sponsorships and local communities donations to local needs in the areas of communities. sport, culture, education or health. We increased the total Discount tickets 60,663* 44,747 48,052 number of discount (number) tickets offered by 7.3%. To implement at To implement at least 2 volunteer least 2 volunteer Employee volunteers 148 121 165 activities with the activities with the (number) participation of our participation of our employees. employees. We collected 289 blood Blood units from voluntary units through our blood donation programs 82 68 70 voluntary blood donation (number) programs in the last four years. We welcomed 739 young Visiting school and university people from schools and 617 866 739 students (number) universities visiting our facilities. To consolidate/ To consolidate/ review the various review the various procurement processes procurement processes Suppliers (number) 1,130 1,202 1,110 per Department and per Department and establish a single establish a single Procurement Process Procurement Process. (by 2018). ATTICA GROUP 87 Section 2015 2016 2017 Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 Future Objectives To develop a Policy To develop a Policy for our Contractors’ for our Contractors’ Suppliers (by 2019). Suppliers (by 2019). To develop a Code of To develop a Code of Conduct for Suppliers, Conduct for Suppliers, including selection including selection criteria to become a criteria to become a supplier. supplier. To integrate contractual clauses for Corporate Responsibility issues into contracts with significant suppliers (by 2019). To integrate Corporate Responsibility issues in selection criteria to become a supplier (by 2019). We increased the percentage of Procurement expenditure 71.2 90.4 92.9 procurement expenditure to local suppliers (%) to local suppliers to 92.9%. We allocated 89.2% of total procurement Procurement expenditure expenditure to small NR NR 89.2 to SME suppliers (%) and medium-sized enterprises (up to 250 employees). Purchases from rural 11.8 16.8 2.8 suppliers (%) EMPLOYEES To improve our performance on We commit to cultivate a Corporate Responsibility workplace focused on respect, issues related to equality, safety and merit, Employees by 6% as well as offer training (by 2020). To improve opportunities to our employees, our performance on in order to facilitate Corporate Responsibility their personal and professional issues related to development. Employees by 6% (by 2020). We employ 100% of our Employees (number, 181 + 191 + 201 + employees with full time offices + vessels) 1,115 1,151 1,004 employment contracts. 88 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Section 2015 2016 2017 Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 Future Objectives To conduct an To conduct an Employee Satisfaction Employee Satisfaction Survey. Survey (by 2019). No complaints or grievances regarding our marine employees’ living conditions were filed. Women in overall 12.6 11.5 13.3 workforce (%) Women in Director 2.3 4.7 4.9 positions (%) 100% of employees Greek employees 100 100 100 in Director positions in Director positions (%) are Greek. To define Managers formally responsible to manage Corporate Responsibility issues within their formal job description. Discrimination incidents 0 0 0 (number) The entry level wage Employees with entry level of office employees is wage equal or higher than 100 100 100 higher than the legal the legal minimum wage minimum wage or collective agreement (%) by 19.5%. Training hours (hours) 1,240 5,964 5,221 To train all Managers To train all Managers on Corporate on Corporate Responsibility. Responsibility. To conduct a Corporate Responsibility e-learning course for our office employees. To conduct the Skills Development Program to 20 employees in all hierarchical levels (by 2019). ATTICA GROUP 89 Section 2015 2016 2017 Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 Future Objectives To integrate Corporate To include Corporate Responsibility issues Responsibility in the into the other categories information material of in-house training of new hired employees. courses (by 2019). Employees receiving 100% of our employees their annual leave, 82.8 82.8 100 received their annual as planned (%) leave, as planned. To conduct performance To conduct performance Employees appraisal for 100% appraisal for 100% participating in of office employees of office employees 53 / 100 0 / 100 0 / 100 performance appraisal with a new Performance with a new Performance (%, offices / vessels) Appraisal System Appraisal System (by 2018). (by 2019). To include specific Corporate Responsibility objectives in formal appraisal process for employees, Managers and at least one Board of Directors member. To include specific Corporate Responsibility objectives in Top Management members’ formal appraisal process (by 2020). We conducted internal Marine employees drills on Health and participating in internal Safety issues (such as 100 100 100 drills on Health response to emergency and Safety issues (%) situations) to 100% of marine employees. Fatal accidents 0 0 0 (number, employees) To apply a process to monitor health and safety incidents (e.g. injuries, diseases, absences, fatal accidents) of subcontractors’ employees working in our offices (by 2019). Accidents (number) 20 19 14 Accidents with absence 20 19 12 >3 days (number) Injury rate (rate) 1.31 1.07 0.78 90 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Section 2015 2016 2017 Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 Future Objectives CUSTOMERS We commit to safeguard the health and safety To improve our of our passengers and performance on offer them the best possible Corporate Responsibility travel experience, in order issues related to to meet their needs and Customers by 17% expectations during (by 2020). their journey. We conducted internal Marine employees drills and trainings participating in internal 100 100 100 on passenger safety drills on passenger procedures to 100% of safety procedures (%) marine employees. Vessels’ evaluation within the context of ‘Mystery Passenger’ 80 / 77 81 / 79 (%, Domestic lines / Adriatic Sea lines) To advise customers on the responsible use of our services To systematically (e.g. environmental inform and train our protection), through customers on Corporate various means Responsibility issues. (e.g. communication programs, vessel screens). To create 40 new pet accommodation facilities in 5 vessels. To certify 3 vessels according to the ‘We do local’ standard. To increase ‘PURE CABINS’ in 2 vessels, with 4 cabins per vessel. We were subjected to Inspections from local 45 inspections from authorities for food local authorities for 87 59 45 hygiene and safety food hygiene and safety, (number) with no recorded noncompliance incidents. Items lost/found 4,283 4,642 5,027 or damaged (number) ATTICA GROUP 91 Section 2015 2016 2017 Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 Future Objectives Compensations for vehicle 357,587 45,080* 45,461 damages (€) Complaints regarding To formalize our responsible communication 0 0 0 Responsible (number) Communication Policy. To apply a Responsible Marketing and Communication Code in our business activities. To apply a process to monitor potential Recalls of products recalls of products and services due to or services from 0 0 0 health and safety subcontractors due impacts (number) to possible health and safety issues (by 2019). To create a Project Team, in order to Complaints regarding properly and efficiently customer privacy 0 0 0 respond to the new (number) European Union’s privacy requirements. We kept our vessels’ To achieve an as departure time in over To achieve an as Delays in routes 6 15 9 scheduled routes 90% of our scheduled scheduled routes (number) rate of over 90%. journeys. rate of over 90%. Formal response letters to comments, complaints 563 726 619 and requests (number) Formal thank-you letters 163 190 179 (number) The average score of evaluations registered Questionnaires in vessels through dedicated 1,096 945 878 (number) devices onboard our vessels reached 3.8 (good), on a 5 point scale. Total calls to customer To reorganize our service telephone lines NR NR 548,977 Call Center. (number) 92 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Section 2015 2016 2017 Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 Future Objectives To reduce unanswered To further reduce calls from our Call unanswered calls from Center by 40%. our Call Center by 50%. To establish a To establish a Customer Relationship Customer Relationship Management system Management system (CRM) (by 2020). (CRM) (by 2020). To categorize To categorize complaints per complaints per category (e.g. delays, category (e.g. delays, price of tickets, price price of tickets, price discrepancies) (by discrepancies) 2020). (by 2020). We maintain 4 corporate websites, with over 2.8 million unique visitors annually and handle 3 mobile applications with over 107,000 downloads. We increased the To increase To increase SMS messages number of SMS communication with communication with sent to customers NR 68,954 91,482 messages sent to our our customers through our customers (number) customers by 32.6%. SMS by 20%. through SMS by 5%. We dispatched 2,504 notifications to serve passengers with particular requirements to our vessels, out of which 269 concerning passengers with reduced mobility and 9 concerning passengers with sensitivity to allergens. Members in loyalty We increased our loyalty and reward program 144,697 199,673 242,483 and reward program (number) members by 21.4%. ATTICA GROUP 93 Section 2015 2016 2017 Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 Future Objectives ENVIRONMENT We commit to integrate To improve our sustainable development performance in our operations and on Corporate apply environmentally friendlier Responsibility issues business practices, in order to related to Environment reduce, where feasible, by 34% (by 2020). our environmental impacts. Environmental We informed 100% To train our office To train our office protection of our employees on 4.3 2.1 1.9 employees on employees on recycling investments environmental protection recycling issues. issues (by 2019). (million €) issues. We informed approximately 1.2 million customers on Corporate Responsibility issues, such as environmental protection. To create an Eurail/ Interail Greek Islands Pass for 5 destinations in Greece (by 2019). To apply a process to monitor risks due to climate change and identify potential areas to implement energy conservation initiatives. To include To replace 86 environmental advertising signs protection aspects Energy in our vessels as specifications in consumption 9,019,401 9,533,156* 9,827,535 with new LED our products’ and (GJ) advertising services’ design billboards. phase (e.g. vessels) (by 2019). To add parameters to the BMS system for our offices’ effective To upgrade our depiction and technical BMS system’s support, combined software (by 2019). with more efficient energy cost management. 94 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 Section 2015 2016 2017 Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 Future Objectives To install solar Electricity absorption systems consumption 819,932 1,549,711* 1,331,453 in low energy efficiency (KWh) areas of our offices. 80% of monitors and 60% of personal and laptop computers we use have energy-saving specifications. To further upgrade To further upgrade Electricity produced the photovoltaic panel the photovoltaic panel from renewable energy 4,380 4,380 4,380 unit onboard unit onboard sources (KWh) Blue Star Delos Blue Star Delos (by 2020). (by 2020). Prevention of CO2 due to energy use 3,154 2,844 2,934 from renewable energy sources (kgr) Total eCO2 694,640 738,104* 760,919 emissions (tn) Use of refrigerants To reduce consumption To reduce consumption 2,577 3,124.5 3,278 (kgr) of refrigerants by 2%. of refrigerants by 2%. We use refrigerants that do not affect the Total ODP of ozone layer (such as refrigerants 0 0 0 R134a, R404a, R407a) (number, R-11 equivalent) in 100% of refrigerators and freezers onboard our vessels. Paper used for NR 80.8* 100.8 all purposes (tn) Paper used for commercial purposes 38.8 66.4 83.2 (tn) ATTICA GROUP 95 Section 2015 2016 2017 Objectives 2017 Achievements 2017 Future Objectives We reduced consumption of plastic bags in our offices by 25%. We used 24.4% To implement a recycled paper and Recycled toners/ink recycling system for 79.3% recycled toners/ cartridges for printers/ 495 kgr 249 79 paper, cartridges, IT ink cartridges. faxes/photocopying equipment, batteries machines (units) and organic waste. We transported from Materials from recycling Islands free-of-charge activities, transported 179 78 79 over 79 tonnes of for recycling (tn) materials for recycling. Solid waste (m3) 30,446 28,836 36,071 Solid waste indicator 6,750 7,150 9,000 (m3 per million passengers) Water consumption (m3) 222,758 215,967 237,255 Liquid waste (m3) 4,651 4,598 4,343 * Data provided in our previous Report have been restated NR = Not Reported 96 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 3. Global Compact, Sustainable Development Goals, ISO26000 and GRI Tables The correspondence between the content of this Report and the Global Compact Principles, the Sustainable Development Goals, the ISO26000 International Guidelines, as well as the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI Standards 2016) General Disclosures, Management Approach and Topic-Specific Disclosures, is presented in the following tables.  Coverage of Indicators and GRI’s Disclosures is characterized as Full (F), Partial (P) or Not Applicable (NA).  General Disclosures of GRI required for ‘Core’ option are indicated in grey background.  Management Approach, Topic Specific Disclosures and Boundaries for Material Topics (both for GRI related Topics and other Topics) are indicated on the Table, based on the Materiality Analysis conducted.  No external assurance has been conducted for the Material Topics. United Nations’ Global Compact Table Issue Principle Report Section Coverage Human Rights 1. Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights V-3, VI-3 F 2. Ensure not to be complicit in human rights abuses VI-3 F Labour Standards 3. Recognize freedom of association and right to collective bargaining VI-3 F 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour VI-3 F 5. Abolish effectively child labour VI-3 F 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation VI-3 F Environment 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges V-3, VIII-1-3 F 8. Promote greater environmental responsibility VIII-1-3 F 9. Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies VIII-1 F Corruption 10. Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery IV-1,2 F United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals Table Goal Principle Report Section 1. End poverty in all its forms everywhere V-1,2, VI-3 2. End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture VII-3 3. Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages V-2, VI-2, VII-1 4. Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning V-2, VI-4 5. Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls VI-3 6. Ensure access to water and sanitation for all VIII-3 7. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all VIII-1 8. Promote inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and decent work for all V-1,2, VI-1-3 9. Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable industrialization and foster innovation 10. Reduce inequality within and among countries VI-3 11. Make cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable 12. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns V-3, VII-3, VIII-2 13. Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts VIII-1 14. Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources VIII-2,3 15. Sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and reverse land degradation, halt biodiversity loss VIII-3 16. Promote just, peaceful and inclusive societies V-2 17. Revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development IV-VIII ATTICA GROUP 97 ISO26000 Table Aspect Report Section Coverage 1. Scope IX-1 F 2. Definitions IX-4 F 3. Understanding Social Responsibility IV-1,2 F 4. Principles of Social Responsibility IV-2,3 F 5. Recognizing Social Responsibility & Engaging Stakeholders IV-3 F 6. Guidance on Social Responsibility Core Subjects a. Organizational Governance IV-1 F b. Human Rights VI-3 F c. Labor practices VI-3 F d. Environment V-3, VIII-1-3 F e. Fair operating practices IV-1 F f. Consumer issues VII-1-3 F g. Community involvement and development V-2 F 7. Guidance on Integrating SR throughout the Organization a. Enhancing Credibility IV-VIII F b. Communication IV-1,2, VI-1 F GRI Content Index GRI Standard Report Section Coverage Boundary of Disclosure General Disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Organizational Profile Yes (Group) 102-1 IX-1 F 102-2 III-2 F 102-3 III-2, IX-1 F 102-4 III-2 F 102-5 III-2 F 102-6 III-2 F 102-7 III-2, V-1, VI-1 F 102-8 VI-1 F 102-9 III-2, V-3 F 102-10 III-2 F 102-11 V-3, VI-2, VII-1, VIII-1 F 102-12 IV-2 F 102-13 IV-2 F Strategy Yes (Group) 102-14 I F 102-15 I, IV-1 P Ethics and Integrity Yes (Group, Suppliers) 102-16 III-2, IV-1,2, VI-3, VII-2, VIII-1-3 F 102-17 IV-1 P Governance Yes (Group) 102-18 IV-1 F 102-19 IV-2 P 102-20 IV-2 P 102-21 IV-1 F 102-22 IV-1 F 102-23 IV-1 F 102-25 IV-1 F 102-26 IV-2 P 102-27 IV-1,2 P 102-28 IV-1 P 102-30 IV-1 P 98 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 GRI Standard Report Section Coverage Boundary of Disclosure 102-32 IV-3 F 102-34 IV-1 F 102-35 IV-1 P 102-36 IV-1 P 102-38 VI-3 F 102-39 VI-3 F Stakeholder Engagement Yes (Group) 102-40 IV-3 F 102-41 VI-3 F 102-42 IV-3 F 102-43 IV-3 F 102-44 IV-3 F Reporting Practice Yes (Group) 102-45 III-2, V-1, IX-1 F 102-46 IV-3, IX-3 F 102-47 IV-3, IX-3 F 102-48 V-2, VII-1, VIII-1, IX-1,2 F 102-49 IX-1 F 102-50 IX-1 F 102-51 IX-1 F 102-52 IX-1 F 102-53 IX-1 F 102-54 IX-1 F 102-55 IX-3 F 102-56 IX-1,3 F Economic Topics GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 IV-1,3, V-1-3, VI-1,3, IX-3 F 103-2 IV-1, V-1-3, VI-1,3 F 103-3 IV-1,3, V-1-3, VI-1,3 F GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 V-1 F 201-4 V-1 F GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 Yes (Group) 202-1 VI-3 P 202-2 VI-1 F GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 Yes (Group) 203-1 V-2 P 203-2 V-2 F GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 Yes (Group, Suppliers) 204-1 V-3 F GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 IV-1 P 205-3 IV-1 F GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 Yes (Group) 206-1 IV-1 F Environmental Topics GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 IV-3, V-2, VIII-1-3, IX-3 F 103-2 V-2, VIII-1-3 F 103-3 IV-3, V-2, VIII-1-3 F GRI 301: Materials 2016 Yes (Group) 301-1 VIII-2 F 301-2 VIII-2 F ATTICA GROUP 99 GRI Standard Report Section Coverage Boundary of Disclosure GRI 302: Energy 2016 Yes (Group) 302-1 VIII-1 F 302-2 VIII-1 P 302-4 VIII-1 P GRI 303: Water 2016 Yes (Group) 303-1 VIII-3 F 303-2 VIII-3 F GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 Yes (Group) 304-1 VIII-3 F 304-2 VIII-3 F GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Yes (Group) 305-1 VIII-1 F 305-2 VIII-1 P 305-5 VIII-1 P 305-6 VIII-1 F 305-7 VIII-1 P GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Yes (Group) 306-2 VIII-2,3 P 306-3 V-2, VIII-3 F 306-4 VIII-2 P GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 Yes (Group) 307-1 VIII-1 F GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 Yes (Group, Suppliers) 308-2 V-3 F Social Topics GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 IV-3, V-2,3, VI-1-4, VII-1,2, VIII-3, IX-3 F 103-2 V-2,3, VI-1-4, VII-1,2, VIII-3 F 103-3 IV-3, V-2,3, VI-1-4, VII-1,2, VIII-3 F GRI 401: Employment 2016 Yes (Group) 401-1 VI-1 F 401-2 VI-3 P 401-3 VI-1 P GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 Yes (Group) 402-1 VI-3 F GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 Yes (Group) 403-1 VI-2 F 403-2 VI-2 F 403-3 VI-2 F 403-4 VI-2 F GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 Yes (Group) 404-1 VI-4 F 404-2 VI-4 P 404-3 VI-4 F GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 Yes (Group) 405-1 VI-1,3 F 405-2 VI-3 F GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 Yes (Group) 406-1 VI-3 F GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 407-1 VI-3 P GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 408-1 VI-3 P GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 409-1 VI-3 P 100 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 GRI Standard Report Section Coverage Boundary of Disclosure GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 410-1 V-2 F GRI 411: Rights of Indigenous People 2016 411-1 NA GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 Yes (Group) 412-1 VI-3 P 412-2 VI-4 F 412-3 VI-3 F GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 Yes (Group) 413-2 V-2, VIII-3 F GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 Yes (Group, Suppliers) 414-2 V-3 F GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 IV-1 F GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 Yes (Group, Customers) 416-1 VII-1 P 416-2 VII-1 F GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling 2016 Yes (Group, Customers, Network) 417-1 VII-2 F 417-2 VII-2 F 417-3 VII-2 F GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 VII-1 F GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 IV-1, V-2, VI-2, VII-1, VIII-3 F Other Topics (non GRI) GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 IV-3, V-2,3, VI-1, VII-1,3, VIII-1,3, IX-3 F 103-2 V-2,3, VI-1, VII-1,3, VIII-1,3 F 103-3 IV-3, V-2,3, VI-1, VII-1,3, VIII-1,3 F Products and Services Yes (Group) Audits and inspections for products and services VII-1 F quality (by number, outcome) Customer satisfaction surveys and practices (results) IV-3, VII-3 F Reductions in products and services prices VII-3 F Vessel Operations and Impacts Yes (Group) Proactive approaches on vessel safety standards VII-1 F and respective compliance Accidents within vessels (by type, reason, results) V-2, VII-1 F Non-compliance with regulations regarding VII-1 F exceeding vessel capacity (by number, outcomes) Non-compliance with regulations regarding rippling impacts to coastal areas (by number, outcomes) VIII-3 F Responsible Buying Yes (Group, Suppliers) Suppliers evaluation (by percentage, frequency) V-3 F Discontinuation of collaboration with suppliers (by number, reason) V-3 F Acoustic Impact Yes (Group) Non-compliance with regulations regarding acoustic VIII-1 F impact (by number, outcomes) Work Conditions Yes (Group) Employees with overtime work (by percentage, average) VI-1 F Non-compliance with regulations regarding labour practices VI-1 F (by number, outcomes) Non-compliance with regulations regarding accommodation VI-1 F conditions for marine employees (by number, outcomes) Volunteering Yes (Group) Participation in volunteering activities V-2 F ATTICA GROUP 101 4. Glossary Please pay attention to the following, frequently used terms and where they refer to: ‘Bilge water’ ‘Global Compact’ The mixture of water, lubricants and fuel produced during engine The United Nations Global Compact, an initiative to encourage washing, as well as by accidental leaks. companies to align their business operation with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, ‘Biodiversity’ environment and anti-corruption. The various living organisms in an ecosystem (land, marine and aquatic), as well as the extent of their genetic composition. ‘Group’, ‘we’, ‘Attica Group’ The legal entity ATTICA HOLDINGS S.A. (which this Report ‘Carbon dioxide’, ‘CO2’ addresses). The gaseous chemical compound derived from the combustion of fossil fuels (oil, gasoline, natural gas, etc.) and organic ‘IMO’ compounds (wood, plastic, etc.), which contributes to the The International Maritime Organisation, which is a specialized greenhouse effect. organization to establish measures in order to improve safety of international shipping and prevent environmental pollution from ‘Classification societies’ vessels, and is also responsible for legal issues related to liability The maritime technical organizations who establish safety and indemnify cases of maritime accidents, as well as facilitate regulations for shipbuilding, as well as for the vessels’ equipment. international maritime traffic. ‘Corporate Responsibility’, ‘Corporate Social Responsibility’, ‘MARPOL’ ‘Sustainable Development’ The Convention of the International Maritime Organization to The voluntary commitment of companies to include in their adopt concrete measures, in order to control and prevent corporate practices economical, social and environmental pollution from vessels. criteria and activities, which are beyond the legislative requirements and are related to their impact on Stakeholders. ‘Passengers’ The terms refer to the current economic growth that does not The people transported with our vessels. compromise the ability of future generations to satisfy their own needs. ‘Report’ The Corporate Responsibility Report 2017. ‘Environmental footprint’ The total greenhouse gas emissions that arise directly (e.g. ‘VI-3’ etc. burning of fossil fuels for heating) or indirectly (e.g. by the use of The chapter and section of this Report (e.g. used in the GRI, products) from a company. Global Compact and Stakeholder Tables). For example, the term ‘VI-3’ makes reference to chapter VI (Employees), section 3 ‘equivalent CO2’, ‘eCO2’ (Equality and Fairness). The measurement unit of all greenhouse gases that contribute to global warming (carbon dioxide-CO2, methane-CH4, nitrous ‘Universal Declaration of Human Rights’ oxide-N2O, fluorinated hydrocarbons-HFCS, perfluorocarbonsThe declaration adopted by the United Nations General Assembly PFC’s, sulfur hexafluoride-SF6), expressed as equivalent carbon in 1948 with the fundamental rights to which all human beings dioxide. are inherently entitled. 102 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2017 5. Feedback Form 1. To which Stakeholder group do you belong? Employees Shareholders Customers Sales Network Suppliers State Associations and Unions Local Communities Citizens NGOs Media Other 2. What is your impression, about the following chapters of this Report? Chapter Excellent Good Neutral Mediocre Bad IV. Management V. Society VI. Employees VII. Customers VIII. Environment 3. What is your impression, about the following elements of this Report? Element Excellent Good Neutral Mediocre Bad Sections have the right balance Important topics are covered Structure supports easy reading Texts are comprehensive Quantitative elements are complete Graphs included are comprehensive Layout is attractive/pleasant 4. Are there any topics, which are not answered (or not adequately covered) in this Report or do you have questions you would like to be answered in our next Report? 5. Are there any other comments/proposals you might have? Personal Data (optionally): Name Please fill out the form and send it to: Organization Attica Group, Corporate Responsibility Team Address 1-7 Lysikratous & Evripidou Street, 17674, Athens Phone/Fax e-mail: csr@attica-group.com E-mail All information on this form will be used only for evaluating this Report, through statistical analysis. Personal data are protected, as defined by the respective law regarding private information. ATTICA GROUP 103 Development of content and layout: STREAM Management Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 ATTICA GROUP www.stream-eu.com 1-7 Lysicratous & Evripidou str, 176 74 Αthens Greece www.attica-group.com
