G R I S D É C O U PAG E ’s commitment to the Global Compact GRIS DÉCOUPAGE, founded in 1984 and based in Lesménils (department 54, France), specialises in the manufacture of mechanical components and flat or conical die-cut washers in medium or large runs. GRIS DÉCOUPAGE signed up to the Global Compact in 2006, thus demonstrating its commitment to the basic values of human rights, labour standards and environmental protection. But well before then, GRIS DÉCOUPAGE had already espoused the ideals underlying the ten Global Compact principles. Participation in the Global Compact was a logical step in the continuous improvement process adopted by the company a number of years ago. Continuous improvement was implemented initially in the fields of industry, quality and management and led to the ISO 9001certification obtained in 1993, ISO TS 16949 in 2002 and IATF 16949 obtained in 2018. It was subsequently extended in the early 2000s to cover environmental and sustainable development issues, as confirmed by the awarding of ISO 14001 certification in June 2007. GRIS DÉCOUPAGE is renewing its commitment to the Global Compact for 2018. In so doing, we undertake to uphold the ten principles on a daily basis, to make sure they are shared by all employees and to bring them fully to the attention of our subcontractors and suppliers. Francis GRIS Président Progress update from Global Compact participant 1. OBJECTIVES SET FOR 2018 For 2018, GRIS DECOUPAGE chose to illustrate the following groups of principles: Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS UNDERTAKEN IN 2018  Human rights / Working conditions In 2018, the construction of a new building made it possible to integrate points that improve working conditions while taking environmental issues into account. The staff was consulted during the re-implantation of these sectors and was able to express their opinions via the 3D Experience tool from DASSAULT SYSTEMES. 5S approaches involving employees were deployed in the different areas of the workshop throughout 2018. These were monitored by monthly audits. Consciousness-raising tools have been created in the Quality-Safety-Environment fields to inculcate best practices in newcomers. In addition, the IT department organized consciousness-raising on the topic of computer security to which the administrative staff was invited. To strengthen exchanges between the Single Staff Delegation and the Management, the Management accepted a visit last February by Laurent Berger, Secretary General of the CFDT union. Much training was on various topics in 2018, as in the previous year. Human Resources and Finance processes and their tools were digitised during the year.  Environment ISO 14001 version 2015 certification was successfully obtained in May 2018. As part of constructing the new building, the environmental theme was taken into account (lighting, heating).  Anti-corruption As part of implementing IATF standard 16 949, the Management has drafted a Code of Conduct and Ethics and a Corruption Policy distributed to all staff. 1. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR Investments concerning safety and working conditions: As every year, investments are made in safety and improved working conditions. In 2018, a new 3700 m² building was constructed for sorting, packaging and packing and warehousing/shipping. The working conditions in this workshop are improved with:  natural zenith lighting  automatically opening doors to the grinding workshop  remote controlled doors for outdoor access, to keep the building closed in winter, and a protective canopy for loading operations  drains controlled by a rain and wind detection unit that closes the doors if necessary  exposure of employees to a less noise than in the past (activity near this building is less noisy than cutting on presses). In addition, the annual prevention program has included investments to improve workplace safety such as:  addition of lateral guides and the improved feeding console on one automatic cutting line.  a set of storage racks for coils of raw materials (vertical and horizontal axes), the choice of which has been validated by a working group including employees working in this sector. Finally, as part of the work on this extension, vehicle flows were reviewed; and now, staff’s vehicles are separate from lorry and forklift flows, to avoid risks of collision. Acquisition of a 3D model software package: As part of the expansion and reorganization of our production building, we acquired the 3D Experience software package from DASSAULT SYSTEMES. This allows us to make 3D models and visit them in virtual reality, which will thus give us the opportunity to check and validate new location choices before we implement them. Since this software was acquired, employees have had a chance to test the virtual reality headset and immerse themselves in their future work environment and find ways to improve it. 5 S approach: Implementation of 5S at GRIS DÉCOUPAGE follows up on a request from some of our automotive customers, and is part of the neatness and cleanliness requirements under the new version of standard IATF 16949. It is a Japanese management technique to promote ongoing improvement of tasks in the work environment. EIRI EITON EISO EIKETSU HITSUKE 整理 整頓 清掃 清潔 躾 Sort Set in order Shine Standardize Sustain Once a month, a 5S site is set up in our workshop. The goal is to bring together the machine operators with management, maintenance, quality, etc., so that all work together on what must be sorted, stored, cleaned. Management attends each site closure to measure the efforts of the participants. Then the audit and improvement phase begins. This approach aims to reach a zero point so that the situation does not deteriorate but progresses. Every day, an audit is carried out by an operator in the sector, which is then validated by the manager. Finally, once a month, a full audit is done on the area to measure improvements. Examples of 5S sites (before/after): Quality/Safety/Environment awareness of newcomers: All newcomers are undergo Quality, Safety and Environment training; but from a practical standpoint, it is sometimes difficult to plan these efforts to raise consciousness: A newcomer can start his work on shift. For this, new supports have been created, called PASSE (standing for “First reception in health, safety and environment” in French) and PAQ (“First quality reception”). These documents are relayed through the company by “Leaders” who conduct the initial consciousness raising on these topics at the workstation. The following week, an awareness session of 1 ½ hours is conducted by the HSE coordinator. A 2-hour Quality/Purchasing training session is carried out later with the new arrivals. Staff awareness of IT security: Faced with the upsurge of threats on the Internet and networks, companies are advised to implement a comprehensive IT security policy. To be effective, this information system security policy must rely on both existing and complementary technical resources, but also on high user awareness. That is why, on 9 and 10 April, the administrative staff of GRIS DÉCOUPAGE participated in an awareness campaign conducted by an outside service provider. Taking various concrete examples, the goal was to understand the computing environment and identify the threats. This awareness has, in particular:  made employees more sensitive to questionable emails and abnormal behaviours;  made more effective feedback of abnormal behaviour possible to the IT department;  brought a better understanding of the security restrictions coming from the IT department. Social opening: Visit of Laurent Berger, Secretary General of the CFDT: On 7 February 2018, Laurent Berger, the Secretary General of the CFDT union (French Democratic Confederation of Labour), visited GRIS DÉCOUPAGE. With the Management’s approval, the company’s employees had the opportunity to attend a meeting chaired by Mr. Berger and organized by a CFDT union representative who is a company employee. The GRIS DÉCOUPAGE management then joined the group for discussions. To close the meeting, the delegation went to the workshop to look over the facilities and our company’s activity. Matters concerning Human Resources Staff training: The training policy has been amplified towards international and operational excellence. In 2018, 46 employees were trained, i.e., 33% of the staff, for a budget of €140 K.  Steering committee training in Lean Management As a follow-up to the introduction of Lean Management at GRIS DÉCOUPAGE in 2017, the Steering Committee needed to be trained in all the ins and outs of such an approach with a view to deploying it at all levels and in all departments, because while Lean appears to be related mainly to optimising workshops, it is not just that. It is obvious that improvements and ferreting out waste also have to be exercised as much in the support and administrative departments. On 16 February 2018, all service chiefs attended a day of theory and practice entitled Why Lean? For practice, the trainers started two workshops. The objective of the first was to observe exchanges, the decision-making processes, participation and consideration of everyone, creativity, managing differences, and leadership of one another. The second was an opportunity to experiment, through prototyping, a search for the best organization (optimisation at each stage of the tasks, flows and roles) to meet ever more demanding customer requirements.  General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) To follow up on the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) instituted in the European Union on 25 May 2018, the GRIS GROUP has set up a number of actions to be in compliance with these. For us of the Gris Group, the security of the personal data transmitted to us is very important. When collecting this data, we strive to meet these new regulations and preserve our employees’ privacy and that of the third parties we work with.  Process audit VDA 6.3 During this year, the Quality-Health, Safety and Environment Manager and the Product Quality Manager have been trained to upgrade the VDA 6.3 version 2016 standard. This standard, used in the German automotive industry, allows our company to audit a subcontractor or supplier by obtaining the Process Auditor 6.3 process auditor card at the end of training. This clearance is required by our customers in the German automotive sector.  Team coordinators Following the appointment of coordinators to coordinate our various workshop teams, these people were trained to acquire the skills necessary for their new functions.  Security and clearances Authorisations and training are essential or even mandatory for certain functions in the company. Once again this year, people have been trained to be first-aid workers, while others have obtained a Safe Conduct Aptitude Certificate (CACES®) or electrical habilitation.  Linguistic development (German and English) to support international development. Digitisation of the HR process and tools: Various measures have been instituted as part of our company’s strategic focus on digital transformation. These are part of a more sustainable, thriftier, more practical and more secure approach.  Securitisation of pay slips and electronic safe GRIS DÉCOUPAGE has opted for electronic pay slips to meet decree 2016-1762 of 16 December 2016 on the dematerialization of payslips and their accessibility as part of the personal activity account.  Digitization of professional interviews and annual interviews of contribution to Progress  Business intelligence and HR spreadsheets (digitisation of spreadsheets in a securitised environment) Digitisation, transformation and security of the finance function:  Securitisation of sensitive workstations by transferring skills. This is to ensure service continuity at key workstations (for example, when a staff member retires from a specific function).  Structuring and reorganization of the organizational chart to respond to the strategic developments and changes in the industrial organization. Reliability of the information process and consultation of representative staff institutions (“IRP”):  Company’s economic situation, strategic orientation and social policy;  Preparation for merger of the IRPs and creation of a future economic social committee;  Schedule for instituting the Social Economic Committee. 2. ENVIRONMENT Obtaining the ISO 14001 version 2015 certification: Certified ISO 14001 since 2007, GRIS DÉCOUPAGE has taken the requirements of ISO 14001 version 2015 into account and has instituted the corresponding action plans. GRIS DÉCOUPAGE analysed its life cycle to do this, which made it possible to ask questions about its activity and identify ways of improvement. The 2015 version of ISO 14001 certification was successfully obtained in May 2018. As part of the extension work, the environment has been taken into account. Electric vehicle charging stations have been installed for electric vehicles, along with LED lighting with automatic power modulation to adjust brightness to sunshine conditions in the new building. Finally, a duct to recover heat from the grinding machines in the neighbouring workshop was installed to heat the new building. Duct to recover heat Electric vehicle charging station 3. ANTI-CORRUPTION Establishment of a Code of Conduct and Ethics Anti-corruption Policy: By drafting and internally distributing a Responsibility Policy, GRIS DÉCOUPAGE formally declares its values commercial practices, which it wishes to spread to its suppliers and subcontractors. Each manager and employee must be exemplary in all situations and has the responsibility to behave in accordance with this Responsibility Policy. This includes: the rights and responsibilities of reporting irregularities, the UN Global Compact, the Code of Conduct and Ethics, anticorruption policy and violations of the Responsibility Policy.
