COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE PAGE CHAPTER I 01 1-08 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH PAGE CHAPTER I 02 09-32 DBL & SUSTAINABILITY PAGE CHAPTER I 03 33-40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PAGE CHAPTER I 04 41-52 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE PAGE CHAPTER I 05 53-66 ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES PAGE CHAPTER I 06 67-84 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PAGE CHAPTER I 01 85-93 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CONTENTS “We are now focusing on our own DBL Sustainability Goals: targeting all the It is my great pleasure to present to you the Communication on Progress of DBL ﬁve pillars.” Group for the year 2017. We say that Sustainability is deeply rooted within the DNA of DBL and with this report we continue to share our ongoing eﬀorts. The Sustainable Development Goals or the SDGs once again help us in mapping as we see the sales cross a million dollars out our eﬀorts eﬀectively. in 2016-17. We are greatly honored to have become a Our focus on empowering women is a part of the Business Call to Action (BCtA) continuous process. We have been through our Bandhan Fair Price Shop: an creating female Line Supervisors through initiative to provide necessary goods to our in-house Female Supervisors employees at subsidized price. The BCtA Leadership Program since 2013 and now is a global platform of the UNDP on have 36 Female Supervisors. We are also inclusive and sustainable business. recruiting more female Security Guards to Starting with a single shop in 2008, we further reduce inequalities. And of course, currently have six shops in our diﬀerent we are continuously taking care of their factory complexes. Bandhan has become hygiene issues through our Women an integral part of DBL. Every time we Health Program Initiative. In addition, our expand into a new complex, we include Family Planning Corner with Marie Stopes Bandhan for the betterment of our Bangladesh has gone into operation people. The shop continues to be popular within this year and we already have 1,034 registered clients availing the reduced employee migration, increased diﬀerent family planning services. productivity, and so. Relating to environmental eﬀorts, we have seen Partnering with UNICEF, the program to direct ﬁnancial returns from resource promote breastfeeding in the workplace savings. has also started. Other than lunch breaks, the working mothers now have two All these have inspired us to create our additional time slots within the working own sustainability targets. Inspired by the hours to attend to their new born babies. SDGs, we are now focusing on our own Furthermore, we continue to support our DBL Sustainability Goals: targeting all the employees’ children education: providing ﬁve pillars. Currently set for the year a total of $447,146 scholarship which 2020, these goals target training more facilitated for 7,096 students this year. Female Supervisors, reducing water This in turn can help prevent child labor in consumption in dyeing, planting trees to the country since ﬁnancial problems act oﬀset carbon emissions, using renewable as barriers to higher education. In energy, establishing a community techniaddition, our programs for recognizing cal and vocational training center, includmeritorious children and providing them ing more people with disabilities, and academic career path counseling is still increasing the use of recycled products in ongoing. Within the community too, we creating yarns. are providing various supports to educational institutions. We also hold In alignment with the 10 principles of UN Community Knowledge Exchange Global Compact, we are committed to Programs in our attempt to enlighten the ensure sustainable future for people and local community. environment and to stand against corruption. We also respect human rights Our approach to Corporate Social as part of our commitment to the UN Responsibility or CSR is strategic: we Guiding Principles for Business and ensure sustainability in our approach. We Human Rights. do not limit ourselves to simple philanthropy. We believe that setting up In 2016, we celebrated 25 years since our industries and creating employment inception. Our theme during our silver opportunities is the most sustainable form jubilee was “Crafting happiness”. With this, to serve the society. And with vast we aim to sustain with our endeavors and expansions in planning as well as generate satisfaction for all our workers, implementations, we are achieving so. our employees, and our stakeholders. In Sustainability makes great business sense this regard, I sincerely thank all our too. We have reduced absenteeism, stakeholders for their ongoing understanding and continued support in our company. -----------------------Abdul Wahed Chairman SUSTAINABILITY CHAPTER 1 APPROACH You can't put a limit on anything. The more you dream, the farther you get. Michael Phelps Competitive Swimmer Evolution of Sustainability The term Corporate Social Responsibility or CSR used to focus on simple philanthropy. In some organizations, this is still apparent. However, there has been a substantial change in the meaning: CSR now focuses on beyond philanthropy. From one point of view, “Sustainability sustainability encompasses more encompasses more than CSR by integrating the business impacts. As an example, than CSR by where traditional CSR or philanintegrating the thropy talks about donations to help the underprivileged, business impacts.” sustainability focuses more on a holistic approach: creating employment opportunities. Organizations have been practicing various initiatives for an extended amount of time to address the social, environmental, and economic challenges of a community or even a country. These activities may not have been referred as “CSR”, “sustainability”, or “inclusive business”, as they terms have come into eﬀect relatively recently. When the UN launched the Sustainable Development Goals or SDGs in 2015, an improved way of addressing the social, environmental, and economic issues have come into eﬀect. Organizations can now create a set of their own goals based on the SDGs or otherwise. DBL’s Sustainability Targets DBL’s Sustainability greatest impacts and relevant targets were set for each of them. Crafting a vision for the year 2020, seven diﬀerent Targets goals have set up. These goals target women empowerment, responsible consumption of resources, oﬀsetting DBL Group has a ﬁve-pillar approach to carbon emissions, renewable energy Sustainability: People, Process, Product, usage, developing skilled workforce, Community, and Environment. These are including disabled people, and recycling. brieﬂy explained later in this chapter. The ﬁrst approach of DBL with the SDGs was This year’s report has a special focus on mapping out the diﬀerent programs, these goals. DBL refers to these goals as practices, and initiatives with the diﬀerent the DBL Sustainability Goals. Since the goals. An overview of this was stated in goals have been targeted for the year the 2016 Sustainability Report. After the 2020, we refer to these DDGs as Vision mapping was done, some programs and 2020. These goals have been included practices were selected based on the below. 50% Female line supervisors 50 Liters of water for share in RMG factories dyeing one kg fabric 100k Trees to oﬀset 20% of total yarns from recycled materials 2020 carbon emissions GOAL 1% Inclusion of people 10% Renewable energy with disabilities from solar panels 1 TVET center in community SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 04 DBL Sustainability Pillars DBL Group’s Sustainability is based on ﬁve pillars: People, Process, Product, Community and Environment; thus, integrating a holistic approach towards Sustainability. For each pillar, there are several Sustainable Action Programs in place – both on large and small scales and short and long terms – through which the sustainability plans are translated into actions. 5 DBL Sustainability Pillars People As an organization, DBL Group realizes its responsibility towards its people: our employees. Our company understands how the business practices impact our employees and we work to serve in their best interests. Community We believe that together with our employees, customers, business partners and other stakeholders, we can create real and long-term changes for the betterProcess ment of the community and the environDBL Group is committed to continuously ment. And together with our thousands improve all its business processes: of employees we can extend this impact ranging from purchasing raw materials to even further – from improving the livelitransporting ﬁnal ﬁnished goods. We hood of our employees to the developgive a strong emphasis on eliminating ment of the society where we conduct non-value-added activities while our businesses. delivering quality products on time with the least eﬀect on the environment and greater eﬃciency. Environment Environment is a high priority for our company and we work to decrease carbon footprint, water consumption, and Product waste from our manufacturing processes. DBL Group continuously works towards We dedicate ourselves in conserving improving the quality of the products, energy, managing waste eﬀectively and and all the processes that go into making replenishing the environment to the best the ﬁnal ﬁnished product, and ensures to of our capacity. DBL recognizes that its minimize the negative impact on the own sustainability rests on its ability to environment and the consumers. The work harmoniously in its social and enviR&D department is actively involved in ronmental settings. So, with economic creating new and researching existing success we also want to balance social products and the processes associated and environmental prosperity. with them. SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 06 7 50% Female line supervisors share in RMG factories SDG 5 GENDER EQUALITY The sewing lines in the readymade garments (RMG) industry is signiﬁcantly dominated by women and hence it makes sense to have Female Supervisors overseeing them. DBL Group launched the Female Supervisor Leadership Program in 2013, and since then, a total of 36 Supervisors have graduated from the program. Now, targeting the year 2020, DBL aims to have 50% of the sewing lines being led by Female Supervisors. DBL & CHAPTER 2 SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability is no longer about doing less harm. It's about doing more good. Jochen Zeitz Former CEO, Puma Company Proﬁle DBL Group is a diversiﬁed conglomerate with a strong backward linkage. The Group started its business in 1991. The Vision diversiﬁed business includes Apparels, Textiles, Packaging, Ceramic Tiles, Telecommunications, Dredging, Semiconductor Design (VLSI), and Pharmaceuticals. We envision to sustain The Group started its business back in 1991. and grow as a diversiﬁed global conglomerate. In the apparels and textiles sector of Bangladesh, DBL Group is one of the largest and 100% export oriented composite knit garments and textiles manufacturing organization. We are supplying quality apparels around the world to the best of the retailers and the biggest brands of the fashion industry. The company is headquartered in Dhaka, Bangladesh and operating its production processes at the factories situated in Gazipur, Dhaka, Bangladesh. 11 • Integrity Values • Passion • Excellence • Adaptability • Care • Color City Ltd. Concerns • DB Tex Ltd. • Dulal Brothers Ltd. • Flamingo Fashions Ltd. • Hamza Textiles Ltd. • Jinnat Apparels Ltd. • Jinnat Fashions Ltd. • Jinnat Knitwears Ltd. • Matin Spinning Mills Ltd. • Mawna Fashions Ltd. • Mymun Textiles Ltd. • Parkway Packaging and Printing Ltd. • Textile Testing Services Ltd. • Thanbee Print World Ltd. Products and services DBL Group oﬀers the following products and services: • Yarns, Fabrics, Threads • Casual knitwear (T-Shirts, Polo Shirts, Tank Tops, Joggers, Hooded Jackets, Cardigans, Leggings Trousers, and Dresses) • Fashionable wear (Skirts, Gowns) Manufacturing processes DBL Group makes use of the following in the manufacturing processes: • State-of-the-art machineries • Best grade cotton in our spinning mill for all products • Knitting makes use of low proﬁle hazardous materials • Oeko-Tex 100 Standard with Product Class I • Dyeing operation makes use of low water to dye ratio: only 50 liters per kilogram of fabric • Garments manufacturing processes make use of CAD, CAS and CAM systems • Washing operations make use of machines which consume less water and have best ﬁltering and spinning systems We use a new wave of top notch techfor incorporating the production with nology to put our yarn through a series of good quality at the lowest cost possible in Quality Control checks, to ensure strict the shortest time. This desire for quality is quality standards. This is then supplealso shared by our team of highly qualimented by concentrating on process ﬁed and competent professionals, who manufacturing and process improveunder the capable and dynamic leaderments. We have set-up Industrial Engiship of the Board of Directors have made neering and Work Study departments. our remarkable growth possible. It is with Root cause analyses are done by using this shared vision that we are marching statistical quality control tools. towards our goal of attaining acknowledged leadership in providing quality The R&D department helps in developing products at competitive price. new products and process improvements 13 Company Proﬁle Process ﬂowchart Sewing Cotton Import Washing Screen Printing Spinning Finishing Cutting Knitting Packaging All Over Printing Dyeing And Transportation Finishing DBL & SUSTAINABILITY 14 Bandhan Fair Price Shop “Bandhan” is a fair price shop which People serves low income workers with all the essentials and commodities at factory programs price of manufactures. The shop is aimed at reducing workers’ monthly expenditure burden and sheltering them from the economic inﬂation. Any employee of DBL can buy items through zero-cash and on-credit transaction: the bills are simply adjusted with their salaries at the end of the month. Bandhan was recognized by the Business Call to Action (BCtA) as an inclusive business model and gained DBL a membership of the BCtA. $1.04 Million Sales Total Shops 6 15 16 Female workers promoted to Supervisors Total Female Supervisors 36 Female Supervisor Leadership Program DBL designed an in-house training program for its Female Supervisors. This comprises of 165-hour lessons covering areas of skill, counseling and general management. Over a period of 3 months training is provided to potential in-house female workers having worked in sewing or quality departments within DBL. After successful completion of the training program, they are promoted as Female Supervisors. As per the 2020 Goal, DBL aims to have 50% of its garments sewing lines led by these Supervisors. DBL’s vision regarding female workers is: “To be the most attractive employer for the female workers in the garments industry of Bangladesh” DBL & SUSTAINABILITY 16 Sanitary napkins 32% Increase in average monthly sales than 2015-16 29% Female employees using SN; Bangladesh country average: 14% Women Health Program Initiative (WHPI) Starting from March 2013, the program targeted all the female workers at in DBL Group. It has a long-term objective to ensure good health and hygiene for all female workers. The initial activity was providing women with sanitary napkins at discounted price: thus, not only limiting to Nirapod: Saving Women educating women but also providing from Unwanted Pregnancy opportunities for ensuring their safe health. and Unsafe MR NGO Phulki, in partnership with the Analysis and follow up are done to Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherencourage women to make proper use of lands, is working towards promoting these products. For instance, to maintain health awareness amongst the female the privacy of workers, the pads are now garments workers of DBL Group involvmade available in the female washrooms. ing peer educator group. Starting in Counselling sessions are also done reguAugust 2013, Phulki has expanded the larly to aware women regarding the reach of this project through partnership health beneﬁts of the products. The approach. These trainings are provided eﬀectiveness of these initiatives has been during orientation. The second phase of visible from the substantial increase in Nirapod has started in two factories of sales. DBL in 2016-17. 17 People programs CESA $447,146 Scholarship provided Employees’ children 7,096 Academic Career Path Counseling 90 Children of employees Children received recognitions Education and counseling Support Initiative A set of programs exist under the ChilDisability Inclusion dren Education Support Initiative which Program focuses on accessibility to education for all the employees of DBL. These consists To include people with disabilities within of: the workforce, DBL Group has partnered • Recognition for meritorious students up with the Center for Disability in Devel• Providing career path counselling to opment (CDD). CDD has provided trainstudents who have passed Higher ing and conducted awareness programs Secondary education for the factory HR departments. This way, • Children’s Education Support Allowthe importance of the inclusion of the ance (CESA): Sponsoring two children people with disabilities has been brought of each employee whose monthly into realization. Currently we have 41 income is below BDT 25,000 such individuals under DBL Group’s employment. The Disability Inclusion Program is growing with a vision to have a one percentage of our workforce to consist of people with diﬀerent types of disabilities. DBL & SUSTAINABILITY 18 Mothers@Work DBL signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with UNICEF to promote and improve breastfeeding practices in the workplace. The Mothers@Work program is expected to reach 4,767 female workers, 340 pregnant and lactating women, and at least 340 infants and young children over the 3-year span of program implementation. Infants from both the Day Care Centre and the community are availing the service. Some of the key achievements from the program are outlined below: • Two dedicated private lactation stations, with proper ventilation and comfortable sitting arrangement • Facility to express breast milk and store breast milk in breastfeeding corners • Two 30-minute time slots for breast feeding • 200 mothers are using breastfeeding bottles to preserve breast milk in factory and at home • 300 pregnant mothers and 250 nursing mothers counseled to support breastfeeding • Training provided to management and pregnant and lactating mothers to support breastfeeding. 19 People programs 74 babies are availing Daycare services @ DBL Group’s Community Breast Feeding Corner 28 46 Babies Babies DBL & SUSTAINABILITY 20 Process Automation of Fabric programs Manufacturing Operation Process The Management Information System (MIS) team of DBL Group developed an in-house system in the Fabric Knitting section to transfer the manual operation practices into an automated one. Earlier, on-time and on-line information was unavailable which lead to wastage and indecision in the process. The new system automates the manufacturing process operation to make eﬀective decisions, reduce wastage, and ensure convenience. Workers are now using electronic tabs and computers to input production and operational information. Process programs The management now has a digital dashboard to understand the most recent status of diﬀerent machines and can hence make instant decisions related to the operation. Some of the key features include: • On-line and on-time production and eﬃcient monitoring system Sudokkho Skill • Supply chain traceability Development Program • Barcode and labeling system for fabric tracking Sudokkho is a skill development program • On-line and oﬀ-line quality control for sewing operators which caters to the • Simpliﬁed electronic delivery system capacity building for factory-based training centre. The program inspires the • Eﬃcient inventory system industry to invest in developing and • Signiﬁcant reduction in fabric wastage operating skills training and employability • Completely paperless operational activities. Sudokkho supports the industry system to develop innovative and sustainable • “Smart” centralized production plantraining models allowing employees to acquire the skills leading to employment ning: system suggests what to do in higher valued semi-skilled or skilled jobs. The system has generated multiple beneﬁts including the following. Lean manufacturing Lean Manufacturing is a business model 48,360 and collection of tactical methods that Hours saved* in operational process emphasize eliminating non-value-added activities (waste) while delivering quality products on time at least cost with greatFabric saved (kg) in production* er eﬃciency. The project was launched 8,817 following the guidelines and support of Walmart in Jinnat Fashions Ltd. and various methods were implemented for 3% the garments cutting, sewing, and ﬁnishIncrease in efﬁciency ing operations. Replication of the practices are ongoing to other garments and non-garments units including fabric knitting, fabric dyeing and ﬁnishing, and * Figures are for 133 machines; currently, garments printing. DBL & SUSTAINABILITY 22 Resource Saving Dyeing DBL’s practices allow use of low water to dye one kg of fabric. Currently, the and Finishing dyeing operation makes use of only 55 liters of water, whereas industries have Multiple initiatives have been taken by been reported to use up to 200 liters. DBL Group to reduce the consumption DBL aims to reduce the usage of water of energy for the dyeing and ﬁnishing for dyeing to 50 liters per kg of fabric processes. The energy meters installed within 2020. ensure proper measurement of power consumption. Relevant temperature adjustments are done depending on the fabric for the dyeing, scouring-bleaching DBL Idea Club and soaping processes to optimize the energy usage. The dyes used allow DBL encourages ideas from any employconsumption of less energy as well. ee or worker, regardless of their designation. Their eﬀorts are recognized through The wicking ﬁnishing process converts a monthly recognition system: the “Emhydrophobic fabrics (such as polyester) ployee of the Month”. In 2015, a yearly to hydrophilic. Hydrophilic products recognition system was launched as well, intake water much better than hydronamed the “Employee of the Year”. The phobic ones and thus enable optimum program has been inaugurated in the consumption of water. It also reduces knitting section and has been replicated weight loss of fabric during processing: for other units too. This encourages which allows better hand-feel and employees to work at their full potential increased fabric strength. and gives them a feeling of fairness as every employee has an equal opportunity at obtaining this reward. Process programs QC Circles Newly created 36 Total QC circles 120 DBL Quality Control (QC) Circles The Quality Control (QC) Circles promote employee engagement in workplace decision making. The bottom-up approach to quality empowers employees and workers to make eﬀective decisions which inﬂuence production directly. Each of the diﬀerent operations has their own QC Circles. These teams have participated in both national and international QC Circle competitions and won the highest recognitions on multiple occasions. Product Furthermore, in collaboration with the programs Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC), traceability is being introduced for the viscose used in the processes. The FSC promotes the responsible management of the world’s forests. In addition, under the Global Recycled Standard (GRS) certiﬁcation, recycled polyester blended yarn is being produced to create a variety of sustainable products. As part of the 2020 Goal, our Spinning Sustainable Yarn Mill now targets to have 20% of total Production production made from these recycled products. Our Spinning Mill makes use of diﬀerent processes that reduces the consumption of cotton. Recycled textile materials are used instead of raw cotton. The Coarse yarns used to produce fabrics reduces the consumption of raw materials by up to 60%. Up to 30% recycled materials can be used with virgin ﬁber to produce ornamented products known as Cotton Neppy Mélange yarns. Diﬀerent colored neps (produced from recycle polyester) are visible in the yarn body and this works as ornamentation on the fabric surface. Mixing of spinning waste produces Snow yarns, which create a snow eﬀect in the ﬁnished fabrics which takes place in the new fashion trade. 25 Product programs Special Certiﬁcations Better Cotton Initiative Oeko-tex Standard 100 The program has been adopted to supFor our Spinning, Dyeing, Printing and port the global standards for Better Garments processes, we follow the Cotton and to promote our commitment Restricted Substances List (RSL) speciﬁed to make global cotton production better by Product Class 1 of the Oeko-Tex for the producers, environment and the Standard 100 certiﬁcate. sector. Over 90% of the total yarn production is from BCI. Global Organic Textile Standard (Gots) Organic Cotton The GOTS certiﬁcation is a worldwide It is an initiative to reduce the negative leading textile processing standard for impact on the environment and consumorganic ﬁbers. This includes ecological ers. Organic cotton is imported from and social criteria, backed up by indepenIndia to process organic yarn. This comdent certiﬁcation of the entire textile prises of about 8% of the total yarn supply chain. production. Community Mini Fire Brigade (MFB) programs The Mini Fire Brigade (MFB) is DBL Group’s ﬁrst public-private partnership, which is in collaboration with GIZ (through the German Cooperation) and the Bangladesh Fire Service and Civil Defence (BFSCD). Already in operation, the objective of the Mini Fire Brigade rapid response and risk reduction unit is to prevent ﬁre in the industrial buildings around Kashimpur, Gazipur area. The unit is located outside the Jinnat Complex of DBL Group which will also serve other factories in the Kashimpur-Konabari 13 industrial cluster. Successful operations 0 Casualities Community programs 120 Beneﬁciaries till date DBL Group has provided land, constructed the MFB building, and has given volunteer ﬁre ﬁghters. The BFSCD has undertaken the initiative to organize Community Knowledge training for volunteer ﬁreﬁghters and provide infrastructure support. BFSCD Exchange Program has also provided a ﬁre vehicle dedicated to the MFB. GIZ has facilitated the DBL continues to hold Community procurement of an additional ﬁre-ﬁghting Knowledge Exchange Programs in the vehicle. The facility is staﬀed 24 hours a diﬀerent communities where DBL’s day with a target to respond within the operations are taking place. These proﬁrst critical 10-15 minutes to both indusgrams focus on empowering women trial ﬁre and building collapse. through ﬁnancial literacy such as family budget, savings, mobile banking, etc.; and personal hygiene for women including the use of sanitary napkins and Sexual and Reproductive Health Rights (SRHR). Community Education Support As part of endorsing the need for achievCommunity Health ing SDG-4: Quality Education in Bangladesh, DBL Group has been involved with Programs multiple initiatives. A four-storied building has been constructed by DBL for To further focus on SDG-3, Good Health Hatimara School and College. Computers and Well-Being, DBL is continuing with with audio-visual systems were installed Community Health Development Proto equip the college auditorium with grams in the diﬀerent communities where latest classroom facilities. The building DBL’s operations are taking place. Chilcan accommodate about 1,000 students. dren, women, men, and the elderly of the DBL also donated 100 sets of benches community visit to take free treatments. to Sardagonj Government Primary School In one of the camps, a disabled child was to accommodate 300 students. A renodiscovered. DBL arranged for a consultavation of an existing building in the tion with the Centre for the Rehabilitation school has also been done to further of the Paralysed (CRP) in DBL’s own facilitate the students. premises. The child is currently under treatment. DBL & SUSTAINABILITY 28 • Exhaust gas boiler • Heat recovery from Stenter (fabric Environment ﬁnishing) machine through Eco Booster • Hot water recovery programs • LED lighting DBL Group has signed up for the second phase of PaCT which is due to be commenced from the ﬁrst quarter of the year 2018. Sustainable Action and Vision for a better EnvironPartnership for ment (SAVE) Cleaner Textile (PaCT) A project by Puma co-ﬁnanced by DEG PaCT is a holistic program supporting with support from H&M and ASSIST, textile wet processing factories to adapt SAVE aimed at reducing carbon emission, to cleaner production. It engages with energy consumption, waste and water brands, government, communities, ﬁnanconsumption by 25% by 2015 keeping cial institutions and other stakeholders in 2011 as the baseline. Multiple recombringing about systemic, positive envimendations were implemented in the ronmental change for the Bangladesh garments unit Jinnat Knitwears Ltd. based textile sector, the workers and the comon an onsite assessment performed in munities of operations. The program November of 2014. These recommendacontributed to water, gas, electricity, tions have immediate, short-term or steam, dyes/chemicals and carbon emislong-term payback periods and were sion consumption reduction. A quick implemented throughout 2015. DBL summary of the implementations of the received the recognition for having the program, which concluded in 2017, is “Best Management System” during the shown below. event closing in January 2016. • Rain water harvesting DBL replicated the SAVE program in the • Procuring machines with low liquor Screen Printing unit: Thanbee Print World ratio Ltd. The program enabled Thanbee • Using water trigger nozzles savings of 308 tons of carbon emissions • Condensed water recovery and 460 MWh of electricity annually. 29 Environment programs Bio Gas Generation In collaboration with GIZ, a bio gas generation plant has been set up in the Jinnat Complex, where the knitting and garments operations take place. Cattle excrement in used to provide as source of the gas and is currently being used as a source of fuel in cooking. With an initial investment of BDT 485,000 (US$ 6,218), a return of about BDT 600,000 (US$ 7,692) is obtained per year. 3E The Energy Eﬃciency Engagement (3E Program) is implemented by the Nordic Zero Discharge of HazardChamber of Commerce and Industry in ous Chemicals (ZDHC) Bangladesh (NCCI) and funded by the Danish International Development CoopIn 2011, a group of major apparel brands eration (DANIDA). The overall goal of this and retailers made a collective commitprogram is to reduce carbon emissions ment to help lead the industry towards and decrease costs related to industrial zero discharge of hazardous chemicals by energy consumption. This is achieved by 2020. Brands involved in this project are oﬀering companies the opportunity to H&M, Esprit, G-Star and Puma. A “Joint have energy assessment of their producRoadmap” was published in November tion facilities. Three of DBL Group’s 2011 which demonstrates the group’s facilities have gone through the assesscollaborative eﬀorts in leading the apparment and reports have been provided to el and footwear industry towards ZDHC for the respective implementation procefor all products across all pathways by dures. DBL will be starting these imple2020. mentations in 2017-18. Major buyers Knowledge partners 31 00 50 Liters of water for dyeing one kg fabric SDG 6 CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION The dyeing industry uses signiﬁcant amount of water for the processes: consuming as high as 200 liters for dyeing in kg of fabric. With programs such as the Partnership for Cleaner Textile (PaCT) by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), several methods have been implemented to reduce consumption of water and other resources. DBL is now making initiatives on its own to further reduce the consumption of water from 55 liters per kg to 50 liters by 2020. CORPORATE CHAPTER 3 GOVERNANCE “The real mechanism for corporate governance is the active involvement of the owners” Louis V. Gerstner Jr. Former CEO of IBM “Good business is where business is done with compassion towards humanity. Too often we underestimate the power of a touch, a smile, a kind word, a listening ear, an honest compliment or the smallest act of caring, all of which have the potential to turn a life around. Take care of people and your people will take care of your organization.” Abdul Wahed, Chairman Board of Directors The highest governing body in DBL DBL Group’s senior management are Group is the Board of Directors. Our chosen by the Board of Directors current Board consists of ﬁve Directors because of their vast experiences, and one Advisor. The Vice Chairman and immense knowledge, fascinating compeGroup CEO is also a director of BGMEA. tence, cross industry exposure, local and overseas footage, and well accepted The company has deﬁned guidelines and market reputation. This cohesive team established framework for the board wants to make a diﬀerence, develop and meetings and other proceedings. These inspire others, drive innovative ideas and guidelines help decision-making processes deliver results, and live with DBL Group’s of the board members in a systematic, values. informed and eﬃcient manner. The Board evaluates: The distinguished Board is cultivating a sustainable work culture through them. DBL credits its strength, the sustainability • Strategic decisions of the company of a consistent approach to managing the • Management policies and their eﬀecbusiness, the constant growth of its people, to this senior management team. tiveness • Strategic review from each of the board members • Financial, production and other business performance through relevant reports. 35 “An empowered organization is one in which individuals have the knowledge, skill, desire and opportunity to personally succeed in a way that leads to collective success. The knowledge we acquire is the fuel for driving ourselves to a better future, brimming with immense possibilities achieving our goals along the way.” M.A. Jabbar, Managing Director Our Commitment to Strong Corporate Governance DBL Group adheres to the deﬁnition of in Bangladesh and an important determiCorporate Governance of the Internanant of the role of the company in a tional Finance Corporation (IFC): a set of modern economy and society. structures and processes for the direction Through implementing the recommendaand control of companies, which involves tions by IFC, DBL Group aims at bringing a set of relationships between the comits corporate governance framework up pany’s shareholders, board and executive to best international practices and stanbodies with the purpose of creating long dards to the extent possible. This is term shareholder value. critical to DBL Group given the company’s expected growth. The desire to DBL views corporate governance as the attract new investors will heavily rely on means to: the existence of a concrete corporate governance system. DBL Group intends to establish a sound • Improve operational eﬃciency corporate governance system which will • Attract ﬁnancing at a lower cost facilitate the organization to attain: • Build a better reputation. • Better access to external capital • Lower ﬁnancing costs The company also considers a sound system of corporate governance as an • Higher credit ratings important contribution to the rule of law • Strong investor conﬁdence CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 36 Family Business General Governance Governance Structure Family Business Governance is an importThe company has the following governing ant issue for DBL Group since it is a family owned business comprising of and other bodies: family members vested with signiﬁcant • General Assembly: Allows the sharedecision-making authority. The company holders to participate in the goveris investing its time and eﬀort on implenance of the company menting Corporate Governance and • The Board: Responsible for the strateFamily Business Governance for the gic direction of the company, and the greater good of the company and a guidance and oversight of managesustainable business ment • CEO: Assigned the task of the day-to-day management of the comCompliance pany, and carrying out strategy as approved by the board. DBL Group’s Corporate Governance • Company Secretary: Ensures that the framework is based on Bangladesh legisgoverning bodies follow internal rules lation as well as internationally recognized and external regulations in order to best practices and principles, such as the facilitate clear communications OECD Principles of Corporate Goverbetween the governing bodies, and nance. The company’s corporate goveracts as an adviser to directors and nance framework is based on the followsenior executives ing principles: • Internal Auditor: Develops and monitors internal control procedures for • Accountability the business operations of the compa• Fairness ny. • Transparency • Structure and Committees: DBL Group has established the following • Responsibility Board Committees: » The Audit Committee “Business is not merely about making money. It’s about achieving our deep goals and protecting the fruits of our labor. It’s about stewardship, and therefore, about achieving social good. Through management excellence and discipline, ﬁnancial stability for the business can be achieved. “ -M.A. Rahim, Vice Chairman Board of Directors » The Remuneration Committee DBL Group go public, there will be a » The Nominations and Corporate much higher level of expectations – Governance Committee market and regulatory. DBL will » Other committees deemed necesimprove its disclosures in two primary sary by the Board areas: Annual Report information and website disclosures. Matin Spinning Mills, a concern of DBL Group is now Internal Audit and Control enlisted under Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission and is • The Board’s Audit Committee: The available for public trading. A stock audit committee focuses on three key enlisted company needs to comply areas: ﬁnancial reporting, risk managewith regulatory requirements for ment, and internal external audit disclosure and the company is ensur(legal compliance and risk manageing essential disclosures of the conment). cern thorough Annual Report and • Risk Management: The company website. places great importance on a risk management and it is the board of directors that is tasked with ensuring that appropriate risk management systems are established. • Internal Auditor: The internal auditor (or oﬃce of the internal auditor) is responsible for the daily internal control of the company’s ﬁnances and operations. • External Auditor: An external auditor audits the company’s ﬁnancial statements. • Disclosure: DBL’s current disclosures through its website are adequate for a non-listed private company in Bangladesh. However, once companies of “Operational excellence is what takes a business from average to extraordinary. The key to achieving excellence lies in tending to the details. The little waves we make in our day-today work, go a long way. The biggest step towards perfection would be achieving operational excellence through an integrated approach, engaging all employees within the organization. ” M.A. Quader, Deputy Managing Director and Group CEO 100,000 Trees to be planted to offset carbonemissions SDG 15 LIFE ON LAND Creating industries has a direct relation with creating employment. At the same time, carbon emissions are associated with the industries. A method of oﬀsetting these emissions is by planting trees. Trees, of course, have other beneﬁts including restoring biodiversity. Recognizing all these, DBL has already started planting trees as part of the Tree Plantation Program. DBL aims to plant 100,000 trees in diﬀerent regions of its operations and beyond within 2020. ECONOMIC CHAPTER 4 PERFORMANCE “A business absolutely devoted to service will have only one worry about proﬁts. They will be embarrassingly large.” Henry Ford Founder,Ford Motor Company Bangladesh Knitwear Exports Bangladesh continues to be the number two supplier of readymade garments (RMG) in the world, second only to China. Bangladesh’s income from RMG is still extremely signiﬁcant, contributing over 81% in 2016-17 [1]. The knitwear exports in 2016-17 contributed to 49% of total RMG exports and 40% of total country exports1. DBL currently produces knitwear and contributed to 1.42% of the total knitwear exports from Bangladesh. Vast expansions plans are already underway to capture a further share of the market to make a signiﬁcant contribution to the GDP of Bangladesh. 1. Source: http://bgmea.com.bd/home /pages/TradeInformation, Accessed: 2 October 2017 43 Bangladesh knitwear exports Impact on employment DBL believes that setting up industries and creating employment opportunities is the best form of serving the society as employment has direct contribution to the development of a country. Employment can directly contribute to Goal 1 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which discusses ending poverty. In addition, SDGs 4 (Quality Education), 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth), The increasing employment is also conand 9 (Industry, Innovation and Infratributing to SDG-5: Gender Equality and structure) also make references to imporSDG-10: Reducing Inequalities, since tance of employment. women’s participation in the workforce has increased. DBL’s in-house Female In that regard, DBL’s constant expansions Supervisor Leadership Program is develcontribute signiﬁcantly to reducing poveroping female Line Supervisors every year: ty. The following graph shows the growth with an aim for 2020 to have 50% of the of DBL’s employees within the last ﬁve garments sewing lines run by females. years. Within the next ﬁve years, DBL’s Women in DBL Group are currently expansions aim to double the number of engaged in various roles, as shown in the the current workforce of 28,000. following diagram. Employee growth 2012-13 to 2016-17Employees 28,000 24,500 20,450 16,200 15,700 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 Economic Performance 44 Women engagement in DBL • Operator • Participation Committee Member • Security Guard • Supervisor • Care-giver • Welfare Oﬃcer • Doctor • Management Contributing further to inclusion, DBL is also employing disabled employees. Currently, DBL has 41 disabled people within the workforce. DBL has already received an assessment from the Centre of Disability in Development (CDD), Bangladesh to make the workplace more accessible. DBL targets to have 1% disabled people within the workforce by 2020. Operator Participation Management Committee Member Women Doctor engagement Security Guard in DBL Welfare Supervisor Oﬃcer Care-giver 45 Compliance Economic sustainability through social and environmental initiatives The deﬁnition of sustainability encompasses social, environmental and economic performance. In cases, initiatives may be taken directly to address economic 74,645,805 sustainability such as procuring machines with greater life span or reducing the use of raw materials by using recycled prodkWh equivalent energy ucts. The indirect beneﬁts can occur from US$ reducing turnover and absenteeism; for the former, recruitment and training costs 2,985,805 are reduced and for the latter, there is a direct impact on production. One example of economic impact is the Partnership for Cleaner Textile (PaCT) program by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) of the World Bank. Initiated in 2010 under the Cleaner Production program and in 2013 as PaCT, the program targeted water and other resource saving initiatives. By the end of 2016, the program provided signiﬁcant savings in water, energy, and dyes and chemicals. In 2016 alone, 1.22 billion liters of water were saved, which 1,107,859 caters to the need of 13,927 families. The kg dyes & chemicals savings were reﬂected in the other US$ resources too: an overview of which is shown below. 1,661,789 $194,946,829.06 PIECES EXPORTED IN 2016-17 DBL Group has exported garments to the following countries. EUROPE AFRICA ASIA & OCEANIA NORTH AMERICA NORTH AMERICA AUSTRIA MOROCCO AUSTRALIA CANADA ARGENTINA BELGIUM SOUTH AFRICA CHINA EL SALVADOR BOLIVIA CROATIA HONG KONG MEXICO BRAZIL DENMARK INDIA USA CHILE FRANCE INDONESIA ECUADOR GERMANY JAPAN PANAMA GREECE MALAYSIA PARAGUAY ITALY NEW ZEALAND PERU NETHERLANDS PHILLIPPINES URUGUAY NORWAY SINGAPORE VENEZUELA POLAND SOUTH KOREA RUSSIA TAIWAN SERBIA THAILAND SPAIN UAE SWEDEN TURKEY UK 47 Economic Summary All amounts in million US$ (USD 1 = 78.25 BDT) 2016-17 Exports (domestic & international) 204.51 Revenue (gross) 363.96 Other income 4.42 Direct economic value generated 368.38 Operating costs 229.61 Employee wages and beneﬁts 56.02 Payments to providers of capital 12.84 Payments to government 8.10 Community investments 0.68 Economic value distributed 307.25 Economic value retained (direct economic value generated less economic value distributed) 61.13 Economic Performance 48 Economic impacts Wage and Apart from the machinery used in the diﬀerent operations, DBL procures all Economic other products and services from Dhaka. When DBL began its operations in Impacts Kashimpur and Mawna (Gazipur), the entire area/locale was undeveloped. The progression was escalated by industries and the locality has gone through a signiﬁcant transformation. Popular local branded shops and local and global branded products are now available in the community. Entry level wage About 70% of a worker’s earnings are spent on rent, children education and DBL Group always abides by the minihousehold items for their daily needs. mum wage as set by the government. The Based on this, the following graph shows levels of wages are a common standard the improvement throughout the years for the industry regardless of gender or and the contribution of DBL to the area of operation: this is constant improvement of the local economy. throughout Bangladesh. Each worker is recruited in one of seven grades (apart The Bandhan Fair Price Shop of DBL from trainees). For all grades, DBL pays at Group plays an important role towards a higher rate than the minimum: the positive contribution through its experience is also considered in relevant product lines. Reputed brands such as cases – the lowest grade usually comprisGlaxoSmithKline, Unilever, etc. are availes of people with little or no prior experiable for the workers at prices which are ence. The surplus amount depends on more aﬀordable to them: hence they now the amount of prior experience the have access to better quality as well as recruit has. healthier products. Items include food, 49 Bangladesh knitwear exports cooking oil, toiletries, house-keeping DBL Group has also contributed to the goods, tea & beverages, along with economy through the following ways: others, including sanitary napkins. • Medical facilities for workers and An inclusive business model, Bandhan consultation services for family memwas established as a strategic approach. bers Back in 2007-08 when the global ﬁnan• Providing access to medicine at manucial crisis aﬀected everyone, DBL decided facturer’s price for workers and their to increase the salaries of our workers by families 15%. This had a negative eﬀect as the • Contribution to educational instituother industries in the cluster started to tions in the community demand the same in their factories. In • Conducting surveys to understand the response, Bandhan was established which needs of the community not only reduced the expenditure burden • Financial assistance to various hospiof the workers, but also prevent any tals unrest. Bandhan acts as an inclusive business model since it includes the low-income workers as consumers. DBL’S contribution to the local economony (in USD Million) 35 32 30 30 26 25 21 20 20 14 15 9.3 10 8.4 5 6 0 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 Economic Performance 50 Awards and accolades 5th HSBC – The Daily Star Climate Awards under the category of “Category 2: Climate Champion in Green Operations” 3 Gold Awards in the International Convention on Quality Control Circles (ICQCC) 2017, organized by The Quality and Productivity Association of the Philippines in Manila, Philippines 51 10% power generation from solar energy SDG 7 AFFORDABLE AND CLEAN ENERGY The use of renewable energy, such as solar power, reduces the impact on the environment. This is because this type of power generation causes no carbon emission and even saves fossil fuels; thereby often referred to as “clean” energy. With the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and other stakeholders, DBL has already studied, and is continuing to study, the feasibility of using solar panels. Targeting 2020, DBL aims to use up to 10% solar power for the production processes. ENVIRONMENTAL CHAPTER 5 PRACTICES “The Earth does not belong to us: we belong to the Earth.” Marlee Matlin (EHS) policy have been formulated which addresses management of: • Waste • Energy • Wastewater • Noise pollution Environment • Water use • Greenhouse gas (GHG) Management • Ozone depleting substances (ODS), etc. Approach These guiding activities help us address environmental challenges such as biodiversity conservation. These are given DBL management is committed to priority to ensure environmental responsimanage and protect environment as an bilities and continual improvement to integral part of its business. The company reduce environmental impacts. As minimiprefers to run its businesses in a responzation of pollution is addressed, the sible, environmentally sound and sustainorganization can ensure sustainability of able manner by implementing eﬀective the environment as an integral part of the environmental policy and procedures in business. all the factories. Several sustainability projects relating to environmental management system have been and are being implemented. To reduce environmental footprint, DBL Group has formed an Environmental Management System (EMS) team of ﬁve members. Standard environmental policy and Environmental Health and Safety 55 Environment management Awareness Training on Monitoring and Follow-up Environment of Environmental Practices Environment awareness trainings are The EMS team carries out internal audits conducted every month for all employees based on legal requirement and buyers’ relating to more general issues as well as standards to review the environmental on the production processes. All new aspects. External (third party) audits are employees, irrespective of their levels, are also involved to assess important aspects briefed about EHS and environmental such as stack and ambient air emission related aspects of the organization during test, noise test, Environmental Impact their induction process. Employees are Assessment (EIA), etc. The diﬀerent also made to undergo speciﬁc training issues are addressed without delay: with respect to the nature of their work. monthly meetings are also conducted to Need identiﬁcation for this is done by the tend to the remaining issues. The EMS respective heads of departments for and EHS committees in each unit are also sending staﬀ across for internal as well as involved to implement the external trainings. environmental practices. Environmental Certiﬁcations Certiﬁcation Processes Environmental Clearance Certiﬁcate Spinning, fabric dyeing, all-over printing, (ECC) screen printing and packaging Spinning, fabric dyeing, all-over printing, Oeko-Tex Standard 100 garments and screen printing Global Organic Textile Standard Spinning, fabric dyeing, all-over printing, (GOTS) garments and screen printing Organic Content Standard (OCS-IN) Garments ISO 14001 Fabric dyeing and all-over printing ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES 56 Environmental initiatives in diﬀerent business operations Cotton Materials used import by weight or volume Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) Organic Cotton Depending on the diﬀerent production processes, diﬀerent raw materials are used. Spinning All input materials are weighed and tracked to control unwanted wastage. Energy eﬃcient machinery Innovation in yarn Systems such as Lean Manufacturing, production Kaizen and 5S are included to make proper use of materials thereby reducing waste. Electronic tabs are used for data Fabric input with in-house developed software dyeing and hence moving a step closer to paperless systems. Low liquor ratio machines Energy saving dyeing Partnership for Cleaner Textiles (PaCT) External assessments by government and Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC private organizations are made on noise and air pollutions and the quality of Garment wastewater before discharging. DBL production performs its own assessments as well. All recommendations are implemented to reduce impact on the environment. Energy, water, and waste management Environment management The primary raw materials for the diﬀerent production processes Process Input material(s) Output from process Output from process Cotton spinning Raw cotton Yarns Fabric knitting Yarns Fabrics Fabric dyeing and ﬁnishing Fabrics, dyes and chemicals Dyed fabrics All-over printing Fabrics, dyes and chemicals Printed fabrics Garments manufacturing Fabrics, accessories Finished garments Garments printing Finished garments, dyes Printed garments and chemicals Garments washing Finished garments Washed garments Corrugated carton Cardboard Cartons Materials used by weight or volume Materials Unit 2016-17 Change Cotton Kg 7,724,563 -6.6% Yarn Kg 18,363,368 -12.3% Fabric Kg 46,520,110 -4.4% Dyes Kg 691,030 -14.2% Chemicals Kg 5,940,873 3.0% Salt Kg 5,531,103 -7.5% Cut panel pieces 23,690,069 -10.0% Paper Kg 6,081,809 -17.9% ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES 58 Water management DBL Group continuously tracks the water consumption by using water ﬂow meter in the factories and takes initiatives to reduce the consumption. Water withdrawal for diﬀerent facilities Type of water Unit 2015-16 2016-17 Change Groundwater m3 2,181,323 2,164,292 -0.8% Reducing resource consumption Reducing re• Replace single ﬂush cisterns with dual ﬂush source • Boiler hot water reuse consumption Energy management Energy is an essential point of the industrial sector to achieve sustainability as it is directly related to ﬁnancial matters and global climate change. Energy consumpEﬃcient machineries tion within the organization is monitored and tracked to reduce wastage of the We have installed state-of-the-art dyeing energy. The following steps are currently machines that consume 50% less water in implemented to reduce energy consumpcomparison to the average dyeing tion: machines. This in turn has a direct eﬀect • Preparation of energy management on the receding water table and energy policy consumption. • Collecting consumption of water, steam, diesel, gas and electricity along Reduced water with monthly production • Benchmarking and regulating energy consumption consumption in consultation with the production team by doing process Water consumption in the fabric dyeing re-engineering and innovations process has been reduced from 120 liters • Reducing carbon emission per kg of fabric to 55 liters per kg. Less • Reducing diesel consumption in genwater directly impacts the consumption erators of dyes, chemicals, steam and electricity • Taking initiative to reduce energy and reduction in waste water discharge. consumption by choosing alternative As such the environment impact is sources of non-renewable resources reduced and production cost is also • Training employees on energy and lower. environmental aspects within the industry Other water saving DBL currently makes use of non-renewpractices able energy sources for its operations. In 2016-17, 39,075,517 cubic meters of • Rain water harvesting compressed natural gas and 15,266,824 • Repair leaking taps and educate staﬀ liters of diesel has been used. For transto turn oﬀ after use portation, 1,359,593 compressed natural • Replace water taps without aerators gas, 410,315 liters of diesel, and 213,138 by taps with aerators liters of octane were used. ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES 60 Some of the features of our energy eﬃcient and environment friendly machines are as follows: Natural water cooling pads • The dyeing machines have individual We are using natural water cooling pads heat recovery unit resulting in lower in our production ﬂoors. One side of the power consumption and energy saving production ﬂoor has cooling pads through by 15% which water ﬂows continuously while the • Water consumption saving of 20% other side has blower fans which “pull” compared to normal dyeing machines and circulate the generated cool air on • Reduction in consumption of dyes, the ﬂoor. The room temperature for the chemical and steam due to less water workers is comparatively lower than the consumption cooling done by ceiling fans. The need for • Heat recovery from Captive Power installing hundreds of ceiling fans has Plant is providing energy saving of been abandoned and energy consumpabout 15% tion has greatly reduced. Workplace comfort has also increased signiﬁcantly. Servo motors Energy eﬃcient We are using sewing machines with machineries energy eﬃcient servo motors instead of the traditional clutch motors in the High end energy eﬃcient capital machinsewing lines. Servo motors consume eries from Europe, USA and Japan are electricity only when the machine needle used in our production processes. These is active whereas the clutch motor conworld class machineries have greatly sumes electricity even in standby mode. reduced the energy consumption for The clutch motors are replaced as soon diﬀerent production processes by 15%. as the machines are out of order. 61 Reducing resource consumption Other energy saving ing of energy consumption and GHG emission, DBL’s practices include the practices following: • Hot water recovery (lowering the • Maintaining an energy use inventory consumption of diesel) (e.g. energy consumption data such as • Reducing light intensity in certain gas bills, electricity bills, and fuel use in areas vehicles) • Switching oﬀ unnecessary lights • Checking electricity lines, gas lines, oil during day time tankers and generator connections • Replacing T8 and T5 lights with the • Maintaining GHG emission inventory more eﬃcient LEDs (light emitting including direct and indirect energy diodes) consumption. • Recovering steam condensates • Purchasing Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) in-built air compressors • Regular maintenance Eﬄuents DBL Group currently has two biological Eﬄuent Treatment Plants (ETPs) in the Emissions fabric dyeing facility. These ETPs are for treating the wastewater generated from Emissions include greenhouse gases the fabric dyeing and all-over printing (GHGs) which are emitted from the operations. The ﬁrst ETP, with the capacidiﬀerent machines used in the operations ty of 4,000 cubic meters, was taken as a and from vehicles. This consists primarily benchmark by the Department of Enviof carbon dioxide and is calculated using ronment (DoE) of the government of IFC and GHG Protocol guidelines. From Bangladesh. To meet the extended capacthe diﬀerent operational facilities, ity of the dyeing process, a second of 120,704 tons of carbon dioxide emissions 7,500 cubic meters ETP was constructed were recorded in 2016-17. From the and went into operation in November transportation services, the emissions are 2014. The cumulative total of 11,500 from compressed natural gas, octane, and cubic meters is among the largest ETP in diesel used by the vehicles. In 2016-17, the country that is under a single factory 2,574 tons of carbon dioxide emissions complex. DBL also constructed another were recorded from the transportation biological ETP in the screen printing services. facility, which went into operation on February 2016. In 2016-17, a total of GHGs are related with energy production 2,311,209 cubic meters of eﬄuents were and reducing energy consumption helps generated. with reduction of GHGs, thus contributing to minimization of climate eﬀects. To ensure eﬀective monitoring and minimizENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES 62 Waste Management All wastages in DBL are tracked and monitored regularly. Non-hazardous and hazardous are given to government authorized waste collectors for proper disposal. Diﬀerent types of wastes are disposed in diﬀerent ways. Before disposing any waste, they are categorized according to their characteristics. In general, they may be categorized as hazardous and non-hazardous. Category wise list of wastes in diﬀerent sections Section/ Types of Waste Area Non-hazardous Hazardous Cotton fabric, paper, Synthetic fabric, poly bag, cutter knife, Cutting scissors, blade, pp van carton, tubes of fabric roll Synthetic fabric, synthetic thread, Cotton fabric, cotton Sewing thread, cotton label, paper synthetic label, poly, cutter, scissors, needle, plastic cone, button, zipper, rivet Needle, poly, used gum tape, tag Finishing Cotton thread, cartons pin, empty bottle of spot lifter Syringe, synthetic packaging Medical Gauge, unused cotton materials of medicine, empty Centre medicine bottle Canteen Gauge, unused cotton Plastic packets, water bottle etc. Lab Cotton, paper boxes, etc. Detergent (liquid and solid) Tube lights, electric bulbs, oil, Common Wood, paper, etc electric wires, rubber mats, metal, empty chemical drums 63 Reducing resource consumption Total weight of waste by type Type of waste Unit 2016-17 Hazardous Kg 256,675 Non-hazardous Kg 8,410,413 There are 3 separate dustbins clearly labeled set in the medical center for depositing all types of bottle/strips, cotton/bandages and syringes/needles respectively. All concerned staﬀs are instructed to deposit waste in those speciﬁc dustbins. Transportation impact management The impacts due to transportation are managed in several ways including the following: • Daily, weekly and monthly maintenance • Engine servicing after running every Biodiversity management 3,000 km or 3 months: including washing, engine ﬂashing, changing Mobil and air ﬁlters, etc. Environmental impact assessment is done • Spark plug checking and replacing for every facility and preventive actions are • Engine valve (inlet and exhaust) cleartaken against the possible impact. This ance checking and adjusting assessment takes the following into consid• Greasing moveable parts to avoid eration: friction • Noise pollution management • Fuel ﬁlter cleaning and replacing • Air emissions management • Battery water level checking and • Greenhouse gas emissions monitoring recharging and energy management • Gear box and axle gear oil level check• Safe disposal of waste materials from ing and replacing production process • Avoid air draft using windshield/air • Biodiversity conservation reﬂector. • Motivating drivers to minimize fuel consumption, avoiding over speed, Products and services etc. To mitigate the impacts on the environment, multiple Sustainability programs have been taken by DBL Group. Brief explanaEnvironmental grievance tions of these programs have been includmechanisms ed under Chapter 2 of this report. DBL is constantly involved in resource saving and Till now, we have had no grievances about reducing emissions to preserve the envienvironmental impacts since all our facilironment. ties maintain environmental compliance. 1 tVET center in community SDG 4 QUALITY EDUCATION The need for technical and vocational education has been recognized not just in Bangladesh but other countries of the world. Through the Sustainable Development Goals, this have been included in the global agenda. A skilled workforce can contribute to increased quality production, which in turn impacts resource consumption: the reworking rate goes down. DBL aims to create a Technical and Vocational Education Training (TVET) center within the local community: the graduates of which can join any industry with the necessary skills required. SOCIAL CHAPTER 6 DEVELOPMENT Human Development is the base for Sustainable Development. Mekelle University, Ethiopia Compliance audit procedure The EMS team also facilitates the diﬀerent environmental sustainability projects to assess and reduce environmental risks. Compliance The Head of the Compliance department reports all the activities of the team to the Board of Directors. Continuous DBL Group has a dedicated Compliance interaction with other departments is department to ensure regulatory, social, maintained for making corrective actions environmental, and requirements of based on the audits and preparation for international partners. The department future audits. The most recent informaregularly conducts internal audits tion on laws and regulations are collected throughout the group. The department is periodically from the diﬀerent governdivided into two wings: social and enviment authorities and buyers and the ronmental. The social team oversees same is updated and implemented. Any issues such as timely and proper payment notiﬁcation issued by the government of wages and salaries, employee welfare, authority or our buyers is immediately ﬁre safety, electrical and building safety, communicated by the Compliance departand occupational health and safety (OHS). ment to all concerned departments to The Environmental Management System update and implement. (EMS) team looks after environmental aﬀairs such as waste management, Suppliers of DBL are also assessed for resource eﬃciency, carbon emissions, etc. labor practices, human rights, as well as Precautionary approaches are taken by societal impacts. The DBL Compliance educating workers on national laws, team conducts supplier assessment buyers’ codes of conduct, health and through speciﬁc standards questionnaire safety issues, human rights, etc. The on social and environmental areas based policies and compliance levels of DBL on the DBL Code of Conduct. Before Group are veriﬁed by our buyers and making a business relationship with a their recognized third-party inspection supplier, it is compulsory that the supplier companies. abides by our Code. Opening Floor Worker Documentation Closing Meeting Visit Interview Review Meeting 69 Compliance International standards integrated within DBL Group’s policies Organization Speciﬁc standards International Labour Convention 1 (Working Hours) Organization (ILO) Conventions 29 and 105 (Forced and Bonded Labour) Convention 79 (Young Persons' Night Work) Convention 87 (Freedom of Association) Convention 98 (Right to Collective Bargaining) Conventions 100 and 111 (Equal Remuneration for Male and Female Workers for Work of Equal Value; Discrimination) Convention 135 (Workers' Representatives) Conventions 138 and 142 (Minimum Working Age) Convention 155 and Recommendation 164 (Occupational Safety and Health) Convention 159 (Vocational Rehabilitation and Employment / Disabled Persons) Convention 177 (Home Work) Convention 181 (Private Employment Agencies) Convention 182 (Worst Forms of Child Labour) Better Work Bangladesh (along with IFC) United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UN) Convention on the Rights of Child Convention to Eliminate all Forms of Discrimination against Women Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production (WRAP) Social Accountability 8000 (SA8000) Guidance Document for Social Accountability 8000 International Quality Guidelines for Auditing Companies in the Others Framework for SA8000 Accreditation //ADD LOGOS Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001 International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 Social Accountability International (SAI) Guideline (150.1 – 150.8) Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001 IFC Performance Standards SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 70 Employee Distribution 28,000 workforce* 10,264 17,736 Basic salary & Remuneration 37% Women 63% Men 1:1 Total male employees: 3,662 (98%) Total female employees: 70 (2%) Total supervised male workers: 14,074 (57%) *All workforce are full-time Total supervised female workers: 10,194 (43%) Distribution by age Distribution by religion 0.72% 0.20% 0.06% 3.62% 31.78% 67.50% 96.12% Below 30 30 to 50 Above 50 Islam Hindu Christian Buddhist New hires Age group Gender 0.3% 24.0% 43% 75.7% 57% Below 30 30 to 50 Above 50 Male Female Note: Percentages may not add up to 100 due to rounding 71 Compliance Training Diﬀerent trainings are provided to DBL’s • Disciplinary Procedure as per Banglaemployees every month which consist of desh Labour Law both generalized and speciﬁc trainings. • Environment, Energy, and Water The generalized training topics include, Saving Awareness but not limited to, the following: • Waste-handling Procedure • Participation Committee (PC), OHS, and • Orientation for newly recruited workers Environment Committee's Functions and employees on company rules and • Child Labor, Forced Labor, Discriminaregulations tion, Harassment, and Abusive Behavior • Company Code of Conduct • Anti-harassment, Anti-abuse, and • Buyer Code of conduct Grievance Procedure • Working hours, Overtime, and Calcula• Awareness on AIDS and Transmittable tion of Wages and Overtime Payments and non-Transmittable diseases • Compensation and Beneﬁts (including leave facilities) The speciﬁc trainings target mid-level • Threat Awareness management, workers, chemical handlers • Worker Rights and Responsibilities and spot removers, loaders, quality • Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) inspectors, ﬁrst aiders, ﬁre ﬁghters, evac• Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) and uators and rescuers, cleaners, etc. Chemical Handling Procedure • Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) In 2016-17, the total training hours spent • Lifting and Carrying Procedures amounted to 287,178 with female and • Electric Safety and Operation of Boilers male employees receiving 142,801 hours • First Aid and 144,377 and hours respectively. The • Fire Safety average training hours per female • Machine Operating Process and Safety employee was 13.91 and male employees • Awareness on Health and Nutrition for was 8.14; the overall average per employPregnant Women ee was 10.26. Maternity facilities and beneﬁts All the female employees of DBL Group • Breastfeeding kit for lactating mothers are entitled to take parental leave. The provided by UNICEF pregnant women can also avail the • Facility for using lifts for pregnant following services: women • Consideration to work on the ground • Educate women about the maternity ﬂoor and the ﬁrst ﬂoor of any building beneﬁt • Free antenatal and postnatal treatment. • Awareness training on maternity protection and breastfeeding • 112 days paid maternity leave • Apart from lunch breaks, two extra times, with a total of 60 minutes, breastfeeding breaks within working 308 women took parental leave in hours 2016-17 with 219 returning from • Provision of riskless work for pregnant leave. 137 of them continued • Gift hamper for new babies their roles for at least one year since their return, with a retention rate of 62.6%. 71 Compliance Grievance procedure At DBL, we train our welfare oﬃcers to exercise grievance procedures very professionally and encourage employees to express their concerns without hesitation through the complaint management system. Workers feel comfortable sharing any concern that they might have with the Welfare Oﬃcers. We process grievances both formally and informally. These include: The Suggestion/Grievance Box: Workers can put in their issues in written form and drop them in the boxes. Multiple boxes are placed on each ﬂoor: these are checked every week by designated people and the grievances are recorded in a register. The Bandhan Newsletter: Like the Suggestion/Grievance Boxes, workers can place their complaints in the newsletter which is published monthly. A section of this newsletter is detachable and a worker can drop this oﬀ conﬁdentially in any box. Verbal complaint: Workers can inform verbally to Oﬃcers from the Welfare, Compliance, Human Resource (HR), and/or Admin departments or to their Supervisor or Line Chief. During the Workers Participation Committee (WPC) meetings: A concerned worker can express themselves through a WPC member who will put forward the complaint during the meetings. Grievances of all employees regarding any topic are considered by the management. This includes violations of rights of indigenous people. In 2016-17, there were no incidents reported where the rights of such people were violated either through formal grievance mechanisms or through informal ones. DBL Group’s grievance procedure addresses labor practice issues as well as human rights and societal topics. In overall, 2016-17 recorded 230 grievances of which all were addressed and 229 resolved. 1 grievance of 2015-16 was resolved this year. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 74 Occupational Health and the workplace due to the existing Safety (OHS) DBL Group aims on creating a healthy, environment-friendly and safe workplace surroundings. The presence of dust, heat, and educating the workforce regarding chemicals, work stress, posture of workhealth and safety issues. A good work ing, etc. make rise to illness such as cough environment not only has direct impact or cold, headaches, back pains, allergies, on the employees’ health but also plays a neck pain, as well as sinusitis. Most of vital role on the productivity level. Our these diseases can be cured or even Health and Safety Management policy prevented through the proper use of and procedure encompass all national and personal protective equipment (PPE). international standards. Dedicated teams are present to oversee the availability and A dedicated medical center is present in status of the ﬁrst aid supplies, medical each factory complex which manages and facilities, hygiene facilities, temperature treats all kinds of occupational diseases. levels, quality of water and food, and so In addition, the center also deals with on. non-occupational but common diseases such as fever, measles, tooth pain, and so All instances of accidents, injuries, and on. occupational diseases are kept in record in DBL. Each record of an occurrence is Furthermore, to aware employees and categorized into multiple types to analyze workers regarding various health issues, the speciﬁc type of injury and disease. awareness programs, meetings, trainings, and workshops are conducted on a Occupational diseases are prevalent in 75 Compliance regular basis. The topics of these sessions These workplaces include a wide variety also deal with issues such as personal of areas within the factories such as the hygiene, for example washing hands, chemical store rooms and the ETP, as thereby dealing with a preventive meawell as the zones containing diﬀerent sure for various diseases. Health and machines such as compacting machines safety committees are present in each of and generators. Pregnant women are also the factory complexes: who comprise of considered under risk management: to 3.69% of the total workforce. avoid the risk to the fetuses, they are to be seated when working, allowed leaving Fire safety is one of the most important early during the lunch breaks, and not issues regarding occupational safety. The allowed to work overtime. Compliance department performs audits to ensure unobstructed evacuation paths, Each type of analysis includes the properly designed evacuation maps and description and consequence of the lighting present in required areas. To hazard, the person at risk and the control tackle the events of ﬁre, four teams – the or preventive measures that can be taken. ﬁre ﬁghters, the rescue team, the cordon In addition, hazards are given ratings, party and the ﬁrst aiders – are involved. calculated by using the frequencies of occurrence and the severity, thereby In 2016-17, a total of 246 non-fatal eﬀectively identifying the risks or hazards accidents and injuries were reported to prioritize on. while the employees were at work: 200 of them were males and the rest 46 were females. 239 occupational diseases were reported for the male workforce and none for the females. A total of 1,033 lost days were recorded: of them were OHSAS 18001:2007 standard 767 males and 266 females. The Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) is an international management system speciﬁcation for occupational health and safety. Implemented by the GIZ, one of DBL Group’s Risk management dyeing units acquired this certiﬁcation in Given the nature of business, the raw April 2016. OHSAS was chosen to materials and products that DBL handles further reduce illness and incidents and the scale of operations, our risk through continual improvement, increase management systems are designed to awareness about health and safety, and ensure that all our assets are safeguarded establish a health and safety management and protected against any kind of loss system within the factory. The multi-deincluding mankind and property. partment committee formed has enabled multiple beneﬁts including increased For worker safety, speciﬁc risk analyses hazard awareness, safety culture, and are done based on their workplaces. reduced risk behavior. DBL is planning to replicate the standard to other units. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 76 Safety measures Fire safety • Fire extinguishers • Fire blankets • Stretchers • Smoke detectors Building safety • Sprinklers • Structural assessments • Fire hose cabinet boxes • Bangladesh National Building Code • Water drums and buckets (BNBC) during construction • Fire beaters • Certiﬁcation with Architectural and • Fire hooks Structural Design Standard • Gong bells • Scaled as-built drawings • Lock cutters • Emergency lights • Safety equipment such as gloves, helmets, gas masks and gumboots Chemical safety • Careful assessment of chemicals • Chemical usage policy • Material safety data sheet (MSDS) Electrical safety • Regular trainings • Top quality cabling and accessories • Trained technicians for maintenance • International safety features for equipment • Maintenance and risk analysis records 77 Human Rights Investment Signiﬁcant investment agreements include DBL Group also became the Gold Level participation in training, creation and Member of the QuizRR training program implementation of a new policy or procefor completing more than 100 training dure, and other activities that DBL Group sessions. In collaboration with global undertakes to promote labor practices, buyers, suppliers, and other stakeholders, human rights, societal and environmental QuizRR aims to improve awareness, concerns, as well as any sustainability knowledge, and workplace systems for issue. DBL has dealt with multiple activiemployees at all levels in factories in ties that promote human rights. These are Bangladesh. QuizRR is a visual, simple, summarized below. and rewarding digital training system that introduces tools to measure employee DBL Group has made investment in training outcome. various training sessions. The Mothers@Work program is designed by Further details of these and other proUNICEF and implemented by BRAC to grams have been explained under Chaptrain pregnant and lactating mothers on ter 2 of this report. maternity protection and breastfeeding. The Nirapod program is Phulki’s approach in partnership with the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands for saving Forced labor women from unwanted and unsafe pregDBL does not use involuntary or forced nancy. The second phase of Nirapod is labor. The Code of Conduct emphasizes already under implementation in two that all employees should be working at factories. In addition, Phulki is also providfactory voluntarily and no means should ing training on UNICEF’s Children’s Rights be adopted as a measure which may in Business Principles. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 78 Non-discrimination indirectly result in an employee working DBL employs, pays, promotes, and termiforcibly. The freedom of movement of nates workers based on their ability to do employees is not restricted except for the the job, rather than based on personal protection of property and security of characteristics or beliefs. Discrimination factory personnel. Additionally, no on any ground is not allowed. Due to the employees are recruited on contract basis strength of the practice, there have been and an employee may resign from the no cases of discrimination. company by giving one month’s notice. Freedom of association Security practices and collective bargaining All security personnel in DBL are of our DBL recognizes and respects the right of own: there are none from third party employees to exercise their lawful rights organizations. Human rights topics are of freedom of association and collective communicated to all security personnel bargaining. No discrimination is done via trainings that take place every month. against employees who form or participate in lawful associations and or collective bargaining. The presence of the Child labor Participation Committee (PC) allows the workers to freely communicate regarding DBL is not engaged with any form of any issue. To ensure these rights are child labor. At the time of hiring, psychoexercised, monthly audits from the Comlogical interviews are done to determine pliance team take place, noting the comthe age of potential employees. In addiposition of the committee members, tion, documents such as proofs of age are frequency of meetings, topics discussed, collected from all potential employees and so on. DBL management has been and the authenticity of age documents is able to form PCs according to the guideveriﬁed. In the absence of age doculines which is very eﬀective for conveying ments, the potential employee is to be information to both labor and manageveriﬁed and conﬁrmed by the registered ment and resolving any grievances if doctor available at the factory. present. 79 Compliance Society Local communities To minimize the impact on communities, the negative impact on the community. the industries of DBL are situated in 3. Carbon emissions from the diﬀerent remote locations. Potentiality, however, is machines inﬂuences the air quality and still present to create negative impacts on temperature of the local environment. the local communities. With the goal of planting 10,000 trees by 2020, DBL has started to oﬀset the These include the following: carbon emissions within the diﬀerent 1. Noises from machines, particularly communities where we are operating. generators, tend to reach out of the These trees will also be mitigating the factory premises. Quality machines are increase in temperature. procured which produces lesser noise than the inexpensive alternatives. These machines are also placed in ideal places within the facilities to reduce the Anti-corruption impact. DBL has no conﬁrmed incidents of 2. Although Eﬄuent Treatment Plants corruption and has not made any ﬁnancial (ETPs) are present, there is dumping of and in-kind political contributions. In the treated wastewater. Programs such addition, there have been no legal actions as the Zero Discharge of Hazardous for anti-competitive behaviors, anti-trust Chemicals are present which improves and monopoly practices. An always the quality of wastewater discharged. compliant organization, DBL did not incur The quality of sludge produced is also any ﬁnes or been involved in non-moneequivalent to that of municipal waste, tary sanctions for non-compliance with which contributes further in reducing laws and regulations. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 80 The reputation of DBL Group for lawful program which includes but is not limited and responsible business behavior is of to, the following components: prime importance and is one of its great• Communicating code of conduct to est assets. DBL Group is committed to employees; the prevention, deterrence and detention • Reporting and investigating any allegaof corrupt business practices, fraudulent tion of fraud, bribery, and other corrupt activities and bribery. DBL Group has practices; zero tolerance toward any unethical • Appropriate disciplinary procedures for business practice. DBL Group has strictly employees who are found to have enforced policies on anti-corruption, engaged in such practices; and anti-fraud and bribery which apply to all • Monitoring of the eﬀectiveness of such businesses within DBL Group. The Mancontrols agement seeks to promote the adoption of regulations consistent with the principles set out in the diﬀerent company DBL Group and each of its business take policies on anti-corruption. the appropriate steps to ensure all its employees and those acting on its behalf: It is required that all personnel: • Meet all legal and regulatory require• Act honestly and with integrity and ments governing the lawful and ethical safeguard the company resources for conduct of business which they are responsible • Make all employees aware of their • Respect customers, suppliers, and other personal responsibilities and strictly parties to achieve DBL’s objectives by adhere to this policy conducting business in an ethical, • Provide information to all employees lawful, and professional manner. and further guidance if they have any query or uncertainty regarding these At DBL, we have an eﬀective compliance requirements. 81 Compliance Product Customer health, safety Responsibility and privacy DBL respects the privacy of all customers and henceforth there has been no complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. DBL does not engage itself into incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling. Additionally, there were no incidents of non-compliance with any regulations or codes that deal with marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Furthermore, DBL incurred no ﬁnes for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and DBL ensures the following for each services. product created: Created accroding to brand’s Pull-testing button to avoid speciﬁcations choking hazard Button strength test for children-wear Restrictions on use of certain Fusing process for embroidery to substances and methods safeguard human skin SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT 82 Employee Welfare A variety of activities are present in DBL for the welfare of employees including: • Having a fair price shop, Bandhan, which allows employees to have zero-cash transactions and get to buy on credit with zero interest: the cost is simply adjusted with the monthly salaries of employees • In-house day care center with trained professionals • Dedicated breastfeeding corners within the factory premises and two extra times for mothers to breastfeed their children within working hours • In-house medical center with a wide range of tests and even providing outpatient medical services • In-house pharmacy providing medicines at fair price even for employees’ family members • Providing highly subsidized sanitary napkins • Family Planning Corner with Marie Stopes Bangladesh within the factory premises • Providing new born gift hampers • Participating and organizing in-house sports tournaments such as cricket, football, and volleyball • Promoting culture through the encouragement of music and art competition • Special recognition of employees’ children for excellent academic performance in National Board Examinations • Sponsorship for two children’s education of each employee who are earning less than BDT 25,000 (approximately $313) per month • Providing career path counselling to employees’ children • Worker-Management Relationship program where personal issues and needs discussed every month through Workers Participation Committee (WPC) meetings • Worker Listening Session, a Quality department training to aware present responsibility to trainees: covers HR policies and ﬁre safety issues 1% Inclusion of people with disabilities SDG 10 REDCED INEQALITIES An inclusive workforce encompasses any employee, regardless of their gender, social status, physical or psychological challenges, etc. Disabled people are often looked down upon and multiple cases have been discussed where they are deprived of employment. Through the Disability Inclusion Program, DBL is already addressing their challenges by providing employment, as currently 41 disabled people are working in diﬀerent units. By 2020, DBL aims to create a more inclusive environment by providing employment to disabled people: which will contribute to 1% of the total workforce. STAKEHOLDER CHAPTER 7 ENGAGEMENT A good head and a good heart are always a formidable combination. Nelson Mandela philanthropist Stakeholder Engagement At DBL Group stakeholder satisfaction is of very high concern to the company values and we take the matter very sincerely. Our stakeholders include those who are associated directly or indirectly to our businesses. The approach and the frequency of engagement with the stakeholders diﬀer on the basis of the category of the stakeholder. DBL Group reserves special interest in identifying all applicable stakeholders and understanding their expectations to remain sustainable in the long run. DBL Group is growing sustainably and we believe that a fully sustainable company will have all its stakeholders engaged in the key processes of the business. All organizations and entities that have signiﬁcant inﬂuence on DBL Group and those that are directly or indirectly aﬀected by the Group’s operations are considered as stakeholders. We identify potential stakeholders through the following process. Stakeholder engagement process Stakeholder Consultation Prioritization Collaboration Reporting Identiﬁcation There is no particular frequency of engagement with the stakeholders. However, there are annual events like vendor meetings for suppliers, annual general meeting for investors and shareholders, exhibition for customers and others. In addition, respective departments engage with their speciﬁc stakeholder groups as situation demands and on need basis 87 Key stakeholders Suppliers NGOs Community Media Board Members Employees Customers (Buyers) Shareholders Investors Knowledge Partners Service Providers Government/Public Sector Industry Associations Internal Stakeholders External Stakeholders Participation Committee (PC) Collective bargaining agreement is not prohibited in DBL Group. To make a trustworthy relationship between the Committing to internal workers and the company, DBL Group has formed Workers Participation Comstakeholders mittees. These committees constitute of representatives of both the employers DBL Group’s major stakeholder group and the workers. Workers are encourand a principal asset is the workforce. aged highly in forming of this committee, Hence, DBL reserves a special imporover 50% of each the committee comtance to creating the proper work enviprises of workers. ronment for all employees. Similar attention is also given to their families. To To promote mutual trust, understanding maintain a fully energized workforce we and cooperation between the employers maintain a number of initiatives to and the workers as to fulﬁll production strengthen employer-employee bonding. target, reduce production cost and Some are discussed below. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 88 improve the quality of products, the committees meet once every month. They are working to eﬀectively establish privileges as well as to improve welfare services for the workers and their families. Through the WPC, workers can freely contact the committees to discuss any issue. DBL Group makes an eﬀort to encourage good relations between workers and managers, through hosting trainings covering topics, such as labor standards, leave days, working hours, wages, personal protective equipment, health and safety, environmental issues, welfare, and so on. Currently, the committees’ members are representatives of employees and top management selected by each group respectively. However, the selection criterion is being replaced through election procedure: and hence simulating the process of a trade union. Issues discussed include wages, beneﬁts, working conditions, complaints, productivity, quality and even health issues. Eﬀective communication procedures DBL Group has established diﬀerent channels to communicate with its workers: these include: • Meetings • Poster boards These Oﬃcers are involved with a • Suggestion boxes number of tasks as shown below. Work• Open door policy. ers feel very comfortable expressing themselves to them. They handle every single case with great care and eﬃciency Grievance mechanisms and maintain conﬁdentially depending on the sensitivity. Proper measures are taken Apart from formal grievance procedures immediately to resolve any concern over which are set up as per local laws, DBL workplace or even workers’ personal Group has informal ways to resolve any issues. sort of disputes quickly and eﬀectively. The top management has an open-door policy and grievance boxes are provided Roles of Welfare Oﬃcers to assist employees maintain conﬁdential• Maintaining ﬁrst aid boxes and checkity. lists • Dealing with complaints from workers DBL Group has established several chan• Registering and providing extra care to nels for workers to ﬁle complaints, includpregnant employees ing anonymous complaints. These include • Ensuring washroom hygiene suggestion box and an open-door policy. • Coordinating and conducting trainings The Welfare Oﬃcers are responsible for • Facilitating meetings handling complaints. The suggestion • Informing workers of any changes in boxes are checked every Saturday and policies the grievances are recorded. Appropriate The Kaizen Suggestion Box action is taken and results are reported back to employees. DBL Group appreciates ideas from all of its employees, including the workers. Besides the Suggestion/Grievance Boxes, Welfare Oﬃcers an additional box has been included with the aim of taking in suggestions from The Welfare Oﬃcers stationed at the workers that relate to improving producfactory complexes oversee workers’ tion eﬃciency. This method provides a concerns and problems and communicate way to involve workers in the deciwith the Human Resource and other sion-making process which makes workconcerned departments as required. ers feel important about themselves and STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 90 units too. These ideas are compiled under DBL Group Idea Club Sustainability program. A huge advantage of having an employee they highly appreciate the management of the month incentive is the motivation for such initiative. it encourages the employees to work at their highest potential and move them These boxes are referred to as “Kaizen towards empowerment. This is in terms Suggestion Boxes” and are present in all of work performance as well as punctualiunits. These boxes are green in color – as ty and attendance on the job. It promotes opposed to the white for the Suggesemployees to work at their full potential tion/Complaint Boxes – in order to help without causing any adverse side eﬀects. users easily identify and distinguish them. The Employee of the Month program is Users submit their ideas in the boxes open for all employees and it gives them including their names in order to be a feeling of fairness as every employee identiﬁed for recognition. has an equal opportunity at obtaining this reward. All suggestions are discussed in the Kaizen Meeting held every month: the The evaluation system also encompasses employee or worker with the best sugsuggestions provided by employees and gestion for the month is recognized with workers that would improve working the ‘Kaizen Award’: multiple employees procedures. The employees and workers and workers have been awarded. Some of that win the award are provided certiﬁthe suggestions have even been implecates of achievements in addition to cash mented: in some cases the best suggesincentives. Moreover, their names and tion was chosen among the multiple good photos are displayed on the notice boards ones received. In addition to the award, of the respective units in order to further the names, photos, and ideas of the motivate them to grow in their careers accepted ones are displayed on the and for improving the company. notice boards. Employee of the Month Connecting with external and Employee of the Year stakeholders In addition to the Kaizen Suggestion DBL Group is committed to generating system, eﬀorts of our employees and positive relations with external stakeholdworkers are also recognized through ers through various non-binding initiatives another monthly recognition system: the which the organization subscribes and “Employee of the Month”. In 2016, a new endorses. A constant communication is recognition system, “Employee of the vital in order to ensure business sustainYear” was included as well. The program ability: DBL recognizes and acts on this was inaugurated in the knitting section principle. The tree below shows the and has been replicated for the others 91 Eﬀective communication various external stakeholders that DBL is currently involved with and how interaction is being made with each. Multi-stakeholder engagement A sustainable method to address the Community development needs of diﬀerent stakeholders is possible when multiple stakeholders such as public A wide variety of activities are integrated and private organizations come under a within DBL’s sustainability that promotes common platform. In this regard, DBL societal development: thus, integrating Group has worked with a variety of the concept of “Community” included as a stakeholders with the variety of Sustainbranch in the comprehensive coverage of ability programs. Some of these are sustainability. These activities include the included below. following: • Surveys: To identify and address needs • Educational support: Infrastructure and ﬁnancial support • Cultural program with NGOs • Knowledge exchange programs • Health programs • Community engagement • In-house agriculture ﬁelds: For growing crops to meet community needs • Financial and infrastructure assistance to various hospitals in the country Program Stakeholder(s) Pillars in practice SAI, DIHR, CSR Bangladesh Women in factories Wal-Mart, CARE, Sheva Initiative Nirapod: Saving Women from Phulki, Embassy ofIFC, Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands Unwanted Pregnancy Solidaridad and Unsafe MR Partership for Cleaner IFC, Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, Solidaridad Textiles (PaCT) Mini Fire Brigade GIZ, BFSCD STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 91 20% of total yarns from recycled materials SDG 12 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION The production of yarns uses substantial amount raw materials such as cotton and polyester. Naturally, this puts a great pressure on the production of these products especially if the size and demand of the apparel industry is considered. However, when recycled raw products are used, there is not only responsible use of materials, proper wastage management is also ensured. In this regard, in addition to existing practices, DBL aims to create up to 20% yarns in its Spinning operations from recycled materials.
