United Nations Global Compact Report 2017/2018 REPORT JOINT STATEMENT FROM THE EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN & CEO APCO Worldwide is pleased to present video, it can be difficult for companies, alike. In 2017, APCO partnered with communities for the better. As a majorour eighth annual report on progress as governments and organizations to find the Graca Machel Trust, an organizaity women-owned firm, inclusion has Though the world faces a signatory of the UN Global Compact. their voice on today’s most important tion led by former first lady and wife always been the engine of our enterdivision and uncertainty, global issues. This rapid pace of of the late President Nelson Mandela, prise, and we are proud to amplify our change underscores the importance to launch the Women Advancing Africa impact by working with iconic organizaAPCO continues to It’s been a transformative of the Global Compact as a convening initiative. APCO provided strategic tions like the World Economic Forum, champion unity and progress year. Nationalism has force – advancing a common agenda communications support and counsel Women Presidents Organization and in communities around continued to rise, shifting that the public and private sector for the inaugural Forum in Tanzania, many others. the world. We are proud to can rally around and drive forward in which convened 300 women leaders traditional balances of power reaffirm our commitment to the longterm. from across the public, private and At APCO, we understand that leadMARGERY KRAUS and creating sharp divisions nonprofit sectors to strengthen the ership starts with us — and we are supporting the SDGs and founder and executive chairman in communities around the As a global communications consulrole of women in Africa’s development. committed to practicing what we its Principles in this report. tancy, we help clients define their APCO recruited corporate partners preach. Our employees are required world. These changes have purpose and harness the strengths of to support the initiative, facilitating to participate in anti-corruption trainAs always, we welcome your given birth to a new wave of their business to drive impact around cross-sector collaborations with the ings upon joining APCO, and over the feedback and are grateful for global activism. Together, we the world. Earlier this year, APCO’s UN Foundation, UPS and Johnson past year, we’ve rolled out mandatory your partnership. corporate advocacy survey found that & Johnson. This is just one of many unconscious bias training for senior have watched communities 90 percent of consumers expect comexamples of APCO’s efforts to live by managers across our global network. raise their voices for the first panies to help take on society’s most the UN Compact principles. APCO encourages employees to be time, confronting entrenched pressing challenges. This expectation passionate, engaged citizens, and demands that companies today take APCO’s work enables us to galvanize we actively promote volunteerism polarization and advocating a stand – creating programs and poliimportant movements around the through our corporate giving and for a more inclusive, cies that have a meaningful impact on world. Whether it’s partnering with charity matching program, as well sustainable future for all. the Sustainable Development Goals the Malala Fund to provide strategic as our APCO Gives Back initiative. (SDGs) – or they run the risk of being communications support to Malala We continue to be active champions out-of-touch and irrelevant to the and her team for their first time particof diversity and inclusion — 56 percent From where APCO sits at the interseccommunities they serve. ipating in the World Economic Forum of our leadership positions are held by tion of business, politics and society, at Davos; or publicizing the issue of women and nearly a third of our U.S. we see these contradictions every day Over the past year, APCO has worked school holiday hunger by engaging team was classified as minority in 2017, – and the uncertainty it creates for our with Fortune 100 companies, leading various celebrities and bipartisan per EEOC designated categories. clients. In a world where policies are NGOs and global governments to comsupport of the Streetgames’ “Fit and BRAD STAPLES announced on Twitter and social movemunicate that commitment and create Fed” campaign, APCO prioritizes chief executive officer ments are inspired by a single viral value for constituents and communities work that transforms lives and shapes 2 Communicating Our Progress APCO Worldwide joined the UNGC in June 2011. This report is our eighth Communication on Progress (COP). All data contained in this document relates to the calendar year January – December 2017. In addition, some initiatives mentioned refer to the first half of 2018. THIS REPORT CONTAINS TWO PARTS: PART I Provides a short overview about APCO, including our 2017– 2018 organizational profile and our approach to governance, responsible business and citizenship. PART II Covers our policies, programs and actions to promote the UNGC’s 10 Principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. This section uses the “Basic COP” template provided by the UNGC. A global cross-functional team was responsible for developing this report, which was reviewed and approved by the Chair of APCO’s Responsible Business Committee and by our Executive Chairman and CEO. 3 APCO Worldwide is a global comAPCO secured its independence in munications consultancy. We help 2004 after more than a decade as an the most innovative organizations affiliate of Grey Global Group. Since its adapt and thrive in this fast-moving, inception in 1984, it has grown from a interconnected and complex world, small one-office firm to a diverse global Part I enabling them to reach their business consultancy servicing high-profile cliABOUT and societal goals. We bring our ents. APCO’s revenue has more than clients’ work to life creatively and digdoubled since obtaining its indepenitally through diverse thinking and a dence in 2004. campaign mentality that is not limited APCO by any particular service or discipline, APCO’s growth was mostly organic but embraces a variety of integrated during its 34 years of operation. tactics to achieve success. APCO is a In 2017, APCO retained its indepenmajority employeeand women-owned dence through a buyout of previous business. minority shareholders with the support of Citibank and Monroe Capital. Founded in 1984, APCO is the only The arrangement also provides the major consultancy of its kind headquarpotential for additional capital, which tered in Washington, D.C. We serve APCO can use for growth, acquiclients in more than 80 markets around sition and continued innovation to the world. Our 682 permanent employmeet the changing demands of the ees (as of December 31, 2017) comprise marketplace and to better service more than 60 nationalities and come clients. This renewed commitment from diverse professional backgrounds, to independence is another step in including: former elected leaders, APCO’s unique story and an exciting ambassadors, journalists, business opportunity to continue to build a and nonprofit executives, government first-rate firm for the future. officials, market researchers, as well as communication, corporate affairs and digital experts. 4 Mission & Values MISSION In the first quarter of 2017, APCO relaunched its revitalized mission and reconAPCO’S VALUES firmed its values across the company. Through a series of discussions, employees gained a new perspective on the importance of APCO’s mission and the values • Make client success our measurement of achievement that employees adhere to in order to achieve APCO’s goals. APCO continuously • Empower people to do great work educates its staff about the company’s mission and values. • Nurture an organization where everyone is valued 1 2 3 • Rely on one another to achieve personal potential APCO’S MISSION • Build relationships to build business • Tell the truth Enable clients to Counsel clients on Partner with clients Enable clients to achieve their objectives through insightful counsel, authentic • Push the boundaries with innovative technology and solutions achieve their the opportunities and to add value to their advocacy and creative communications. • Provide global service culture by culture objectives through challenges of a global enterprises and insightful counsel, marketplace and benefit society. authentic advocacy engaged stakeholders Counsel clients on the opportunities and challenges of a global marketplace and creative in times of and engaged stakeholders in times of transformational change. communications. transformational change. VALUES Partner with clients to add value to their enterprises and benefit society. ACCOMPLISHING OUR MISSION We accomplish our mission by fostering a culture of critical and unconventional thinking, which is made possible because of our commitment to hiring, growing and retaining exceptional people from diverse backgrounds. We achieve results Make client success our measurement of achievement through a strategic understanding of our clients’ objectives and deep insights into their political, economic and social environments. Empower people to do great work Nurture an organization where everyone is valued While we operate as one integrated company with offices around the world, Rely on one another to achieve personal potential we secure our clients’ license to operate and grow by delivering results that are locally relevant but globally impactful. Build relationships to build business Tell the truth Push the boundaries with innovative technology and solutions Provide global service culture by culture 5 APCO Offices AMERICAS ASIA Chicago Bangkok New York Beijing Raleigh Hanoi Seattle Hong Kong Washington, D.C. Jakarta Kuala Lumpur EMEA Shanghai Abu Dhabi Singapore Brussels Tokyo Berlin Dubai Frankfurt In 2017 and 2018, Istanbul London APCO opened three Lyon offices: Riyadh, Milan Milan and Frankfurt. Moscow Mumbai New Delhi Paris Riyadh Rome Tel Aviv Warsaw 6 Awards & Recognition Governance & Responsible Business CSR AWARDS 2018 HALL OF FEMME 2017 EUROPEAN EXCELLENCE GOVERNANCE This leadership group reflects the and compliance with laws and works Agency CSR A-List Margery Kraus AWARD diversity of APCO and reinforces with senior management to help idenPR NEWS PRWEEK “eBay Adopts L’Aquila” APCO is governed by a board the company’s commitment to the tify and resolve potential conflicts of EUROPEAN EXCELLENCE of directors, which has the legal and changing global nature of business interest with client work or APCO’s A WA R D S fiduciary duties to oversee the compaand communications and a shift in corvalues. The RBC guides APCO’s Global HALL OF FEMME 2018 EMEA SABRE AWARDS ny’s activities, management practices porate interests to new, international Leadership Team on ethical matters Kelly Williamson 2017 and financial performance. The fivemarkets. It also empowers the next and provides insights that helps inform PRWEEK Best Network to Work NORTH AMERICA SABRE member board has a unitary strucgeneration of leaders at the company. leadership decisions. The RBC also For in EMEA AWARDS 2017 ture. Two of the board members works to help APCO adopt industry THE HOLMES REPORT Public Affairs Agency of the Year (Margery Kraus and Brad Staples) RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS best practices in all areas of ethics, EMEA SABRE AWARDS THE HOLMES REPORT are APCO executives; the other three integrity and accountability. 2018 members (Joseph Zimmel, Marcia Page As work is conducted across the Public Affairs Agency EMEA SABRE AWARDS and Peter Milton Sommerhauser) globe, APCO strives to be a responof the Year 2017 GLOBAL POWER BOOK are outside directors. The chair of sible company in everything it does. THE HOLMES REPORT Cause-Related Marketing 2017 the board is Margery Kraus, APCO’s A commitment to conducting business “eBay Adopts L’Aquila” Margery Kraus, Brad Staples, founder and executive chairman. The at the highest level of ethics and integTHE HOLMES REPORT Jim McGregor and Nick Ashooh board meets at least quarterly. rity is derived from the core values that PLATINUM DIVERSITY & PRWEEK have guided APCO since its founding. INCLUSION CAMPAIGN At the start of 2015, APCO formed a This commitment is embodied in its 2017 EMEA SABRE AWARDS Global Leadership Team (GLT) consistCode of Conduct, which sets forth the Jesuit Refugee Service 2017 CSR AWARDS 2017 ing of senior leaders who represent fundamental ethical principles that PR NEWS Public Education Agency CSR A-List geographical, practice and operagovern how business is done. In 2008, “BetterThanThat” PR NEWS tional areas of the company. The GLT APCO’s Responsible Business CommitPolish Cultural Institute defines and develops the company’s tee (RBC) was established to provide 50 MOST POWERFUL THE HOLMES REPORT business strategy, incubates ideas oversight for management of APCO’s PUBLIC RELATIONS and drives innovation and contributes Code of Conduct and responsible FIRMS IN AMERICA 2017 to the annual budget development. business policies and systems, includTHE NEW YORK OBSERVER The GLT meets three to four times a ing compliance and ethics training. In year in person, and the membership is addition to regularly reviewing and reviewed on an annual basis. updating the Code of Conduct, the RBC ensures that staff members are provided training on ethical conduct 7 Global Leadership Team Members GLOBAL LEADERSHIP TEAM APCO’s Global Leadership Team (GLT) serves as the ideas engine of APCO and directs the future growth for the firm. In 2017, APCO added four new members to its GLT: Agnieszka Yank, APCO’s chief talent officer; Robert Ardelt, managing director of APCO’s Germany offices; Kelly Williamson, global client leadership director and managing director of APCO’s Raleigh, North Carolina office; and Marc Johnson, global practice lead of APCO’s digital practice. Margery Kraus Brad Staples Evan Kraus James Acheson-Gray Robert Ardelt founder & executive chairman chief executive officer president managing director, London managing director, Germany BOARD OF DIRECTORS APCO added two new members to its board of directors, who replace three outgoing members: Marcia Page, executive chair of Värde Partners, and Peter Milton Sommerhauser, shareholder at Godfrey & Kahn and founding partner at Wing Capital Group. They join three existing board members: APCO Founder and Executive Chairman Margery Kraus; CEO Brad Staples; and Joseph Zimmel, former managing director at Goldman, Sachs and Co. Claire Boussagol Mara Hedgecoth Denise Teeling chairman, Europe & managing senior director, global marketing Marc Johnson Mamoon Sbeih executive director director, Brussels & communication global co-lead, Digital Practice managing director, Arab Region worldwide chief financial officer Kelly Williamson Martina Tydecks Anne Wang global client leadership secretariat & executive director chief operating officer, director & managing director, Agnieszka Yank international Greater China Raleigh chief talent officer 8 Codes of Conduct Employee Development A commitment to conducting COUNCIL OF PUBLIC PUBLIC COMMUNICATION APCO’S FOCUS IN 2017 INCLUDED: business at the highest level of ethics RELATIONS FIRMS IN HONG AND INSTITUTIONAL and integrity is derived from the core KONG (HONG KONG) RELATIONSHIP ARC: APCO’S DIGITAL LEARNING PLATFORM values that have guided APCO since CODE OF ETHICS MANAGEMENT its founding. ASSOCIATION ARC hosts APCO’s centralized global learning and develDEGEPOL (GERMANY) (KIYED) (TURKEY) opment calendar. Any training happening anywhere in the APCO has endorsed and adheres to CODE OF CONDUCT ETHICAL PRINCIPLES world is easy for employees to find and join. It serves as the following codes of conduct in all a hub for online courses and modules. ARC is designed of its activities: EUROPEAN PUBLIC AFFAIRS PUBLIC RELATIONS AND to promote best practice sharing and knowledge transfer CONSULTANCIES COMMUNICATIONS within the company. ASSOCIATION FRANÇAISE ASSOCIATION ASSOCIATION (PRCA) DES CONSEILS EN LOBBYING (EPACA) (EUROPE) (UNITED KINGDOM) SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENT IN GLOBAL (AFCL) (FRANCE) CODE OF CONDUCT CODE OF CONDUCT LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT CODE OF ETHICS HAUTE AUTORITÉ DE LA PUBLIC RELATIONS In 2017, APCO created a new global learning and develASSOCIATION OF TRANSPARENCE DE LA VIE SOCIETY OF AMERICA opment strategy that focuses on four guiding principles: PROFESSIONAL POLITICAL PUBLIQUE (HATPB) (PARIS) (UNITED STATES) Investing in staff’s learning and development remains a top Inclusive; Localized; Accountability; and Learn & Teach. CONSULTANTS CODE OF CONDUCT MEMBER CODE OF ETHICS priority for APCO. Continuous learning and skill development The strategy focuses to create an inclusive learning culture (UNITED KINGDOM) are important components of an employee’s professional where all learning styles are engaged through a variety of CODE OF CONDUCT INDEPENDENT COMMISSION WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM development and contribute to the firm’s success. APCO’s delivery methods. Learning is also localized to meet the AGAINST CORRUPTION (INTERNATIONAL) training program addresses business competencies, reflects needs and culture of APCO’s five regions. In addition, CONFEDERATION OF (ICAC) (HONG KONG) PA R T N E R S H I P A G A I N S T C O R R U P T I O N the needs of the organization, enhances client relationships employees are held accountable to engage in learning and INDIAN INDUSTRY (INDIA) P R E V E N T I O N O F B R I B E RY O R D I N A N C E I N I T I AT I V E C O D E O F C O N D U C T ( PA C I ) and supports professional development. The goal is for development programs, as well as encouraged to mentor, CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS (POBO) 100 percent participation so that all employees continucoach and teach others. ASSOCIATION OF PUBLIC ously enhance their business competencies and grow as COUNCIL OF PUBLIC INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS AND CORPORATE professionals. RELATIONS FIRMS ASSOCIATION OF BUSINESS COMMUNICATIONS (UNITED STATES) COMMUNICATORS MANAGEMENT (KIYED) To complement training initiatives, APCO uses a state-ofCODE OF ETHICS (INTERNATIONAL) CODE OF ETHICS the-art digital learning platform. This platform serves as a CODE OF CONDUCT central hub for learning and development. Core skill gaps related to technology, project management or budgeting can be addressed at a much quicker pace and reach more offices through online courses. 9 Employee Engagement IN 2017, APCO’S EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT PROGRAM MYRIAM UGEUX-GERAULT FELLOWSHIP INCLUDED: To promote creativity, build exposure to new ideas and encourage collaboration across APCO’s global network, GALLUP Q12 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SURVEY APCO’s talent management team partnered with its Paris office to establish the Myriam Ugeux-Gerault Fellowship. In 2017, APCO assessed employee engagement by administering the Gallup Q12 Employee The fellowship is in honor of Myriam Ugeux-Gerault, a Engagement Survey. The survey queried research-based questions that measure the most former APCO employee in the Paris office who passed away CO Worldwide, Inc. All rights reserved. important elements of employee engagement. in 2009. The fellowship is awarded to one APCO employee who is granted the opportunity to attend an international RECOGNIZING EMPLOYEE MILESTONES AND ANNIVERSARIES conference to build his or her expertise in strategic communications, corporate responsibility, innovation or digital APCO celebrates its employees by recognizing their anniversary of joining the company. Founder and Executive Chairman communication. In addition, the employee spends one week Margery Kraus handwrites personalized anniversary cards for all employees across the globe. Additionally, she posts in the Paris office learning and sharing best practices that anniversary and milestone announcements to Workplace, APCO’s internal communications platform. “The global exchange was a tremendous experience. My promote creative communication strategies and responsible hosts in Berlin and Frankfurt were so welcoming, and having business behavior/sustainability. WORKPLACE the opportunity to see how APCO operates in different markets was truly valuable. Junior-level employees around To foster collaboration and engagement across offices and teams, APCO uses Workplace, Facebook’s online collaboration the firm (myself included) tend to get so focused on the dayteam tool for business. Communication, announcements and knowledge sharing are made easy with the platform, which to-day of what’s happening in their office/region, that it’s offers next-generation, easy-to-use features and connection across desktop and mobile. Staff members from all regions of often hard to understand how global APCO is as a company. the world can connect and learn more about what individuals in other offices are accomplishing, and how they can plug in. Having the opportunity to leave D.C. and connect with colleagues in Germany was an experience I will not soon forget!” GLOBAL EXCHANGE – Tim Kraus, D.C. office To foster integration, share best practices and enhance cultural under“I truly enjoyed my time during my visit to the New York standing, each year a committee at APCO selects 20 employees to & D.C. offices. I got the chance to learn the client work, spend time working at another APCO office around the world. Those exchange ideas, experience the local culture and make selected individuals are expected to contribute to the host office by friends. The global exchange experience is one of the best sharing best practices, reviewing client engagements, experiencing projects to demonstrate APCO’s global network and culture.” the local culture and then returning to their home office to share – Yitao Deng, Shanghai office their learnings and experiences with colleagues. 10 Employee Citizenship & Community Engagement (CONTINUED) Engagement The APCO Gives Back program empowers employees to contribute to their MEMBERSHIPS communities through volunteerism with support from APCO in the form of time and financial resources. APCO Gives Back is a worldwide program providing all APCO is Proud to Be a Member Partner APCO employees with the following opportunities: of the Following Organizations: • Arthur W. Page Society GROUP AND INDIVIDUAL VOLUNTEERISM • Boston College Center for Corporate All APCO offices are encouraged to nominate an APCO Gives Back coorCitizenship dinator or committee to arrange and manage group volunteer activities for • Business and Society, Belgium employee participation in hands-on projects (e.g., planting trees, serving meals, • Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) mentoring youth). In addition to group volunteering activities, APCO provides UNIVERSITY OF INTERNATIONAL ASSIGNMENTS AND each employee with an opportunity to spend up to eight working hours each • ColorComm FLORIDA – APCO PARTNERSHIP GLOBAL MOBILITY year volunteering with a charity or cause of their choice. • Economic Initiative Frankfurt Rhine Understanding the importance of higher education To provide the best level of client service, employMain PRO BONO SERVICES to continue developing personal and professional ees are regularly offered the opportunity to work in • Enterprising Women growth, APCO’s Learning and Development team another country or at a client location to become APCO makes significant contributions to local communities and global causes • Institute for Public Relations partnered with the University of Florida’s College of an integrated part of a specific client’s team. via pro bono work, contributing over US$1 million in pro bono services across Journalism and Communications to offer staff memThis provides the client with an extremely high level of • International Crisis Group the globe. APCO also supports a wide range of nonprofit organizations around bers the opportunity to obtain a master’s degree in service and the employee with a unique professional • LAGRANT Foundation the world. Below is a small selection of APCO’s global pro bono activity; Communications and Public Affairs. The partnership development experience. To ensure that opportuother examples are included throughout Part II of this report: • PR Council will connect participants with mentors, comprised nities for global mobility are at the cornerstone of of top APCO executives, who will help guide the APCO’s global offering to existing and potential • Public Affairs Council next generation of communicators with cutting-edge employees, a global mobility specialist is dedicated • WEConnect International strategies employed by APCO. In addition to mento managing a database of employee skill sets that • World Economic Forum Gender Parity torship opportunities, APCO employees are eligible complement various international assignments to receive a scholarship that allows them to attend and carefully matches the right employees with • World Economic Forum Partnership the graduate program tuition free. The scholarship the right opportunities. Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) is posthumously named after the late Washington, • Women Presidents’ Organization D.C., deputy managing director Alicia Peterson Clark. Two staff members were accepted into the program in 2018 with applications opening again in the spring of 2019. 11 Citizenship & Community Engagement (CONTINUED) firm and to see the genuine comONE JOURNEY FESTIVAL United States and Caribbean and from charities running in the marathon mitment to women’s economic Washington, D.C. connected over 4,000 attendees with to international media. Participating empowerment that comes from the 27 local, national and international organizations included “Runners boardroom to all levels of the company.” At a time where refugees around volunteer organizations in a “Take without Borders,” a unique running — Farah Mohamed, CEO Malala Fund the world have been targeted, Action Tent.” team of Jewish and Arab youth from One Journey was founded to shift the across Jerusalem; SHEKEL, a leading LANDMARK GROUP, narrative about refugees in America JERUSALEM DEVELOPMENT Israeli NGO committed to the inclusion BEAT DIABETES by connecting people through the AUTHORITY (JDA) of people with special needs within the Dubai shared languages of humanity: art, Tel Aviv wider community; One Family, a charfood, fashion, music and dance. ity that supports the victims of terror; Diabetes rates in the Middle East have One Journey launched a national APCO in Tel Aviv supports a number Melabev, a leading charity providing reached a record high of about 43 movement to connect American of charities that do not have the treatment for Alzheimer’s sufferers; MALALA FUND and commitments from the public million cases – the highest level in the residents with the refugee entreprewherewithal to raise their visibility and the Jerusalem Rape Crisis Center New York and private sectors, and in particular, world as per the International Diabetes neurs and organizations that support and attract much needed funders for that provides support to women who leveraging Davos 2018 to highlight Federation’s 2016 report. refugees in an inaugural annual event their important work. One of these have been victims of sexual assault. APCO provided pro-bono strategic the impact of the Malala Fund’s work, in Washington, D.C. One Journey charities is the Jerusalem Development By engaging both the local and intercommunications support for Malala helping develop new multi-stakeholder APCO in Dubai drove an awareness partnered with APCO to host a preAuthority (JDA), which is responsible national media covering the Marathon, Yousafzai and her team at the Malala partnerships. campaign with Landmark Group to event fundraiser, and for media, event for the economic development of the APCO garnered a feature on CNN, Fund around Malala’s first participaaddress this growing concern. APCO and design support for the main event. city. During the annual JDA-run JeruCBN and coverage in community and tion at the World Economic Forum “I’m grateful to the leadership at APCO led communications throughout the The event received coverage by salem Marathon in March 2017, APCO local publications, greatly supporting Annual Meeting in Davos. Founded for their support and counsel in helping year-long awareness campaign. The the UN Refugee Agency in the raised the visibility of representatives the awareness-building abilities of in 2013, the Malala Fund champions the Malala Fund successfully execute campaign Beat Diabetes consists of these important causes. every girl’s right to 12 years of free, our first presence at Davos. APCO an annual walk that brings the comsafe, quality education. Its leadership gave valuable advice and guidance munity together every November to PEARL INITIATIVE and team believe that girls are the based on over a decade of running raise awareness about the condition. Dubai best investment in future peace and strategic engagement programs at Other activities organized to raise prosperity of our world. APCO’s team high-level events like the World Ecoawareness about diabetes included The Pearl Initiative is a leading Gulfenthusiastically supported these nomic Forum. APCO’s team helped us publishing and promoting a healthy based nonprofit organization that mission-enhancing opportunities engage with relevant stakeholders and “diabetes-friendly” recipe book for promotes a corporate culture of and access to girls education and provided great operational support to Ramadan, as well as panel advisories accountability and transparency as a women’s economic empowerment, Malala and our team. It was a pleasure and expert endorsements. key driver of competitiveness across promoting and celebrating solutions to work with a majority women-owned the Gulf region. APCO worked with the 12 Citizenship & Community Engagement (CONTINUED) Pearl Initiative through 2017on a pro bono basis. Developed in cooperation for the first joint engagement by Prince Harry and Meghan Markle. The wideAPCO’s pro-bono work includes orientation for young leaders from China, India, with the United Nations Office for Partnerships in 2010, the organization has to spread media coverage generated highlights in BBC News, ITV News and Japan, Singapore and Indonesia, helping to foster relations between Israel and date impacted over 160 business leaders and over 6,500 students from the Gulf Sky News, and helped deliver a four-fold increase in donations for this charity. Asia. This includes mentoring fellows throughout the year and giving presentaregion through its thought leadership programs. APCO built the Pearl Initiative’s tions to program participants on the Israeli landscape. profile and enhanced its impact through a targeted communications program. ISRAEL-ASIA CENTER Tel Aviv STREETGAMES London Roi Feder, the Managing Director of APCO in Tel Aviv, is on the board of the Israel-Asia Center, an Israeli not-for-profit organization dedicated to building APCO helped the charity StreetGames launch “Fit and Fed,” a campaign to a shared future between Israel and Asia. The organization drives leadership tackle the issue of school holiday hunger. APCO secured cross-party politprograms to provide future leaders in Israel and Asia with the skills, knowledge ical support; arranged for the Sports Minister to launch the campaign; and and networks to become force-multipliers in strengthening Israel-Asia relations. orchestrated support from celebrities, including footballer Sol Campbell, It also advocates for and offers public education and thought-leadership events Olympic rower James Cracknell and rugby player Matt Dawson. The launch that explore the future of Israel-Asia relations, key trends, developments and attracted the attention of Kensington Palace, which chose a Fit and Fed program challenges in Asia and how they can work together to co-innovate solutions. 13 EXAMPLES OF EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP’S BOARD MEMBERSHIPS • American University • Close Up Foundation • Catherine B. Reynolds Foundation • Center for Executive Women at the Kellogg School of Management • Center for Responsible Enterprise and Trade (CREATe) • French Lobbying Association Ethics Committee • Gideon’s Promise • Institute for Public Relations • Univision Communications Corporate Social Responsibility Advisory Board • Women Presidents’ Organization • World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative HUMANITARIAN EMERGENCY & DISASTER RESPONSE APCO provides opportunities for employees to support people impacted by humanitarian emergencies and disasters around the world by matching employee donations up to US$10,000. This year, APCO implemented a policy around humanitarian emergencies and disaster response. APCO supported the humanitarian response to Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico with financial support to the American Red Cross, among other nonprofit organizations. COMMITMENT TO LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT & CIVIC SERVICES In addition to the activities above, members of APCO’s senior management team serve in leadership and advisory positions at important civic and educational organizations, including universities, educational foundations, civic organizations, community foundations, industry oversight bodies and professional societies. 14 Challenges & Opportunities Each year, APCO assesses the issues that have a material impact on business. As noted in previous reports, these Trust, transparency and talent are core to APCO’s ongoing success and growth issues — trust, transparency and talent — do not change from year-to-year as they are core to their ongoing success and growth across all of APCO’s markets. TRUST TRANSPARENCY TALENT Societies around the world have languished in a decade of eroding levels of The only way APCO can build trust with clients, stakeholders, employees and APCO’s business will only succeed if it has the right employees in place with public trust in all types of organizations — including APCO’s own industry. the public is to be transparent about who it is, what it believes and does and the right skills and expertise to meet clients’ needs. APCO works to attract and APCO works every day to build trust with its clients, stakeholders, colleagues how it conducts business. It is an essential part of building and growing a retain a diverse, creative and knowledgeable group of people who want to and communities. Strict policies and protocols apply to everyone in the comsuccessful enterprise. work across borders, issues and platforms to solve problems and advance goals pany and aim to preclude potential conflicts among existing clients and with while building their careers at APCO. Working with senior leadership, APCO APCO’s mission and values as a global company. seeks to ensure that the issues are adequately and clearly addressed through its corporate policies and practices and the industry codes of conduct and ethics to which everyone adheres. 15 Championing Women & Girls for Sustainable Growth A CERTIFIED MAJORITY WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESS APCO is certified by the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council, in partnership with the Women Presidents’ Educational Organization, as a women-owned business. As the largest certified majority women-owned global business in the industry, APCO’s passion for women and girls is part of its DNA as a firm. INVESTING IN WOMEN Investing in women is not only the right thing to do, but it is also critical to the success of businesses, governments and organizations. With the widespread explosion of women’s empowerment initiatives, gender equality is a major part of the public discourse. Yet, profound gender gaps persist, especially for women of color, in the United States and around the world. APCO believes that inclusion is a business imperative. However, as the issues women face vary greatly by community, the path forward for companies looking to advocate in this space is not always clear. APCO believes that by investing in and advocating for women — whether internally at APCO as part of its extensive client and pro bono work in this space or through the active external leadership of its employees — it can help strengthen business outcomes and create benefits for families, communities and countries. APCO’s multifaceted commitment to women, through work in these areas, underscores its commitment to a wide range of UNGC Principles, including those focused on labor and human rights. APCO is proud that its senior management is composed equally of women and men and that its Global Leadership Team has a majority of female members. Founder and Executive Chairman Margery Kraus has been a determined and consistent advocate for women in business, as well as a mentor and role model to many women in the company and beyond. Adding to thought leadership on this topic, a number of APCO’s colleagues wrote blog posts on issues related to women’s empowerment. PARENTAL LEAVE As a commitment to independence and its corporate values, APCO has expanded its North America paid parental leave policy from three weeks to three months of fully paid leave. APCO’s founder started the firm as a working mother with three children and has always believed that the best employees can be the most successful when they know that their employer is a true partner in their growth and development at work. APCO aims to empower employees to successfully balance the demands of their growing families with the opportunities of growing their career. APCO is beyond proud to support all of its employees and their families that commit their time to the firm. 16 Championing Women & Girls for Sustainable Growth (CONTINUED) WEConnect International’s Founding WOMANITY #emBRAce one reason why social crimes, such Ambassadors. This ambassador class India as rape, are on the rise is because featured three internationally successIn 2017, APCO’s UAE employees made impoverished women are forced to ful women business owners who are Since 2014, APCO in India has served cash and in-kind donations to the charwalk around without any underwear, dedicated to acting on WEConnect as the official government relations and ity campaign #emBRAce, which seeks let alone a decent blouse or skirt.” International’s commitment to opencommunications partner to the Womto supply undergarments to young — Juliana Kagugube, founder of the ing doors for women business owners, anity Foundation’s Women Change girls and women in rural Uganda who #emBRAce campaign economic empowerment and inclusive Makers Program (WCM). The Womare often subjected to physical abuse growth. APCO served as WEConnect anity Foundation is a privately held because they are not properly dressed. WOMEN ADVANCING International’s official media partner for philanthropic foundation dedicated AFRICA its first ever Global Supplier Diversity to women’s empowerment to reduce “A bra is taken for granted everywhere. Washington, D.C. and Inclusion Symposium. The Syminequalities and foster progress. The But not so in Uganda, where young posium assembled corporate supplier specific program APCO supports, girls, orphans and widows struggle to First lady and wife of the late diversity and inclusion professionals, the Women Change Makers Program survive and cover themselves. Based President Nelson Mandela, was CLIENT, PRO BONO AND impact. Actors in this area are digging as well as corporate responsibility and (WCM), focuses on supporting NGOs on my experience and research around looking to develop a signature initiative CHARITABLE WORK deeper, tackling bigger challenges and sustainability professionals, to share with strategy planning, HR, IT, commuAfrican rural communities, I can say to elevate the role of African women. paving the way for a more prosperous tools and resources to successfully nications and other sectors to enhance Championing the progress of women future. Here are just a few examples: begin or enhance their global supplier their efforts on women’s issues. In 2017, and girls globally is part of APCO’s diversity and inclusion efforts. APCO APCO in India supported the WCM at DNA and has been for 34 years. WECONNECT promoted the event through media all partner meetings, participated in INTERNATIONAL outreach, secured key interviews with the selection process of new grantees In the last year, heightened levels of WEConnect International’s CEO and and supported the capacity-building activity and engagement have been WEConnect International is a global ensured the attendance of media efforts of the organization. The team seen by businesses, governments and nonprofit that helps women-owned representatives to cover the Gala. also mentored several CEOs from the community organizations alike. There businesses succeed in worldwide value APCO also supported WEConnect grantee organizations, helped form is now widespread understanding that chains. It identifies, educates, registers International with its messaging and beneficial relationships and fostered investing in women and girls is a wise and certifies businesses that are owned fundraising strategy through an opindialogue for future initiatives within use of resources. As a result, APCO is and managed by women and connects ion research effort to gather insights the program. seeing clients shift their focus beyond them with multinational corporate that informed a revamped messaging simply making the case for investbuyers. In 2017, APCO’s Founder and approach and branding. ment in this space to trying to better Executive Chairman Margery Kraus understand how best to enhance their was officially recognized as one of 17 Championing Women & Girls for Sustainable Growth (CONTINUED) In 2016, the Trust approached APCO continues today, supported by sponevents. The combined efforts culmito life through an original website and to launch Women Advancing Africa, sors who have become partners of nated in several high-profile events, series of videos that featured stories a pan-African initiative dedicated to Women Advancing Africa. UPS and mass media coverage, government and voices of women entrepreneurs. strengthening the role of women in others have made commitments to engagement and meetings with APCO also led a targeted media and Africa’s future. advance African women’s roles in organizations such as UNICEF and digital outreach strategy to garner finance, media, technology and other UNESCO to bring future success to attention for the official launch. APCO APCO partnered with the Trust to sectors through long-term collaborathe organization. led all communications and support for develop the Women Advancing Africa tions with the Trust. the launch, which reached more than initiative from the ground up, advising SHECOUNTS 35 million people with coverage on the strategy and partnerships and EDUCATE GIRLS Washington, D.C. in CNBC Africa, Forbes, Devex, supporting all communications for the India News Deeply and other publications. first-of-its-kind global event. In addiIn many developing communities, Additionally, the team helped the tion to building the strategy, APCO APCO’s team in India works closely women lack access to the savings and client rollout SheCounts at a series recruited Fortune 100 companies and with Educate Girls, a nonprofit orgafinancial tools required to succeed. of high-profile events that took leading NGOs to sponsor the initiative nization that empowers communities A global energy company approached place in conjunction with Council on – including the UN Foundation, Intel, to tackle issues at the root cause of APCO to develop and launch a sigForeign Relations, the U.S. Chamber of UPS and Johnson & Johnson. The team gender inequality in India’s education nature new women’s initiative that Commerce and the Center for Global facilitated each partnership, developsystem. APCO’s team supported the would help women save securely, Development. Within weeks of the ing corporate pledges that served as government outreach and communiinvest in their business and transform launch, the client and its partners seed funding for Women Advancing cations efforts for the Educate Girls their lives. APCO partnered with the received more than a dozen inquiAfrica and strengthened the role of Development Impact Bond, a unique client to build the strategy for Sheries from organizations interested in women in Africa’s social and economic results-based financing model created Counts, a global platform designed getting involved with SheCounts. development in the longterm. by the organization. Together, APCO to put savings and financial tools in and Educate Girls socialized the conthe hands of women around the world. The Women Advancing Africa Forum cept of the bond to targeted audiences Working closely with Women’s World launched successfully in Dar Es Salaam, and received a large government Banking, Center for Global DevelopTanzania – convening more than 300 award for its efforts. In addition, APCO ment and others, APCO helped build women leaders from across the public, worked directly with a top federal the partnership from scratch – creating private and nonprofit sectors. The government official to form Memos the name, brand and messaging for Forum was covered in more than 30 of Understanding with other states on the flagship global initiative. APCO publications and reached more than behalf of Educate Girls and presented launched SheCounts during Women’s 40 million people. The movement their efforts at high-level government History Month, bringing the program 18 Championing Women & Girls for Sustainable Growth (CONTINUED) WOMENLEAP PRO BONO WORK: Singapore, Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam and Indonesia MUMS@WORK APCO is a founding committee member of womenLEAP, a network of women and men in Singapore within the Dubai legal, executive and advisory professions. Over the past year, APCO hosted several events alongside its committee partners, Microsoft and CMS Holborn Asia, including a fireside chat with Ambassador Adaljiza Albertina Mums@Work was the first initiative of its kind in the MENA region focused on helping mothers return to the workplace Xavier Reis Magno of the Democratic Republic of Timor Leste. The network has continued to evolve over the past year, after taking a career break for childcare. In the Middle East, there was a significant amount of stigma surrounding women hosting interactive workshops on the importance of allies and expanding its reach to male professionals in Singapore. who take time off work to raise their children. APCO in Dubai developed a two-pronged strategy which involved a robust womenLEAP celebrates gender diversity and seeks to provide women in all stages of their career with opportunities to communications campaign and an intensive public affairs effort to enable Mums@Work to increase their visibility and connect, collaborate, and grow together. change mindsets in the region. APCO’s communications efforts resulted in increased awareness about the benefits of offering flexible or part-time work for new mothers returning to the workforce. They also culminated in the creation of AZAD FOUNDATION/SAKHA CONSULTING WINGS impactful partnerships with key government authorities and high-ranking officials who are now positioned as champions India for the organization. Sakha Consulting Wings, a social enterprise that provides safe transportation solutions for women in India, partnered LOCKHEED MARTIN with APCO to build long-term marketing strategies and a year-long communication plan. The organization, committed Singapore, Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand, to empowering vulnerable women by providing them with professional chauffeur employment opportunities, found it Vietnam and Indonesia difficult to grow due to a lack of brand awareness. The APCO team developed Sakha’s creative communication materials to help them engage with various stakeholders to increase their brand awareness and reach targeted audiences to APCO spearheaded media outreach for Lockheed achieve growth. Martin’s announcement of a year-long partnership with Girls in Tech (a global nonprofit organization focused on the engagement, education and empowerment of girls and women who are passionate about technology) to promote STEM education and careers across Asia. The announcement was made in tandem with the Singapore Airshow 2018, to which APCO served as Lockheed Martin’s media partner. APCO provided on-the-ground support during the launch event held at the Singapore Youth Flying Club, which enabled 30 young Singaporean girls to engage with a panel of women leaders in aerospace and technology. 19 At APCO, Women Account for: WOMEN & THOUGHT LEADERSHIP (CLICK TO VIEW ARTICLE) 59.7% OF APCO’S GLOBAL WORKFORCE (2017) International Women’s Day: Continuing the Fight by Isabel Bruce Pressing for Progress in the Tech Industry by Michael Ann Thomas Take A Look In The Mirror: Pressing Harder for Progress by Margery Kraus The Challenge of Being a Woke Diner in 2018 by Melissa Musiker Davos 2018 Trends: Blockchain, AI, Six Steps to The Travel Ban is How Coca-Cola Came the Rise of Glocalism Rebuilding Reputation Upheld: Now What to Terms With its and New Brand for Companies Own Water Crisis Experiences by Katie Sprehe by Amy Garrick 43.7% by Barie Carmichael by Anna Tunkel OF APCO’S LEADERSHIP* (2017) Kelly Williamson Purposefully EngagPressing for Progress Named a ing the Consumers in Democratizing of the Future Nations PRWeek 2018 Hall of Femme Champion by Kas Rigas by Lindsey Malcolm of PR *Leadership is defined as Senior Director, Executive Director and CEO level. 20 Highlights of APCO’s Client Work With Social Impact MAHINDRA GROUP: RISE service more broadly. Through a tarpublicly in a visually pleasing way. The APCO also pitched traditional media the company to rank among these Dubai geted PR and social media campaign, reports included extensive details on outlets to gain coverage of several awards for several consecutive years. APCO created specific campaigns that CSX’s efforts to further human rights, CSX social responsibility efforts and There are over 750,000 people in reached each of these very distinct labor rights, anti-corruption practices served as the middle-man between the HEINEKEN DRINK the United Arab Emirates working as audience groups. and sustainability efforts. The two media outlets, the CSX company and OR DRIVE housekeepers or nannies. However, reports currently sit on the CSX website the beneficiary organizations. New York with banks often refusing to open CSX and are available for public download. bank accounts to those in low income New York In the Awards & Rankings sector, APCO In 2017, APCO helped HEINEKEN USA brackets, this segment of the populaAPCO also worked with CSX to proassisted CSX in applying for several (HUSA) highlight its continued committion is usually left unable to save their In 2017, APCO worked with CSX to mote the social responsibility work that honors, including the Dow Jones ment to responsibility by launching earnings and plan their finances. Rise create the company’s 2016 Corporate the company does through Awards & Sustainability Index and the 2017 Assothe “Drink OR Drive” campaign in aims to enable workers earning less Social Responsibility Report and the Rankings, blog content and traditional ciation of American Railroads North partnership with Uber and Evite. HUSA than US$1,300, and who do not cur2017 Data Supplement (which was media. APCO published and promoted American Environmental Employee leveraged the Evite digital invitation for creating shared, sustainable value. rently have access to financial services, published in 2018). Contribution to several blog posts on behalf of CSX on Excellence Award. Application to these platform to encourage consumers to The platform contains six focus areas, to set up a bank account and build these reports was comprised of gaththeir shared blogging platform (3BL) and other awards involved gathering decide at the point of RSVP whether including protecting water resources, their assets. Rise’s objective was threeering data from the company from a that covered a range of information, information from the yearly CSR report they would be drinking or driving at reducing CO2 emissions, sourcing fold: show employers the benefits of variety of sources, working with the including CSR initiatives run by the and other locations, writing up survey holiday events and celebrations. As sustainably, growing with communihaving their help staff receive higher client to ensure accuracy and clarity, transportation company, recognition answers and working closely with the a part of the campaign, participants ties, promoting health and safety and training; encourage nannies to join the assembling and writing up the informathey received and special mentions client to ensure accuracy and clarity. who RSVP’d received discounted advocating responsible consumption. Rise service; and create partnerships tion in a comprehensive way, designing of outstanding employees in the APCO’s continued support of CSX in Uber rides from HUSA. With a focus with financial institutions to offer this the final products and presenting them corporate social responsibility sector. these yearly applications has enabled on language and its impact on human APCO helped create the “Drink OR behavior, it encouraged consumers Drive” campaign based on the idea to take a step back and make a conthat the prevention of drunk driving scious decision about responsible starts long before the first beer is consumption during the holidays. poured. APCO took an inventive The campaign lasted two months, approach to responsibility messaging running from November 3 2017, around the holiday period and urged to January 3 2018. people to do the right thing by making a choice ahead of time. The campaign The campaign was part of HEINEKEN’s was developed to meet people early “Brewing a Better World” platform, on in the going-out process by reachthe company’s longterm approach ing consumers when they were online 21 Highlights of APCO’s Client Work With Social Impact (CONTINUED) and in their communities through Evite. UN Sustainable Development Goal the students built upon the theme, environment, APCO was asked to Part of what made the campaign so 3.5 to strengthen the prevention and “Responsible or not? Know your limit,” lead a public-private partnership that successful was the simple adjustment treatment of substance abuse, includand conducted several on-campus would represent the United States made to the phrase “Drink and Drive.” ing narcotic drug abuse and harmful campaigns at different universities in to the world and set the tone for The campaign switched the phrase use of alcohol. They also corresponded the city to promote anti-binge drinking. U.S. relations in Central Asia for from using the word “and” to a phrase with the Hong Kong government’s The campaign gained 896 social media years to come. Working closely with that uses the word “or,” thereby distarget to achieve at least 10% relative followers and reached 1,058 students. the U.S. Department of State, rupting the innate connection between reduction in the prevalence of binge In 2018, the team again engaged stuthe award-winning design firm the two actions. drinking and harmful use of alcohol dents to develop another campaign BRC Imagination Arts and the among adults and in the prevalence called “Be Sensible, Be Responsible,” Eurasia Foundation, APCO brought HUSA’s efforts received great success of drinking among youth by 2025. to promote anti-drunk driving and the USA Pavilion’s theme, “The Source with high levels of consumer engageanti-binge drinking. Through a series of Infinite Energy,” to life. ment throughout the duration of the In 2017, the team helped FReD launch of creatives, visuals and videos, the campaign. the seventh annual anti-drunk driving campaign gained another 818 social campaign pledge event: “Together, media followers and reached around HONG KONG FORUM FOR Our Voices Can Stop Drunk Driving.” 3,500 target audiences. RESPONSIBLE DRINKING Reminding the public to drink respon(FReD) sibly during the festival season, the EXPO 2017, USA PAVILION Hong Kong campaign leveraged a bandaged car Washington, D.C. image and reinforced the pledge, The Hong Kong Forum for Responsible “if you drink, don’t drive,” while gathAPCO was selected as the implementing Drinking (FReD), is an alcoholic bevering digital pledges against drunk partner for the U.S. State Departerage industry coalition that engages driving via FReD’s online platform. ment’s USA Pavilion at EXPO 2017 the government, lawmakers, catering The outreach secured 250 pledges in Astana, Kazakhstan. The World Expo trade, consumers and other stakeholdand built awareness among the target was the largest global convening and ers on initiatives to promote responsible audience within this key district. the most important event in Central drinking in Hong Kong. APCO has Asia in 2017. More than 110 countries collaborated with FReD for eight years. APCO also helped FReD sustain its were represented, and a U.S. presence In 2017, APCO helped the coalition partnership with the City University was an absolute must. Facing the launch multi-stakeholder campaigns to of Hong Kong by engaging students daunting task of raising millions of promote responsible drinking. These to develop and implement a respondollars and assembling a world-class initiatives corresponded with the sible drinking campaign. In 2017, team in the face of a difficult political 22 Part II UNGC PRINCIPLES In the pages that follow, we provide a summary of APCO’s internal policies and practices aligned to support the UNGC Principles. We also include examples of how we apply the principles to our work with clients around the world, particularly our work focused on human rights and labor practices. 23 Human Rights Principles APCO’s Policies, Operations & Goals PRINCIPLE 1 APCO’S VALUES TRANSCEND GEOGRAPHIC BOUNDARIES AND ARE EMBRACED IN EVERY OFFICE Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Support and respect for human rights is an integral part of APCO’s values. These values transcend geographic boundaries and are embraced in every APCO office. In addition, at the core of APCO’s governance are two essential policies with which all employees of APCO and its subsidiaries are required to comply — APCO’s Code of Conduct and APCO’s Anti-Discrimination and Equal Employment Opportunity Policy. APCO’S Code of Conduct details the high standards of behavior expected of all APCO employees in their interactions with each other, vendors, clients, prospective clients, PRINCIPLE 2 government officials, etc. Underlying the Code of Conduct is a belief in treating others with respect and acting in good faith and with transparency in all transactions. Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses 24 Human Rights Principles (CONTINUED) APCO’S ANTIenforced equal employment policies. human trafficking, to addressing the Another component of APCO’s work DISCRIMINATION Such policies protect employees from rampant malnutrition of children and with the CIFF targeted human trafdiscrimination based on their sex, lactating mothers. ficking and advocacy for survivors. In AND EQUAL marital status, disability or pregnancy. India, human trafficking is the third EMPLOYMENT APCO and CIFF focused advocacy largest organized crime, after arms and OPPORTUNITY POLICY These policies ensure all individuals work on increasing law enforcement drug trafficking. APCO worked closely receive the same opportunities with around the rising demand for children with survivors, civil society partners, APCO’s anti-discrimination and equal regard to recruitment, hiring, promoin commercial sexual exploitation. academic institutes and members of employment opportunity policy tion and compensation. In addition, To gain exposure in the government, parliament to cultivate the debate prohibits APCO employees from many of APCO’s offices around the APCO used political influencers on the need for a comprehensive engaging in or supporting discrimiworld have contributed to anti-discrimin three of India’s largest states to legislation on human trafficking. By nation. Specifically, it is APCO’s policy ination causes via pro bono support, strategically champion the cause. working with various stakeholders, to: (i) recruit, hire and promote the client work or fundraising. Due to their efforts, political influencers the team positioned the narrative as most qualified staff for all jobs; and emerged as effective change-makers a nonpartisan issue and collaborated (ii) ensure that all staff actions (including, APPLICATIONS IN who have prevented millions of chilwith one of the largest survivors colbut not limited to, recruitment, hiring, EXTERNAL WORK dren from falling into child prostitution lective to drive a “Knocking the Door” compensation, benefits, transfers, every year. APCO’s efforts successfully campaign on Women’s Day, contacting layoffs, company-sponsored trainings, In addition to respecting human changed the well-established narraMembers of Parliament and gaining social and recreational programs) are rights in its own operations, APCO tive of “child-prostitution” to “serial their support for early passage of the administered in a non-discriminatory contributes to promoting awareness child rape,” leading to collaborative bill. Additionally, the team ran a digital way without regard to an applicant’s and respect for international human efforts between Parliament, local media campaign to amplify the voices or employee’s race, color, religion, rights through pro bono and client administrations and police forces to of survivors as a citizen-led movement, national origin, sex, age, marital status, assignments, including: launch a Focused Task Unit. The goal creating champions among parliamenpersonal appearance, sexual orientaof the Focused Task Unit is to create a tarians, bureaucrats and social media tion, gender identity or expression, CHILDREN’S INVESTMENT zero-tolerance district for child prosinfluencers who swung the public family responsibility, disability, veteran FUND FOUNDATION (CIFF) titution by 2019. In addition to the sentiment in favor of the campaign. status, education, political affiliation, India political influencers, the APCO team genetic information or any other utilized the power of digital messaging To combat the rampant malnutrition classification protected by applicable APCO works on behalf of CIFF on the to create a petition with more than among children and mothers, APCO law. As a global organization, other betterment of human rights issues 200,000 signatures demanding severe worked with the CIFF’s communiAPCO regions such as Greater China, across India. These issues range from punishment for men who demand sex ty-based Management of Acute Europe and Southeast Asia, have also commercial sexual exploitation and from children. Malnutrition (CMAM), which treats 25 Human Rights Principles (CONTINUED) children suffering from severe malnourishment. APCO crejournalists and the Summit, procuring more than 20 unique ated a grassroots advocacy program for CMAM in which articles over the course of the four-day event. several heads of villages were mobilized to write over 200 representations that were sent to government stakeholders to ABDULLA AL GHURAIR FOUNDATION FOR request support for the continuation of the program. During EDUCATION (AGFE) Phase 1 of the program, a total of 9,000 children were treated Dubai and more than 2,700 lives saved. The momentum from Phase 1 pushed the advocacy campaign forward to Phase 2 with AGFE, founded in 2015 and based in Dubai, is the largest increased government allocations for the budget. privately funded foundation in the Arab world focused exclusively on education. It aims to improve access to quality KIDSRIGHTS FOUNDATION education for high-achieving, underserved Emirati and Arab London youth. While the Foundation is one of the world’s largest in the education space, regionally it was not well known and The KidsRights Foundation, a Netherlands-based internaWORLD INNOVATION SUMMIT FOR understood. Further, most people outside of the UAE did tional charity, promotes the rights of children around the APCO’s teams in London, Frankfurt, Paris, Dubai, Singapore EDUCATION not know what the AGFE did, how it worked, what it stood world and offers them a platform to make their voices heard and New York have worked with the KidsRights FoundaSingapore, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam and for or who it supported. To tackle these issues, APCO set on the world scene. To do so, KidsRights awards the annual tion since 2015 to raise awareness of KidsRights’ initiatives Indonesia up a framework that involved strategy and key message International Children’s Peace Prize to an exceptional child and increase their profile in key donation markets through development and a robust external communications effort. whose courageous or otherwise remarkable actions have securing coverage in top-tier national publications. Raising Led by the Qatar Foundation, the World Innovation Summit APCO supported the organization on the ground at worldmade a difference in improving children’s rights. KidsRights awareness of widely underrepresented topics with often for Education is a biennial summit, attracting political leadclass events, such as the World Government Summit, where commits to supporting this winning child’s initiatives and little relevance to the targeted media markets, APCO’s ers and educators from around the world to congregate the local team set up key interviews with target Tier 1 media, projects in its home country. Past winners have championed media relations strategic support and outreach resulted in in Doha and collaborate on advancing the global human as well as at numerous client-led events. APCO particularly a host of issues, from promoting environmental awareness, coverage of the International Children’s Peace Prize and the rights of access to education. APCO sent a global team focused on securing coverage in regional and international to campaigning for girls’ access, to encouraging increased KidsRights Index across all geographical targets, including of consultants to the summit alongside four delegations publications whose audiences included key stakeholders children’s representation in government. The most wellThe Guardian, The Daily Mail, BBC World Service, Metro, of journalists from China, Indonesia, Malaysia and Turkey. for the Foundation. The approach focused on educating a known laureate, Malala Yousafzai, won the International Reuters, NOS, RTL, ZDF, Jakarta Post, Le Monde and AFP. Joining the World Innovation Summit for Education’s press broad constituency of regional stakeholders on the history Children’s Peace Prize before winning the Nobel Peace APCO overcame the challenges initially identified through team, APCO assembled the delegation of leading reporters of the organization and the tremendous impact it has had Prize the following year. KidsRights also publishes an highly targeted media outreach and sensitive media coorfrom each of the markets and oversaw all media activities, on students’ lives around the region over the past years. annual global ranking, the KidsRights Index, which charts dination with interested journalists. interviews, and briefings on the ground with reporters. The how countries adhere to and are equipped to improve chilWorld Innovation Summit for Education sought to increase dren’s rights. It is a ranking of all states that have ratified the awareness of innovative education practices in such marUN Convention on the Rights of the Child for which sufficient kets by providing journalists with exposure to the global data is available, a total of 182 countries in 2018. dialogue. APCO effectively served as a conduit between 26 Human Rights Principles (CONTINUED) GLOBAL CITIZEN emotional and financial burdens of their diagnosis. Across the region and the KUWAIT PUBLIC AUTHORITY FOR DISABLED AFFAIRS London world, preconceived notions about cancer diagnoses still exist, causing patients (PADA) to refuse to seek treatment or tell their loved ones. London APCO’s London team supported Global Citizen in delivering a concert, Global Citizen Live!, at the Brixton Academy, bringing together world leaders APCO’s work for the Society focused on their social media platforms to help The Kuwait Public Authority for Disabled Affairs (PADA) has a powerful on stage to make fresh commitments to end extreme poverty globally. APCO remove those notions and help patients realize they are not alone in their fight. mandate – supporting efforts to integrate persons with disability (PWDs) in secured Ministerial representation from a host of Commonwealth States – includWeekly posts on topics such as new developments in cancer treatment, statistics schools, employment and social life. The remit of PADA is both broad and ing Penny Mordaunt, Secretary of State for International Development – and and lifestyle awareness were aimed not only at patients, but also at families and all-encompassing, with all efforts focused on achieving three key outputs: helped coordinate a Parliamentary reception addressed by Foreign Secretary caregivers to help them understand and empathize with what is happening to Boris Johnson and his Australian counterpart Julie Bishop in support of girls’ their loved one. • Enhancing human capacities and institutional effectiveness for prevention, education in the developing world. early detection, diagnosis and rehabilitation of disabilities. APCO also offered digital support such as website content, video editing, info• Coordinating and organizing efficient efforts toward removal of barriers to CANCER SOCIETY graphic design and media announcements. By providing access to information social, economic and educational inclusion of persons with disabilities. Abu Dhabi that told patients they were not the first, were not alone and kept them informed • Increasing technical expertise and organizational capacities for implementation on what Rahma could support them with, APCO helped provide patients, families of Universal Design and country-wide use of technology enablers. Named after the Arabic word for “compassion,” Rahma Cancer Society supand caregivers with the compassion they need to survive. ports cancer patients, their families and caregivers to overcome the physical, APCO partnered with PADA to develop a campaign to challenge perceptions and share a message of inclusion among Kuwaiti citizens. The 40,000+ PWDs within Kuwait face a wide range of obstacles, including misperceptions and ignorance about the nature and causes of impairments, and the serious underestimation of their potential and capacities. APCO’s campaign seeks to address that reality, changing perceptions that currently view PWDs as passive recipients of care and protection to full and contributing members of society. Throughout the partnership, APCO conducted a comprehensive review to understand the landscape faced and the most powerful messaging that would resonate among target audiences. These insights were used to develop an outreach campaign called “Disabilities: Removing barriers and challenging perceptions of People with Disabilities.” APCO’s work included developing the campaign visuals, creating a website and crafting an outreach and engagement strategy and all supporting material. 27 Human Rights Principles (CONTINUED) INTERNAL of integration and respecting diverse via another reporting channel (Human MEASUREMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION viewpoints as a core value of the firm. Resources, General Counsel, ResponEMPLOYEE ETHICS sible Business Committee, etc.), the Regular interview skills training is appropriate course of inquiry and party TRAINING In order to keep values at the forefront provided to employees to ensure best suited to pursue follow-up action of what APCO does, the company candidates are treated fairly and have are determined. 2017 PERFORMANCE has taken several concrete actions a positive interview experience. to ensure employees understand the Typically, most questions or concerns APCO’s anti-corruption training proimportance of the company’s values, NEW EMPLOYEE about following a specific business gram is led by APCO’s legal and human the spirit it intends by living its values ORIENTATION practice or the use of a reporting tool resources teams. Anti-corruption and that its actions match its words. are handled by members of APCO’s training is conducted online through It began with a launch of these During the first few days of joining Responsible Business Committee. APCO’s easily accessible internal refreshed values in 2018. APCO, the firm’s values, as well as Claims that are more serious in nature portal. The anti-corruption training Curiosity Inclusivity APCO’s Code of Conduct and Antior have a personnel implication are is mandatory for all employees and REFRESHED VALUES Discrimination and Equal Employment handled by the office of the genrequires the completion of an exam, Opportunity Policy, are reviewed with eral counsel and the senior human which the employees must pass in As a commitment to stay ahead of all employees as part of the standard resources executive collaboratively. order to meet APCO’s compliance the curve in times of transformational Global Orientation Program. This Significant issues, if any, are brought to training requirements. and disruptive change and to meet underscores the importance of followthe attention of the Global Leadership society’s changing expectations of ing and abiding by these principles in Team. Annually, a report is prepared how corporations operate and posiemployees’ interactions from the very for the company’s Global Leadership Colleagues from across tion themselves, APCO updated its start of their employment. Team on usage of the compliance line the globe shared what the values. The new values are comprised and trends. In 2017, there were no calls of: curiosity, inclusivity, boldness and ETHICS COMPLIANCE LINE received by the global compliance line. values meant to them and empathy. their importance to APCO’s APCO has a global compliance phone culture and partnerships BEFORE JOINING THE FIRM line that provides employees with an additional avenue to raise questions with clients. During the hiring process, candidates or file complaints about unethical or are interviewed not only by the hiring illegal conduct. This line is monitored Boldness Empathy manager, but also by their potential daily since its implementation in 2009. peers. This is to ensure that the canWhen concerns are raised, whether didates understand the importance through direct line management or 28 Labor Principles APCO’s Policies & Goals PRINCIPLE 3 LABOR PRINCIPLES employer of choice in its industry for with adequate distance to meet U.S. diverse talent. As a clear leader in fire standards, APCO is diligent in its Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective APCO adheres to the employment diversity, APCO firmly believes the practices to create a healthy and safe recognition of the right to collective bargaining laws in each of the countries in which very best solutions, products and work environment for APCO employit operates to ensure that individuals contributions come from the diversity ees around the world. In fact, new meet country and local employment of people and their backgrounds and ergonomic work stations and standing eligibility standards, such as regulaexperiences, and APCO has a competdesks were installed for all employees tions governing age, among other itive distinction when it fully embraces in the Washington, D.C., headquarPRINCIPLE 4 things. Furthermore, APCO’s equal and leverages this belief. In 2018, ters new office space as well as other opportunity policy provides the frameAPCO hired an external counselor offices, such as Berlin and Raleigh. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor work for nondiscriminatory actions specializing in CSR efforts to strategize affecting labor. APCO does not prevent best methods of prioritizing diversity APCO encourages its employees to employees from joining trade unions. and inclusion. APCO rolled out a new lead a healthy lifestyle. Examples of Its approach to human resources is to approach to D&I with the formation this include some offices organizing PRINCIPLE 5 foster and maintain an open and transof a Diversity Council and unconscious fun and healthy competitions for losing parent work environment to address bias trainings for all leadership. weight, playing on organized sport The effective abolition of child labor any issues raised by employees in teams and even walking treadmills. accordance with applicable law and APCO is committed to a healthy In addition to formal procedures and with its values and policies. and safe work environment for all directed opportunities, the firm was employees and takes pride in creating built on a spirit of mutual respect, which APCO does not promote, engage environments that are both compliant is an essential part of how employees PRINCIPLE 6 or employ child labor in any of the with various country regulatory stancollaborate so well together across countries in which it operates and dards in this respect and pleasant to projects and continents. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and its anti-discrimination policy clearly work in. occupation defines the company’s position on employment practices that may harm APCO has several policies and procecommunities or individuals on a broad dures in place to address healthand range of personal characteristics. safety-related issues. Whether it is complying with Belgian standards of APCO implemented a Diversity & ensuring access to natural light into Inclusion (D&I) Program in 2009 and employee work spaces or confirming clearly stated its D&I goals to be the that hallways and furniture are laid out 29 Labor Principles (CONTINUED) IMPLEMENTATION HEALTH AND SAFETY NONDISCRIMINATION, During APCO’s standard orientation CHILD AND FORCED LABOR program, all new hires are provided with information on health and safety APCO takes a number of actions to practices for their local office, includensure a work environment free of ing: fire evacuation routes, alarm discriminatory practices and does not testing procedures, leave reporting allow or condone the engagement of procedures for employees to follow child or forced labor. in the event of national emergencies, inclement weather procedures and Employees at all APCO offices enter policies prohibiting drug use at work. willingly into employment contracts APCO takes steps to abide by health (in jurisdictions where it is customary) and safety requirements on an ongoDIVERSITY great strides in reaching a key constitreflective of the laws of the country in ing basis, including, but not limited uency of future potential candidates which they work and reside, and the to, participation in emergency drills, To ensure the spirit of the employment and creating a greater awareness of company follows market standard confirming the ban of any weapons (labor) policies and practices are diversity in the industry. Striking the practices with regard to notice period or dangerous instruments on work maintained, APCO’s human resources right balance and diversification is requirements. The global compliance grounds, ensuring smoke-free work team reviews progress against the something APCO is committed to line (referenced previously) is promoted environments in all countries where stated diversity and inclusion (D&I) today and in the long term. APCO is throughout APCO’s offices (through smoking in buildings is banned, goals and performs market-based pay proud of its accomplishments to date posters, brochures, wallet cards and checking that all building dimensions survey research in the majority of the in working towards creating a diverse information on APCO’s intranet) as continue to meet the building code countries in which APCO operates. In and inclusive workforce and knows one mechanism for reporting issues or standards for emergency evacuation doing so, sound practices are ensured there is always more work to be done. how powerfully unconscious bias requiring personal interviews, focus concerns about inappropriate or disand accommodating individuals with and APCO can continue to offer comcreeps into everyday life and decision group discussions and a review of respectful behavior. This compliance mobility impairments. petitive wages without any adverse or Early in 2018, APCO engaged making. The teams gained a higher relevant information and policies. line is monitored by the senior human unintentional pay discrimination pracwith specialist external advisers to understanding of unconscious bias and A Diversity Council comprised of all resources executive for follow up and tices. APCO has placed a longterm advance APCO’s commitment to were motivated to further mitigate it, interested staff has been formed to action, as necessary. APCO was built on a spirit of strategic focus on education that is diversity and inclusion. The HR team especially in recruitment process. The review, uphold and strengthen APCO’s mutual respect. quickly becoming one of the cornerand leadership participated in unconnext significant step taken to foster commitment to diversity and inclusion. stones of the D&I program. Through scious bias training delivered by the greater diversity an inclusion was to educational outreach, APCO can make advisors where they experienced assess APCO’s current state of D&I, 30 Labor Principles (CONTINUED) LABOR PRINCIPLES This social breakthrough has been engaged by the FOMB to develop a the Board’s credibility as a new entity in a struggling economy and to create buy-in from political and financial communities APPLIED TO EXTERNAL further recognized both in the press communication strategy that would in order to bring creditors to the table and restructure the terms of the debt. APCO’s media relations, strategic support and within the French political world: guide the Commonwealth through and outreach resulted in coverage of the compelling narrative of Puerto Rico’s circumstances and the Board’s mission WORK Meubles IKEA France caught the a fiscal crisis amounting to more to bring the Commonwealth to fiscal growth in a number of high-profile publications, including The Wall Street Journal, attention of the Secretary of State than US$73 billion in debt owed to The New York Times, Reuters and the Associated Press. Expanding institutional relationships between the Board and major IKEA FRANCE AND for Equality between Women and bondholders. It was one of the worst third-party validators was also paramount to communicating the goals of the Board to the policymakers in Washington, EXTENSION OF PATERNITY Men and was interviewed by the economic recessions in Latin American D.C. APCO conducted in-depth research to identify think tanks and individuals whom the FOMB could engage to build LEAVE Inspectorate General of Social Affairs history, exacerbated by Puerto Rico’s trust, outline mutual interest and produce tangible outcomes. APCO secured and facilitated meetings with organizations Paris, Lyon (IGAS) as part of a government report status as a U.S. territory. APCO was like the Heritage Foundation, the Peterson Institute and the Atlantic Council. on paternity leave to evaluate the also engaged by the FOMB to reduce Both parents play an equally important extension of the minimum required by its ability to manage its own finances role in the education of children and the law, thus following the example set under U.S. policy and to provide crisis at home, especially when welcoming by companies. communications support to ensure MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES new children. To show its commitment FOMB delivers a clear and consistent to this role in its employees, Meubles PUERTO RICO message in the wake of Hurricanes FOCUS AREA: DIVERSITY AND NONDISCRIMINATION IKEA France signed a company agreeWashington, D.C. Irma and Maria. Through dedicated ment in 2017 for professional equality efforts, the FOMB has returned elec30.1% between men and women by extending The Financial Oversight and Managetricity and running water to the people the paternity (or other parent) leave up to five weeks. This agreement applied ment Board (FOMB) of Puerto Rico was created by the United States Congress of Puerto Rico following the disaster of the hurricanes. Now, the FOMB is OF APCO’S U.S. TEAM to all of its employees, regardless of their gender or personal situation, and under the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management and Economic Stability positioned to launch Puerto Rico into longterm rehabilitation, success and WAS CLASSIFIED AS A was a significant increase compared Act (PROMESA) in 2016 to help Puerto sustainability. to the 11-day minimum required by Rico achieve fiscal balance, provide a MINORITY IN 2017. French law. APCO’s team supported path for its return to the capital marAPCO in D.C. has worked closely per EEOC-designated ethnic categories IKEA’s commitment to the agreement kets and restore economic growth and with FOMB to develop a coordinated by providing media relations, internal opportunity for the people of Puerto public affairs and communication communication and government relaRico. The FOMB continues to push campaign to build understanding and tions to amplify the news. This resulted in approximately 50 articles in leading for financial and structural reforms that include increasing the labor force trust among key stakeholders in public and private organizations such as HEALTH AND SAFETY: IN 2017, THERE WERE NO SERIOUS newspapers, key speaking opportuniparticipation rate and protecting the policymakers, business investors and ties in radio shows and a positive public rights of those who contribute to the the U.S. media. APCO led the FOMB INCIDENCES OR WORK-RELATED INJURIES REPORTED. reception to this stance. structural labor market. APCO was towards its ultimate goal to establish 31 Environmental Principles APCO’s Policies & Goals PRINCIPLE 7 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges APCO’s environmental footprint arises primarily from office operations and business travel. Accordingly, its global policy is based on adhering to all applicable environmental laws and regulations and applying the principles of reducing, reusing and recycling in the workplace, using a Green Office checklist covering office and IT energy efficiency; office supplies and recycling; travel preferences and large company meetings. A pilot program conducted with several of APCO’s mid-sized offices showed that office energy usage, business air travel and paper usage constitute the main elements PRINCIPLE 8 of APCO’s carbon footprint (scope 2 and 3 emissions). While the capacity for a consistent internal environmental data collection system has not yet been developed, individual offices have taken steps to decrease air travel and paper use. Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater APCO works with landlords and property owners to address office energy use. For instance: environmental responsibility • APCO implemented an updated travel policy to encourage the use of Zoom, a video-conferencing software, to gain the greatest efficiency from their time, reduce overhead costs and carbon emissions. • Most offices have separate receptacles for paper, glass/plastic/metal, cardboard and trash. Some offices feature PRINCIPLE 9 motion-detecting lights which saves electricity when rooms are not in use. • APCO’s Paris team provides all employees with recycling-only bins, trains cleaning staff on waste sorting and provides Business should encourage the development and diffusion of information on recycling to all French employees. Used IT devices are now donated to Emmaus, one of the leading environmentally friendly technologies French nonprofit organizations that employs marginalized workers to refurbish IT devices and resell them at low prices — also contributing to the fight against unemployment. The team is now focusing on further reducing waste generation and energy consumption, notably by optimizing electricity usage and reducing the amount of packaging in the food and beverages offered to employees and visitors. The Paris office works with a company called LOXY that recycles all telecommunications and digital equipment and disposable coffee capsules. 32 Environmental Principles (CONTINUED) APPLICATIONS IN EXTERNAL WORK Middle East and Asia, APCO built greater visibility and support for tackling a range of urban resilience challenges. In addition to focusing on operations, APCO contributes to The support provided in France consisted of gathering promoting environmental responsibility and greener techintelligence and analysis on the Paris mayor and French nology through pro bono and client assignments, which in political landscape, as well as positioning the 100RC CEO as 2017 and early 2018 included: a global resilience expert for the World Economic Forum in Davos. In effect, the relationship between the 100RC FounTHE ROCKEFELLER FOUNDATION: 100 dation and the Paris town hall strengthened considerably, RESILIENT CITIES AND SMART POWER FOR and the appointed Chief Resilient officer fully integrated RURAL DEVELOPMENT IN MYANMAR within the city hall and gained notoriety as an ambassador Europe and Asia for resilience in the media. APCO has collaborated with the Rockefeller Foundation for In the past year, APCO drove strategic partnership and more than 10 years on a range of global communications advocacy communication efforts for the 100RC Foundation’s and advocacy projects to support the foundation’s key efforts to launch Smart Power Myanmar. As one of the most global initiatives. Specifically, APCO led communications under-electrified nations in the Asia-Pacific, the Rockefeller and advocacy work for two of the Foundation’s initiatives: Foundation endeavored to bring their successful Smart 100 Resilient Cities (100RC) and Smart Power for Rural Power model incubated in India to help rural communities Development in India and Myanmar. lift themselves out of poverty and reach their economic potential in Myanmar. APCO provided strategic support As agency of record for the 100RC network in Europe, the on communications around rolling out the initiative globally 33 Environmental Principles (CONTINUED) and secured top-tier international media coverage for The campaign reached 208,000 impressions, 384,573 video Content was targeted at the respective audience on social operation of photovoltaic and wind power plants, with a UNGA week, Davos and Prime Minister Modi’s visit to the views and significantly increased ICA’s share of voice in media and was also hosted on the Campaign website. The vision to create a world of 100% renewable energy. The U.S. in 2017. digital conversations taking place during Climate Week. website was built to be a distribution center, putting the company is beginning to expand beyond Japan to areas APCO continues to support ICA with ongoing communifocus on the content and making it shareable to provide such as Southeast Asia, providing innovative solutions INTERNATIONAL COPPER ASSOCIATION cations, events and engagements in APCO offices across audiences with a hub of related, relevant content to share for energy self-sufficiency and enabling the economic New York Europe, North America and China. with their audiences. Similar to the pilot, the campaign development of local communities. Since spring 2018, the strengthened connections between left-leaning and rightAPCO Tokyo team has supported Shizen Energy’s media APCO works with The International Copper Association THE NATURE CONSERVANCY of-center audiences and grew the online audience to nearly relations and has begun discussions towards a more proac(ICA), the voice of the global copper industry, to help comNew York 9,000 members. tive thought leadership strategy for its important renewable municate its mission to develop and defend markets for energy vision. copper and to make a positive contribution to the United Understanding the need to sway right-of-center audiUNITED TECHNOLOGIES, CORP. (UTC) Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG’s). ences into positive climate change discussion, The Nature New York WWF Conservancy and APCO have worked together to create Singapore, Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam and APCO kicked off an international digital campaign with ICA and disseminate targeted content to support those discusUnited Technologies, Corp. is a Fortune 100 global industrial Indonesia at Climate Week NYC 2017, where ICA was a headline sions. A pilot program was initiated that tracked individual conglomerate and powerhouse with businesses in the comsponsor. The team created and launched a digital-first content performance, as well as message saturation, in mercial aerospace, defense and building (elevators, A/C & WWF first approached APCO in Thailand for support on campaign focused on educating policymakers and sustaintargeted audience groups to test how to use content creheating, refrigeration, fire safety, etc.) industries. The company an advocacy campaign to instill dedicated regulation on ability influencers about the role of copper as the solution ated specifically for those audiences to positively penetrate has had sustainability at its core for over 30 years, yet is little ivory trade and wildlife crime. APCO conducted a highto broader global sustainability challenges, SDGs and right-leaning conversations pertaining to climate change understood by media and consumers and little recognized level stakeholder, legal and political assessment landscape low-carbon energy. and climate change solutions. The resulting metrics formed for its efforts. APCO created and executed an earned media to determine the power play in the country and who to a variable baseline for which a future content program can program to help the company become better known for its engage. APCO escalated the issue to the Prime Minister APCO supported ICA to develop and identify messaging be created and tracked against. The team developed an three sustainability pillars: food waste, green aviation and and secured the government promise to enforce tighter and content that would resonate with audiences attendongoing content program with refined target audiences green buildings. APCO successfully secured feature coverage control on ivory trade. Soon after, the Elephant Ivory Act was ing Climate Week and bring to life the contribution of the and understanding of how those audiences view, engage for the company’s programs, promoted the company’s joint established to control ivory trade in Thailand through formal copper industry to the SDGs. APCO started by identifying with and share content. At the end of the two-month “healthy buildings” reports with Harvard University and built registration and a ban on the import and export of ivory relevant audiences interested in climate and sustainability pilot, a closer connection formed between The Nature the Chief Sustainability Officer’s thought leadership profile. throughout the Kingdom. Due to constant engagement issues and created a comprehensive digital targeting plan Conservancy’s left-leaning audience and the right-of-cenwith the government, the team established a working group to ensure that the messages and content would reach the ter audiences targeted. In 2017, APCO and The Nature SHIZEN ENERGY GROUP dedicated to finding a solution comprised of researchers most relevant online audiences. This included creating a Conservancy launched the Choosing Clean Energy Tokyo from a respected university. series of motion graphics, blog posts, visual social content Campaign. Leveraging the learnings of the pilot, the and organizing an ICA executive interview on a sustainability Campaign started by further refining the target audiences Shizen Energy Group is a Japanese renewable energy At a Working Group meeting in 2018, APCO advised WWF podcast. and building out storylines based on their interests. company involved in the development, construction and to show their willingness to participate and partner with 34 Environmental Principles (CONTINUED) the government to gain trust and seek providing media outreach support signiﬁcant portion of the US$118 million collaboration in fighting against illegal to garner awareness and excitement (AED 433.5 million) that participants ivory trade and wildlife crime. The around the launch, coordination sought during their presentations to meeting proved a receptive attitude with local officials and event planprospective investors. from the Thai government and native ning. Efforts for the launch of Water communities towards imposing tighter University culminated in a ribbon-cutUAE top leadership attended the control of the domestic ivory market ting event attended by local partners, mega forum and showed support to and increased cooperation with WWF. customers, press and others in the the initiative, which contributed to UAE The Thai government continues to work industry. efforts towards achieving its sustainwith WWF, especially in its preparation ability goals by supporting cleantech for the Illegal Wildlife Trade ConferMOCCAE: IT AFFECTS YOU innovation and inspiring the next ence 2018 in London organized by Dubai generation of clean energy innovators. the Foreign & Commonwealth Office, Department for International DevelopAPCO is the strategic communications ZALUVIDA’S KUHLICIOUS ment and Department for Environment, partner to the Ministry of Climate FOOD TRUCK TOUR Food & Rural Affairs. The ongoing Change and Environment (MOCCAE) Germany protection of wildlife exemplifies the of the United Arab Emirates, designing government’s commitment to protect and delivering the ministry’s exterZaluvida, a Swiss Life-Science group, Thailand’s reputation for its wildlife nal communications and offerings WGS and leveraged the participation “It Affects You” generated close to entrepreneurs from around the world created a natural feed supplement conservation effort. strategies to build support and raise of high-profile international guests 20 million impressions, raising awareto forge partnerships and drive forward called Mootral that reduces carbon awareness for the ministry’s work with and speakers to optimize international ness of MOCCAE’s leadership and the innovative solutions for today’s global emissions from cows by at least 30%. NALCO WATER AND WATER domestic and international audiences. media attention. As part of this effort, actions being taken by the Minister challenges. Even though products like Mootral, UNIVERSITY APCO developed a social media and and, more broadly, the UAE. which reduces greenhouse gases in Chicago For the 2018 World Government multimedia video campaign called, The first edition of CLIX resulted in the agricultural sector, were not new Summit (WGS), APCO developed the “It Affects You” featuring Robert At Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week a year one investment pledge of to the German market, they had not Water University is a high-tech learning presentation video on climate change De Niro, Academy Award-winning 2018, the ministry organized the US$17.5 million (AED 64 million). been widely adopted by German environment dedicated to developing mitigation and adaption efforts that Actor, Director, and Producer; and Climate Innovation Exchange (CLIX) Investors conﬁrmed plans to invest this farmers. Therefore, APCO worked the expertise of Nalco Water’s cusplayed while His Excellency Dr. Thani Forest Whitaker, Founder and CEO with APCO’s strategic communicasum in 16 of the 27 ﬁnalists, pending with Zaluvida to plan and implement tomers and associates to minimize bin Ahmed Al Zeyoudi, UAE Minister of Whitaker Peace & Development tions counsel to position MOCCAE the completion of full due diligence a creative flagship project: a branded water usage while maximizing results of Climate Change and Environment, Initiative (WPDI) and UNESCO Special as a leading force driving research assessments. This original investment food truck tour across Germany that and optimizing the total cost of delivered his speech. The team also Envoy for Peace, to raise awareness of development and capability building ﬁgure has the potential to grow to would serve climate-friendly burgers operations. APCO worked with Nalco provided strategic counsel for the the impacts of mega natural disasters in sustainability by bringing together US$45.5 million (AED 167 million) to consumers on the street. Water to launch Water University by launch of the Climate Project during brought on by climate change. prospective investors and young over a three-year period and is a 35 Environmental Principles (CONTINUED) The Kuhlicious Food Truck project twenty of Zaluvida’s key stakeholders targeted media and multiplier stakeengaged well-known Berlin-Based from retailers, supermarkets and repholders’ engagement plan. With a TV Chefs from Kochbox, a catering resentatives of farming associations. focus on showcasing the company’s company, to design a unique burger Because of the campaign, Zaluvida AI-enabled platform and its talented recipe using the Mootral-fed beef and is now positioned as the first life scileadership, APCO worked with its chief strategized a road show across eleven ence company to create an innovative communications and marketing officer German cities with a branded food product to reduce harmful emissions in to develop the company’s narrative, truck. APCO’s in-house creative team the beef industry. Zaluvida continues messaging and media materials to handled all the design and branding to initiate negotiations with major bring One Concern’s mission to life. work, including the creation of the supermarkets, retailers and suppliers tour’s logo, website, flyers, brochures, across Germany to potentially stock In a crowded tech space, APCO press packs, burger boxes, infographMootral-fed Beef. created a platform for One Concern ics for social media and stakeholder to focus on its unique mission and giveaways. Each of the cities the ONE CONCERN commitment to revolutionize how Kuhlicious Food Truck Tour visited were New York public and private sectors prepare for carefully selected to ensure strong and respond to natural disasters like footfall, but also targeted journalists by 2017 was the most expensive year floods, earthquakes and fires. APCO deliberately pitching in front of large on record for natural disasters. As the developed a robust global influencer magazine and newspaper publishing effects of climate change intensify, the and stakeholder engagement strategy, houses and offering reporters a deliworld needs more innovative solufacilitating meetings with city leaders, cious climate-friendly burger for lunch. tions to prepare and protect global resilience influencers and multilateral communities from these realities. organizations across several major Throughout the campaign, APCO genOne Concern, a young technology cities. erated significant coverage in regional company that harnesses artificial print and online outlets, including intelligence to protect cities against APCO was also tasked with creating a pre-event coverage and post-event the rising threat of climate change, surge of media coverage around the articles. The campaign also allowed needed a communications partner to company’s Series A announcement APCO to build strong relationships help tell the story of AI that saves lives and sustaining a drumbeat of topwith important trade media for the and protects livelihoods. tier media coverage in support of client and the industry, including One Concern’s mission, capabilities Agrazeitung, Elite-Magazin and APCO worked closely with One and leadership. Schweizer Bauer. The tour culminated Concern to develop a robust thought with a dinner in Berlin attended by leadership strategy, including a Ahead of One Concern’s Series A 36 Environmental Principles (CONTINUED) announcement, APCO succeeded The nature of APCO’s business as a in creating a groundswell of media, global consulting firm often requires influencer and stakeholder interest. employees to be onsite with clients. The team secured top-tier media APCO would not be able to deliver coverage, including a curtain raiser in as impactful or effective work without Forbes and feature pieces in The Wall sending employees on business travel. Street Journal, CNBC, VentureBeat, However, APCO has attempted to Axios, Silicon Valley Business Journal minimize business air miles for internal and Government Technology. meetings by installing an advanced video and web conference service, Since then, APCO has continued to Zoom, in conference rooms across generate steady interest and media the company. APCO is committed to coverage for One Concern. The team’s utilizing these resources to the fullest efforts facilitated dozens of successful extent and reducing the footprint for meetings for One Concern’s leadinternal collaboration moving forward. ership, connecting them with major APCO took other steps to decrease stakeholders – including potential the use of energy globally, including: partners and customers – in New York, Washington, D.C., Seattle, Boston, • Creating a nearly 100% laptop work Brussels, New Delhi, Pune and Tokyo, environment across all offices. who would be interested in partner• Moving most network infrastructure ing with One Concern globally. The to the Cloud, resulting in substanteam continues to secure interviews tially lower power consumption. and stories with top-tier publications, building awareness for One Concern with pieces in NPR, Vox, San Francisco Business Times, TechCrunch and The Wall Street Journal. BUSINESS AIR MILES APCO’s business air miles have been consistent with previous years. 37 Anti-Corruption Principles APCO’s Policies & Goals PRINCIPLE 10 As a professional services company with subsidiaries around the world, APCO’s legal team undertakes ongoing risk assessments. It pays close attention to those countries where APCO does business, especially where the Transparency Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including International’s Corruption Perception Index shows increased risk of corruption. APCO considers the totality of the extortion and bribery circumstances in managing bribery risk. Factors taken into consideration in the necessary risk assessment include the sector in which APCO is providing services, the value and duration of the project, the economic structure of engagement and whether third-party consultants, agents and/or affiliates are participating in the work. As indicated earlier in this document, APCO focuses on anticorruption efforts. Society will not be able to address the critical APCO has zero tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion. issues facing the world today — poverty, global health, universal This is clear in APCO’s Code of Conduct and policies dealing with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery education and economic opportunity — unless APCO is able to Act, which clearly state that a breach of their anti-corruption, bribery and extortion standards is grounds for immediate continuously minimize corruption, extortion and bribery in both termination. APCO is also a signatory to several industry codes that have provisions relevant to anti-corruption, i.e., the public and private sectors around the world the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) supporting the PACI Principles for Countering Bribery; the UK Association of Professional Political Consultants Code of Conduct; the International Association of Business Communicators (IABC) Code of Ethics for Professional Communicators; and the Confederation of Indian Industry Code of Business Ethics. APCO has procedures in place to ensure compliance with the requirements of the UK Bribery Act and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. 38 Anti-Corruption Principles (CONTINUED) IMPLEMENTATION management as part of APCO’s Index. APCO also requires its affiliates zero-tolerance policy towards bribery anti-corruption and transparency Ethics & Compliance training. and strategic partners to sign onto and to developing, implementing or strategies at the global, regional Business ethics and transparency are • Procedures for evaluating enterits Charter for Professional Ethics & maintaining a broad-based, anti-corand industry levels. embedded in APCO’s culture. Its comtainment, hospitality and gift Conduct for Strategic Partnerships, ruption program to guide the behavior • Serve as a spokesperson on pliance program takes many forms, expenses for clients to distinguish which includes anti-corruption requireof employees. These principles also anti-corruption with global and including: between reasonable expenses and ments, and to contractually represent apply to key business relationships with national media. lavish expenditure that could be and warrant that they will not particicontrolled subsidiaries, joint ventures, • Formation in 2008 of the Responsible considered a bribe. pate in corrupt acts. agents and other intermediaries, as MEASUREMENT Business Committee. well as contractors and suppliers. • Regular executive memos to all Responsibility for anti-corruption APCO’s executive chairman particistaff on APCO’s commitment to implementation within APCO rests with pated in the Pearl Initiative Regional After co-chairing the World Economic APCO believes that its extensive ethics, integrity and corporate the Responsible Business Committee Forum on Raising Anti-Corruption Forum’s Global Agenda Council on compliance training program, which responsibility. and the office of the General Counsel. Standards in the Gulf Region. LeadAnti-Corruption for two years along includes training on the Compliance • Ethics and compliance training However, each individual at APCO ers from across the globe gathered with Leonard McCarthy, World Bank Line, has been successful. No incidents for all employees that includes is responsible for abiding by APCO’s together to discuss and share ideas VP of Integrity, in 2016, Founder of corruption have been reported and APCO’s Code of Conduct, anti-corruption policies, its Code of that organizations can implement to and Executive Chairman, Margery there have not been any legal cases, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and UK Conduct and the law, and for reporting improve anti-corruption across the Kraus was asked to join the Vanguard rulings or fines assessed on APCO Bribery Act policies. any perceived misconduct. Gulf. CEO Board of the World Economic related to corruption. APCO’s external • Extra training attention given Forum’s Partnering Against Corrupauditors conduct audits of the comto those offices in countries APPLICATIONS IN tion Initiative. The PACI Vanguard pany each year and have not observed “APCO has been a member where there is a known culture of EXTERNAL WORK Board is the ultimate decision-makany incidents of corruption. In addition corruption. and a signatory to the World ing body that mandates the PACI to focusing on operations, APCO con• Legal alerts written by APCO’s APCO requires its business partners Economic Forum’s agenda and includes new projects, tributes to promoting anti-corruption legal team and sent to all staff to adhere to anti-corruption princievents and other areas of publicthrough pro bono and client assignreminding staff of anti-corruption ples and has instituted procedures Partnering Against private cooperation. CEOs commit to: ments. Examples of this include: requirements. to implement compliance. APCO’s Corruption Principles • Memos from APCO’s founder and policy is to conduct due diligence for almost a decade.” • Participate in the PACI Vanguard executive chairman on the use of the on third-party consultants, agents, meeting in Davos-Klosters. Compliance Line, along with addiaffiliates and strategic partners where • Serve as an anti-corruption chamtional training on reporting alleged it does business in countries with pion at other Forum meetings in misconduct either through the scores below 60 on Transparency By signing the PACI Principles, which they may participate. Compliance Line or directly with International’s Corruption Perception APCO has committed to having a • Help to shape the Forum’s 39 Anti-Corruption Principles (CONTINUED) WORLD ECONOMIC Piyush Goyal, Ministry of Railways and and procurement; culture, ethics and collaboration to deepen understandassociation’s China Code of Ethics to “APCO continues to work FORUM’S PARTNERING Coal of India; Ramya Krishnaswamy, citizen engagement; cutting red tape; ing of how technologies can better strengthen industry self-regulation with a number of confidential AGAINST CORRUPTION World Economic Forum; Adam Ludwin, and information security and identity. address corruption. and compliant business practices. The INITIATIVE Chain Inc.; and Moisés Naím, Carnegie Code represents a major change in the clients on transparency and Endowment for International Peace on T4I strategic allies also included SYNERGY LAB business practices for many AdvaMed anti-corruption initiatives, APCO continued its involvement and a panel titled: How can low levels of Clifford Chance, Facebook, IBM, member companies and their Chihelping foster an internal commitment to upholding global public trust and a higher incidence of Let's Talk Payments, MasterCard, The synergy lab will help leaders of nese counterparts. To ensure smooth anti-corruption standards through the corrupt behaviour be tackled while Microsoft and PwC. government, business and civil society implementation, APCO developed a and external culture of Partnership Against Corruption (PACI) maintaining market confidence, politidentify their specific needs and connect strategic outreach plan to strengthen ethics and accountability.” and its Vanguard group of global CEOs ical stability and economic growth? PCO was delighted to see T4I intethose leaders with innovators providing crucial partnerships with the domestic and WEF’s Global Agenda Council grated into the World Economic Forum the most appropriate technology soluindustry and a wide range of stakeon Anti-Corruption & Transparency. TECH4INTEGRITY (T4I) PACI Initiative with support from the tions to address those needs. holders in the health care ecosystem APCO’s founder and executive Inter-American Development Bank (e.g., key medical associations, central chairman Margery Kraus continues to In 2017, APCO proudly supported (IADB). Driven by public-private coopIMPACT INITIATIVES and local government entities, KOLs serve on the Board of PACI Vanguard, Citibank’s global challenge initiative eration, the T4I Knowledge Accelerator and physicians). This engagement aims of leading global CEOs committed to called Tech4Integrity (T4I). The iniis a dynamic information exchange that In concert with international organito raise awareness of AdvaMed’s contransparency and fighting corruption. tiative, led by Citi in collaboration aims to foster communication and colzations, the private sector and civil tributions in supporting core Chinese Anna Tunkel, senior director leading with public and private sector allies, laboration to deepen understanding of society, the impact initiatives will share government goals in the health care strategic initiatives at APCO, serves provided public sector entities with how technologies can better address best practices on available solutions, sector and potentially setting up a as a board delegate and represented access to tech innovators and their corruption. evaluate existing implementation model for other sectors to follow. APCO at WEF’s Fall PACI meeting ideas on how to increase transparency projects, and directly engage with such in Geneva. and efficiency. T4I also advocated for PACI’s next generation of this platform projects to effectively demonstrate the support and infrastructure that tech provides three intersecting spaces to how to build solutions into government Margery Kraus continued serving as an innovators need to tailor new technoldrive thought leadership, networks and and business processes to promote anti-corruption champion in numerous ogy solutions for this market. increase impact: trust and integrity. WEF meetings, including the Annual Meeting in Davos and the WEF-PACI T4I was structured as a global open KNOWLEDGE ACCELERATOR UNITED STATES ADVANCED Spring meeting in London. In Davos, innovation competition, where compaMEDICAL ASSOCIATION Margery Kraus spoke alongside nies of any type or size could submit Driven by public-private cooperation, (ADVAMED) experts An Hee-Jung, Chungnam technology solutions. The challenge the knowledge accelerator is a dynamic Provincial Government; Delia Ferreira specifically focused on innovation in digital repository of information that APCO worked with AdvaMed on proRubio, Transparency International; areas such as government transactions aims to foster communication and moting and implementing the industry 40 Moving Forward We hope this summary of our work to date demonstrates both how important the UNGC Principles are to us as a firm and the full range of things we do to support them. We look forward to sharing our continued progress — not only in what we do, but in how we do it. FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE CONTACT: JUDIT ARENAS LICEA + 1 646 556 9320 jarenas@apcoworldwide.com ALEXANDRA BIGLAND +44 207 526 3654 abigland@apcoworldwide.com
