Adani Power Limited q u a l N i t i n t e y s g r s i t y e y m u n i t r g W E m o o c vv a r s a a p t y f e ll uu s ee s S Sustainability Report 2016-17 The Quest For A Brighter Tomorrow For over a decade, Adani Power well-being of the communities we has energised India and fuelled operate in. development across the nation. As India’s largest private power At the heart of our goals is a deep producer, we are conscious of the commitment to the happiness of impact we have on the country’s our employees and stakeholders. progress and the day-to-day lives We consistently strive to ensure a of our fellow citizens. This not only healthy and sustainable collaboration makes us proud but also helps shape that contributes to rapid and a brighter tomorrow. responsible national development. In a multi-faceted, challenging and Considering this, we have developed increasingly interconnected world, it our third Sustainability Report is imperative to balance the impact around the idea of a bigger, better of business activities. Flourishing and brighter tomorrow. ‘QUEST’ in such a climate requires focus, is a part of our journey towards dedication, tenacity and awareness. excellence. The term ‘QUEST’ stands Our understanding and respect for for ‘Quality, Environment Protection the environment pushes us towards & Energy Conservation, Safety and a quest for the socio-economic Security in Totality.’ Adani Group The integrated value chain of Adani Group has three components: Resources, Logistics and Energy. Adani Power is part of the Energy vertical. Resources Logistics Energy We are the largest coal Our Logistics business Presently, we are in the importer in India. We also includes Ports, Logistics and businesses of Thermal operate mines in India, Special Economic Zone (SEZ). Power Generation, Power Indonesia and Australia as We have a pan-India presence Transmission, Renewable well as engage in coal trading in 10 strategic locations with Power Generation and across countries. We are also our Mundra Port as India’s Solar Photovoltaics planning expansion into Oil largest commercial port. Manufacturing. We are one and Gas Exploration. of the largest in all our Energy businesses in India. We are also in the business of city gas distribution of CNG and PNG. Sustainability Report 2016-17 Contents CEO Speaks 2 About the Report 6 (From the CSO’s Desk) Our Story 9 Mapping the Quest 13 Organisational Scale 15 Significant Developments in 16 FY 2016-17 Stakeholder Engagement & 23 Materiality Assessment Strategy for Sustainability 31 Governance for Sustainability 35 Operations & Economics 45 Adani Power Limited Human Capital 57 Sustainability Report 2016-17 q u Health & Safety a N l i t 67 i n t e y s g r s i t Energy & Environment y e 75 y m u n i t r g W E m o o c vv a r s a a p t y Community Engagement f e 89 ll uu s ee s S Sustainability Report 2016-17 Appendices 99 About the Cover Conversion Factors 101 Independent Assurance Statement 102 At Adani Power, we have always endeavoured to build value in everything we do. Given that our operations impact social GRI Content Index 105 and natural capital, this has not always been easy. However, in our commitment to investors, employees and communities, we Mapping with National Voluntary have channelled our innovative strengths to approach power 110 Guidelines (NVG) generation in a holistic and responsible manner. We believe Communication on Progress and Mapping that comprehensive growth and long-term sustainability are 111 with UN Global Compact Principles key parameters that will help our business to prosper. We are equally committed to our future generations while delivering Mapping with Sustainable 117 long-term value to our stakeholders. Development Goals (SDG) Mapping with International Finance Our FY 2016-17 Sustainability Report, recognises Adani Power’s 125 Corporation (IFC) imagined goals with the quest such as Quality, Progress, Value, Integrity etc. Glossary 126 Adani Power Limited CEO Speaks Dear Stakeholders, It is my pleasure to present the third Sustainability Report of Adani Power Limited. The report discloses our sustainability performance on triple bottom line for FY 2016-17. As India’s largest Vneet S. Jaain Chief Executive private power Officer producer, we acknowledge our responsibility in achieving sustainable growth. This report is a testimony of our efforts in doing so during the reporting year, and also presents a way forward. 2 Sustainability Report 2016-17 With Government of India driving focus on which an MoU has been signed with the domestic manufacturing through its ‘Make Government of Karnataka. The environment in India’ initiative, we are sure that the clearance has been received from MoEF&CC demand for power will be led by industrial and land for the main plant has already consumers and this will set the tone for been acquired by Karnataka Industrial Area growth opportunities in the power sector. Development Board for the project. Further, the Government has continuously emphasised ensuring electricity availability There have been persistent challenges in for all. Keeping this guidance in mind, we terms of fuel shortages, non-availability of hope to build on our existing asset base of long-term PPAs, and policy uncertainties 10,480MW. that have impacted private sector investments, and created a stress on the During the reporting year, we generated banking system. The Central Government 64.17 billion units of power. We contribute has already initiated several reforms in nearly 14.3% of India’s total coal-based this direction, such as addressing the power generation capacity in the private deteriorating financial health of DISCOMs sector. Critical aspects continue to through the Ujwal DISCOM Assurance be better returns to shareholders, Yojana (UDAY) scheme, alleviating the fulfilling our obligations shortage in supply of domestic coal by under power sale agreements, setting a target of doubling domestic uninterrupted domestic coal production to 1 billion tonnes by 2020, supply, water availability, safety in and announcing the new linkage policy operations and land acquisition for for power called Scheme to Harness and new projects. Allocate Koyla (Coal) transparently in India, or SHAKTI. An earnest and time bound Our power plant at Mundra has been implementation of these reforms by States supplying power to the states of Gujarat is called for, along with due support from the and Haryana, fulfilling its power purchase regulatory system. Issues of rail connectivity agreement commitments in the interest of and logistics for domestic coal are being consumers, despite financial stress due to addressed by Coal India Limited (CIL) in the change in policy in Indonesia, resulting states such as Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and in an unprecedented increase in the price Odisha to connect untapped coal belts to of imported coal. However, a key challenge evacuate a potential 300 million tonnes of faced, especially at the Mundra plant, is the coal per year. CIL is expected to increase unavailability of fuel cost pass through for its production to 1 billion tonnes of coal by imported coal. This has resulted into an under2020. With this increase in production, our recovery of costs at the plant. Consequent domestic coal supplies at Kawai and Tiroda to the Supreme Court’s order regarding are expected to benefit. Compensatory Tariffs, we are engaged in discussions with various stakeholders to In FY 2016-17, our Tiroda plant suffered a identify remedial measures for sustainable generation loss for over a month due to operation of the Mundra power plant. drought conditions sweeping Maharashtra for the second consecutive year. We have Under the Indo-Bangla Friendship Treaty completed an additional water reservoir of 2010, we are developing a 1,600MW to store water for additional 15-20 days power plant in state of Jharkhand to supply capacity within the Tiroda plant to power to Bangladesh. We have obtained mitigate such risks. For the community the environment clearance from Ministry of also, we have also commenced recharging Environment, Forest and Climate Change of water resources by de-silting and (MoEF&CC), Government of India and cleaning of community water ponds. signed an in-principle Memorandum of During FY 2016-17, deepening of 39 Understanding (MoU) with Government ponds were carried out, creating an extra of Jharkhand. After successful acquisition storage capacity of 1,51,330 m3. In addition of our Udupi Power Plant, we are also to this, 21 farm ponds were developed in expanding in Udupi by 1,600MW, for seven villages making for an extra storage 3 Adani Power Limited 4,620MW Mundra Thermal Power Station. capacity of 9,660 m3. This work will surface water consumption of 2.5 m3/MWh augment ground water recharging for hinterland power plants, we are on course and about 1,200 farmers whose to achieve the same at Tiroda and Kawai and land is close to these water bodies we look forward to improve our performance are expected to be benefited. on this front. During the reporting year, seawater consumption has been close to Having earned In December 2015, MoEF&CC has notified our internal target of 9.5 m3/MWh at Mundra the 76th position the limits for specific water consumption plant and 6 m3/MWh at Udupi plant. among 700 and stack emissions from thermal power companies in plants for SOx, NOx, Particulate matter and Safety remains a major concern the Great Place mercury. This notification requires all power and a material aspect for us. We to Work survey plants to comply with the new standards are saddened to report 8 fatalities at FY 2015-16, we within two years. We have already submitted Mundra Plant during the reporting year. aim to live up to our compliance status to regulatory Such incidents are reminders that our these standards authorities for our operating units. business involves safety risks which need with renewed strong mechanisms for ensuring safer vigour. We are aligned with the phasing plan for Flue working conditions. As we join the bereaved Gas Desulphurisation (FGD) implementation families in their grief, we aggressively prepared by the Central Electricity Authority renew our efforts towards eliminating any (CEA) for all power plants in India. Timeframe such possibility in the future by engaging for FGD implementation for our Mundra, DuPont as our partner to support our ‘Zero Tiroda, Kawai and Udupi plant is included in Harm’ objective. To begin with, we are this phasing plan. In line with the target for taking actions for quick win opportunities 4 Sustainability Report 2016-17 at operating locations, followed by a safety While we were the first to commission culture transformation journey within the supercritical boilers in India, in the future, next 2-3 years. we will prefer more efficient units of 800MW and 1,000MW capacity with ultraHaving earned the 76th position among supercritical technology. Our group has 700 companies in the Great Place to Work also forayed aggressively in the renewable survey FY 2015-16, we aim to live up to these energy sector with solar power projects standards with renewed vigour. Much of our and manufacturing of solar PV cells and strength is attributable to our employees, modules. With the addition of Bitta with an average age of 34.1 years, which Solar Plant of 40MWp in Adani gives us a competitive advantage to Power, we have also contributed to cultivate leaderships within the organisation our group strategy of diversifying to meet our growth plans. our power generation mix by increasing share of renewable. We continue to partner with Adani Foundation to implement Corporate There has been a thrust by our Government Social Responsibility initiatives under towards effective ash utilisation from power the core areas of education, sustainable plants, primarily within a 300 km radius livelihood, community healthcare and from the plants. In line with the relevant rural infrastructure development. We aim guidelines and our own treatment of ash to reach out to communities around our as a useful resource, we have installed upcoming projects as well. state-of-the-art ash disposal and bagging technologies. Despite our continuous Climate change concerns are efforts, fly ash utilisation achieved was 66% pushing for innovation and this year as compared to 72.7% of last year. upgradation of technology for This is mainly because of the constraints power plants. The Intended Nationally we are facing at our Tiroda plant. We are Determined Contribution from our continuously taking actions for better Government has been submitted to United utilisation of ash by developing fly ash Nations Framework Convention on Climate utilisation park. Further actions to improve Change (UNFCCC) where India intends to our ash utilisation are detailed in this report. reduce emissions intensity of its GDP by 33-35% by 2030 from the 2005 levels. Our sustainability journey so far has been Further, the Government has set a target of a path of self-discovery and an enriching 175GW of renewables by FY 2021-22, as per experience to achieve higher standards in Our direct GHG the National Action Plan on Climate Change. reporting. I express my sincere gratitude to Accordingly, we are exploring efficient all those who contributed in this journey. We 800MW ultra-supercritical technology units look forward to your continued feedback to emissions to fulfil our expansion goals. Our direct improve our sustainability performance. GHG emissions has been 0.84 tCO2/MWh which has improved over last year. We are Jai Hind also comforted that dedicated efforts are underway within our Group to incorporate renewables as a significant portfolio. Vneet S. Jaain Chief Executive Officer 0.84 tCO2/MWh 5 Adani Power Limited About the Report (From the CSO’s Desk) Dear Readers, This is our third Sustainability Report. Through this report we wish to highlight our Economic, Social and Environment performance for the FY 2016-17. Santosh Kumar Singh Chief Sustainability Officer Our Quest manifests itself in our vision for sustainability, the framework and the practices followed across the functions with the impact assessed Our strategy for sustainability includes risk management, knowledge sharing, business in terms of processes, integrated management systems and ensuring quality initiatives across our performance of facilities. Our approach to develop this third sustainability report is our company. based on updating quantitative figures and changes in the disclosures wherever necessary. The report is developed as per the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Guidelines ‘In Accordance’ Comprehensive option of reporting and includes disclosures on our business practices across economic, 6 Sustainability Report 2016-17 environmental and social performance. There were no significant changes in The report content has been guided by the Company ownership during FY 2016-17. Sustainability Principles, Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Materiality and Completeness For sustainability performance, along with accuracy, reliability and management and reporting, we continue attempted to present our report in a to be guided by our Apex Sustainability balanced way with clarity on disclosures. Committee (ASC) at corporate office which is chaired by the CEO and a Sustainability We intend to publish our Sustainability Reporting Committee (SRC) with cross Report on an annual basis. functional members at all operating sites and at the corporate office. Our We continued to observe global sustainability performance is megatrends to determine the sustainability monitored on a quarterly basis and context of our power business and in the results are presented by the CSO process identified critical issues such as and discussed at the Board level. rapid depletion of natural resources, energy security, waste management and climate We have implemented an IT-enabled change. platform to support the reporting of sustainability performance. Sustainability We continue to report based on the performance data is collected by employing material aspects identified in different approaches, including direct FY 2015-16. This report is mapped with online and offline measurement. Our We have National Voluntary Guidelines (NVG) on ERP system is used for collecting data on implemented Social, Environmental and Economic material purchase and consumption, plant an IT-enabled Responsibilities by Ministry of Corporate operations, employees and workforce, waste platform to Affairs, Government of India. Besides, generation and disposal etc. whereas other capture the we are also mapping our report with material data like emissions, safety statistics, sustainability Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) trainings, grievances etc. are captured and performance and UN Global Compact Principles. Our aggregated at site level after due validation. from our ERP materiality and management disclosures in This report also includes calculations and system and other this report are also mapped against relevant assumptions, and other relevant nonmanagement requirements of International Finance quantitative disclosures required by GRI-G4. systems internal Corporation (IFC) performance standards and external to for Environment and Social Sustainability. Our coal trading business is outside our Adani Power This report is based on the materiality reporting boundary, however from this year Limited. finalised during FY 2015-16 and we have we have started monitoring and reporting of not revisited the materiality for this report. GHG emissions due to coal transportation We shall continue to revisit our materiality via sea, road, rail and belt conveyer route time to time and enlarge reporting scope which is upstream of power generating and mapping with other standards and plants. Specific GHG emissions from UN Global Compact Principles on issues upstream coal transportation comes to 0.09 material to us. tCO2e/MWh for FY 2016-17. We are working on identifying the material aspects related The report has been developed by Adani to coal trading and are committed to report Power Limited (APL) having its corporate the same in our next report. office at Ahmedabad and operating plant at Mundra, Gujarat. The report covers Data relevant to key performance indicators our subsidiary companies Adani Power for plant operations are collated, internally Maharashtra Limited (APML), at Tiroda reported and reviewed at different levels in Maharashtra, Adani Power Rajasthan at operating plants and corporate office. Limited (APRL) at Kawai in Rajasthan, Udupi Frequency of internal reporting and Power Corporation Limited (UPCL) at Udupi review of the different data sets vary as in Karnataka and Solar Power Plant at Bitta per criticality of the data for operations. in Gujarat. Business Review Meeting (BRM) is conducted monthly wherein representatives 7 Adani Power Limited from all the locations and corporate office Development, we are extending our participate. As a policy we seek external Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) assurance to disclosures in public domain activities to provide vocational trainings to and we have retained DNV GL Business local youth and induct local businesses in We consider Assurance India Private Limited to carry out the vicinity of our operations especially environmental an independent assurance of our report at Udupi and Godda. sustainability as based on AA1000AS. paramount to our We continued ‘Udaan’ which provided operations since Report Coverage an opportunity for over 40,000 students power plants We consider environmental sustainability in the reporting year, to visit our power are generally as paramount to our operations since plants encouraging them to dream big in known to create power plants are generally known to create engineering and technology. Our healthcare environmental environmental impact across its lifecycle. programmes through Mobile Health Care impact across We also collaborate with marine biologists Units have provided around 1,83,000 its lifecycle. to study and monitor the impact of our treatments and Rural Clinics have provided operations, take measures to develop and around 41,000 treatments this Financial Year. implement Environment Management System, certified for ISO 14001 at all In order to strengthen our human operating locations. Beyond implementation resource capabilities to prepare of environment management plan as per for upcoming projects, we have the U.S. Energy Information Administration developed a Centre of Excellence (EIA), we work on afforestation and for Human Resources to offer offset habitat creation wherever forest support in creation of talent clearances are needed. We recognise pipeline, employee engagement, the relationship between our learning and development. Our business and ecosystem services Centre of Excellence that was developed provided by forests, grasslands in FY 2015-16 continues to add value to and mangroves. Positive impacts on the creation of talent pipeline, employee biodiversity around our operations are also engagement, learning and development. Our material to us. As our 1,600MW greenfield partnerships with MIT continues to offer our project at Godda, Jharkhand is at inception employees access to its vast pool of learning stage, we are in the process of land and information resources and our tie-up acquisition and have received environment with Harvard Business School provides an clearance from MoEF&CC. For 1,600MW excellent platform for creating our OwnerUdupi expansion, the environment Managers of tomorrow. And we have also clearance has been received from MoEF&CC initiated evidyalaya, an online learning tool, and land for the main plant has already combining programmes of Harvard Business been acquired by Karnataka Industrial Area School and Skillsoft for our employees. Development Board for the project. We have updated our economic As new emission standards have been performance figures for FY 2015-16 as the notified by MoEF&CC in December 2015, in accounting system has changed in India this report, we are also including our present from IGAAP to Ind-AS. We have received 5 status of compliance and future planning for star (Excellent) rating from Maharashtra the same. Marine ecosystems and impact State Pollution control board related to on community’s livelihood remains a focus Air Emission control programme. We have area for our coastal plants at Mundra and also received NABL accreditation for Udupi. We are continuing rejuvenation of Environmental laboratory under Testing mangroves and collaboration with fisher folk category. We invite you to read our report to understand their concerns and respond and appreciate your feedback to help us with necessary support. improve our report. You may write to us on cso.power@adani.com. Within our focus areas of Education, Community Health, Sustainable Santosh Kumar Singh Livelihood and Rural Infrastructure Chief Sustainability Officer 8 P R O G R S E S Our Quest towards Progress Our Story Our Legacy 13 Mapping the Quest 14 Registrations and Other Details 15 Organisation Scale 16 Revenue Details 16 Significant Developments in FY 2016-17 19 Identifying Risks and Opportunities 17 Power Sales 18 Policy Advocacy 17 Coal Production Outlook Adani Power Limited is India’s largest private sector power producer. We began our journey in 2006. From the first day of commissioning the first 330MW unit in Mundra, we have now surged to 10,480MW across five locations, including a solar plant at Bitta. We are focused on achieving sustainable growth and becoming a globally-admired leader in integrated infrastructure businesses with a deep commitment to nation building. We are Passionate, Result-oriented, Integrated, Dedicated and Entrepreneurial. It has been our proactive concern to retain focus on ensuring minimum impact with maximum output as we set sail towards a 20,000MW target by 2020. 11 Adani Power Limited Our Legacy Motivated to support India’s growing and are therefore proud of our sustained infrastructure and economy, Adani Power endeavours in contributing positively has built a significantly large portfolio in towards nation building. thermal power generation. Our Mundra power plant is among the world’s We aim to be known for offering value to 12 largest single-location thermal our stakeholders while maintaining the power plants with a capacity of scale of our ambitions, speed of execution 4,620MW. and quality of operations and responding to challenges in a timely and effective Besides scaling growth, Adani Power manner. We have deep faith in the has been proactive and conscious of the capability of our employees and environmental impact caused by coal-fired other stakeholders and consistently power generation. This has motivated empower them to deliver results us to bring 75% of our operations under that matter to our business and supercritical thermal generation technology. to the nation. We interact with our We are conscious that energy remains stakeholders across multiple touchpoints a critical requirement for the country’s and integrate their insights into our economic and infrastructure development blueprint for sustainable growth. APML 3,300MW power plant at Tiroda, Maharashtra. 12 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Mapping The Quest Our Presence & Management Systems Kawai (Rajasthan) APRL Operating Capacity Planned Expansion 1,320MW 1,600MW IMS, EnMS, Bitta Solar (Gujarat) 5S, 5S-JUSE Surguja (Chhattisgarh) Operating Capacity 40MWp Planned Project 600MW IMS Mundra (Gujarat) APL Operating Capacity 4,620MW IMS, EnMS, 5S, 5S-JUSE Six Sigma Projects Bhadreswar (Gujarat) Godda (Jharkhand) Planned Project Planned Projects 3,300MW 1,600MW Dahej (Gujarat) Tiroda (Maharashtra) APML Planned Project Operating Capacity 2,640MW 3,300MW IMS, EnMS, Udupi (Karnataka) 5S, 5S-JUSE Six Sigma Projects UPCL Operating Capacity Planned Expansion Pench (Madhya Pradesh) 1,200MW 1,600MW IMS, EnMS, 5S, 5S-JUSE Planned Project 1,320MW Integrated Energy Management 5S, Operating Power Plants Management System (EnMS) 5S-JUSE (Reporting Boundary System (IMS) ISO 50001 ISO 9001, ISO 14001, For FY 2016-17) OHSAS 18001 Planned Project Note: Map not to scale. For representation purposes only. 13 Adani Power Limited Registration and Other Details Principal Business Activities of the Company Adani Power Limited is a public limited company. All business activities contributing 10% or more of the total turnover of the Company: Table 1: Principal Business Activities Name and description of NIC Code of the % to total turnover Main Product / Services Product / Services of the Company Power Generation 35,102 84.25% Wholesale Trade Service – Coal Trading 46,610 15.75% Adani Power Limited has total 6 (direct and indirect) subsidiaries as on 31st March 2017. Table 2: List of Subsidiaries Sr. Name and address Holding/ % of shares Applicable No. of the Company Subsidiary held section 1. Adani Power Maharashtra Limited Subsidiary 100% 2(87) 2. Adani Power Rajasthan Limited Subsidiary 100% 2(87) 3. Udupi Power Corporation Limited Subsidiary 100% 2(87) 4. Adani Power (Mundra) Limited, Formerly known as Adani Power (Karnataka) Subsidiary 100% ** 2(87) Limited 5. Adani Power Resources Limited Subsidiary 100%* 2(87) 6. Adani Power (Jharkhand) Limited Subsidiary 100% 2(87) *50% shares are held by the Company, 30% shares are held by Adani Power Maharashtra Limited and 20% shares are held by Adani Power Rajasthan Limited and so the same is classified as subsidiary as per Section 2(87) (ii) of Companies Act, 2013. ** 99% shares are held by the Company and 1% shares are held by Adani Power (Jharkhand) Limited and so the same is classified as subsidiary as per Section 2(87)(ii) of the Companies Act, 2013 classified as subsidiary as per Section 2(87)(ii) of the Companies Act, 2013. 14 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Organisational Scale The number of permanent The average annual increase in salaries of employees on the Company employees other than managerial personnel roll was 2,648 and contract for FY 2016-17 was 11.40%, driven by the workers was 7,069 as on achievement of annual corporate goals as 31st March 2017. well as the overall business, financial and operational performance of the Company. Table 3: Organisational Scale Particulars Unit FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 % Variance Market Capitalisation ` Million 1,15,521 1,54,085 33.38 Total Revenue ` Million 2,57,338 2,32,028 (9.84) Total Debt* ` Million 5,39,624 5,24,844 12.44 Total Equity ` Million 74,679 29,996 (59.83) Consolidated Net Profit ` Million 5,818 (61,701) (1,161) Employees No. 2,715 2,648 (2.46) Contract Workers No. 7,164 7,069 (1.33) Power Generation MUs 69,395 64,172 (7.53) * While updating our economic performance figure for FY 2015-16 as per Ind-AS, we have also included internal borrowings as part of debt. We abide by the law of the land for all applicable statutory and regulatory requirements. Currently, there are no collective bargaining agreements with our workforce for the operating power plants including newly-acquired operations. However, our engagement activities provide sufficient avenues to our employees as well as contract workers to voice their opinions. This includes a minimum notice period of one month for operational changes in our projects and O&M. APL Mundra: One of the largest single location thermal power plants in the world. 15 Adani Power Limited Revenue Details Table 4: Economic Performance Particulars FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 % Variance ` Million ` Million Economic Value Generated 2,57,337 2,32,028 (9.84) Revenue from Operations 2,55,322 2,27,838 (10.76) Other Income 2,016 4,190 108 Economic Value Distributed 2,26,932 2,27,139 0.09 Fuel Cost 1,47,263 1,46,236 (0.70) Purchase of Stock-in-Trade 1,895 2,157 13.8 Other Expenses (Including Community Investment) 14,554 15,712 7.96 Employee Wages and Benefits 3,587 4,017 11.99 Finance Costs 59,632 59,017 (1.03) Economic Value Retained 30,405 4,889 (83.9) The Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March 2017 have been prepared in accordance with Ind-AS on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments that are measured at fair values Significant Developments in FY 2016-17 S  upreme Court Order and the way forward: • The Court has not granted relief on The long awaited announcement of the account of increase in coal cost due to Hon’ble Supreme Court’s judgement on the change in Indonesian regulation, and set Compensatory Tariff matter for the Company’s aside the APTEL’s order in this regard. 4,620MW Mundra power plant took place on • It has also ruled that the CERC has powers 11th April 2017. The Order by the Court has under Section 79 (1) (b) of the Electricity some noteworthy aspects, which clarify a Act, 2013, to determine and adopt tariffs number of regulatory issues, as follows: where there are no guidelines framed or where the guidelines do not deal with a • The PPAs signed for the Mundra Project given situation. with the Gujarat and Haryana State Utilities constitute a Composite Scheme In light of this judgement, the Company under the Electricity Act, 2013. This has decided to write off the receivables gives the Central Electricity Regulatory against the Compensatory Tariffs of the Commission (CERC) regulatory power Mundra Project that were recognised in over the PPAs, and allows it to rule over the past after the CERC order of 2014. The matters such as tariffs, etc. impact of this adjustment is apparent in the • The Court has granted relief for cost fourth quarter results of FY 2016-17. The burden arising due to shortage in supply Company has engaged with stakeholders of domestic coal under ‘Change In Law’ for possible remedial measures for long-term provision, for which it has asked the CERC sustainability of the Mundra Plant. to work out compensation. 10,480 MW 10,480 MW Capacity FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 64.6 bn 60.2 bn Units Units Total Generation in FY 2016-17 Sales 16 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Power Sales Volumes of electricity transacted in the in short-term markets. We are actively short-term bilateral market and power pursuing cross-border opportunities for exchanges have increased considerably in either supply of power from India or the the past two years due to the commissioning set-up of generation projects in of new merchant capacities of around neighbouring countries. The first 15,000MW. Overall in FY 2016-17, the spot such project is envisaged in power market remained vibrant with over Godda, Jharkhand with a capacity 40 billion units traded in power exchange, of 1,600MW to supply power to 17% over 34 billion units traded in the last Bangladesh under a firm PPA. financial year. Average price realised over Going ahead, it is imperative for short-term electricity transacted in power exchanges markets to play a larger and more important declined by 12% in the reporting year to role. Hence, as the short-term and power about ` 2.41/unit compared with ` 2.73/unit exchange market matures, we are keeping in the last financial year. This was mainly on a close watch on regulations and guidelines account of an increase in merchant capacity, issued from time to time and are active in which surpassed the increase in overall shaping this emerging market in the country. demand growth. We have strategically sold almost 85% of the net capacity under The Hon’ble Supreme Court in the ongoing long-term PPAs. Envisaging short-term matter of Compensatory Tariff, vide its order market trends, we have contracted around dated 11th April 2017 has set aside the order half of the available merchant capacity of APTEL and ruled that the promulgation under medium-term PPAs of 3-5 years. of Indonesian regulation is neither Force Majeure nor Change in Law as per the terms This has gone a long way in mitigating the of PPA and hence, does not entitle risk of unsold capacity and falling realisations Company to Compensatory Tariff. Night view of 4,620MW Mundra plant. Coal Production Outlook Coal India is the single largest FY 2015-16. At the same time, coal offtake FY 2016-17 producer of the dry fuel in the was 543 MT resulting in 1.6% growth world, and the government has set over previous year. For FY 2017-18, CIL’s CIL Offtake. a target of doubling its production production target is 600 MT, implying to 1 billion tonnes by 2020 in order a growth of 6%. It is also focusing on to improve the nation’s energy destocking, as inventory has increased from security. During the FY 2016-17 CIL had 554 MT 58 MT in March 2016 to 69 MT in March produced 554 MT of coal against a target of 2017. It is also on track 599 MT, resulting in 2.9% growth over 17 Adani Power Limited for completion of three railway lines, and on its own production, leading to greater is developing intermediate loading points imports. Prices were also impacted due to evacuate coal by road bridging by the to a strike by Coal Miners’ Unions in India. time these projects are completed. New This market disruption has led to a number SHAKTI (Scheme for Harnessing of Asian thermal coal buyers considering and Allocating Koyala (Coal) diversification of their sources, including Transparently in India) Policy was imports from Columbia and Mozambique, introduced recently on 17th May and blending coal. Supplies from the US are 2017. The policy ensures that all projects also expected to increase. Price volatility has with linkages are supplied coal as per their led to also some medium sized Australian entitlement. This will ensure the rights of coal producers to become more cautious coal supplies for FSA holders and signing of and rely more on longer term contracts FSA with LoA holders. Moreover, allocation than spot sales. The jump in metallurgical of linkages in future will be transparent and coal prices has benefited larger Australian bidding based, barring some exceptions producers, and thermal coal has become a as per Tariff Policy. Future allocation/ commodity of lesser importance for the time grant of linkages will be based on auction being. An easing of production restrictions in and/or tariff based bidding. It attempts to China contributed to a 12% drop in thermal make optimal allocation of the vital natural coal prices in the last quarter of resource across the power units. FY 2016-17, the first decline in three quarters. Nevertheless, prices of thermal coal, which is International Coal Prices trend used to produce electricity, remain elevated and outlook due to strong heating demand and low Much of FY 2016-17 was an exceptional inventories at China’s ports and utilities. year for coal prices. The period of decline Thermal coal producers in Australia were that began in 2011 was interrupted by spared significant damage from the Cyclone rapid growth, which saw a sudden spike Debbie, which hit the region in late March in prices in the third quarter. January 2017, while coking coal producers suffered 2017 prices were nearly double of the the most. However after Cyclone Debbie, the 10-year low reached in January 2016. This impacted producers could look more for spot situation arose due to a number of factors, trades as they assess the damage from including China’s decision to impose a cut the event. Policy Advocacy We participate in creating valuable through membership in key associations, exchange through industry bodies which either directly or through our Group help and guide the sector in influencing companies (Table 5). public and regulatory policy in a responsible manner. By engaging with trade We view the membership of these bodies and industry associations, we as strategic. Through these bodies, we advocate matters impacting have represented various issues of concern energy security, including but relating to power sales and despatch, not limited to power sale, coal environmental norms, coal supply and availability and logistics, financial logistics before authorities such as the health of DISCOMS, transmission Ministry of Power, Ministry of Environment, evacuation constraints, clearances, Forests and Climate Change, Central environmental aspects related to Electricity Authority and Coal India Limited. power plants, financing, taxation and fiscal benefits. The participation is 18 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Table 5: Our Memberships Association/Industry Body Positions Held Association of Power Producers (APP) Member Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Member Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) Member and Co-Chairman of FICCI Power Committee Independent Power Producers Association of India (IPPAI) Member Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) Member Ahmedabad Management Association (AMA) Member Identifying Risks and Opportunities Figure 1: Risk Management Governance Structure Our risk management framework Board-level Risk is based on Management proactive Committee identification, assessment and Board Committee guides Steering Committee reports mitigation Risk Steering Committee performance to Board-level Committee measures to reduce the potential Risk Steering negative impact. Committee at Management Level Steering Committee provides guidance on top priority risks and their mitigation plan CRO and Project Directors report prioritised risks to Steering Committee Project Chief DirectorRisk Officer Project (CRO) Locations Site Risk Representative Project Control Operating Locations Manager Risk Representative at Department Levels Risk Analyst 19 Adani Power Limited The key objective of the risk management Management Charter” and approved by process is to add value to identified key the Board of Directors. Each identified stakeholders through early identification risk has a lead and a lag indictor and mitigation of risks. Our risk defined. Lead indicators highlight management framework is based on potential risks before occurrence, proactive identification, assessment and thereby providing adequate time mitigation measures to reduce the potential to prioritise and develop mitigation negative impact. The aim of this framework strategies. Lag indicators, on the other is to achieve key business objectives both in hand, indicate a risk once it has already the short and long-term while maintaining occurred, allowing for speedy escalation a competitive advantage. Once identified, of risk to senior management and steps to the risks are prioritised and later subjected mitigate threats posed by the identified to comprehensive mitigation strategies. risk. In order to ensure the efficacy of Risk An internal system has been developed to both lead and lag indicators, clear risk Management address this need. indicator thresholds have been defined Approach: wherever feasible. These thresholds are A standard 3–step approach has been both quantitative and qualitative in nature defined for risk management: and will trigger the risk assessment and mitigation processes. Risk Identification 1) Risk Identification 2) Risk Assessment and Prioritisation Risk Assessment and Prioritisation: 3) Risk Mitigation For risks identified, the Gross Risk Rating is determined based on two factors: Risk Assessment Risk Identification: and Prioritisation All associated frameworks (risk • Impact of occurrence – Gauge the level categorisation and identification), guidelines of impact on business and practices (risk assessment, prioritisation and mitigation) and governance structure • Likelihood – Determine probability of Risk Mitigation have been detailed out in the “Risk repeat occurrence 20 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Product of likelihood and impact gives compliance to the risk policy and for risk premium which is an indicator of tracking of mitigation plans. severity of risk. This involves the following steps: Risks are further prioritised based on two additional parameters: • Review Compliance to Risk Policy • Proximity – Assess whether risk is likely to manifest over the short or long-term • Resolve bottlenecks to mitigate risk • Controllability – Gives a measure of • Advise the Board of Directors on risk organisation’s control over risk mitigation tolerance and appetite An IT-enabled Risk Mitigation: • Prioritise risk from stations/departments risk register A robust governance structure has been with a robust instilled to ensure the efficacy of this approach • Track mitigation plan and escalate to governance with clarity in roles and responsibilities. The steering committee structure has multi-level responsibility is defined at each been put in level right from the site champion to the APL • Prepare Steering Committee document place for Risk management and leadership. and coordinate meeting Management. Risk Management Process: • Review and update risk list An IT-enabled risk register with a robust governance structure has been put in place • Track mitigation plan and share status for Risk Management. update with Chief Risk Officer (CRO) every month Review Mechanism: A review mechanism has been • Share Risk Review document formulated for a periodic review of with CRO 1,200MW UPCL power plant at Udupi, Karnataka. 21 Adani Power Limited Key Risks and Opportunities: • D elays in land acquisition and Once identified, the risk is documented in environmental clearances: This could the risk portal. Each assessment parameter impede project execution in India’s power such as likelihood, impact, proximity and generation segment. controllability is assigned a rating to ensure automated prioritisation. Risks have been • Dependence on fossil fuels: This has identified on two levels: those applicable aggravated environmental concerns. to the sector and those specific to the Company. The risks and concerns have been • Volatility in price and availability of coal. defined and an approach for mitigation has been developed to address them. Some of • Poor financial health of discoms: the risks are: This is being tackled with appropriate contractual measures. • S hortage in the supply of coal: Domestic coal supply remains a concern as supply To combat price volatility for falls short of requirements. Imported imported coal, we are looking at coal has its own logistical and price executing forward contracts and volatility challenges. engaging in forex hedging. Each assessment parameter such • I nfrastructure bottlenecks: Evacuation of We are making representations before as likelihood, coal being delayed due to infrastructure appropriate regulatory authorities for impact, bottlenecks. conversion of MoUs to long-term linkage. proximity and controllability • Utilisation and congestion on key routes is assigned a of Indian Railways: This could lead to rating to ensure risks with regard to availability of rakes/ automated wagons and hurt domestic supply as well prioritisation. as import of coal. 22 I N T E G R Y I T Our Quest towards Integrity Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Assessment 25 Stakeholder Engagement 27 Materiality Assessment 30 Materiality Matrix Sustainability Report 2016-17 Stakeholder Engagement Engaging with stakeholders and responding and topics were customised to their expectations and concerns has depending on the stakeholders helped us identify the critical issues. and the stakeholder concerns obtained through various Our stakeholders were prioritised based on engagement methods. The feedback how we impact them and how they affect from stakeholders was sought through our business. We have identified stakeholder direct interactions in the form of an open groups relevant to our business, based forum, questionnaires, teleconferences on the position they hold in the upstream and one-on-one interactions. Visits were and downstream process as well as their also conducted to meet local community partnerships in the internal and external representatives to understand their environment. We engage with stakeholders expectations and concerns at all five to understand their concerns and priorities locations. While we engage with all our and use those inputs for decision-making important stakeholders frequently through and forming processes. various media, for the development of our FY 2016-17 Sustainability Report, we did In order to make the stakeholder not specifically engage with stakeholders. engagement process more It was part of our regular engagement. effective and relevant, the engagement methodology Internal Stakeholders. 25 Adani Power Limited The table below summarises the engagement method, key concerns, our response and frequency of engagement during the reporting period. Table 6: List of Identifed Stakeholders and Engagement Details Frequency of Engagement Methods Key Concerns Our Response Engagement Employees Direct interaction, Feedback Work Environment, Health and Initiatives to improve work Ongoing questionnaire, Newsletter, Magazines Safety, Energy Efficiency, Talent environment, Safety management and emails, Employee engagement Management systems, Energy efficiency initiatives, events Employee training and development Contractual Workforce Open forum, Interviews Work environment, Health and Safety, Initiatives to improve work Ongoing Training and skill development, environment, Safety trainings and Grievance handling promotional events, Grievance redressal mechanism Local Communities Direct interaction with project Water availability, Local employment, Infrastructure and sanitation Regular and beneficiaries and community based School education, Community related projects, Local hiring where need-based organisations, Interviews with local healthcare facilities, Vocational skill possible, Woman empowerment community representatives development programmes, Education programmes including adoption of Government schools, computer literacy and teacher orientation, Community health programmes, Mobile Health Care Units, Livelihood generation programmes, Local hiring where possible Government / Regulatory Direct interaction on a case-to-case Compliance, revenue & taxes, Compliance monitoring and Regular and basis, policy advocacy through community development management, payment of statutory need-based industry bodies, response to levies, submission of reports and information sought, routine filing other related information, CSR of reports, regulatory audits and initiatives inspections Investor Investor meets, AGMs, meeting Company’s Sustainability Prudent financial management Quarterly with bankers and other financial performance, growth opportunities, system and reporting basis and on institutions, periodic declaration of debt servicing specific needresults based Customer Direct communication with existing Plant availability, transmission Power generation planning and Regular and and new customers through various availability, forced outages, scheduling, timely and proactive need-based media, binding agreements including reconciliation of accounts, communication on reconciliation and PPAs, through power exchanges settlements including change in law settlements, responses to queries, proactive settlements Media & NGO Telephone interviews, In-person Local community development, Investment in Education Issue-based interviews, Regulatory Authorities, Health and Safety, Legal compliances, Infrastructure, Integration of Telephonic Interviews, Personal Environment protection, Health and management systems including Interviews Safety, Ash management environmental, energy and OH&S, Best available technology implementation, Compliance with applicable regulations, Initiatives for improvement in ash utilisation Vendors (Suppliers and Contractors) On-boarding process, Site visits Timelines for payments Payment cycle changed from Regular to manufacturing facilities for two days in a week, to daily, compliance monitoring, Regular Implementation of IT-enabled one-on-one interaction for payment systems compliance monitoring 26 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Materiality Assessment We have implemented a few learnings from to the business and to stakeholders. the last year of reporting and the subsequent They are defined and assessed through feedback from the sustainability audit, the processes of risk management and materiality assessment and stakeholder stakeholder engagement. Materiality interactions. We have added information has been the cornerstone in to that effect and we continue to work defining the course of action, towards developing systems to capture and therefore a structured additional information and data for greater approach and methodology was transparency in the future. adopted for internal assessment of material issues in order to Material issues are defined as those identify priorities. issues which are of the highest concern Materiality assessment was carried out in three stages as follows: Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Intended at reviewing and  imed at filtering and A Involved engagement of receiving inputs: shortlisting issues to the following two groups make them more relevant for the purposes of rating 1. Aspect from GRI-G4 to our operations. This these 20 shortlisted and Sector Disclosures involved the following: issues and receiving from Electric Utility input for identification of Sector 1. A review of business additional material issues: risks identified through 2. Material Issues the Company’s 1. Functional heads and identified in peers’ risk management senior management sustainability reports in framework representatives in the the sector organisation 2. Sustainability risks 3. Review of the value identified by top 2. Stakeholders chain impact of our management, including employees operations including the CEO representing mainly and the CSO at the middle and junior 4. Company policies and Corporate Office, as management reports in the public well as Station Heads categories from all domain of all operating power functions at operating plants power plants A comprehensive list of issues was developed as a Based on inputs from the result of this exercise. above-mentioned sources, a list of 20 key material issues was shortlisted for Adani Power Limited. TG Floor of one of the operating units. 27 Adani Power Limited This assessment led to the identification of specific issues in the short, medium and long-term strategic areas, as well as site specific operational challenges. A brief description of aspects identified for our business is provided as follows: Table 7: List of Material Aspects with Boundary Classification Aspect Boundary Aspect & Topics External Internal Compliance – (Environment, Labour, Human Government, Investors, Community, Company, Subsidiaries, Employees, Rights, Products, Project Related etc.) Vendors, Customers Contract Workforce Grievance (Environment, Human Rights, Supply Community, Investors, Vendors Employees, Contract Workforce Chain, Contract labour, Employee, Community etc.) Fuel Management – (Coal & Oil) Company, Subsidiaries (excluding Solar) Economic Performance (including PPA and Shareholders, Investors Company, Subsidiaries sales) Plant Efficiency (PLF, Availability, SHR, Aux Customers Company, Subsidiaries Power) Land Acquisition Community Company, Subsidiaries Supply Chain Management (Procurement Vendors Company, Subsidiaries, Contract Practices, Supply chain assessment Workforce Environment, Labour, Human Rights, Society) including Contract Management – O&M and Projects Asset Security & Protection Company, Subsidiaries Water Management Community, Government (as an owner Company, Subsidiaries (including Solar) and Supplier of Water) Emissions (Air, GHG) Community Company, Subsidiaries (excluding Solar) Waste Management – Ash, Gypsum, Hazardous Community, Vendors Company, Subsidiaries (excluding Solar) and non-hazardous waste Biodiversity Community Emergency Preparedness and Disaster Community, Government Company, Subsidiaries Management A. O & M Material – input (Associated Vendors Company, Subsidiaries Chemicals, Limestone for FGD, Spares, Paints, other consumables) B. Project Material – Plant Machinery, Vendors Company, Subsidiaries Construction materials, Occupational Health and Safety Employee and Community Employees, Contract Workforce Contract Workforce Community Engagement & Development Community, Government Company, Subsidiaries (Indirect economic impact) Employment Community Company, Subsidiaries Labour Relations/ IR Company, Subsidiaries, Contract Workforce Human Rights Forced Labour, Child Labour, Company, Subsidiaries, Employees, Working Conditions Contract Workforce Fair Treatment and Equal Opportunity Company, Subsidiaries, Employees, Contract Workforce Indigenous Rights Indigenous Community Anti-corruption Company, Subsidiaries Cultural Heritage Community, Government Security Practices Company, Subsidiaries Competency Management Employees, Contract Workforce 28 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Interpretations of Aspect Boundary at the corporate office in Ahmedabad as Our internal aspect boundary includes the well as employees and contract workforce plant boundary of the Company, Adani at the above-mentioned entities. The Power Limited at Mundra as well as its external aspect boundary includes external solar plant at Bitta, Gujarat, its subsidiaries impact areas/stakeholders in our value Adani Power Maharashtra Ltd.’s plant at chain including upstream and downstream Tiroda, Maharashtra, Adani Power Rajasthan value chain partners, business partners, Ltd.’s plant at Kawai, Rajasthan and Udupi vendors, Government agencies and local Power Corporation Ltd.’s plant at Udupi, communities at these locations. Karnataka and includes the employees Fuel ManagementOne of our material aspect. 29 Adani Power Limited Materiality Matrix High 6 5 11 9 5 1 8 6 4 2 4 12 10 7 3 SIGNIFICANCE 3 2 1 Low 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 High RELEVANCE 1 Economic 2 Air/GHG Emissions, 3 Labour Relations/IR 4 Employment Performance, Plant Efﬁciency, Fuel Management, Community Water Engagement Management, & Development Compliance, OHS 5 Waste Management, 6 Working Conditions, 7 Indigenous Rights 8 Contract Input Material, Stakeholder Grievance, Management Biodiversity, Fair Treatment and Power Purchase Equal Opportunity, Arrangements Child Labour, Forced Labour 9 Project Material, 10 Contract Management, 11 Competency 12 Innovation (R&D) Emergency Anti-corruption, Management, Preparedness, Land Acquisition, Security Practices Supply Chain Planned Capacity Management 30 V S E U L A V Our Quest towards Values Strategy for Sustainability Business Excellence Initiatives: 33 Management Systems 33 Work Place Management (5S) 33 Six Sigma 34 Collaboration and Knowledge Sharing 34 Data Management Sustainability Report 2016-17 Management Systems Our management system includes management system with latest version in ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS upcoming year. We are further improving 18001 and ISO 50001. We continue to internal capabilities across all operating maintain all the management systems. We plants by developing team of certified Lead shall upgrade our quality and environment Auditor for ISO 9001. Building Internal Capabilities. Work Place Management through 5S initiatives During the year, we have build our internal We now have 25 certified lead assessors capabilities for ‘Work Place Management’ of 5S at different locations. We shall utilise by providing training to identified employee their capabilities in coming time through on certified lead assessor of 5S. Further, cross site internal audits. Eight teams our journey of ‘Work Place Management’ with two members from each graduated to the next level while getting a joint operating plant, Mundra, Tiroda, recognition by Japanese Union of Scientist and Kawai and Udupi have participated Engineers (JUSE) and Quality Circle Forum of in National Convention on 5S India (QCFI), under highest category, for all our at Mumbai, competing with 33 four sites Mundra, Tiroda, Kawai and Udupi. different companies, have won With this new international level recognition our trophies under highest category teams are thrilled to continually foster the 5S i.e. Par Excellence. culture across the organisation. Six Sigma ‘Six Sigma’ projects initiated at our Mundra started first phase at Tiroda. Six projects have and Tiroda plants are another significant been identified as ‘lean’ projects at Tiroda action for business excellence. During the and completed successfully. A team of 27 year, we have continued Six Sigma drive at employee have also undergone training and Mundra with two new projects and also have certified as Green Belt for Six Sigma. 33 Adani Power Limited Collaboration and Knowledge Sharing Participation in industrial • Federation of Indian Chamber of conferences and professional meets Commerce and Industry (FICCI) play an important role not only in • Independent Power Producers Energy and gaining new knowledge but also in Association of India (IPPAI) operational sharing our own expertise and thereby, • Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and performance positively branding our Company. Industry (GCCI) data is reviewed • Ahmedabad Management Association most frequently During FY 2016-17, we were a member of (AMA) at operating the following associations either directly • National Safety Council (NSC) plants and or through our parent company Adani • Quality Circle Forum of India (QCFI) reported on daily Enterprises Limited: • Gujarat Safety Council basis • Institute of Fire Engineers, India (IFE) to corporate • Association of Power Producers (APP) • British Safety Council office for • Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) joint reviews. Data Management System Sustainability performance data is collected with environmental regulations by employing different approaches, including are monitored by environment direct online and offline measurement management function. Similarly, and calculation as per applicability. Our the occupational health and safety ERP system is used for collecting data on management function monitors and material purchase and consumption, plant documents all the relevant data pertaining operations, employees and workforce, waste to health and safety of the workforce. A generation and disposal. Data relevant to key dedicated Corporate Social Responsibility performance indicators for plant operations (CSR) team implements CSR initiatives at are collated, internally reported and reviewed each operating location which is reviewed at different levels at operating plants and by the Adani Foundation team at the corporate office. corporate office. Thus, data and information on CSR activities and beneficiaries are Frequency of internal reporting and review of based on the data maintained by the CSR the different data sets vary as per criticality team working at Adani Power. Books of of the data for operations. We also review Adani Power and records maintained by financial performance including interest Adani Foundation at its corporate office is cost most regularly. Energy and operational being used as the basis for reporting the performance data is reviewed most expenditure incurred for CSR activities. frequently at operating plants and reported For this report, relevant information and on daily basis to corporate office for joint data has been collected based on internal reviews. This data is used for reporting on reporting system and documentation performance indicators related to fuel and maintained by concerned departments and other material consumption in the report. functions across our operations. Besides this, there is data collation, analysis, internal reporting and review system within different functions and departments for respective data and information. Hazardous waste disposal, ash utilisation, water consumption, environmental emissions, greenbelt and plantations, compliance 34 C O N V I C T I O N Our Quest towards Conviction Governance for Sustainability Adani Power Limited 37 Company’s Philosophy on Code of Governance 38 Governance Structure 37 Governance, Ethics and Integrity 41 Ethics and Integrity 42 Internal Control 42 Internal Audit 43 External Review 44 Status of Sub-judice Cases including Public Interest Litigations Sustainability Report 2016-17 Governance, Ethics and Integrity Company’s philosophy on code of evaluating its performance as well as that governance of its Committees and individual Directors, The Board of Directors delivers Corporate including the Chairman of the Board. The Governance by ensuring transparency, exercise covered various aspects of the disclosure and reporting that conforms Board’s functioning such as composition fully to the existing laws of the country of the Board and formulation of various and to promote ethical conduct of committees based on experience, business throughout the organisation. competencies, performance of specific Our standards in governance are initiated duties and obligations, contribution by senior management and transcend to from expert members and independent the next level down in the organisation. judgement relevant to governance issues. The philosophy of the Company is motivated to ensure ease and We are committed to transparency, transparency across its operations, disclosure and reporting to promote ethical making disclosures and to enhance conduct of business throughout the shareholder value without organisation. Our governance standards compromising on compliance of are initiated by the top governance body laws and regulations. Sound corporate and the senior management and percolate governance is critical to our practices so we through the organisation. Our philosophy can generate and maintain the trust of all in relation to corporate governance is to stakeholders. The Board of Directors fully ensure transparency in all our operations, supports corporate governance practices in make required disclosures and enhance our Company with appropriate checks and stakeholder value without compromising audits at suitable places and at necessary on compliance with regulations. The Board intervals. The Company has complied with of Directors takes responsibility for the applicable requirements of Corporate implementation of corporate governance Governance under Clause 49 of the Listing practices in our Company with appropriate Agreement. checks and balances. We comply with necessary requirements of Corporate Having adopted a formal mechanism, Governance under Clause 49 of the Listing the Board has structured a process for Agreement with the Stock Exchanges. We understand synergy of workplace and human capital. 37 Adani Power Limited Our governance structure upholds The Board of Directors has delegated • Independence sustainability responsibility to the CEO. All • Tenure on the governance body strategic and operational responsibilities • Number of each individual’s other are executed by the CEO through various significant positions and commitments, functional heads at the corporate office and and the nature of the commitments station heads at all operating and project • Membership of under-represented social locations. The strategic and operational groups responsibilities include sustainability • Competencies related to the economic, performance (economic, environmental environmental and social impact and social). Heads of departments in turn • Stakeholder representation convert the sustainability requirements as KPIs, which are cascaded as performance targets for individual employees. Figure 2: Governance Structure Board of Directors Nomination Sustainability Stakeholder Audit and and CSR Relationship Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Our governance CEO structure promotes sound practices, the representation We ensure participation of any underPerformance monitoring includes of all represented or marginalised social groups sustainability performance monitoring of stakeholders, in the decision-making process either by individuals to department heads and station diversity in inviting members from an NGO or civil society heads and then to the COO and Board. multiple aspects, groups to be part of committees within our transparency in governance structure. We also ensure an The responsibility of facilitating stakeholder disclosures and independent director or the presence of a engagement, materiality determination opportunity for social scientist with specific competence. related to sustainability management and feedback and reporting including regular monitoring of redressal. Our governance structure promotes the Company’s sustainability performance sound practices, the representation of all and that of its subsidiaries has been stakeholders, diversity in multiple aspects, delegated to the CSO. The CSO routinely transparency in disclosures and opportunity relays the sustainability performance to for feedback and redressal. the CEO and to the Board based on inputs from the various station heads and other stakeholders. 38 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Table 8: Board of Directors Name of the Director Type of Directorship Other Directorship Mr. Gautam S. Adani (Chairman) Promoter and Non-Executive Director 4 Mr. Rajesh S. Adani (Managing Director) Promoter and Executive Director 7 Mr. Vneet S. Jaain (Whole-time Director) Executive Director 6 Mr. C. P. Jain Independent and Non-Executive Director Ms. Nandita Vohra Independent and Non-Executive Director 9 Mr. Raminder Singh Gujral Independent and Non-Executive Director The Board has established the following committees which play a vital role in ensuring sound governance practices as per the requirements of SEBI regulations and Companies Act, 2013. 1. Audit Committee 2. Nomination and Remuneration Committee 3. Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee 4. Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 5. Risk Management Committee Table 9: Investor Grievance Redressal Nature of Complaints Complaints Received Complaints Resolved Non-receipt of refund order 4 4 Non-receipt of dividend warrant 3 3 Non-receipt of annual report 3 3 Non-receipt / credit of shares 7 7 Total 17 17 For more details on the composition of the committees and their roles, please refer to Page 58 of the Annual Report 2016-17 for Adani Power Ltd. All our Board members are fully various aspects of the Board functioning aware of the economic, social and such as composition of the Board and its environmental aspects of our business. Committees, experience and competencies Their appointment to the Board is based of its members, performance of specific on their competencies in their respective duties and obligations, contribution at the areas of expertise. The CSO is responsible meetings and otherwise, independent for appraising the Board about our judgment and governance issues. sustainability performance as well as sensitising Board members on the current The maximum tenure of the independent trends related to economic, environmental Directors is in compliance with the and social issues. All Independent Directors Companies Act, 2013. All the Independent provide declarations confirming that they Directors have confirmed that they meet meet the criteria of Independence provided the criteria as mentioned under Clause 49 in Section 149(6) of the Act and Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement and Section 149 of of the Listing Agreement and that there the Companies Act, 2013. has been no change in the circumstances which may affect their status as The organisational policies, purpose, values, Independent Director during the year. The mission statement, strategies, goals and Board adopted a formal mechanism for targets related to sustainable development evaluating its performance as well as that are developed by senior management of its Committees and individual Directors, committees based on the identified risks including the Chairman of the Board. and opportunities related to the power The exercise was carried out through a sector, external environment, legal and structured evaluation process covering other requirements, management system 39 Adani Power Limited requirements and stakeholder consultation. made by the Nomination and Remuneration Organisational policies, purpose, values, Committee. No remuneration is paid to mission statement, strategies, goals and Managing Director/ Whole Time Director/ targets related to sustainable development Executive Director during the FY 2016-17. are regularly reviewed and approved by the Additionally, no commission was paid to highest governance body. any Independent Director. During the year, the Company has paid sitting fees Organisational The critical concerns from various stake of ` 20,000 per meeting to Independent policies, purpose, holders such as communities, suppliers and Directors for attending meetings of the values, mission vendors, lenders and investors, employees, Board and Committees of the Board. The statement, contract workforce, customers, Government/ details of the remuneration paid to the strategies, regulatory authority and media/ NGO are CFO and Company Secretary are detailed goals and captured through our management systems in Annual Report 2016-17 on Page 17 in targets related by the respective heads and communicated Section 6 Remuneration of Directors and to sustainable to the CEO through the CEO dashboard. Key Managerial Persons. The remuneration development The CEO regularly monitors the critical of other senior executives is based on are regularly concerns and updates the board such performance appraisals; this includes reviewed and critical concerns which may impact business sustainability-related KPIs and follows the approved by value drivers. system of appraiser-reviewer and approver the highest annually. We do not engage a remuneration governance body. The remuneration of Directors and key consultant; the remuneration depends on personnel is determined by the Nomination various factors that include the competency and Remuneration Committee. The and position of the person, market Directors’ remuneration structure is conditions and organisation performance determined by the Board in consultation during the fiscal, as decided by the with this committee. The remuneration remuneration and nomination committee. payable is approved by the Board of The committee carries out consultation Increase in Directors and members in the general with the relevant stakeholders to determine the median body meeting in terms of the provisions the framework for remuneration. The remuneration applicable from time to time. The Nonratio of remuneration of Directors and Key for the executive Independent Directors are Management Personnel to the median paid remuneration by way of commission remuneration employees is detailed in financial year. and sitting fees. The remuneration of Annexure C to the Directors’ Report, Page 21 11.4 % Board members is decoded based on the of the Annual Report 2016-17. remuneration policy and recommendations Outside view of our power plant control room. 40 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Ethics and Integrity We are in the process of The Board has adopted the following codes: establishing external mechanisms to receive advice on ethical and • Guidance on ethical standards of conduct lawful behaviour and matters on various matters including conflict related to organisational integrity. of interest, acceptance of positions of responsibilities, treatment of business Our Corporate Governance philosophy is built opportunities, etc.; on fair, transparent and effective governance. Our commitment to the highest level of • Responsibility to comply with insider ethical conduct should reflect in all our trading regulations and applicable laws business activities including but not limited and regulations; and to relationships with customers, suppliers, employees, the Government and other • Procedure for annual affirmations to the stakeholders. One of our most valuable assets Code of Conduct by Directors, senior is our reputation for integrity and fairness. management and employees. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics In case of any doubt or clarification in (the Code) that has been adopted by our relation to the application of the Code of Board of Directors and senior management Conduct, employees can consult with the summarises the standards that guide our Company Secretary and Compliance Officer actions. While covering a wide range of of the Company. business practices and procedures, these standards cannot and do not cover every We have also established a vigil mechanism issue that may arise, or every situation for Directors and employees to report where ethical decisions must be made, genuine concerns as per the provisions but rather set forth key guiding principles of the Section 177 of the Companies that represent the Company’s policies. Act, 2013 in a manner as prescribed. The We are in the process of establishing revised Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement external mechanisms to receive advice on between listed companies and the ethical and lawful behaviour and matters Stock Exchanges provides a mandatory related to organisational integrity. We requirement to devise an effective whistle have established an internal mechanism blower mechanism for Directors and to report concerns about unethical and employees to report concerns about unlawful behaviour and matters related to unethical behaviour, actual or suspected certain stakeholders such as employees. fraud or violation of the Company’s Code We are exploring the possibility of of Conduct or Ethics Policy. For more extending this to other key stakeholders. information please refer to Page 35 of our Annual Report 2016-17. The Code not only ensures compliance with Company Law, provisions of the The purpose and objective of this policy Listing Agreement with Stock Exchanges is to provide a framework for responsible and other laws, but also ensures corporate and secure whistle blowing and also governance. Even well-intended actions protect employees raising concerns about that violate the Code may result in negative any irregularities within the Company. All consequences for the Company and for employees are eligible for making a protected the individuals involved. For further details, disclosure under this policy in relation to please refer to our Code of Conduct at matters concerning the Company. www.adanipower.com. All policies and Code of Conduct have been The Board of Directors and the Company’s communicated to the Board of Directors, senior leadership teams are involved in the senior management and all our employees. All development of the Company’s Values, new employees are introduced to our policies Vision and Culture. They participate in the and Code of Conduct during their induction development of organisational strategies and training. As part of our operational as well as policies related to sustainability performance. organisational level risk identification and 41 Adani Power Limited management process, our locations undergo Compliance assessment for risks related to corruption. Compliance refers to complying with all laws During this reporting year, no incidence of and regulations at national and local levels as corruption could be noticed. this is vital for our future growth and essential to run our business smoothly while maintaining During the reporting year, there were stakeholders’ trust and confidence. In addition, no significant fines and non-monetary we also follow and abide by Group policies. sanctions related to non-compliance with Our Board periodically reviews compliance applicable laws and regulations. reports of all laws applicable to the company as required under Regulation 17(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. Internal Control We have developed a system for the adequacy of internal controls and internal control commensurate with ensures compliance with Accounting the size and nature of our business. Standards, among others. Some key features of our internal control mechanism include: • A comprehensive Information Security Policy and continuous updating of IT • Adequate documentation of policies, systems. guidelines, authorities and approval procedures such as Standard Operating Grievance Management The Internal Procedure (SOP) and Delegation of Grievance management impacts an Audit process Authority (DOA) are in place for controlling organisation’s activities and relationships includes review important functions of the Company. with multiple stakeholders. We focus on and evaluation of timely resolution of grievances raised by our the effectiveness • Monitoring of all laws, regulation and human resources, communities, business of existing statutory compliances is being done partners and regulatory bodies. An internal processes, through an internal online portal. top management team is assigned for controls and managing these grievances at each location compliances. • The Audit Committee, comprising and unresolved grievances are escalated to Independent Directors, regularly reviews the CEO and Board level. Internal Audit At Adani Power Limited, we have a The broad role of MAAS includes: professional internal audit process and system called Management Audit & Assurance • Internal audit and assurance. Services (MAAS) which is an independent, objective assurance and consulting activity • Checking and flagging compliance with designed to add value and improve our policies and processes (SOPs). operations. It helps bring a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve • Review of policies and processes (SOPs) the effectiveness of risk management, control using a risk-based approach to provide and governance processes. reasonable assurance to management. Initiated as part of our Business • Report to management on internal Process Transformation exercise, controls and status. MAAS is a centralised function with direct administrative reporting The Internal Audit department prepares to the Chairman of the Board. In its Risk-Based Internal Audit (RBIA) scope and internal audit role, MAAS reports to the frequency of audit is decided by the risk the Audit Committee of the Board. rating of the concerned areas or functions. 42 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Plant ModelAPL Mundra. The entire internal audit processes are of the operational risks perceived for each web enabled and managed on–line by area under audit. Monthly and quarterly audit Audit Management System (AMS). The findings are given to the COO, CFO and CEO Internal Audit team has access to all for their action taken plan. A quarterly Internal organisational information, facilitated by Audit report, including the Action Taken the SAP mechanism. The Internal Audit Report, is placed at the Audit Committee process includes review and evaluation of the meeting of the Board. Key audit findings effectiveness of existing processes, controls and recommendations are reviewed and the and compliances. It also ensures adherence required action is taken for implementation. to policies and systems and the mitigation External Review In addition to internally reviewing our assessed independently by an external compliance requirements, we have deployed practicing Company Secretary. third-party agencies to audit our operations and identify concerns related to compliance, There has been no instance of if any. Also, as part of our management non-compliance by the Company on any system implementation, our compliance matter related to capital markets during the with environmental, health & safety and last three years and no significant penalties quality standards is audited at a fixed or strictures have been imposed on the frequency. Company by the Stock Exchanges or SEBI or any statutory authority. As part of our annual financial reporting, we get our corporate governance systems 43 Adani Power Limited Status of Sub-judice Cases including Public Interest Litigations In FY 2016-17, there were no cases filed by co-respondent with effect from March 2016 any stakeholder against the Company for and case has been sub-judice during the non-compliance with applicable regulations reporting year. concerning marketing communications including advertisement, promotion During the reporting year, four matters and sponsorships, breach of customer pertaining to environmental laws has been privacy and intellectual property rights. clubbed and under hearing before National Additionally, there was no case Green Tribunal (NGT) Chennai bench pertaining to infringement of where UPCL, a subsidiary of Adani Power human rights and anti-competitive Limited, has been made a co-respondent by behaviour. applicants in applications against Union of India and other clearance authorities. One All applicable environmental clearances other matter has been under hearing before have been obtained and we comply with all Karnataka State Environmental Appellate applicable environmental regulations. At the Authority. Company has submitted the same time, we are working to understand replies and do not expect any adverse and address the point of view of these outcome and risk due to these cases. stakeholders who have adopted the legal route by making the Company a respondent A legal compliance review of all operating in law suits in different court of laws. locations and projects is done in a systematic manner. Our internal legal There were three Writ Petitions (WP) team consults top legal experts in all through Public Interest Litigations (PIL) significant cases and assesses the risk and pertaining to environmental laws in merit of each case. The legal head of the which Adani Power Limited was made a Company submits the disclosure on legal co-respondent by the petitioners. Two of compliance to the board level committee. these PILs were dismissed by the Hon’ble Environmental due diligence and High Court of Gujarat, with a view that the assessment of risks are also done matter is not maintainable in the form of for the projects that we consider a PIL. Judgement in another WP was also for acquisition. passed by Hon’ble High Court of Gujarat reading that “we do not find any merit in We are of the view that any other legal case this writ petition.” After this judgement, a filed under other laws of the land in which Special Leave Petition (SLP) in the case was the Company has been made a respondent filed by the petitioner in Hon’ble Supreme and which was sub-judice during the Court (SC). During the reporting year, reporting year does not pose any risk to the Supreme Court has also dismissed the SLP sustainability of our business. as not pressed with the liberty prayed for. Apart from these matters related to APL, During the reporting year, there were no there was one application by an NGO in political donations or contributions. As a NGT Pune bench against Union of India policy, any political donations, irrespective of and one thermal power plant of other the amount, need to receive approval from company at Mundra. Applicant has filed the Board of Directors in the Company. application to NGT to implead APL also in this ongoing case and APL has been made a 44 I T Y A L U Q Our Quest towards Quality Operations & Economics 54 Adani Power Limited Vendor Management 53 Supply Chain Management 53 Coal Logistics 52 Coal Sourcing 52 Fuel Management 51 Efficiency 51 Opportunity -seeking 50 New Plans and Upcoming Projects 50 Debt Servicing Strategy 47 Introduction Sustainability Report 2016-17 Introduction India’s economic growth is powered by and also due to reduction in quantum of Government initiatives and supported power sold. Adani Power’s total generation equally by the private sector, which commits stood at 65.17 billion units during the large investments towards nation building. financial year, as against 69.39 billion units We consider our growth to be testament to in FY 2015-16. We are focused nation building as we operate several power on appropriate generation assets that cater to the power Adani Power’s debt and liquidity position returns to deficit in India. Consequentially, Adani in FY 2016-17 remained stressed due shareholders and Power considers economic sustainability as to the continuing non-resolution of the lenders through paramount to its operations. We are focused compensatory tariff matter with power a strategy of on appropriate returns to shareholders and discoms, arising from the increased cost of growth and lenders through a strategy of growth and fuel. This was because of promulgation of expansion, expansion, while ensuring sustainability Indonesian regulations and the shortage while ensuring for our business partners such as vendors in supply of domestic coal. However, a key sustainability and suppliers. Our growth has been challenge faced, especially at the Mundra for our business and continues to be inclusive plant, is the unavailability of fuel cost pass partners such of employee and community through for imported coal. This has resulted as vendors and development to generate direct into an under-recovery of costs at the suppliers. and indirect economic benefits. plant. Consequent to the Supreme Court’s order regarding Compensatory Tariffs, we In the past five years, Adani Power has have engaged in discussions with various continued to expand rapidly and has stakeholders to identify remedial measures increased its capacity from 1,980MW to its for sustainable operation of the Mundra present operating capacity of 10,480MW, power plant. We have strategically sold thereby reflecting a compounded annual around 80% of our net capacity under longcapacity growth of 40%. FY 2016-17 has been term PPAs. Envisaging short-term market a year of sustained power generation growth. trends, we have contracted around half of our available merchant capacity under FY 2016-17 The consolidated total revenue for medium-term PPAs of 3-5 years. This has FY 2016-17 stood at ` 2,32,027.8 million as gone a long way in mitigating the risk of Consolidated against ` 2,57,337.5 million for FY 2015-16 unsold capacity and falling realisations in showing a decrease of 10%. The revenue is short-term markets. Turnover. lower in FY 2016-17 mainly due to nonrecognition of Compensatory Tariff (CT) for Mundra plant, pursuant to the judgement Our Mundra power plant generated 30.30 billion units during the year. Consolidated ` 2,32,027 by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the matter total comprehensive loss for the year was million 1,980MW 2012 operating capacity 40 Compounded Annual Capacity Growth % 10,480 Present operating capacity MW 47 Adani Power Limited APL UPCL Figure 3: Power Sales and Power Generation APML APL, Bitta APRL Solar PV Generation 40,000 Sales 32,993 30,298 30,000 30,221 27,560 GWh 20,080 20,000 18,962 17,643 16,665 10,000 8,685 8,298 7,575 7,875 8,236 7,865 7,410 7,138 61.7 57.0 0 59.3 56.3 FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 ` 6,170.13 crores. We have prepared our Bitta power plant, the state of Gujarat is financial statements in accordance with the only customer under long-term PPA. Indian Accounting Standard (Ind-AS). For For Tiroda and Kawai power plants, major FY 2016-17, we have developed an internal customers are the states of Maharashtra Developed financial control framework as guidance and Rajasthan, respectively, and for the an internal and to ensure adequate controls and Udupi power plant, we are supplying to financial control effectiveness within the Company. As a the state of Karnataka under a long-term framework as part of this, we have prepared and reviewed PPA. We have now signed a long-term PPA guidance and to the Entity Level Control, Process Level with Mundra Utilities Pvt. Ltd. (MUPL) for a ensure adequate Control and IT General control within the contracted capacity of 40MW. In addition controls and Company. The internal and external auditors to this, we have medium-term PPAs with effectiveness of the Company have issued their reports Railway Energy Management Company within the to management on Internal Control over Ltd. (REMCL) and Tamil Nadu Generation & Company. Financial Reporting based on audits. Distribution Company Ltd. (TANGEDCO) for supply from Mundra. We have been supplying power to various state distribution companies as well as to We also supply power to Indian Energy small and large industries. Power sales to Exchange (IEX) and other short-term these customers can be broadly classified customers from time to time. We have no into three categories: long-term contracts, direct residential customers. medium-term contracts and short-term contracts. Power is supplied to different customers as per the terms and conditions of the For the Mundra power plant, major respective PPAs. We adhere to all relevant customers under long-term PPAs are the regulations of State Electricity Regulatory states of Gujarat and Haryana. For the Corporations (SERCs) and Central Electricity 48 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Regulatory Commission (CERC) guidelines from State Load Dispatch Centres (SLDCs) and Regional Load Dispatch Centres (RLDCs). We also adhere to PPA provisions and meet normative availability in order to recover full fixed charges. We always try to supply power to all customers beyond the normative availability under PPAs, thereby proving to be a reliable source of power. We are not involved in the retail distribution of power to individual customers. Our customers, as detailed above, are mainly long-term and medium-term customers with whom we have signed PPAs. Additionally, mostly during festive seasons and peak power demand times, a few short-term open access customers also come on board. Table 10: Power Purchase Agreements Contract Capacity Location of Procurer (in MW) Supply Type Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. (GUVNL) 1,000 Mundra Long-term GUVNL 1,000 Mundra Long-term Haryana Power Purchase Centre (HPPC) HVPNL 1,424 Mundra Long-term Mundra Utilities Pvt Ltd. (MUPL) 40 Mundra Long-term Railway Energy Management Company Ltd. (REMCL) 50 Mundra Medium-term Tamil Nadu Generation & Distribution Company Ltd. (TANGEDCO) 200 Mundra Medium-term Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. (GUVNL) 40 Bitta Long-term Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd. (MSEDCL) 1,320 Tiroda Long-term MSEDCL 1,200 Tiroda Long-term MSEDCL 125 Tiroda Long-term MSEDCL 440 Tiroda Long-term Rajasthan Discoms Power Procurement Centre (RDPPC) 1,200 Kawai Long-term MUPL (Mundra) 10 Udupi Long-term Power Corporation of Karnataka Ltd. (PCKL) 1,080 Udupi Long-term Outage of power in most cases is governed by the directives received from the individual Load Dispatch Centres. However, we undergo some planned and unplanned outages. During the reporting year, there were 98 outages of which 55 were forced. We communicate these outages to our customers in a timely manner. The frequency and average duration of these outages is depicted in the table below: Table 11: Power Outage Frequency and Average Power Outage Duration Adani Power Business System Average Values FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 Interruption frequency index for planned Outage 0.37 Outage / Customer 1.08 Outage / Customer Interruption frequency index (including forced outages) 1.22 Outage / Customer 2.45 Outage / Customer Interruption duration index (excluding forced outages) 151 Hours 451 Hours Interruption duration index (including forced outages) 207 Hours 701 Hours 49 Adani Power Limited Our APL Mundra Plant: Setting example of least footprint of land per MW. We have been an active participant in the this eventuality. We have explored the ongoing regulatory dialogue for the creation available technologies and deliberated on of a more robust short-term market in India. the way forward. With this spirit, we aim to We recognise that it is imperative be a key contributor in shaping the future for short-term markets to play a of the short-term market in India. During larger and more important role FY 2016-17, we did not receive any financial than they currently do and we assistance from any government body. have been preparing ourselves for Debt Servicing Strategy Thermal power plants have an economic for thermal power plants in Mundra and life of about 30 years. Long-term debt in the Tiroda during the reporting year. Given that form of Rupee Term Loans is being availed for lender is required to disclose specific Scope a 10-12 year period which creates financial 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions, we have stress on projects which are of long gestation disclosed these in this report. periods. In order to mitigate this mismatch, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) introduced During the reporting year, the Company the 5/25 scheme of debt refinancing for has continued to service all its long-term infrastructure and core sector projects having debt obligations on time without any long gestation period and long economic life. case of default. In accordance with this policy, we are in the process of approaching various long-term During the financial year External lenders to refinance our long-term debt for Commercial Borrowings (ECB) level at the the remaining economic life of all our power beginning of the year was at USD 1,451 plants. million and the closing balance was at USD 1,160 million, with repayment of USD IFC audit: Independent external auditors 291 million. Refinancing of ECB is not appointed by our lenders conducted an considered in repayment/addition, no new audit against IFC performance standards addition during the year. New Plans and Upcoming Projects We are committed to reaching of 24X7 power to all by 2022. our goal of achieving a thermal Additionally, with consolidation taking place power generation capacity of in the Indian Power sector, there exists an 20,000MW by 2020 to bridge the opportunity for capacity addition through power deficit in the country, in line the M&A route. This is in line with our vision with the revised Tariff Policy and to be a leader in infrastructure development the Government of India’s vision for nation building. 50 Sustainability Report 2016-17 We plan to expand our thermal business by 600MW coal-based thermal power plant additional capacity of 1,600MW at Kawai, in Chhattisgarh. That said, the acquisition 1,600MW at Jharkhand, 1,600MW Udupi and is subject to certain consents that are 600MW at Surguja in the near future. We pending. plan to finance our expansion plans through a healthy mix of debt and equity. For the Allotment of Jitpur Coal Block: debt portion, we expect to tie up a mix of We completed vesting of the coal block Rupee Term Loans and External Commercial to the Company, at Jitpur in Jharkhand, Borrowings as we have done for our existing during last year. For this, the Company plants. We executed a share purchase executed “The Coal Mine Development agreement with the owners of Korba West and Production Agreement” with the Power Company Limited (KWPCL) for the Government of India in the previous acquisition of a 100% stake in KWPCL year. We already initiated the process for during the previous year. KWPCL owns a development of the said mine. Additional capacity expansion of thermal business 1,600 1,600 1600 1600 MW MW KAWAI UDUPI UDUPI 1,600 600 1600 1600 MW MW JHARKHAND UDUPI SURGUJA Opportunity-seeking We continue to identify power-deficit deficit situation. Accordingly, we have zones and have moved swiftly to cover proposed for expansion of our UPCL plant. these regions with our state-of-the-art plants to generate power and transmit We are also developing internal through high voltage transmission capabilities through Adani infrastructure developed either by our group Transmission Limited, which is company Adani Transmission Ltd. or State Adani Group company and our Transmission Companies for delivering value chain partners to augment critical services that are important for both power carrying capacity in the life and businesses. One example is the country, which will eventually southern region and its consistent power support our expansion plans. Efficiency Our strategy on efficiency stems from the various efficiency improvement plant design stage since power plants are projects in operational plants complex and long gestation projects with from time to time and service key significant capital expenditure. At the equipment to maintain and improve design stage, we engage various experts in plant efficiency. Sale of electricity to providing inputs to enable us to choose the Haryana is metered at Haryana periphery and best possible design with the least cost to there has been transmission loss of 1.06% of operate during the plant lifecycle. total power evacuation from APL Mundra in We also progressively take up comparison to 1.17% in previous year. 51 Adani Power Limited Fuel Management There is an ever-increasing demand for future. At Adani Power, we realise that these energy globally, which indicates an increased resources are limited and therefore the need use of natural resources for the production of the hour is to utilise these efficiently and of energy. This demand is expected to reduce wastage as far as possible. increase at an accelerated rate in the near Coal Sourcing Domestic and Total Units of Imported Coal Imported Coal Mundra Plant 2,640 1,980 Units MW Units MW 15.92 MMTPA Our power generating stations are currently long-term Fuel Supply Agreement (FSA) for predominantly dependent on imported and 1,180MW executed with SECL, a subsidiary domestic coal as a source of primary fuel. of Coal India Ltd. (CIL) and requirement Heavy Fuel Oil (HFO) and Light Diesel Oil for remaining 2,120MW is being sourced (LDO) are used in limited quantities during through MOU route till first quarter and the start-up of the power plants. Since for the balance period is being sourced these are conventional, non-renewable through e-auction conducted for power sources of energy, ensuring fuel security for sector. Additionally, the Company will be our operations is of utmost priority and has availing long-term coal linkage for 2,120MW hence been identified as a material aspect. under the New Coal Allocation Policy being formulated by GoI. The Mundra plant comprises nine units. Fuel requirements for 2,640MW spanning For Kawai, the coal requirement is being units 1 to 6 are met through imported coal, met through MOU and e-auction coal. whereas for the 1,980MW needed for units The coal supplies in the first quarter were 7 to 9, the Company has entered into a fuel made through MOU route and for balance supply agreement with Mahanadi Coalfield period the requirement is being met Limited (MCL) for a total of 6.405 MMTPA. through e-auction conducted for power To ensure fuel security, we rely on our group sector. Mix of imported and domestic coal company, Adani Enterprises Limited, for is being used to meet the full requirement. continuous availability of imported coal for Additionally, the Company will be availing our operations. Our group company, which long-term coal linkage for entire capacity is one of the largest coal traders in the under the New Coal Allocation Policy being country, owns mines in Indonesia and has formulated by GoI. linkages to import it from USA, Australia and Russia. Through competitive Fuel for the UPCL plant comprises 1,200MW bidding, the Jitpur Coal Block (2x600MW each) and demand is met situated at Jharkhand has been through imported coal mainly from countries allotted and will be operational as such as Indonesia, Australia and South Africa. per the mining plan in FY 2018-19 at a rated capacity of 2.5 MMTPA, Apart from the coal supplies under Linkages further securing domestic coal and MoU to our power plants, we are also availability. availing additional domestic coal through e-auctions conducted exclusively for power Fuel for 3,300MW Tiroda plant is being sector consumers, thus maximising our sourced through available coal linkage, MOU domestic sourcing. For our secondary fuel, and e-auction coal. Coal quantum of 4.91 we have entered into a rate contract with MMTPA is sourced under HPCL to ensure uninterrupted supply. 52 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Keeping this in mind, we are confident that there will not be any uncertainty in the availability of coal in the near future. Further, as a strategy, maximising domestic coal sourcing will keep us competitive and attractive against competition. Coal Logistics Coal logistics include the transportation and environmental impact of transportation. of imported and domestic coal from mine Our Udupi plant is also a coastal plant that to plant with a combination of rail and uses imported coal. To handle this, we have sea-based routes. Since power plants a dedicated jetty at New Mangalore Port Adani Power are national assets of long-term nature, Trust (NMPT) from where coal is transported Limited has we have taken a call to primarily use rail by rail to the plant. dedicated transport for our coal logistics for plants teams at the located in the interiors of the country. This At Kawai and Tiroda, we have constructed locations of the will also help us maintain our emissions and dedicated railway sidings with wagon tippler coal sources to impact on the local community. To reduce and track hopper arrangements for coal facilitate regular the time taken to deliver coal from ports to unloading, reducing the turnaround time of loading and coastal plants, we have also implemented coal rakes. Additionally, at Tiroda, we have uninterrupted closed conveyor systems. implemented the rail-under-rail project transport of coal crossing under the Central Railway line to to our plants. The Mundra power plant is enable faster evacuation of empty IR rakes strategically located in close through our railway siding. proximity to the Mundra Port, which can handle up to 1,65,000 Adani Power Limited has dedicated teams at MT cape-size vessels to feed its the locations of the coal sources to facilitate nine units. This brings in economies of regular loading and uninterrupted transport scale in terms of ocean freight and reduces of coal to our plants. This has ensured the need for multiple vessels for coal feed. At that considering the contracted capacity Mundra, we have laid a dedicated conveyor under long-term coal linkages for Mundra belt to transport coal from the port to our and Tiroda, APL has achieved about 90% generating station, minimising the time, cost materialisation of the sanctioned programme. Supply Chain Management A reliable and sustainable supply chain port and power together provide the is critical to drive efficiency in business most desired synergy. This synergy helps and scale operations across our facilities. us in quick turnaround for our projects As part of the business transformation and delivers the best value to all our projects under Disha, we have formulated stakeholders. Further, our seven units a structured and uniform supply chain of 660MW are identical, giving us an management process. Our businesses advantage when it comes to spares and benefit from their competitiveness and vendor management. scale, and the value integration of coal, Coal Mundra Equipment O&M Liquid Fuel Supplier Tiroda T&D Manpower Kawai Waste Chemicals Udupi Spare Discoms Customers Parts Contract Bitta Water 53 Adani Power Limited Vendor Management Vendors (suppliers and contractors) are To build a sustainable business relationship co-authors to our success story. We believe with vendors, we measure the performance in trust and long partnerships to endorse of the vendor and provide regular and high quality and value of the asset being transparent feedback for improvements and To build a constructed. Hence, we are committed to development. sustainable facilitating our vendors so they can provide business us with the best quality and optimum We follow a Vendor Relationship relationship benefit keeping in mind health, safety and Management (VRM) system which with vendors, environment aspects. We also insist on involves collaborative working we measure the developing a healthy social environment in and relationship building with performance of our vendor organisations for a better work vendors in order to meet business the vendor and culture. Our systematic approach helps us objectives. provide to comply with applicable labour practice regular and regulations covering child labour and We consider domestic vendors as local transparent human rights aspects which influence and vendors. In FY 2016-17, we had a base of feedback for controls these issues in our supply chain 3,302 vendors as against 3,183 vendors in improvements also. We have a process of on-boarding FY 2015-16. Nearly 99% of these were locally and all the vendors through pre-qualification, from the domestic market. Out of total development. which ensures vendor credentials and service and material contract value, 93% was capability to execute assignments, awarded to local vendors. adherence to health, safety, environment norms and compliance with statutory Vendors classification is done based on two requirements. Through our Business parameters: respective procurement size Transformation Processes – Disha and Agile and magnitude of risk posed to the business. – we have developed a common vendor base across Group companies. Figure 4: Vendor Classification Criticality High Surety of Supply Strategic Vendors • Provide the greatest potential • Essential to daily Strategically •  operations, but manage the value and pose the highest relationship managed relationship vs. potential risk of impacting more operationally than events that occur delivery to customers preferred vendors within the vendor • Highest level of vendor • Possess potential to relationship interaction and performance be high-value business • Focus on improvement initiatives partners in the future relationship • Focus on risk mitigation building and adding vs. cost savings value Risk Factors Risk Transactional Tactical Vendors Vendors • Financial • Critically of services / supply Deemed to be lower •  Possess potential •  • Monopolistic market value or are not to be high-value • Statutory regulation critical to operations business partners in the future • Past experience • Minimal time required to manage • Focus on cost • Intellectual property • Vendor relationship savings vs. risk • Contractual mitigation • Foreign exchange • Greatest opportunity to reduce, eliminate, • Logistical or simplify the service • HSEQ • Talent Low Annual Spend High • High Organisation 54 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Steps involved in procurement practices The following steps are key to our vendor management process: Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Vendor Manage Manage Vendors Identification and Vendor Queries and On-Boarding Performance Expectation Coal and Ash Handling System at Kawai. 55 Adani Power Limited Step 1 Vendor identification and Vendor performance data is reviewed on-boarding for all ongoing projects. Inputs from the The vendor on-boarding process broadly vendor scorecard are taken for the following covers four aspects: identification, parameters: Vendor pre-screening, pre-qualification and performance approval. The on-boarding requires multiple 1. Quality of deliverable is measured level screenings to ensure that capable 2. Cost through five vendors are pre-qualified and on-boarded. 3. Delivery groups of Successful vendors during the tendering 4. Vendor Management System indicators, process are transferred into our Vendor 5. Engineering deliverables including Master list. A vendor code is generated for 6. Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Engineering new vendors following which the Category deliverables Procurement & Lead begins formulating the contract. Construction Step 3 Managing vendor queries and (EPC) contracts, Step 2 Managing vendor performance expectations equipment To maintain a healthy and mutually To manage vendor expectations and packages, bill of beneficial relationship with vendors, it is resolve queries, we have an online vendor quantity (BoQ) important to measure vendor performance satisfaction survey. packages, bulk and identify vendor development needs. material and As part of our vendor on-boarding process, consultancy Vendor performance is measured through all vendors go through the above-mentioned services. five groups of indicators, including steps and are screened using the Engineering Procurement & Construction above-mentioned parameters. (EPC) contracts, equipment packages, Bill of Quantity (BoQ) packages, bulk material and Local Vendor Development consultancy services. We have different sets We consider India as local. Indigenisation of of parameters for each type and set criteria critical equipment and increasing our local to carry out performance evaluation. To (domestic) vendor base is a priority manage the system, we have standardised and this is measured and reviewed on percentage contribution and weightages for a monthly basis. each section to evaluate the vendor’s performance. 56 E X P E R T E I S Our Quest towards Expertise Human Capital 60 Employee Engagement 61 Employee Communication 61 Employee Wellness 62 Training and Education 64 Behavioural Training 65 Talent Management 65 HR Policies, Employee Benefits and Compensation 66 Human Rights Sustainability Report 2016-17 Human resources management at and organisational skills along with their Adani goes beyond the boundaries functional / technical knowledge. of Talent acquisition, compensation, performance reviews etc. and Employees indices in this report are kept we look at employee’s well-being in two categories that are (a) employees in holistically. We partner with our employees project stage and (b) employees in operation to ensure timely interventions that help and maintenance (O & M) stage of the plant. build a career that is long lasting. We nurture In FY 2016-17, all five locations of Adani people by putting great emphasis on learning Power Business within reporting boundary & development, career progression and were in O & M stage. As on 31st March 2017, employee welfare. Towards this end, we have we had a total of 2,648 on-roll employees, developed and implemented a gamut of excluding apprentices as compared to 2,715 employee-centric policies and interventions. employees in FY 2015-16. In this reporting year there were 14 on-roll female employees Developing Developing and promoting internal talent is as compared to 16 female employees in and promoting a key part of our people strategy. We assess FY 2015-16. As on 31st March 2017, 4.76% internal talent is internal candidates for their potential to take of employees were due for retirement in a key part of our on enhanced responsibilities and leadership five years across all locations while 9.14% people strategy. roles wherever possible. This strategy ensures employees were due for retirement in that we continue to have a strong talent 10 years across all the locations. In the pipeline across all levels. We engage with our reporting year, we had a total of 7,069 employees and offer opportunities to help contract workmen including 191 female as build successful careers. This is one of the compared to 7,164 of contract workmen reasons why many of our employees stay with including 158 female in FY 2015-16. Most us for a long-time. Besides this, we have of these workers are contract workforce HR policies of the group which are sourced from nearby areas of the plants. uniform over all business verticals The total number of person-days worked by which gives us the flexibility to contract and sub-contracted workers was internally transfer the workforce and 2.50 million. During FY 2016-17, the total quickly meet the requirement from number of new joinees at Adani Power were within the organisation. 202 out of which 24 left during the same year. No female employee joined during the Attracting, developing and retaining reporting year. Workforce attrition rate for talented college graduates is also a key all the sites in FY 2016-17 was 6.80% priority and we are now hiring more compared to 8.95% in FY 2015-16. graduates with an emphasis on technical 4 female employees were separated from As on 31st March and leadership skills. In FY 2016-17 we on the organisation during the reporting year. 2017, we had a boarded 116 employees (GET – 69, ET – 38, total of 2,648 MT – 9) through our Campus recruitment For our new joinees, we have rolled out on-roll drive. We provide all required facilities programme to engage with them even employees, to our employees at our sites. Our HR before having them on board. A dedicated excluding policies help employees develop personal resource from the recruitment team remains apprentices. 116 Employees On-Boarded through Campus Recruitment in FY 2016-17 69Graduate 38 Executive 9Management Engineers Trainees Trainees 59 Adani Power Limited in touch with prospective employees to for familiarisation and formal orientation. guide them through the joining process. We have a mechanism in place to gather When an employee joins us, we have a feedback after 7 days, 30 days and ‘Sahyogi’ programme to engage with them 90 days. Table 12: Employee Details Workforce Breakdown Age Group Gender Location 30-50 NonEmployee Category <30 years years >50 years Male Female Local Local Senior Management 1 39 65 105 0 34 71 Middle Management 1 358 60 418 1 171 248 Junior Management including Trainees 638 663 16 1,312 5 546 771 Supervisory 379 398 13 782 8 560 230 Contractual (FTA/ Consultant Advisor) 4 4 9 17 0 10 7 Total 1,023 1,462 163 2,634 14 1,321 1,327 Grand Total 2,648 2,648 2,648 Employee Engagement At Adani Power, we believe that constant Mechanism, Employee Reach Out feedback on performance and career programmes and regular one-todevelopment helps our workforce perform one communication. These help us to with greater efficiency. Performance resolve employee concerns promptly. We Decision-making appraisal of all employees against set targets have an open-door policy and any employee and management is one of the key tools of human resource can approach the leadership with their of shop floor is development and management. As on concerns without fear of reprisal. We have done through 31st March 2017, 2,403 eligible employees, also implemented grievance redressal portal participative total 90.74% of employees had undergone named ‘MyConcern’ which serves as a mechanism the performance appraisal. Our employees platform for employees to voice any kind of through various are our most important stakeholders. As concern or grievance. committees in a part of the feedback and development the plant that mechanism, we have introduced a system In order to engage our employees and includes Canteen of mid-year review. This process provides their family members, every year we Committee, the appraiser’s inputs to the appraisee organise an event under the signature of Quality in a structured way. Using this process, “Saraswati Samman”. This initiative is about Circles and 5S an appraisee can seek advice from his to encourage academic performance of initiative. reporting officer. Through this process, children of our employees and to provide a there is a flexibility to amend the KRAs as platform to showcase their talent. per the Business Plan and effect change in responsibilities. Every year we also celebrate long service award ceremony along with the Gala Dinner We extend support to our employees and and Musical Night. Employees who have contractors to develop good relations and completed 10 years, 15 years and 20 years of constructive bargaining practices. We have services with the organisation are recognised a policy of equal opportunity and provide and felicitate with award, certificate and employees with a bias-free work environment. gold/silver coins. Employees along with family Human resource personnel at all the sites members are invited for the event. engage with the employees and contractors to assist them in creating and maintaining a Every year we organise cricket tournaments conducive work environment. across the locations, along with the cricket we also organise various in-door and Our engagement methods out-door games like table tennis, basket include Grievance Redressal ball, volley ball, badminton, chess, carrom 60 Sustainability Report 2016-17 etc. Employees from different functions participate and collaborate with each other. Such healthy competition lead to enjoyment and team spirit amongst all. Employee Communication We have established multiple channels the employees and the managers. For to engage with our employees across all our contract workers, we have identified levels. We have employee communication personnel at department level who act channels such as ‘Vartaalap’ town hall as an interface between the workers and with leaders, organisation wide mailers, the management. Workers can raise all An effective newsletters, intranet, touch pad, reach out, their issues and concerns to the respective grievance ‘Vaad Sanwaad’ and transmeets whereby representative. The HR department also procedure all employees are encouraged to raise their actively interacts with contract workers ensures an view points in an open forum and directly to ensure that all legal requirements are amiable work interact with leaders. Various online surveys met. We do not engage any child labour or environment are also conducted to improve services forced labour in our organisation. We have a because it and working conditions of employees. mechanism wherein we ensure at the time redresses the Decision-making and management of issuing passes that no child or forced grievance of shop floor is done through labour is being engaged. We have a “NO to mutual participative mechanism through bond” policy for trainees. We also ensure satisfaction various committees in the plant a bias-free work environment without any of both the that includes Canteen Committee, prejudices based on culture, religion, region, employees and Quality Circles and 5S initiative. gender or any other form of discrimination. the managers. Grievance Handling Procedure – My We provide work that is challenging, Concern is a form based system introduced productive and satisfying with better for registration of grievances of regular prospects for personal development for employees. An effective grievance employees. We provide freedom to people to procedure ensures an amiable work participate in the decisions that affect their environment because it redresses the lives and provide equality of opportunity for grievance to mutual satisfaction of both all women and men. Employee Wellness A healthy, happy and engaged workforce on Mindfulness, Stress management, is essential for organisational success. Nutrition and Obesity management. Similar We work in close partnership with programme on financial well-being have our people to understand their been initiated for tax planning and wealth health and well-being needs and we management across all locations. offer a range of progressive services designed to improve their quality A holistic employee wellness approach has of life. We encourage them to lead healthy been devised to ensure that employees lifestyles and we actively look for new ways stay healthy. Complete health check-up is to help them address their health proactively. organised at periodic intervals for all the Apart from providing world-class facilities to employees. employees viz. gymnasium, sports – indoor and outdoor, club etc., we have initiated During FY 2016-17, we have rolled out multiple programmes towards employee “90 days health challenge” with the aim well-being, including their family members. to address obesity and to encourage our We have initiated parenting sessions for employees about healthy life style practices. employees and their spouses. Separate During the event we have conducted sessions for employees Kids on well-being, counselling sessions specifically covering focus, character building etc. Programmes aspects like Yoga, Nutritious food and food 61 Adani Power Limited habits, various exercise and health tips. The our employees to access and monitor major winners were encouraged by awards. health data points and health reports. The application would also help managers to We have planned to roll out mobile based keep track of major health data points of application “Emcare” which would enable his/her team. Training and Education Training and education has always been Since we are recruiting young engineers considered as an integral part of Human and management professionals from the Resource development. We provide renowned academic institutes as GET, ET extensive training and learning opportunities MT, we have specially designed induction to our employees through well-designed programmes for them. The induction and customised training programmes programme is covering major aspects likewhich are carried out through the year. The training and development requirements 1. Overview of Adani Group and of our employees are identified through a understanding major business of Adani structured competency framework. Our Group. performance management system provides inputs for the Training Need Identification 2. To understand major functions of Power (TNI) process as each employee’s reporting Business. manager assesses their developmental APTRI, the needs. These, along with the specific inputs 3. Equip them with the major business research, training from the individual employees about their excellence tools like 5S, six sigma, quality and performance own training needs, help us chart out the circle etc. before they go on-the-job. consulting arm training calendar for the year. of Adani Power, 4. Provide necessary skill-set, tool-set an contributes Training programmes are both functional as mind-set in soft skill and leadership areas. to the power well as behavioural in nature (behavioural sector through trainings cover leadership and soft skills 5. To train them on simulators to operate capacity-building trainings). This includes classroom trainings various power plant functions. programmes. and outdoor trainings. Figure 5: Average Training Hours 70.00 66.1 64.47 60.00 51.6 50.00 Hours per employee 43.1 40.00 30.00 20.00 11.5 10.00 0.00 Senior Middle Junior Managment Managment Management Supervisory FTA including Trainees 62 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Adani Power Training and is thus favourably positioned to deliver Research Institute (APTRI) effective and focused programmes by virtue APTRI, the research, training and of operational expertise and extensive performance consulting arm of Adani network of highly experienced operational, Power, contributes to the power sector regulatory, policy and financial experts. An average of through capacity-building programmes. APTRI conducts customised short-term and 6.8 person-days APTRI pursues excellence in the entire long-term programmes ranging from one day per employee infrastructure value chain through its to 52 weeks. The programmes are generally of capability scientifically-designed programmes covering modular with generic and customisable building logistics, coal mining, ports, shipping, sections allowing flexibility in delivering for programmes was thermal power generation, solar cell and specific business needs. The programmes recorded in module manufacturing, transmission and include all functions covering design, FY 2016-17. distribution of electricity. APTRI is a engineering, commissioning, technical Grade “A”, Category-I Institute accredited services, operations and maintenance, by Central Electricity Authority, Ministry of protection, metering, automation, Power, Government of India. commercial, regulatory and other facets of the business. Capacity-building programmes APTRI operates through its four centres also include themes like “Nurturing of excellence, i.e. Centre for Performance Innovation”, Research Methods and Failure Consulting, Centre for Research & Mode Effects Analysis (FMEA). Development, Centre for Knowledge & Technology and Centre for Academics, for There has been an increased focus on accurate and precise programme delivery functional and behavioural training. A and value creation with backward and total of 6.8 person-days per employee of forward integration capabilities. capability building programmes has been APTRI centres are located within power achieved in FY 2016-17. Total capacity plant premises at Mundra, Tiroda, Kawai and building programmes includes 3.2 personhas its Head Office at Ahmedabad. days of Behavioural and 3.6 person-days of functional training per employee during APTRI has adequate infrastructure the reporting year. APTRI has also provided at all its facilities located across the training to other external clients from Indian country and fulfils the statutory and foreign utilities for capacity-building training requirements as per Indian programmes in the infrastructure and Electricity Act, 2003 and CEA energy segment. Safety Standards, 2010. The Institute APTRI has adequate infrastructure at all its facilities. 63 Adani Power Limited Behavioural Training Learning and development through inputs from PMS, consults HODs, and talks to structured training programmes enhances the employees during informal Focus Group competency level of the employees. The Discussions (FGD) on an annual basis. The main objectives of behavioural needs are converted into various learning training interventions are to solutions / training programmes which create a culture of learning in the are offered to employees through annual organisation which is anchored training calendar. To support this, we have around Adani’s Vision, Values and adequate infrastructure with audio-video Culture. Besides, its objective includes aid and training classrooms. In addition to capability building through various tools in this, various training programmes in line with order to prepare employees for the future the training calendar are facilitated by the assignments and challenges. external consultants and trainers. To achieve capability building in a new During FY 2016-17, we rolled out 141 business environment, it is essential to cover behavioural training programmes across each employee every year for behavioural locations to achieve the overall target training. Each employee is required to of average three mandays of training undergo minimum three person-days of per employee. Upon completion of the behavioural training every year. A Centre programmes, we also measure effectiveness Behavioural of Excellence (CoE) for L & D and talent of the programmes. training Management has been established at programmes corporate office to provide greater impetus During FY 2016-17, we have rolled out online rolled out to this function. training programmes through skillsoft, across we have covered more than 500 users locations. The learning needs are categorised into under the same. Considering the response 141 three baskets which are Organisational, from the learners, we are planning to offer Departmental and Individual. In order to online training programmes to all junior derive specific needs, the HR team takes management and above level of employees. APML Tiroda: Our 3,300MW Power Plant in Maharashtra. Table 13: Category-wise total person-hours of training for FY 2016-17 Behavioural Functional Employee Category Male Female Male Female Senior Management 2,313 3,105 Middle Management 13,398 14,280 30 Junior Management including Trainees 40,871 44,005 35 Supervisory 15,076 156 18,916 28 Contractual Employees (FTA /advisors) 196 64 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Talent Management A succession planning exercise for 33 to facilitate the transformation within the positions at N-1 and N-2 Levels has been organisation, we have designed specific planned. Considering the fact that 18 no of intervention under the signature programme employees from senior leadership are going “Becoming Future Ready”, wherein identified to retire in next 2-3 years, we have identified employees undergo through semi-structured successors for the required positions. behavioural lab experience. It has created Successors have been identified in a positivity and readiness in the organisation short-term and long-term planning range. for the planned change. These successors shall undergo structured managed development programmes and We are also providing career opportunities required job rotations / job exposure and to MMC & above within the Group, so that other varied developmental experiences strong leadership and pipeline can be built. towards the destination role identified. We have also designed special intervention Besides training in skill and leadership, our “North Star” in collaboration with Harvard partnership with the academia has helped Business School with aim to build us create a thrust in generating interest competencies in the specific area like and learning among our employees. business acumen, execution and people. High performing and high potential Its one and a half year journey wherein employees have been identified incumbent will undergo through blended through PMS and Development learning experience e.g. creating a case of centre process and shall undergo Adani, classroom training, project, online a structured 12-month Leadership training, mentoring and coaching. At the / Management Development end of the intervention, the incumbent Programme. Endeavour is to provide the is expected to be well versed with major high potential employees with enriched / functionalities of business execution and enlarged roles and ready them as successors behaviour defined by Adani Group. Intake for to perform critical roles. Our trainings are this intervention is by invite from aligned with the competency requirements Hi-Po pool, critical position holders and N-1 for the various positions in our organisation. position holders. Total 27 such employees are The new joinees also receive invitation identified to undergo this journey. for training need identification. In order HR Policies, Employee Benefits and Compensation We ensure that our employees across levels is imparted to the employees through and locations are able to understand the policies which help us to improve quality policies and for achieving this objective, we of life of our employees. Compensation, have introduced an internal communication remuneration and benefits are – titled ‘Policy Pandit’. This platform provides routinely monitored and with employees to understand the policies. support of highly capable and We have all standard policies that can empowered leadership there are help employees in delivering their duties multiple strategies deployed to at work and at home. Medical expenses monitor compensation and benefit reimbursement, privilege leave, casual leave, programme for employees across Number of maternity and paternity leave policy are to functions and location. Evaluation of initiatives are name a few. The objective has been to keep compensation and appraisal is based on taken to ensure policies simple, relevant and contemporary principle of ‘attract and retain’, followed with that support and to empower employees, offer selfrewards for long services. The approach care is imparted certification and develop accountability. has helped us minimise attrition which is to the employees a problem for most power producers due through policies Employee welfare is treated with highest to distant location of the plants. For other which help us to priority in our organisation, extending to benefits we have a robust framework in the improve quality their families. Number of initiatives are form of policies for medical and healthcare of life of our taken to ensure that support and care policy, which extends to the family, parents employees. 65 Adani Power Limited of our employees, free transportation, of such leaves. During the reporting year, 95 interest-free loan, interest subsidy on male employees have availed the benefit housing loan and scholarship to the children of parental leave. No female employee has of employees for higher education. availed benefit of parental leave during the reporting year. We ensure that men and women are compensated equally for performing the Prevention of Sexual Harassment same work. We ensure that both genders are at the Workplace: treated equally in recruitment, training, hiring As per the requirement of The Sexual and promotion. We allow our employees to Harassment of Women at Workplace keep a work-life balance. We have a policy on (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) Act, prevention of sexual harassment. 2013 read with rules made thereunder, we have constituted Internal Complaints We offer maternity leave of three months Committee which is responsible for redressal to our employees and in case of any of complaints related to sexual harassment. complication during or after pregnancy, we During the year under review, there were no also consider special requests for extension complaints pertaining to sexual harassment. Human Rights We believe in protecting the human rights rights principles provided in the International of our people, recognising their need for Labour Organisation core conventions, respect and dignity. We also ensure that including freedom of association and stakeholders are protected against abuses collective bargaining, health and safety of and are given the opportunity needed to workforce eradication of child or forced realise their full potential without any bias. labour and harassment or intimidation in the workplace etc. We are We are committed to fair employment committed to practices and freedom of expression, Right to Collective Bargaining: fair employment supported by a strong, Company-wide We do not have any collective bargaining practices and value system. We provide every avenue to agreements with our workforce. However, freedom of our workforce for voicing their opinion. We our engagement activities provide sufficient expression, ensure that all our practices are aligned with avenues to our employees as well as supported by a our Human Rights Policy. contract workers to voice their opinions. strong, companywide value Our policies on human capital management Vigil Mechanism / Whistle Blower Policy: system. aim to eliminate discrimination at the We have adopted a whistle blower policy workplace. We have comprehensive supported by the necessary vigil mechanism disciplinary and grievance procedures in for employees and Directors to enhance place that meet all requirements in terms reporting of concerns about unethical of fairness as defined in the applicable behaviour. The said policy is published legislation. We are committed to the labour across the corporate website and internally. Human Capital Management. 66 S A F E T Y Our Quest towards Safety Health & Safety 69 Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) 69 Safety Performance 71 Mitigating Safety Risk 72 Safety Awards and Recognition 73 Asset Safety Security 68 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) As a part of our strategy to To achieve our objective during the year optimise total operational costs, we we have set forth on the Safety Cultural employ a blend of on-roll employees Transformation journey titled as ‘Project and contract employees. Chetna’ in consultation with M/s DuPont, a pioneer organisation in the field of Safety The power generating sector entails Management. activities that need consistent and a precise approach in monitoring to assure effective The Phase-I of ‘Project Chetna’ comprised of performance and efficiency. We are aware ‘As-Is analysis’ and quick win identifications that our facilities expose employees and through DuPont Dynamic Assessment, local communities to health and safety which has been successfully completed. hazards. We continue to identify emerging Phase-II has introduced five modules namely occupational health risks and sensitising our Safety Interaction, Incident Management, workforce for their well-being. Contractor Safety Management, Process Safety Management and High Risk As an integral part of our health and safety Activities. To facilitate the drive of ‘Project system; we offer on-site trainings for both Chetna’ various teams at corporate and sites employees and contractors and conduct were formed including Steering Committee regular awareness and refresher sessions on consisting of all top leaders at corporate and health, safety and environmental issues. The all Station Heads. Further Subcommittee at process also entails imparting knowledge Corporate and Site level were formed based about company policies and applicable laws. on identified five modules. ‘Project Chetna’ is expected to We accord strict adherence to To effectively implement these five lay a strong the policies for ensuring the modules there was also formation of plant foundation occupational health and safety of implementation committee. The execution for the safety our workers. We have an established includes the standards, rules, Procedures, culture in our OH&S function at all sites that facilitates and Guidelines developed by respective sub business which effective implementation of all policies committees. There is also a strong focus on is imperative and protocols. We shall be transitioning to competency development and realisation of in establishing latest version of management system and the identified quick-wins. strong safety shall review our OHS policies, management driven processes programmes during the year we maintained ‘Project Chetna’ is expected to lay a strong and its our existing integrated management system foundation for the safety culture in our sustenance. to ensure OHS risks are well mitigated. business which is imperative in establishing strong safety driven processes and its The safety of our assets and workforce is sustenance. Under this project a series of paramount importance. We already have of initiatives have also been rolled out Health & Safety Management systems well to streamline and enhance the safety established at all our assets. During the year communication. Our endeavour is towards we reviewed our Health and Safety systems making our workplace a safer and salubrious and need was felt to further standardise place to work. the safety processes and enhance them to world-class levels. More importantly, we • A corporate safety team monitors the wanted to ensure that safety becomes safety performance of all locations. deeply entrenched as an integral part of all the line Management functions, rather than – Each location has a Safety Committee, being the sole domain of just the safety which has been constituted as per department. the guidelines of the Factories Act, 69 Adani Power Limited Figure 6: Safety Training Hours Contractual Employees APL Employees 40,000 36,461 30,500 30,000 Training Hours 25,000 20,000 17,881 15,217 15,000 10,865 9,726 10,000 5,557 4,857 5,000 3,622 1,158 266 0 Mundra Tiroda Kawai Udupi Bitta 1948 – comprising of a minimum of to motivate participation and achieve 50% representation from the nonexcellence in all aspects of safety. management workforce. Accidents and incidents: We have – Monthly meetings of the Safety The aim for FY 2016-17 was to achieve aggressively Committee include representation zero lost time injuries and fatalities across renewed our from the plants’ senior management. our operating power plants. However, we efforts towards are saddened to report 8 fatalities at our eliminating any – Department-level Safety Committees Mundra location. In line with our OH&S such possibility have been formulated to ensure management systems, a root-cause analysis in the future by better engagement and participation was conducted and this was followed engaging DuPont from the workforce in our safety by appropriate corrective actions and as our partner to management activities. preventive measures. support our ‘Zero Harm’ objective. – All our plants have been certified with We have aggressively renewed our efforts OHSAS 18001:2007, strengthening towards eliminating any such possibility our occupational health, safety in the future by engaging DuPont as our systems and processes. partner to support our ‘Zero Harm’ objective. – On-site emergency plans and safety Health risk and occupational hazards: operating procedures are displayed in Regular health risk assessments and risk all locations. Labels, indicators, posters, identification pertaining to hazardous tags and signage related to safety processes and areas are conducted. An area aspects are displayed for awareness. with potential risk for Noise Induced Hearing Loss (NIHL) and respiratory disorders – The safety performance at all locations has been identified. Frequent medical is measured with various lead and lag examinations of the workforce in these safety indicators. areas is conducted. During FY 2016-17, there was no case of reportable disease. • Adequate trainings are provided to all the workforce at all operating locations 70 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Mitigating Safety Risk We approach risk mitigation training for employees handling the specific with proactive identification and tasks; for example, creating awareness in the assessment needs for all routine use of protective equipment. Compliance and non-routine activities and work with the Indian Factories Act and other areas and apply analysis processes applicable regulations are also ensured. and administering control measures. Besides the applicable regulations, we are When this is not possible, we reduce the sensitive to sub-judice cases related to other risk to an acceptable threshold by adopting thermal power plants so that proactive action multiple control measures by including for OH&S management can be taken and sophisticated technology and offering special institutionalised. Figure 7: Injury Rate, FY 2016-17 Permanent Employees Contractual Employees 0.90 0.81 0.80 0.70 0.60 Injury Rate 0.50 0.40 0.40 0.30 0.20 0.14 0.10 0.08 0.03 0 0 0 0 0.00 0 Mundra Tiroda Kawai Udupi APL Bitta Solar PV Figure 8: Lost Day Rates, FY 2016-17 Permanent Employees Contractual Employees 1,600 1,424.89 1,400 1,200 Lost Day Rate 1,000 800 600 400 200 100 1.07 16.09 2.20 25.26 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0 Mundra Tiroda Kawai Udupi APL Bitta Solar PV 71 Adani Power Limited Safety Awards and Recognition We have a safety reward and award scheme Towards a Healthy Workforce which plays a vital role in sensitising the Due to the remote nature of the locations workforce at all levels. We appreciate the in which we operate, ensuring availability of safety stars and departments for their proper healthcare facilities at our plants is a outstanding performance, which has priority for us. Each of our plants is equipped contributed significantly in achieving with an occupational health centre, operational excellence. ambulance facility with life-support systems, qualified doctors and paramedical staff. We Our scheme of inter-plant safety award is have tie-ups with reputed service providers based on a structured framework of 15 lead for conducting pre-employment as well as and lag indicators. Our Udupi Power periodic medical check-ups for our workers. Plant has won Safest Plant of the The scope of this facility includes all our Year for the first time by going human resources and is covered as follows: beyond the normal call of duty and striving towards further improving Our occupational health centres provide daysafety standards, which led to to-day preventive and curative health care. better station performance. We believe that this scheme will continue • We conduct assessment of area specific to help promote a safety culture across the health hazards and risks. The centre is wellorganisation. equipped to handle medical emergencies arising out of incidences or illness. Promoting Safe and Healthy Culture. • Pre-employment checks and periodic first aid training and specialist services medical examination of contract workers at our diagnostic centre. deployed at sites including hazardous Each of our areas are being conducted as per • Apart from personal accident, mediclaim plants is statutory requirements. and workman compensation policies, we equipped with have launched power privilege services an occupational • For identified vulnerable groups, we for employees and their dependents, health centre, conduct rigorous supervision and more valid everywhere across India. It includes ambulance frequent medical examinations. subsidised services for our employees for facility with first aid, access to specialists and superlife-support • We also provide group and individual specialist doctors, health check-ups, systems, counselling, health awareness medical diagnostics and pharmacies. qualified doctors programmes, induction training on and paramedical healthcare facilities, health check-up • We have been conducting blood staff. programmes in plants and townships, donation camps at all our locations. 72 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Table 14: Safety Statistics Permanent Workforce Contractual Workforce Safety Parameters FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 Injuries 1.00 2.00 2.00 9.00 Injury Rate 0.04 0.07 0.03 0.17 Lost days 12.00 127.00 354.00 2,254.00 Lost days (inclusive Fatalities) 12.00 127.00 6,354.00 50,254.00 Lost day rate 0.44 4.54 3.57 21.99 Lost day rate (inclusive Fatalities) 0.44 4.54 64.00 490.17 Man Hours worked 55,07,927.00 55,91,894.00 1,98,57,658.60 2,05,04,528.00 Fatalities 0.00 0.00 1.00 8.00 Asset Safety Security Our concern for assets is serious, which surveillance, automation and patrolling, includes employees (both on roll and we ensure that we update and upgrade contractual), raw material and plant and to adopt best practices in ensuring machineries. material and people safety. Installed access • People as valuable assets • Security and Human Rights and entry The most visible and easily understood While we have no policy at present to systems such element of asset protection is the train security personnel about human as Integrated guarding of assets by human resources. right issues that may arise out of security Biometric Access Recognising their importance, we processes and crises, we are consistently Control System acquire, train and retain the best upscaling our security practices to (IBACS) devices talent in asset protection. Besides, ensure that we are able to train teams and other the outsourced service providers are to deliver their best and also ensure systems such as also subject to continual training for that they are able to respect human Fingerprint Optic development. rights while ensuring asset and people Power (FOP), protection at all times. Fingerprint Optic • Asset Protection Wireless (FOW) By integrating technology with skills, • Principles and Procedures and Card Access we have incorporated both devices and A part of the Security Policy, each devices at entry personnel to achieve optimum cover. We operating location of Adani Power has points in our have installed access and entry systems the following procedures: premises. such as Integrated Biometric Access Control System (IBACS) devices and •  he Security Management Plan: T other systems such as Fingerprint Optic Each of our operating sites has a Power (FOP), Fingerprint Optic Wireless security management plan that is (FOW) and Card Access devices at entry prepared by the security head and points in our premises. approved by the CEO. It outlines the immediate, medium-term and • Layered security long-term physical asset security • Outer physical perimeter security requirements of a site. • Inner physical security • Security automation •  he Security Procedures Manual T • Vigilance network This is a compendium of the • Review audits, implement corrective site-specific standard operating measures procedures for the routine and non-routine activities of the security • Training and Education department. These SOPs are While we optimise a mix of manreviewed on yearly basis and verified guarding, tech-convergence, by the corporate security head. 73 Adani Power Limited These policies and procedures are • Crisis and Human Rights regularly communicated to all relevant Besides regular training in managing stakeholders through periodic training, industrial crisis, there is enough training communication meetings, process given to emphasise the non-usage of We sensitise reviews and in informal gatherings. We force. The training of security personnel employees, sensitise employees, contract workers is conducted at the plant level by contract workers and visitors to the fact that they are utilising the services of both internal and visitors to not just recipients of a service but are and external resources. At plant level the the fact that also stakeholders in asset protection. training is conducted on a fortnightly they are not just Regular communication meetings and basis. Some part of the departmental recipients of a induction events are organised by the training offers specific focus on human service but are site management for the workforce. rights issues arising from any security also stakeholders related matter. Aspects of human in asset •  Security, Asset Protection by techrights are communicated in an informal protection. convergence manner using various incidents, news Technology solutions have paved the articles and mock drills. This ensures that way for more effective, efficient and the security workforce is updated and responsive asset protection programmes sensitised towards human rights issues. at a lower cost. We have invested heavily The training covers the contractual in enabling our asset protection teams workforce whose services are obtained with the latest technological tools to through external security agencies. The mitigate asset security threats at our average frequency of such training is on sites. High-end access control a fortnight basis. The service providers tools, closed circuit TV camera are evaluated with respect to their networks and latest video adherence to policies. analytics tools assist asset protection teams in detecting, analysing and effectively responding to various threats in the environment. Regular Training Session. 74 N G E H A C Our Quest towards Change Energy & Environment 78 Water 81 Biodiversity 86 Waste Management 82 Climate Change Sustainability Report 2016-17 Power generation from fossil nitrogen and sulphur. Besides, there is CO2 fuels is by nature a resource and emission due to the use of fossil fuels. We emission intensive activity. Coal go beyond legal compliance requirements and water are the primary resources for to continually reduce our environmental thermal power generation. Coal cost is emissions and impact. Our approach for a major parameter that directly impact risk management in operation planning is our economic performance. The major framed keeping in mind the precautionary impact that our operations have on the approach. We strive to make our facilities environment include stack emissions and environment-friendly and are in the waste generation. Major emissions through continuous process of improving these. stacks are of particulate matter, oxides of The energy intensity figures for the reporting period are given below: Table 15: Energy Intensity for Coal, LDO, HFO and Diesel with Availability and PLF Particulars Coal LDO/HSD HFO Diesel Availability (%) PLF (%) (GJ/MWh) (GJ/MWh) (GJ/MWh) (GJ/MWh) Consolidated FY 2015-16 91.0 75.9 9.58 0.002130 0.002364 0.001719 FY 2016-17 93.6 70.2 9.09 0.002109 0.001255 0.020242 Mundra FY 2015-16 95.0 81.5 9.82 0.002166 0.001060 0.000602 FY 2016-17 93.1 74.9 9.09 0.001974 0.000271 0.000590 Tiroda FY 2015-16 93.0 69.5 9.37 0.001199 0.005163 0.003986 FY 2016-17 96.3 61.0 9.23 0.000750 0.002827 0.003591 Kawai FY 2014-15 90.0 75.1 9.01 0.002488 0.001895 0.001740 FY 2016-17 95.7 71.8 8.78 0.002987 0.002698 0.001587 Udupi FY 2014-15 86.0 72.1 9.86 0.004050 0.001182 0.000560 FY 2016-17 89.2 74.9 9.16 0.004758 0.000007 0.152948 The main reasons for change in energy • Switching off CW pumps during winter intensity compared with the last financial resulted in 0.22 million GJ in energy year are: savings. 1. Developing Non-Conventional Energy • Mundra Unit-3 & 4 Debris Filter 2. Ageing of the Turbine Installation saved 0.19 million GJ of 3. Blending and Coal Quality energy During the financial year, through our • 1,354 GJ energy saved by reducing CEP energy saving initiatives we achieved about Discharge Pressure in Unit-4 in FY 2016-17. 3.2 million GJ in savings in all operational plants. Some of the key initiatives taken to • Changing of HP turbine valve mode improve efficiency in various parts of our operation into sequence valve mode in Energy savings plants are as follows: order to reduce throttling loss at Tiroda saved 0.5 Million GJ of energy. • CT Fan Replacement resulted in 0.052 in all plants. million GJ in energy savings. • Installation of New Centrifugal Compressor at Mundra saved 1,835 GJ. • O2 Trimming operation of all 660MW units at Mundra saved 1.6 million GJ of Our operations consumed a total of 587.37 energy. million GJ of energy in FY 2016-17 compared with 665.32 million GJ in FY 2015-16 in the 3.2 million GJ 77 Adani Power Limited form of primary fuels such as coal, HSD, HFO which net sales were 60.2 billions and LDO used in boilers including the diesel units compared with 64.6 billions used in plant and machinery. In the event units in FY 2015-16. This report does of power outage or shutdown activities, we not include energy consumption for activities also sometimes need to import electricity. in the upstream and downstream of the There is no energy consumption from reporting boundary. We are in the process renewable source. of developing a system to report energy consumption in upstream and downstream Our total auxiliary power consumption for activities. Specific GHG emissions from the year was 15.18 million GJ compared upstream coal transportation comes to 0.09 with 15.16 million GJ in FY 2015-16. tCO2e/MWh for FY 2016-17. Our operations We generated a total of 64.17 do not involve the use of any recycled input billion units of power compared materials. with 69.39 billion in FY 2015-16, of Table 16: Material Consumption Consumption (in MT) Fuel Type FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 Chemicals Used 9,422 9,551 Lubricating oils (in KL) 329 201 Grease 33.9 27.3 Coal consumed 3,65,09,464 3,39,59,200 LDO/HSD Consumed 3,362 3,055 HFO Consumed 3,732 1,832 Diesel (Consumed in equipment and vehicles) 2,711 2,275 Water In the power generation process, water is need is met from recycled and reused Our hinterland one of the primary raw materials. Water water at our power plants. Optimum water plants have is mainly used to generate superheated utilisation and reduction in its consumption already achieved steam to drive turbines. As a strategy, our has been one of our focus areas. This has specific water coast-based plants are designed to use led us to implement some key environment consumption seawater and our plants located hinterland management initiatives as a part of our of about 2.5 are designed to use water from surface water management strategy, such as m3/MWh on an water sources. While our coastal locations water conservation, rain water harvesting, annual basis. do not face stress in water drawal, water for waste water use and recycling. Various hinterland plants is critical especially during initiatives are implemented for enhancing harsh summers. It is due to this criticality water efficiency by controlling spillages, that water management is a material aspect increasing recycling and reusing of water to our operations. None of our power plants and minimising discharge. create any significant water stress in the areas where we operate. •  Water Conservation: For hinterland power plants, a source sustainability Apart from these areas, ash handling and study of surface water has been dust suppression also require water. This conducted based on primary data and 78 Sustainability Report 2016-17 secondary historical data of the past at Tiroda. To address this risk, we have 25-30 years published by the Indian created water storage capacity at Tiroda Metrological Department. These studies and Kawai power plants to reduce the were conducted through expert agencies pressure on surface water sources and institutes of repute in the field and cater to the water requirement of to understand the water availability operating plants in the lean season in potential and assess the impact case of low water availability in rivers on downstream ecology and water due to low rainfall in any year. The environments. In FY 2016-17, the Tiroda MoEF&CC has amended the Environment station suffered generation losses for Protection rules stipulating specific water over a month due to drought conditions consumption at 3.5 m3/MWh for existing sweeping Maharashtra and neighbouring plants. Our hinterland plants have already states for the second consecutive year. achieved specific water consumption of Water availability during the lean season about 2.5 m3/MWh on an annual basis. at Tiroda has been a major challenge. We are encouraged to consistently We have worked on improving the implement water conservation water supply by surface recharging and programmes to maintain the specific harvesting in the area by de-silting and water consumption below 2.5 m3/MWh cleaning of community water ponds for hinterland plants. Water Management: One of our material aspects. 79 Adani Power Limited Rain Water Harvesting: We have •  million KL and 264 million KL, respectively, implemented rain water harvesting in the financial year. The thermal energy in our hinterland plants to reduce from such discharges is computed withdrawal of surface water. At Kawai, to be 1.65 million GJ in the reporting Effluent we have developed rain water harvesting as compared with 1.71 million GJ in and sewage pond previous year to collect and store FY 2015-16. Our cooling towers at Mundra treatment plants, rainwater which is directly used for are seawater based and the discharged coal runoff process and cooling requirements. water is primarily rejected from these. treatment plant During the reporting year 1.66 million We monitor and ensure that there and m3 of harvested rain water was used is no significant impact of thermal secondary for the plant. In this reporting year, we discharge on the surrounding reverse osmosis have developed rain water harvesting areas and we strive to maintain (RO) plant are in ponds at our Udupi plant to partly the temperature differential well place. replace seawater during monsoon which within the prescribed limit of 50C. resulted into harvesting of 4 million m3 of before the water is discharged rain water. At Mundra, roof top rain water from our premises. Effluent and harvesting is used for recharging ground sewage treatment plants, coal runoff water to mitigate the seawater ingress. treatment plant and secondary Reverse Osmosis (RO) plant are in place. Optimising Use: We planned to •  implement a High Concentration Reuse and recycle: In addition to the •  Slurry Disposal (HCSD) system for ash core processes, water is required for dust Treated handling. During previous reporting suppression in coal handling and purging year, we implemented this system to out bottom ash generated in our boilers. waste water further reduce our water consumption We ensure that our requirement for all in ash handling. As a policy, our all these secondary processes is met by discharge. future plants shall come up with recycled or reusable water from our water HCSD systems only. treatment plants or from the blow down 264 Using Wastewater: The total waste water •  of cooling towers. During reporting year 41.3% of water is recycled/reused. In our million KL generation and treated waste water operations, we do not use any water for discharge at our power plants was 290 coal cleaning. Mundra Udupi Figure 9: Specific Water Consumption Tiroda APL, Bitta Kawai 11.00 10.00 10.00 9.53 9.00 8.00 7.00 6.00 5.69 m3/MWh 5.45 5.00 4.00 3.00 2.67 2.50 2.49 2.42 2.00 1.00 0.15 0.30 0 FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 80 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Biodiversity The Convention on Biological Diversity 10 km radius of plant locations are mapped (CBD), known informally as the Biodiversity as part of EIA studies, conducted through Convention, is a multi-lateral treaty. India National Accreditation Board for Education enacted the Biological Diversity Act, 2002, for and Training (NABET) accredited expert preservation of biological diversity in India, and agencies, at the stage of environmental to provide a mechanism for equitable sharing clearances for the new projects. Going of benefits arising out of the use traditional beyond legal requirements, we are sensitive biological resources and knowledge. to biodiversity hotspots within a 25 km Biodiversity has been defined as “the variability radius of our operations and we recognise among living organisms from all sources and the presence of notified wildlife sanctuaries the ecological complexes of which they are a within this extended radius. part, and includes diversity within species or between species and of ecosystems.” Nagzira, New Nagzira and Koka Wildlife Sanctuaries fall within 25 km of our Tiroda We firmly believe that biodiversity and Plant. In addition to the EIA, a separate study its related ecosystems such as forests, for prediction of impacts on Nagzira Wildlife grasslands, mangroves and urban areas, Sanctuary due to Particulate Matter, gaseous provide different services to society, and thermal emissions from the Tiroda Power collectively known as Ecosystem Services. Plant was conducted through expert external We recognise the relationship between agency in 2011. Besides, site specific wild Ecosystem Services and our business life conservation plans have been prepared sustainability. The Company thus aims to and implemented. We provided LPG gas minimise any negative impact on biodiversity connection and one year’s supply of gas and Ecosystem Services. We have taken cylinders to all villagers in three such villages efforts for positive impact on the environment adjacent to the Nagzira Wildlife Sanctuary to and biodiversity around our operations. reduce the collection and usage of firewood from the sanctuary areas. For our Tiroda Large-scale plantations in and around our Power Plant 163.84 Ha forest land has been power plants and office locations were diverted out of which 15.25 Ha land is used taken up. We focus on the selection of local for railway siding. For diversion of this forest and diverse species for such plantations. land, an equal area of non-forest land has In Mundra, mangrove plantation has been been handed over to the forest department done in coastal areas. Environmental as compensatory afforestation land in impact assessment has been Ratnagiri district of Maharashtra. This serves carried out for prior approval of as offset habitat for biodiversity affected due projects, including the assessment to forest land diversion. of impact on flora and fauna. Sitespecific wildlife conservation plans are We have received EC for Udupi Expansion. All our operating prepared after scientific studies wherever There is no National Park, Sanctuary, locations are applicable for environmental clearance and Elephant or Tiger Reserve, Wildlife Corridor outside the forest land diversions. Endangered flora and existing or proposed within 10 km radius of buffer areas and fauna within a 10 km radius of our project project site. eco-sensitive locations are studied in order to ensure zones notified that areas of biodiversity significance, Site specific wildlife study of 10 km radius around protected region, or any International Union around the proposed expansion project has biodiversity for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) red list been conducted by the project proponent hotspots species are not affected by our operations. through NABET Accredited Wildlife Expert. including wildlife sanctuary, All our operating locations are outside the Shergarh Wildlife Sanctuary is about 20 km national park and buffer areas and eco-sensitive zones notified from Kawai. Mundra-Mohindragarh and world heritage around biodiversity hotspots including Mundra-Dehgam Transmission lines, which sites declared wildlife sanctuaries, national parks and world are part of our downstream value chain, under applicable heritage sites declared under applicable cross the Wild Ass Sanctuary in Kutch and regulations or regulations or international treaties ratified Patan districts. As areas of Rann of Kutch international by India. Ecology and biodiversity value and attract migratory birds, our group companies treaties ratified presence of forest areas within a have installed bird deflectors on these by India. 81 Adani Power Limited sections of transmission lines. At Mundra, Our approach is to improve the habitat, we have noticed the presence of two for species found in the vicinity of our near-threatened species as per the IUCN list, plants based on scientific studies that i.e. the Black Necked Stork and Snake Bird we conduct through external experts. (Darter) which we monitor regularly. We have also conducted a marine impact assessment study through National Institute We are sensitive to the status of biodiversity of Oceanography (NIO) to scientifically values of these areas and keep ourselves locate the intake and outfall points. Screens updated about any legal development and gate filters have been provided at or compliance requirements related to the seawater intake to prevent marine life biodiversity hotspots. entering the system. Cooling towers and 11 km long seawater outfall channel have been Besides our actions to support designed to achieve differential temperature biodiversity and ecosystem services between intake and outfall points of less it is our focus area to conduct due than 30C. We regularly monitor the marine diligence before selection of site biodiversity around the outfall area including and go beyond the compliance with zooplanktons and phytoplankton. regulations regarding biodiversity. Climate Change Mitigation and Adoption Strategy mitigate the same including rain water Fossil fuels are viewed as one of the largest harvesting and increasing green belt cover. contributors of climate change and increase in GHG and other air emissions like SOx Extreme weather events such as stronger To adapt to and NOx. We were the first in the country and frequent storms can adversely affect the increase in water to commission supercritical boilers. These supply of fuel and damage generation and temperatures boilers save about 2% of fuel per unit of grid infrastructure. To combat these aspects, due to climate power generated and help in subsequent we have designed and built all power plants change in reduction in GHGs per unit. In the future, we and infrastructure to withstand cyclones of the future, all are considering utilising ultra-supercritical up to 198 kmph. At the same time, sufficient our thermal units for upcoming thermal power projects fuel stock is built at the plants to overcome power plants to further reduce specific GHG emission. Till any short-term fuel supply stress. Various are equipped date, we have commissioned 7,920MW scenarios of emergency owing with cooling (12 units of 660MW each) power plants to extreme weather events have towers with a based on supercritical technology. been envisaged and appropriate re-circulation emergency preparedness plans system. To adapt to increase in water temperatures have been charted out. due to climate change in the future, all our thermal power plants are equipped With respect to rising sea levels and cyclonic with induced draft cooling towers with surges due to global warming, the finished a re-circulation system. This will help in floor level of the Mundra power plant has maintaining the desired temperature been raised to 10 metres above chart datum difference across the condenser and (CD), whereas the highest high tide recorded maintain plant efficiency over time. To is 5.4 metres above CD. The intake water combat any increase in air temperature, channel is designed at (-) 6 metres from Commissioned all our power plants which are located in the CD to ensure water availability even at tropical climatic zones are designed to the lowest of the low tides. Similarly, at the power plants perform under extreme temperatures. Udupi power plant, the seawater intake based on is from -4.5 metres CD. The finished floor supercritical Changes in precipitation rates may affect level is at 28.5 metres above Mean Sea technology. water availability in our hinterland power Level (MSL). During due diligence, our team plants at Tiroda and Kawai. Accordingly, reviewed the risks related to the increase in 7,920MW we have implemented suitable water conservation and recycling practices to sea levels and concluded that the plant will not be impacted on this account. 82 Sustainability Report 2016-17 For hinterland power plants, source Managing our Carbon Footprint sustainability study of surface water has We calculate and monitor emissions been conducted based on primary data and generated from our power generation secondary historical data of the past 25-30 process which includes CO2, CH4 and N2O years published by the Indian Metrological emissions. We do not use any biogenic Department. These studies have been fuels and therefore, there are no biogenic conducted through expert agencies and emissions. During the financial year, institute of repute in the field to understand our power plants emitted 54.8 the water availability potential and assess million tCO2e GHG (direct emissions) the impacts on downstream ecology and compared with 59.4 million water environment. Based on the findings tCO2e GHG (direct emissions) in of these studies, financial impact has been FY 2015-16. The GHG emission intensity calculated considering the loss of power has been 0.84 tCO2/MWh in the reporting generation in case of non-availability of year which is improved over last year. water in any year due to very less rainfall. To address this risk, we have created water We also monitor emissions from our support storage capacity at Tiroda and Kawai processes such as company-owned vehicles power plants to reduce the pressure on and equipment, fugitive emissions from surface water source and cater to the water circuit breakers (SF6 ) and CO2 based fire requirement of operating plants in lean extinguishers and GHG emissions due to season in case of less water availability in import of electricity during shutdowns. rivers due to low rainfall in any year. In the financial year, we have At Tiroda, we have increased water storage purchased 694 MUs of electricity capacity which is now sufficient for around to meet our PPA commitments. 30 days. At Kawai, we have a water storage Adani Power does not participate in any capacity sufficient for one month. carbon emission trading framework. Employees Township at Tiroda. We are in the process of evaluation of and waste transportation from plant to emissions generated from the following disposal site. upstream and downstream activities in our value chain: 3. Emissions on account of employee business air travel which does not include 1. Upstream transportation such as GHG emissions in road travel to and from immediate supply point of coal, bulk the airport. chemicals and liquid fuels to our plants. We are in the process of developing a 2. Waste and ash management such as system that captures these details and emissions generated from vehicles look forward to covering this in our next deployed by Company for fly ash disposal sustainability report. 83 Adani Power Limited We have made conscious efforts to optimise our logistic networks including sourcing material based on minimum landing costs, thereby reducing transportation distances and developing local vendors to encourage local procurement. Greenbelt at our Operating Power Plants. Mundra Kawai Figure 10: Greenhouse Gas Emissions Tiroda Udupi 30.00 27.0 25.1 25.00 20.00 17.9 Million Tonnes CO2e 15.6 15.00 10.00 7.62 6.99 6.91 6.82 5.00 0 FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 84 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Compliance with new standards for TPP: upgrade our Flue Gas Desulphurisation In December 2015, MoEF&CC has notified System for which phasing plan has been the limits for specific water consumption prepared by the CEA and we are aligned and stack emissions from thermal power with the same. CEA has scheduled FGD plants for SOx, NOx, Particulate matter implemented for all our operating units from and mercury emissions. For our existing March 2021 to June 2022 progressively. operational units, we are already in Regarding NOx, we are in consultation with compliance with new emission standards for technology providers and industry forums mercury and particulate matter emissions. in India to identify suitable approach to To achieve compliance with the new continuously achieve NOx emissions within standards for SO2 emissions, we need to 300mg/Nm3 from existing operational units. Particulate Matter (PM) Figure 11: Emissions SOx NOx 1,60,000 1,42,132.48 1,40,000 1,20,000 Metric Tonnes (t) 1,15,079.34 1,00,000 80,000 64,368.23 60,000 53,516.76 40,000 20,000 11,894.84 9,592.98 0 FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 Particulate Matter (PM) Intensity Figure 12: Emissions Intensity SOx Intensity NOx Intensity 2.50 2.05 2.0 1.79 kg/MWh 1.50 1.00 1.0 0.77 0.50 0.17 0.15 0 FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 85 Adani Power Limited We understand that by improving firing conduct off-line monitoring of our stacks. systems, we can achieve NOx compliance. The emissions generated from our Regarding Specific Water Consumption, stacks are maintained at levels our hinterland power plants are already which are below the limits as compliant with new standards. However, stipulated by the respective state for our coastal based power plants, we have pollution control boards. represented through industrial forums to MoEF&CC to relook into the standards and We are not involved in production, import or create a separate for coal based power export of any Ozone Depleting Substances plants for specific water consumption limits. (ODS) in our operations. Hence these This is because 2.5 m3/MWh of water is not emissions are not material to our business. technically possible to achieve by using seawater. We understand MoEF&CC is Other Emissions looking into the matter as this is a common Fugitive emissions from the coal piles concerns of all coastal based power plants are mitigated through rain guns on the operated by private and public sector entities. periphery of the coal yard and all our stacker-reclaimers are fitted with spray Stack Emissions systems. In addition, in Mundra and Kawai The total emissions of Particulate Matter we have also provided wind shields. Wind (PM), Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx) and shield is also being installed at Udupi. We Oxides of Sulphur (SOx) were 9,593 MT, also constantly monitor PM10 and PM2.5 in 64,368 MT and 1,15,079 MT, respectively. the ambient air. During the reporting year, All our generating plants are equipped there were no incidents related to a breach with the latest technologies required for in ambient air quality standards. monitoring and controlling emissions being generated from our stacks. The emissions Our ash ponds are maintained in wet form are monitored on a real-time basis through to prevent fugitive emissions. In Tiroda, we Continuous Emissions Monitoring System have installed High Concentration Slurry (CEMS) which includes mercury emission Disposal (HCSD) system for ash disposal also. In addition to this, we regularly where the ash gets solidified immediately. Waste Management Power plant operations generate nonSince we do not use any polychlorinated hazardous as well as hazardous waste. biphenyls (PCBs), there was no generation There are regulations governing utilisation of PCB waste. We do not engage in and disposal of the waste generated from import or export of any hazardous waste the thermal power plants. Ash is the major or materials under the Basel Convention. non-hazardous waste which is utilisable; There is no radioactive waste generated and however, utilisation is a challenge for the disposed from our power pants, however we entire power sector considering the quantity are regularly monitoring radioactivity in fly of total ash generated. Geographically, ash as well as bottom ash. transporting ash over longer distances prove unviable and environmentally damaging. Ash Management Such constraints make ash utilisation a Ash generated by combustion of coal material aspect. is categorised in two parts – fly ash and bottom ash. Fly ash in the form of fine Fly ash The hazardous wastes generated are used particles is collected in silos through oil, oil containers and spent resins. The Electrostatic Precipitators (ESP). Bottom utilisation. generated wastes are disposed through ash is collected in wet form from the boilers authorised agencies as per the Hazardous and stored in ash ponds. Ash handling and Waste Handling and Management Rules for conventional ways of disposal result in 66% appropriate treatment and disposal. There was no significant spill during the reporting year. energy and water consumption. Recycled water is used for such purposes. 86 Sustainability Report 2016-17 There has been a lot of focus by the central up fly ash brick manufacturing and Government on ash utilisation from power cenosphere collection business. plants, primarily within about a 300 km radius A total of 63 entrepreneurs have from the plants. In line with the relevant been trained during the past guidelines from time to time as well as our 2 years and 50 entrepreneurs have own treatment of ash as a useful resource, already established fly ash brick we have installed state-of-the-art ash disposal manufacturing plants. and bagging technologies and supporting infrastructure for ash evacuation and sale at • We have also installed fly ash brick our plants. This has helped us increase our ash plants within our premises with a utilisation by supply to specialised agencies for capacity of 12,000 bricks and 1,000 use in cement manufacturing. tiles per day for in-house consumption. These fly ash bricks and tiles are used As a strategy, we have adopted the following at all construction sites and township measures to effectively utilise ash and areas. During FY 2016-17, a total of mitigate its negative environmental impact: 1.12 million fly ash bricks and 0.069 million tiles were manufactured. This Optimising ash: We have enhanced •  initiative also aids in preventing the the volume of exports by installing a usage of top soil for conventional brick classification system, for enhancing manufacturing. the collection of fly ash. In FY 2016-17, we have been able to utilise 66% of • We have also used pond ash in bund fly ash in comparison with 72.7% of fly raising in the ash dyke to conserve top ash utilisation in FY 2015-16 across our soil. Further, we are offering free ash Fly ash bricks locations. This is mainly because of the for roads, buildings and infrastructure constraints we are facing at our Tiroda development to encourage use of fly plant. We are continuously taking actions ash in nearby construction activities. manufactured. for better utilisation of ash by developing fly ash utilisation park. • Studies have been carried out for the establishment of a fly ash unloading • As a part of our local vendor hub to cater to cement plants in development strategy, we are also encouraging entrepreneurs to set vicinity through supply in rakes by engaging an external consultant. 1.12 million Fly Ash Generation (t) Figure 13: Fly Ash Utilisation Fly Ash Utilisation (%) 80,00,000 82.0 70,00,000 78.0 60,00,000 57,45,089 74.0 51,58,272 Tonnes (t) Percentage 50,00,000 72.7% 70.0 40,00,000 66.0 66.0% 30,00,000 62.0 20,00,000 58.0 10,00,000 54.0 0 50.0 FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 87 Adani Power Limited Control of fugitive dust: At all our plant •  Some highlights of ash utilisation in locations, fly ash collection and handling FY 2016-17 include: system is in dry form and pneumatic operated. The transportation of ash to • Export of classified fine fly ash to Middle At Udupi, ash cement factories is done through closed Eastern countries from Mundra for utilisation is bulkers. Hence there are no fugitive utilisation as cement admixture, readydone through emissions during collection, handling or mix concrete and other allied purposes. in-house cement transportation of ash. blending unit as • At Udupi, ash utilisation is done through well as cement Research and Development: We have •  in-house cement blending unit as well as plants in the engaged Advance Material and Process cement plants in the vicinity. vicinity. Research Institute (AMPRI), Bhopal, which is a unit of Council of Scientific and • At Kawai, ash is primarily sold to nearby Industrial Research (CSIR), Government cement companies on a long-term basis. of India. Fly ash has some major nutrients such as potassium, phosphorus, sulphur • Options for ash utilisation for brick and micro nutrients like calcium, manufacturing and ancillary products magnesium, iron, zinc and copper which such as tiles manufacturing at Tiroda are essential nutrients for crops. AMPRI has which is located hinterland and is also been doing extensive research and projects amidst several other power plants and on use of fly in soil conditioning to increase cement manufacturing units are being crop yield. This project is under progress. explored. Further, we are in process of developing fly ash park for further Production of Vermi-compost using •  utilisation of fly ash at Tiroda. Fly Ash, Kitchen Waste & Agriculture Waste: As we have a large area under Ash utilisation is a major challenge at Tiroda the green belt and landscaping at all due to its geographical location. All the operating power plants, we need good cements plants are at a distance of more quality compost and manure. We have than 250 km. To overcome this challenge, initiated the composting of organic waste we have developed a facility for loading of fly generated at operating locations wherein ash into specialised railway wagons. As more fly ash is also utilised. Further, a vermicement plants in the country adopt railway composting unit has been commissioned unloading facilities, we will be able to utilise a to utilise ash and produced compost for greater amount of ash through this means. utilisation in the green belt. Fly Ash Management. 88 I S E O M R P Our Quest towards Promise Community Engagement 92 Introduction 97 Rural Infrastructure Development 93 Education 96 Livelihoods 94 Health For Education Water Conservation Blood Projects Health Cards Donation & Health Camps Camp Rural Drinking Water & Sanitation Infrastructure Mobile Health Development Care Units and Rural Clinics For Community Community Development Health SuPoshan For Health Support for Medical Treatment Support for competitive UDAAN ASDC Saksham exams and scholarship Livelihood Support to ﬁsherfolk Supporting Government Schools Education Sustainable Entrepreneurial Development Livelihood through SHG Adani Vidya Mandir Community engagement through sports & Enhancing cultural events livelihood through agriculture & animal husbandry Mundra Tiroda Kawai Udupi 91 Adani Power Limited Introduction As we are in the business of power subsequently deliberated upon and generation, creation of large assets after careful consideration, processed of national importance requires large by our leadership in consultation with investment in terms of land in many areas in Adani Foundation. We have partnered As a responsible the country. As a responsible organisation, with the government agencies, NGOs, organisation, we we commit to support the development Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRI) take upon this of the area and the community in which and local communities for effective onus and commit we operate. This helps us to achieve social implementation of activities. We to support the licence to operate and become employer of proactively work to resolve development choice. We have formulated a Sustainability emerging social issues and during of the area and and Corporate Social Responsibility Policy the reporting year, there were no the community (CSR). Our CSR programmes are focused on significant grievances from the in which we following areas: communities around any of our operate. operational sites. • Education • Community Health We ensure that all our initiatives are • Sustainable Livelihood Development successfully adopted by the community • Rural Infrastructure Development by ensuring their active involvement in the process of development. We carry Our CSR activities are identified and out internal as well as external impact implemented in consultation with the assessment activities for our community community through an independent development projects. need assessment and a Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA). The inputs are During the FY 2016-17, the Company’s then taken from an Advisory Committee, subsidiaries have spent ` 360.5 million including senior members from the Adani towards the CSR activities directly and Foundation and eminent personalities through Adani Foundation for various from the field. The CSR agenda is community development initiatives. Sustainable Livelihood Development Education Corporate Social Rural Responsibility Infrastructure Development Community Health 92 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Education Quality Education. We believe that education offers a firm • Enabling Education through Handholding foundation and means to improve the Government Schools: We support the quality of life, especially for the marginalised existing efforts of the Government and the economically vulnerable. Our by bridging the gaps and playing a goal is to provide ‘quality’ in education to complementary role in imparting quality children across all social strata with learning education for children belonging to experience as core objective. We work with the low income groups. Foundation government institutions and private entities has been consistently working towards to achieve this objective where teaching is elevating standards of education and effective and community participation is increasing enrolment rate in these the preamble for developing a conducive schools, especially for female students. environment for children to learn and grow. We have extended infrastructure and material support to these Government School that nurture Adani Vidya •  schools. A special emphasis is given Mandir: The Adani Vidya Mandir to increase teacher’s effectiveness by (AVM) aims at providing cost free organising regular teacher’s training quality education to children from programmes, conducting exposure the fisherfolk communities as well as tours and introduction of Information, Meritorious economically marginalised families. At Communication, and Technology (ICT) by students Bhadreshwar, near Mundra, we have introducing e-Learning solutions in such reached 395 economically marginalised schools. provided and meritorious students with quality with quality education; of these 137 students belong UDAAN – Igniting young minds to dream •  education. to fishing communities. big: We strive to inspire by encouraging youth coming from various educational 395 93 Adani Power Limited Adani Vidya Mandir: School That Nurture. institutes across the country to visit been touched through programme Adani Group of Industries at Mundra, UDAAN. This programme is replicated Tiroda, Kawai and Udupi. Under this at all power sites where students from project, an inspiration exposure tour schools and colleges in the vicinity are is organised during which students encouraged to visit power plants. Around 40,000 have an opportunity to visit our plant students across to get an insight of the processes and •  Material Support to Needy Students: India have the value generation. The experience To promote the education for been benefited is profound and offers them inspiration students who are from poor financial through to think beyond academics and background, UPCL in collaboration programme seek inspiration to start envisioning with Adani Foundation has provided UDAAN. various career possibilities, including education kits to the students of entrepreneurship. This year, over Government Schools in Udupi District 40,000 students across India have benefiting over 18,000 students. Health By providing basic health care services Blood is precious. It cannot be produced through mobile healthcare units (MHCU) by any technology; only a humane and rural clinics, we aim to provide good approach by donating blood can save medical facilities in remote villages. lives. Blood donation drive, ‘GO-RED’ was Besides MHCU and rural clinics we have organised during the year at multiple also organised medical camps. Further, locations of Adani group where total of financial assistance has been provided to 9,655 units of blood were collected and around 100 patients. We have touched handed over to respective blood banks. the lives of around 2,85,000 people This includes around 5,000 units of blood towards a healthy life. donation at the camps organised by Adani Power Business. 94 Sustainability Report 2016-17 • Mobile Health Care Units (MHCU): The beneficiaries were provided with main objective is to reduce travel time, Aarogya Cardmedical insurance. hardships and expenses, by increasing availability and convenience of quality SuPoshan Combating Malnutrition: •  healthcare services to the remote Malnutrition including Anaemia is a villages. MHCUs cover more than 100 curse which keeps weakening the villages and 6 fisherfolk settlements in future generations of our country. The the regions of Mundra, Kawai, Tiroda SuPoshan project was envisaged after and Udupi attending to around 15,000 studying and analysing the results of patients a month and reaching around two programmes, one for reducing 1,83,000 beneficiaries during the year. malnutrition and the other for anaemia. The issues of malnutrition including • Respect and dignity – Senior Citizen anaemia are very complex. SuPoshan is card: Mundra has a peculiar situation a programme with a community-based where elderly people stay behind management approach. This programme when the youth migrate for better has benefited over 56,000 peoples. livelihood. To encourage senior citizens to focus on preventive healthcare Swachhagraha: ‘Swachhagraha’ is •  and provide healthcare coverage inspired by one of the largest mass “Health Card to Senior Citizen scheme” movements. The project tries to address was introduced. Health check-ups, call for action of “Swachh Bharat coverage of up to ` 50,000 are Abhiyan” announced by the Honourable provided to people over the age of 60 Prime Minister of India. Swachhagraha years. Till date the initiative is spread is about promoting civic consciousness across 66 villages in Mundra, Mandvi amongst citizens through young leaders. and Anjar Talukas. The programme has The heart of the project lies in creating registered about 7,500 beneficiaries. a culture of cleanliness in the upcoming Similarly at Udupi site over 8,000 generations of India. Spreading Smiles. 95 Adani Power Limited Livelihoods Sustainable Livelihood Development: vicinity. SHGs have benefitted more than Livelihoods is one of the major areas 200 women. that need to be focused upon to bring about a holistic development in the Agriculture and Ancillary Support: communities. Adani Foundation has been Over 2,200 farmers from 35 villages of working towards providing the community Tiroda were beneficiaries of a training members with a number of livelihoods and programme conducted to share organic income generating initiatives. Trainings farming techniques along with a System include IT, crane operations, of Rice Intensification (SRI) conducted automobile repair and general in cooperation with the Agriculture duty assistance, electrician, Department. These farmers were also beautician, tailoring etc., so that assisted to adopt the SRI technique. The they can have dignified livelihood farmers observed an ~30% increase in output for themselves and can also gain and 31% decrease in expenditure after financial independence. implementing this project. We provide the farmers with technological support Adani Skill Development Centre: Adani in agriculture which involves Skill Development Centre (ASDC) is practical trainings, material support creating an environment where youth and and familiarisation visits. In order to women get to develop employable skills enhance the practice of water conservation through training. In the FY 2016-17, ASDC among the villagers a study was conducted trained 2,986 candidates out of which 578 to evaluate watershed projects at Kawai. were women. Many of the students trained Other initiatives include installation of in ASDC have been able to secure jobs in biogas at households, and cattle vaccination various organisations. camps for animals, and encouraging farming communities and cattle owners in supporting Women SHGs: Various women oriented vermi composting. initiatives were undertaken through Self-Help Groups (SHGs) formation and Cattle Breed Improvement Programme trainings for ensuring that these women an Initiative for a Positive Impact: We are self-reliant and independent. The have initiated a cattle breed improvement sessions were held to teach various home programme at Kawai to develop Integrated based entrepreneurial skills such as making Livestock Development Centres (ILDCs) in soap, shampoo, cleaner etc. which can be the nearby villages. The two planned ILDCs commercially made available in retail stores will cover 28 villages in the vicinity benefiting and supplied to business houses in the 8,643 breedable cattle. Rural Infrastructure Development Rural Infrastructure Development (RID) safe drinking water facilities more than 5,000 initiatives are aimed at addressing community people have benefited. needs especially by bridging the gaps for enhancing their quality of life. Our RID •  Construction of OPD Block at Projects includes water conservation projects, General Hospital in Baran, Rajasthan: drinking water projects, education related There was an urgent need for proper infrastructure, improvement and development infrastructure at the government of roads for better access and other hospital in Baran district which has need based infrastructure. Besides water a population of around 12 lakh. We conservation, recharge and ensuring supply supported in construction of OPD block of potable water, we support infrastructure to at this hospital. This project has been improve life in these communities as completed successfully and will benefit pro-bono initiative. Also, with the installation of the entire population of Baran. 96 Sustainability Report 2016-17 • D eveloping Model Talab At Antana Community Grievance Mechanism Under Government of Rajasthan’s In an effort to ensure effective social MJSA Programme: The Jal Swavlamban development, we engage with our Abhiyan has been launched in Rajasthan. stakeholders and listen and learn from We have adopted the Antana talab to them in order to gauge their requirements. contribute towards this programme We believe in participatory approach for as an efforts in the direction of water development and therefore, we have conservation. Around 3,500 people living instituted a feedback mechanism for local in this area are expected to be benefited. communities at all our locations. • Water Conservation Pond Deepening, We receive feedback, both through formal Stream Widening and Farm Pond Work: and informal channels. This includes letters, Under this initiative of water conservation email, one-on-one verbal communication programme, deepening and desalting of etc. We then record the feedback, including existing village ponds is undertaken to the appreciation as well as grievances and increase their storage capacity and enhance expectations from local communities. During recharging of the subsoil water table. The FY 2016-17, we received 22 grievances Government of Maharashtra has also through both formal and informal channels. initiated a water conservation scheme under All the grievances received from the local the banner J‘ al Yukt Shivar Abhiyan’. During communities were reviewed at individual the reporting year, we have deepened plant head level and 19 such grievances have 39 ponds, 21 streams and developed 21 farm been resolved with the suitable action within ponds, creating extra storage of around the reporting year. At the time of this report 2.5 lacs m3 which is expected to benefit over we were working on balance 3 grievances 1,200 farmers of nearby area. for their early resolution. Suggestions and demands by local communities shared Over 60,000 people have informally are routed through the Gram benefited directly owing to our RID Panchayat and discussed in presence of the initiatives across all locations and village development committee. Our CSR this number is rising. team provides support to the community if Model Talab at Antana. 97 Adani Power Limited OPD Block at General Hospital in Baran, Rajasthan. suggestions are related to the community’s our locations and there were no cases advantage. We periodically conduct impact of physical or economic displacement of assessment studies of our CSR initiatives at local people at our operations within the all operating locations. Impact assessment boundary of this report during FY 2016-17. Impact of CSR activities is done on rolling basis so For the Jitpur coal block in Jharkhand, land assessment of that every individual location undergo impact acquisition process has already started. CSR activities is assessment, once in 5 year. The Social Impact Assessment study is done on rolling being conducted and R&R action plan will basis so that Resettlement and Rehabilitation be implemented after its approval by the every individual We comply with all applicable regulations State Government. We will be initiating the location for Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) social impact assessment study for land undergo impact in respective states. There were no cases acquisition for Godda project in Jharkhand assessment, of infringement of rights of indigenous shortly. We adhere to the applicable once in 5 year. community groups across our locations. regulations and State Government We did not have any significant negative guideline for R&R and all applicable impact on local communities at any of requirements has been complied with. 98 T R O P P U S Our Quest towards Support Appendices 101 Conversion Factors 102 Independent Assurance Statement 105 GRI Content Index 110 Mapping with National Voluntary Guidelines (NVG) 111 Communication on Progress and Mapping with UN Global Compact Principles 117 Mapping with Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 125 Mapping with International Finance Corporation (IFC) 126 Glossary Sustainability Report 2016-17 CONVERSION FACTORS Conversion Factors Sl. No. Parameter Conversion Factors 1. Energy 1 Gcal = 4.1868GJ 1 KWh = 0.0036 GJ 2. GHG Emissions Purchased electricity from the grid 1 MWh = 0.96 tCO2e, (Ref.: CO2 baseline data, V-11, CEA) Global Warming Potentials (tCO2e) CO2 = 1 CH4 = 21 N2O = 310 SF6 = 23,900 (Ref.: DEFRA, UK) Emissions Due to Air Travel: Domestic (<463 km) = 0.00017147 tCO2e per person-km Short Haul (>=463 km and <1108 km) = 0.000097 tCO2e per person-km Long Haul (>1,108 km) = 0.00011319 tCO2e Emissions Due to Logistics of Input Material and Waste: Road Transport = 0.000204 tCO2e per tonne-km Rail Transport = 0.00011517 tCO2e per tonne-km Sea Transport = 0.0000332 tCO2e per tonne-km 3. Water 1 KL = 1 m3 4. Fuels Furnace Oil 1 KL = 0.95 MT GCV = 10,500 Kcal/Kg Diesel 1 KL = 0.85 MT GCV = 10,500 Kcal/Kg LDO 1 KL = 0.86 MT GCV = 10,500 Kcal/Kg 5. Health and safety 1 Fatality = 6,000 person-days lost 101 Adani Power Limited Independent Assurance Statement Scope and Approach including identified material Aspects DNV GL provides a range of other DNV GL represented by DNV GL of GRI’s Electrical Utilities Sector services to APL, none of which Business Assurance India Private Disclosures and covering economic, constitute a conflict of interest with Limited (‘DNV GL’) was commissioned environmental and social performance this assurance work. DNV GL was by Adani Power Limited (APL) to for the activities undertaken by the not involved in the preparation of undertake an independent assurance Company over the reporting period any statements or data included in of the Company’s Sustainability Report 1st April 2016 to 31st March 2017. the Report except for this Assurance 2016-17 (‘the Report’) in its printed and Statement and Management Report. web format. This report is an update The reporting ‘Aspect’ boundaries of of its second sustainability report. sustainability performance is based on DNV GL’s assurance engagements are The intended user of this assurance the internal and external materiality based on the assumption that the data statement is the management of the assessment predominantly covering and information provided by the client Company. significant APL operations and value to us as part of our review have been chain partners in India as set out in provided in good faith and free from We performed our work using the Report in the section ‘Materiality any misstatement. DNV GL expressly AccountAbility’s AA1000 Assurance Assessment’. disclaims any liability or co-responsibility Standard 2008 (AA1000AS) and for any decision a person or an entity DNV GL’s assurance methodology We understand that the reported data may make based on this Assurance VeriSustainTM1, which is based on our on economic performance, including Statement. professional experience, international CSR expenses incurred by the business assurance best practice including and contribution to Adani Foundation Basis of our Opinion International Standard on Assurance towards CSR expenses, are based on A multi-disciplinary team of Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) disclosures and data from APL’s Annual sustainability and assurance specialists Revised* and the Global Reporting Report 2016-17, which is subjected to a performed work at APL’s Corporate Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability separate independent statutory audit Office at Ahmedabad, Gujarat and Reporting Guidelines. Our assurance process, and is not included in our scope visited sites of APL i.e. Adani Power engagement was planned and carried of work. Maharashtra Limited (APML) at out in August 2017 – October 2017 for Tiroda, Maharashtra and Udupi Power the financial year ending 31st March Responsibilities of the Management Corporation Limited (UPCL) at Udupi, 2017. of APL and of the Assurance Karnataka. We also carried out desk Providers reviews of performance data, and We planned and performed our work The Management team of the supporting documents and information to obtain the evidence we considered Company have the sole responsibility for related to APL, Mundra, Gujarat and necessary to provide a basis for our the preparation of the Report and are Adani Power Rajasthan Limited, Kawai, assurance opinion for providing a Type responsible for all information disclosed Rajasthan, made available by APL. We 2, Moderate Level of assurance based in the Report as well as the processes adopted a risk based approach, i.e. we on AA1000AS. In doing so we evaluated for collecting, analysing and reporting concentrated our verification efforts on the performance data presented in the the information presented in the printed the issues of high material relevance to Report using the Reliability principle, Report, including the references to Company’s power generation business, together with APL’s data protocols for website and it’s maintenance and and its key stakeholders. We undertook how the data is measured, recorded integrity. In performing this assurance the following activities: and reported. The performance data in work, our responsibility is to the the agreed scope of work included the management of APL; this statement Reviewed the Company’s approach qualitative and quantitative information is intended to represent our DNV GL’s to stakeholder engagement and its on sustainability performance disclosed independent opinion and is intended to materiality determination process; in the Report prepared by APL based on inform the outcome of assurance to the GRI G4 in line with its ‘in accordance’ stakeholders of APL. Verified the sustainability-related – Comprehensive option of reporting, statements and claims made in the 1 The VeriSustain protocol is available on www.dnvgl.com * Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. 102 Sustainability Report 2015-16 Report and assessed the robustness Procurement Practices – G4-EC9; *APL is in the process of developing of the data management system, data procedures and systems for accuracy, information flow and controls; Availability and Reliability – EU10; strengthening the disclosures related to these indicators and are partially Examined and reviewed documents, System Efficiency – EU11, EU12; disclosed. data and other information made available by the Company; Environment Observations Material – G4-EN1; Without affecting our assurance Conducted in-person interviews with opinion, we also provide the following top and senior management team of Energy – G4-EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6; observations. We have evaluated the Company and other representatives, Report’s adherence to the following including data owners and decisionWater – G4-EN8, G4-EN10; principles on a scale of ‘Good’, makers from different divisions and ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Improvement’: functions of the Company; Biodiversity – G4-EN11, G4-EN12, G4-EN13, G4-EN14, EU13; Inclusivity Performed sample-based reviews of The participation of stakeholders the mechanisms for implementing the Emissions – G4-EN15, G4-EN16, in developing and achieving an Company’s sustainability related policies, G4-EN17*, G4-EN18, G4-EN19, G4-EN20, accountable and strategic response to as described in the Report; G4-EN21; Sustainability. Performed sample-based checks of the Effluents and Waste –G4-EN23, The Report articulates APL’s stakeholder processes for generating, gathering and G4-EN24, G4-EN25, G4-EN26; engagement process and planned managing the quantitative data and engagements with key stakeholders qualitative information included in the Compliance G4-EN29; to identify and respond to significant Report. sustainability issues and concerns. Social In our opinion, the level at which the During the assurance process, we did Labour Practices and Decent Work Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. not come across limitations to the scope of the agreed assurance engagement. Employment – G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA3, Materiality EU15, EU16, EU17; The process of determining the issues Opinion that is most relevant to an organisation On the basis of the verification Occupational Health and Safety – and its stakeholders. undertaken, nothing came to our G4-LA5, G4-LA6, G4-LA7, G4-LA8; attention to suggest that the Report The Report articulates identified does not properly describe APL’s Training and Education – G4-LA9, material issues emerging from adherence to the GRI G4 reporting G4-LA10, G4-LA11; materiality analysis, which was based on requirements including the Principles inputs from key stakeholders including for Defining Report Content, General Human Rights global and peer sector reports, company Standard Disclosure including Indigenous Rights – G4-HR8; and Group policies, value chain impacts representation of the material aspects of operations, business risks identified and related strategies, and Specific Society from the Company’s risk management Standard Disclosures including the Local Communities – G4-SO1, G4-SO2, framework and inputs from the senior disclosures on management approach EU22; management at APL. There is no and performance indicators as below; change in the identified material the reasons for omissions and partial Anti-corruption – G4-SO3, G4-SO4, aspects during the reporting period. disclosure were explained to us and G4-SO5; In our opinion, the level at which the are explained within the Report for ‘in Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. accordance’ – Comprehensive option of Product Responsibility reporting: Power Outage Frequency – EU28; Responsiveness The extent to which an organisation Economic Average Power Outage Duration – responds to stakeholder issues. Economic Performance– G4-EC1, EU29; G4-EC2*, G4-EC3, G4-EC4; We consider that the Report has Average Plant Availability Factor – fairly disclosed the strategies and Indirect Economic Impacts – G4-EC7, EU30. management approach related to G4-EC8; 103 Adani Power Limited identified key sustainability aspects appropriate, and the qualitative and Report could further bring out responses and challenges considering the overall quantitative data included in the related to the challenges faced during sustainability context of the power Report was found to be identifiable and the reporting period. In our opinion, the generation sector for its Operation and traceable; the personnel responsible level at which the Report adheres to the Maintenance activities defined within could demonstrate the origin and principle of Neutrality is ‘Good’. the Report. In our opinion, the level interpretation of the data and its at which the Report adheres to this reliability. We observed that the Report Opportunities for Improvement principle is ‘Good’. presents a faithful description of the The following is an excerpt from reported sustainability activities for the the observations and opportunities Reliability reporting period. for improvement reported to the The accuracy and comparability of management of the Company and information presented in the report, as Additional principles as per DNV GL are not considered for drawing our well as the quality of underlying data VeriSustain Completeness conclusions on the Report; however, management systems. How much of all the information that they are generally consistent with the has been identified as material to the management’s objectives: The sustainability performance organisation and its stakeholders is indicators are captured and aggregated reported. • Sustainability performance trends by APL from its operational sites for three years may be brought out through It enabled system; the majority The Report has fairly reported the in the Report and APL’s performance of data and information verified at General and Specific Standard may be benchmarked with peers. the Corporate Office and sampled Disclosures including the management operational sites were found to be approach, monitoring systems and • Needs to establish short, medium accurate. Some of the data inaccuracies sustainability performances indicators and long term targets and objectives identified during the verification for identified material aspects against related to its identified material process were found to be attributable GRI G4 requirements corresponding to Aspects and topics. to transcription, interpretation and the ‘in accordance’ – Comprehensive aggregation errors and the errors were option of reporting. In our opinion, the • Consider reporting on Aspectcommunicated and subsequently level at which the Report adheres to this specific DMA related to identified corrections made in the reported data principle is ‘Good’. material aspects and DMA-c, and information. In our opinion, level i.e. descriptions of the mechanisms at which the Report adheres to this Neutrality for evaluating management principle is ‘Acceptable’. The extent to which report provides a approach related to identified balanced account of an organisation’s material Aspects. Specific Evaluation of the Information performance, delivered in neutral tone. on Sustainability Performance • Further strengthen disclosure on We consider the methodology and The disclosures related to sustainability supply chain activities related to process for gathering information issues and performances are fairly impact on APL due to risks in supply developed by APL for its sustainability reported in a neutral tone, in terms of chain. performance reporting to be content and presentation, however For and on behalf of DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited Bengaluru, India, 27th October 2017 Nandkumar Vadakepatth Prasun Kundu Lead Verifier Assurance Reviewer, Regional Sustainability Manager – India Subcontinent and Middle East, DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited, DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited, India India DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited is part of DNV GL – Business Assurance, a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. www.dnvgl.com 104 Sustainability Report 2015-16 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index General Standard Disclosures General Standard Disclosures Page Omissions External Assurance Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Page 2-5 Yes Page 102-104 G4-2 Page 2-5, 28-30 Yes Page 102-104 Organisational Profile G4-3 Page 12 Yes Page 102-104 G4-4 Page 13-14 Yes Page 102-104 G4-5 Page 7 Yes Page 102-104 G4-6 Page 13 Yes Page 102-104 G4-7 Page 14 Yes Page 102-104 G4-8 Page 49 Yes Page 102-104 G4-9 Page 15 Yes Page 102-104 G4-10 Page 54-56, 15, 59-60 Yes Page 102-104 G4-11 Page 15, 66 Yes Page 102-104 G4-12 Page 53-56 Yes Page 102-104 G4-13 Page 6-8, 16-18 Yes Page 102-104 G4-14 Page 25-26, 80, 77 Yes Page 102-104 G4-15 Page 6 Yes Page 102-104 G4-16 Page 18-19  Yes Page 102-104 EU1 Page 13 Yes Page 102-104 EU2 Page 15 Yes Page 102-104 EU3 Page 49 Yes Page 102-104 EU4 Not Applicable Yes Page 102-104 EU5 Page 83 Not applicable: Adani Power – does not participate in any carbon emission trading framework. Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Page 14 Yes Page 102-104 G4-18 Page 27-30 Yes Page 102-104 G4-19 Page 28 Yes Page 102-104 G4-20 Page 28 Yes Page 102-104 G4-21 Page 28 Yes Page 102-104 G4-22 Page 8 Yes Page 102-104 G4-23 Page 6-7 Yes Page 102-104 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Page 25-26 Yes Page 102-104 G4-25 Page 25-26 Yes Page 102-104 G4-26 Page 25-26 Yes Page 102-104 G4-27 Page 25-26 Yes Page 102-104 105 Adani Power Limited General Standard Disclosures Page Omissions External Assurance Report Profile G4-28 Page 6 Yes Page 102-104 G4-29 Page 6-7 Yes Page 102-104 G4-30 Page 7 Yes Page 102-104 G4-31 Page 8 Yes Page 102-104 G4-32 Page 6, 7, 105-110 Yes Page 102-104 G4-33 Page 7, 102-104 Yes Page 102-104 Governance G4-34 Page 7, 38-39 Yes Page 102-104 G4-35 Page 7 Yes Page 102-104 G4-36 Page 6-7 Yes Page 102-104 G4-37 Page 38-40 Yes Page 102-104 G4-38 Page 38-39 Yes Page 102-104 G4-39 Page 39 Yes Page 102-104 G4-40 Page 37-39 Yes Page 102-104 G4-41 Page 39-40 Yes Page 102-104 G4-42 Page 40 Yes Page 102-104 G4-43 Page 39 Yes Page 102-104 G4-44 Page 40 Yes Page 102-104 G4-45 Page 38 Yes Page 102-104 G4-46 Page 19 Yes Page 102-104 G4-47 Page 7 Yes Page 102-104 G4-48 Page 7 Yes Page 102-104 G4-49 Page 19, 38, 40 Yes Page 102-104 G4-50 Page 39 Yes Page 102-104 G4-51 Page 40 Yes Page 102-104 G4-52 Page 40 Yes Page 102-104 G4-53 Page 40 Yes Page 102-104 G4-54 Page 40 Yes Page 102-104 G4-55 Page 40 Yes Page 102-104 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Page 41 Yes Page 102-104 G4-57 Page 41 Yes Page 102-104 G4-58 Page 41 Yes Page 102-104 106 Sustainability Report 2016-17 GRI Content Index Specific Standard Disclosures Material DMA and Indicators Omissions External Aspects Assurance Category: Economic Economic Performance G4-DMA Page 17, 47 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EC1 Page 16 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EC2 Page 82 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EC3 Page 59-65 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EC4 Page 47-50 Yes Page 102-104 Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Page 92-93 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EC7 Page 87-89, 92-93, 97-98 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EC8 Page 92-93 Yes Page 102-104 Procurement Practices G4-DMA Page 53-54 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EC9 Page 54 Yes Page 102-104 Availability and Reliability G4-DMA Page 51, 77-78 Yes Page 102-104 EU10 Page 51, 77-78 Yes Page 102-104 System Efficiency G4-DMA Page 51, 77-78 Yes Page 102-104 EU11 Page 51, 77-78 Yes Page 102-104 EU12 Page 51 – Coal Sourcing and Linkage DMA Page 17, 52 – Category: Environmental Materials G4-DMA Page 77-78 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN1 Page 78 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN2 Page 78 Not applicable: – Energy G4-DMA Page 77 -78 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN3 Page 77-78 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN4 Page 77-78 – G4-EN5 Page 77-78 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN6 Page 77-78 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN7 Not applicable: End use of our – product i.e. electricity does not require any additional use of energy. Water G4-DMA Page 78-79 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN8 Page 78-80 Yes Page 102-104 107 Adani Power Limited Material DMA and Indicators Omissions External Aspects Assurance G4-EN9 Page 78-80 – G4-EN10 Page 78-80 Yes Page 102-104 Biodiversity G4-DMA Page 81 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN11 Page 81-82 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN12 Page 81-82 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN13 Page 81-82 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN14 Page 81-82 Yes Page 102-104 EU13 Page 81-82 Yes Page 102-104 Emissions G4-DMA Page 82 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN15 Page 83-84 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN16 Page 83-84 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN17 Page 83-84 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN18 Page 83 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN19 Page 77-78 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN20 Page 85 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN21 Page 85 Yes Page 102-104 Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Page 79, 86 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN22 Page 80 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN23 Page 86-87 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN24 Page 86 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN25 Page 86 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN26 Page 81-82 Yes Page 102-104 Compliance G4-DMA Page 42-43 Yes Page 102-104 G4-EN29 Page 44 Yes Page 102-104 Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA Page 42-44 – G4-EN34 Page 42-44 – Category: Social Subcategory: Labour practices and decent work Employment G4-DMA Page 59 Yes Page 102-104 G4-LA1 Page 59-60 Yes Page 102-104 G4-LA2 Page 15, 61-66 Yes Page 102-104 G4-LA3 Page 66 Yes Page 102-104 G4-LA4 Page 15 – EU15 Page 59 Yes Page 102-104 EU16 Page 59 Yes Page 102-104 108 Sustainability Report 2016-17 GRI Content Index Material DMA and Indicators Omissions External Aspects Assurance EU17 Page 59, 73 Yes Page 102-104 Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA Page 69-70 Yes Page 102-104 G4-LA5 Page 69-70 Yes Page 102-104 G4-LA6 Page 69-70 Yes Page 102-104 G4-LA7 Page 70 Yes Page 102-104 G4-LA8 Page 15, 66 Yes Page 102-104 Training and Education G4-DMA Page 62-64 Yes Page 102-104 G4-LA9 Page 62-64 Yes Page 102-104 G4-LA10 Page 62-64 Yes Page 102-104 G4-LA11 Page 60 Yes Page 102-104 G4-LA12 Page 39, 60 – Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA Page 60 – G4-LA16 Page 60 – Subcategory: Society Local Communities G4-DMA Page 92-93 Yes Page 102-104 G4-SO1 Page 93-93, 95-98 Yes Page 102-104 G4-SO2 Page 98 Yes Page 102-104 EU22 Page 98 Yes Page 102-104 Anti-corruption G4-DMA Page 41-42 Yes Page 102-104 G4-SO3 Page 41-42 Yes Page 102-104 G4-SO4 Page 41-42 Yes Page 102-104 G4-SO5 Page 41-42 Yes Page 102-104 Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-DMA Page 98 – G4-SO11 Page 98 – Subcategory: Product Responsibility Product Responsibility G4-DMA Page 49 Yes Page 102-104 EU28 Page 49 – EU-29 Page 49 Yes Page 102-104 EU-30 Page 49 Yes Page 102-104 Subcategory: Human Rights Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 Page 98 – 109 Adani Power Limited Mapping with NVG 1 Principle Mapping with this report page numbers 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and 37-39 Accountability 2 Businesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to 47-52, 69-74 sustainability throughout their life cycle 3 Businesses should promote the well-being of all employees 59-66 4 Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, 25-26 especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights 66 6 Business should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment 77-88 7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a 33 responsible manner 8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development 91-98 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a 47-50 responsible manner 1 We have published our Business Responsibility Report in Annual Report of Adani Power Limited for FY 2015-16 available at www.adanipower.com 110 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Mapping with NVG1 | UNGC Mapping Communication on Progress and Mapping with UN Global Compact Principles Global Compact Principles GRI Disclosures Mapping with this report page numbers Principle 1: Human Rights GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Businesses should support and respect Principle 1 and outcomes from implementing Principle 1 the protection of internationally Indicators proclaimed human rights Human Rights Aspect: Investment G4-HR2: Total hours of employee training on human rights policies – or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Aspect: Security Practices G4-HR7: Percentage of security personnel trained in the – organisation’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations Aspect: Indigenous Rights G4-HR8: Total Number of incidents of violations involving rights – of indigenous peoples and actions taken Aspect: Assessment G4-HR9: Total number and percentage of operations that have – been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12: Number of grievances about human rights impacts – filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Society Aspect: Local Communities G4-SO1: Percentage of operations with implemented local 92-93, 95-98 community engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes G4-SO2: Operations with significant actual and potential 98 negative impacts on local communities Principle 2: Human Rights GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Business should make sure they are not Principle 2 and outcomes from implementing Principle 2 complicit in human rights abuses. Indicators Human Rights Aspect: Investment G4-HR1: Total number and percentage of significant investment – agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10: Percentage of new suppliers that were screened – using human rights criteria G4-HR11: Significant actual and potential negative human rights – impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 111 Adani Power Limited Global Compact Principles GRI Disclosures Mapping with this report page numbers Principle 3: Labour GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Businesses should uphold the freedom Principle 3 and outcomes from implementing Principle 3 of association and the effective General Standard Disclosures recognition of the right to collective Organisational Profile bargaining. 66 G4-11: Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Indicators Human Rights Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-HR4: Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may – be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Labour Aspect: Labour/Management Relations G4-LA4: Minimum notice periods regarding operational 15 changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements Principle 4: Labour GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Businesses should uphold the Principle 4 and outcomes from implementing Principle 4 elimination of all forms of forced and Indicators compulsory labour. Human Rights Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labour G4-HR6: Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and – measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour Principle 5: Labour GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Businesses should uphold the effective Principle 5 and outcomes from implementing Principle 5 abolition of child labour. Indicators Human Rights Aspect: Child Labour G4-HR5: Operations and suppliers identified as having – significant risk for incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Labour GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Businesses should uphold the Principle 6 and outcomes from implementing Principle 6 elimination of discrimination in respect General Standard Disclosures of employment and occupation. Organisational Profile G4-10: a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised – workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organisation’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognised as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. 112 Sustainability Report 2016-17 UNGC Mapping Global Compact Principles GRI Disclosures Mapping with this report page numbers f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). Indicators Economic Aspect: Market Presence G4-EC5: Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender – compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation G4-EC6: Proportion of senior management hired from the local – community at significant locations of operation Labour Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment G4-LA1: Total number and rates of new employee hires and 59-60 employee turnover by age group, gender and region G4-LA3: return to work and retention rates after parental leave, 66 by gender Aspect: Training and Education G4-LA9: Average hours of training per year per employee by 62-63 gender, and by employee category G4-LA11: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by 60 employee category Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12: Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age 39, 60 group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-LA13: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to – men by employee category, by significant locations of operation Human Rights Aspect: Non-discrimination G4-HR3: Total number of incidents of discrimination and – corrective actions taken Principle 7: Environment: GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Businesses should support a Principle 7 and outcomes from implementing Principle 7 precautionary approach to Indicators environmental challenges. Economic Aspect: Economic Performance G4-E2: Financial implications and other risks and opportunities – for the organisation’s activities due to climate change Environmental Aspect: Materials 78 G4-EN1: Materials used by weight or volume Aspect: Energy 77-78 G4-EN3: Energy consumption within the organisation Aspect: Water 80 G4-EN8: Total water withdrawal by source 113 Adani Power Limited Global Compact Principles GRI Disclosures Mapping with this report page numbers Aspect: Emissions 83-84 G4-EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1) G4-EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions 83-84 (scope 2) G4-EN17: Other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions 83-84 (scope 3) G4-EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ods) 85 G4-EN21: NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 85 Aspect: Products and Services G4-EN27: Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts – of products and services Aspect: Overall G4-EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and – investments by type Principle 8: Environment: GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Businesses should undertake initiatives Principle 8 and outcomes from implementing Principle 8 to promote greater environmental Indicators responsibility. Economic Aspect: Materials 78 G4-EN1: Materials used by weight or volume G4-EN2: Percentage of materials used that are recycled input 78 materials Aspect: Energy 77-78 G4-EN3: Energy consumption within the organisation G4-EN4: Energy consumption outside of the organisation 77-78 G4-EN5: Energy intensity 77-78 G4-EN6: Reduction of energy consumption 77-78 G4-EN7: Reductions in energy requirements of products and – services Aspect: Water 80 G4-EN8: Total water withdrawal by source G4-EN9: Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of 70 water G4-EN10: Percentage and total volume of water recycled and 80 reused Aspect: Biodiversity G4-EN11: Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or 81-82 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN12: Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and 81-82 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-EN13: Habitats protected or restored 81-82 G4-EN14: Total number of iucn red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by 81-82 operations, by level of extinction risk 114 Sustainability Report 2016-17 UNGC Mapping Global Compact Principles GRI Disclosures Mapping with this report page numbers Aspect: Emissions 83-84 G4-EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1) G4-EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions 83-84 (scope 2) G4-EN17: Other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions 83-84 (scope 3) G4-EN18: Greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions intensity 83 G4-EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions 77-78 G4-EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ods) 85 G4-EN21: NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 85 Aspect: Effluents and Waste 80 G4-EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination G4-EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 86-87 G4-EN24: Total number and volume of significant spills 86 G4-EN25: Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the basel 86 convention2 annex i, ii, iii, and viii, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally G4-EN26: Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the 81-82 organisation’s discharges of water and runoff Aspect: Products and Services G4-EN27: Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts – of products and services G4-EN28: Percentage of products sold and their packaging – materials that are reclaimed by category Aspect: Compliance G4-EN29: Monetary value of significant fines and total 44 number of nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Aspect: Transport G4-EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting – products and other goods and materials for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Aspect: Overall G4-EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and – investments by type Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32: Percentage of new suppliers that were screened – using environmental criteria G4-EN33: Significant actual and potential negative – environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34: Number of grievances about environmental impacts 44 filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 115 Adani Power Limited Global Compact Principles GRI Disclosures Mapping with this report page numbers Principle 9: Environment: GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Businesses should encourage Principle 9 and outcomes from implementing Principle 9 the development and diffusion of Indicators environmentally friendly technologies. Economic Aspect: Energy 77-78 G4-EN6: Reduction of energy consumption G4-EN7: Reductions in energy requirements of products and – services Aspect: Emissions 77-78 G4-EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions Aspect: Products and Services G4-EN27: Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts – of products and services Aspect: Overall G4-EN31: Total environmental protection expenditures and – investments by type Principle 10: Anti-corruption GRI Disclosures to report actions taken to implement Businesses should work against Principle 10 and outcomes from Implementing Principle 10 corruption in all its forms, including General Standard Disclosures extortion and bribery. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 a. Describe the organisation’s values, principles, standards and 41 norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. G4-57 a. Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking 41 advice on ethical and lawful behaviour, and matters related to organisational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. G4-58 a. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting 41 concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour, and matters related to organisational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. Indicators Society Aspect Anti-corruption G4-SO3: Total number and percentage of operations assessed 41 for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4: Communication and training on anti-corruption policies 41 and procedures G4-SO5: CONFIRMED INCIDENTS OF CORRUPTION AND 41 ACTIONS TAKEN Aspect Public Policy G4-SO6: Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/ beneficiary 116 Sustainability Report 2016-17 UNGC Mapping | SDG Mapping Mapping with Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) SDG Business Theme GRI Indicators Page Numbers 1 No Access to financial services Poverty Access to land G4-SO2 97-98 End poverty in all its forms Availability of products and G4-EC8 82-83, 92-93 everywhere services for those on low incomes Disaster/emergency planning and response Earnings, wages and benefits Economic development in G4-EC8 82-83, 92-93 areas of high poverty Economic inclusion G4-DMA-b 53-54 Electricity access EU28, EU29, EU30 48-49 Physical and economic EU22 98 displacement 2 Zero Access to land G4-SO2 98 Hunger Changing the productivity of organisations, sectors, or the whole economy End hunger, achieve food security Food labelling G4-EC8 82-83, 92, 93 and improved nutrition and promote Food safety sustainable agriculture Genetic diversity of farmed and domesticated animals Healthy and affordable food Indigenous rights G4-HR8 98 Infrastructure investments G4-EC1, G4-EC7 16-17, 82-84, 87-89, 92-93, 97 Physical and economic displacement Sustainable sourcing 117 Adani Power Limited SDG Business Theme GRI Indicators Page Numbers 3 Good Health and Access to medicines G4-EC8 82-83, 92-93, 95 Well-being Air quality G4-EN15, G4-EN16, 83-86 G4-EN17, G4-EN20, G4-EN21 Ensure healthy lives and promote Disaster/emergency planning well-being for all at all ages and response Healthy and affordable food Land remediation Occupational health and G4-LA6, G4-LA7 69-70, 69 safety Responsible content dissemination Spills G4-EN24 86 Waste G4-EN23, G4-EN25 86-87, 86 Water quality G4-EN22 80 4 Quality Accessibility of buildings Education Education for sustainable G4-43 39 development Ensure inclusive and equitable Employee training and G4-LA9 62-63 quality education and promote education lifelong learning opportunities for all Media literacy 5 Gender Economic inclusion G4-DMA-b 53-54 Equality Equal remuneration for women and men Achieve gender equality and Gender equality G4-LA1, G4-LA9, 59-60, 62-63, empower all women and girls G4-LA11, G4-LA12 60, 60 Infrastructure investments G4-EC1, G4-EC7 16-17, 82-84, 87-89, 92-93, 97 Non-discrimination Parental leave G4-LA3 66 Women in leadership G4-38, G4-40 38-39, 39 118 Sustainability Report 2016-17 SDG Mapping SDG Business Theme GRI Indicators Page Numbers Workplace violence and harassment 6 Clean Water and Land remediation Sanitation Spills G4-EN24 86 Ensure availability and sustainable Sustainable water withdrawals G4-EN8, G4-EN9 78-80 management of water and sanitation Waste G4-EN23 86-87 for all Water efficiency G4-EN10 78-80 Water quality G4-EN22 80 Water recycling and reuse G4-EN10 78-80 Water-related ecosystems and G4-EN11, G4-EN12, 81-82, 80, 81, biodiversity G4-EN13, G4-EN14, 81-82, 81-82 G4-EN22, G4-EN24, G4-EN26, EU13 7 Affordable and Electricity access EU28, EU29, EU30 49, 77 Clean Energy Electricity availability and EU10 51, 77-78 reliability Ensure access to affordable, Energy efficiency G4-EN3, G4-EN4, 77-78, 51, 77-78, reliable, sustainable and modern G4-EN5, G4-EN6, 51 EU11, EU12 energy for all Environmental investments Infrastructure investments G4-EC1, G4-EC7 17-18, 82-84, 87-89, 92-93, 97 Renewable energy G4-EN3, G4-EN4, 77-78, 13, 16 EU1, EU2 8 Decent Work and Abolition of child labour Economic Growth Access to financial services Promote sustained, inclusive and Availability of a skilled EU15 59 sustainable economic growth, full workforce and productive employment and Changing the productivity of E4-EC8 82-83, 92-93 decent work for all organisations, sectors, or the whole economy Diversity and equal opportunity Earnings, wages and benefits G4-LA2 15, 65-66 Economic inclusion G4-DMA-b 53-54 Economic performance G4-EC1 16-17 Elimination of forced or compulsory labour 119 Adani Power Limited SDG Business Theme GRI Indicators Page Numbers Employee training and G4-LA9, G4-LA10, 62-64, 60 education G4-LA11 Employment G4-10, G4-LA1 54-55, 15, 59-60 Energy efficiency G4-EN3, G4-EN4, 77-78, 51, 77-78, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, 51 EU11, EU12 Equal remuneration for women and men Freedom of association and G4-11 59-66 collective bargaining Indirect impact on job creation G4-EC8 82-83, 92, 93 Jobs supported in the supply G4-EC8 82-83, 92, 93 chain Labour practices in the supply chain Labour/management relations Materials efficiency G4-EN1, G4-EN2 78 Non-discrimination Occupational health and G4-LA5, G4-LA6, 69, 69-70, 70, safety G4-LA7, G4-LA8, 15, 66, 59, 59 EU17, former EU16 Parental leave G4-LA3 66 Resource efficiency of products and services Technological legacies Water efficiency G4-EN10 78-80 Youth employment G4-LA1 59-60 9 Industry, Innovation Access to financial services and Infrastructure Environmental investments Build resilient infrastructure, Infrastructure investments G4-EC1, G4-EC7 17-18, 82-84, promote inclusive and sustainable 87-89, 92-93, 97 industrialisation and foster innovation Research and development G4-EC1 17-18 Technological legacies 120 Sustainability Report 2016-17 SDG Mapping SDG Business Theme GRI Indicators Page Numbers 10 Reduced Access to financial services Inequalities Accessibility of buildings Reduce inequality within and among Accessibility of events countries Accessibility of media content Economic development in G4-EC8 82-83, 92-93 areas of high poverty Equal remuneration for women and men Foreign direct investment G4-EC8 82-83, 92-93 Socially inclusive events Responsible finance 11 Sustainable Cities Access to affordable housing and Communities Access to public spaces Make cities and human settlements Cultural diversity through inclusive, safe, resilient and media content sustainable Cultural heritage Disaster/emergency planning and response Infrastructure investments G4-EC7 82-84, 87-88, 92-93, 97 Noise Sustainable buildings Sustainable transportation 12 Responsible Air quality G4-EN15, G4-EN16, 83-84, 85, 85 G4-EN17, G4-EN20, Consumption and G4-EN21 Production Energy efficiency G4-EN3, G4-EN4, 77-78, 51, 77-78, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, 51 EU11, EU12 Ensure sustainable consumption and Environmental investments production patterns Land remediation Materials efficiency/recycling G4-EN1, G4-EN2 78 Procurement practices G4-EC9 54 121 Adani Power Limited SDG Business Theme GRI Indicators Page Numbers Product and service information and labelling Resource efficiency of products and services Spills G4-EN24 86 Sustainable sourcing Transport Waste G4-EN23, G4-EN25 86-88, 85 Water efficiency G4-EN10 78-80 Water quality G4-EN22 80 13 Climate Energy efficiency G4-EN3, G4-EN4, 77-78, 51, 77-78, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, 51 Action EU11, EU12 Environmental investments Take urgent action to combat climate GHG emissions G4-EN15, G4-EN16, 83-85, 83, 7, change and its impacts* G4-EN17, G4-EN18, 83-86 EU5 * Acknowledging that the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is Risks and opportunities due to G4-EC2 82 the primary international, intergovernmental climate change forum for negotiating the global response to climate change. 14 Life Below Environmental investments Water Land remediation Ensure sustainable consumption and Marine biodiversity G4-EN11, G4-EN12, 81-82, 81-82 production patterns G4-EN13, G4-EN14, G4-EN26, EU13 Ocean acidification G4-EN15, G4-EN16, 83-84, 83, 77G4-EN17, G4-EN18, 78, 85, 15, 83 G4-EN19, G4-EN21, EU2, EU5, EU11 Spills G4-EN24 86 Sustainable sourcing Water discharge to oceans G4-EN22 80 122 Sustainability Report 2016-17 SDG Mapping SDG Business Theme GRI Indicators Page Numbers 15 Life Deforestation on Land Environmental investments Protect, restore and promote Forest degradation G4-EN15, G4-EN16, 83-84, 83, 7, sustainable use of terrestrial G4-EN17, G4-EN18, 85-86 G4-EN19, G4-EN21 ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and Genetic diversity of farmed halt and reverse land degradation and domesticated animals and halt biodiversity loss Land remediation Mountain ecosystems G4-EN11, G4-EN12, 81-82, 81-82 G4-EN13, G4-EN14, EU13 Natural habitat degradation G4-EN11, G4-EN12, 81-82, 81-82 G4-EN13, G4-EN14, G4-EN26, EU13 Spills G4-EN24 86 Sustainable sourcing Terrestrial and inland G4-EN11, G4-EN12, 81-82, 81-82 freshwater ecosystems G4-EN13, G4-EN14, G4-EN26, EU13 16 Peace, Justice and Abolition of child labour Strong Institutions Anti-corruption G4-SO3, G4-SO4, 41 G4-SO5 Promote peaceful and inclusive Compliance with laws and G4-EN29 44 societies for sustainable development, regulations provide access to justice for all and Effective, accountable and G4-39, G4-41 39, 39-40 build effective, accountable and transparent governance inclusive institutions at all levels Ethical and lawful behaviour G4-56, G4-57, 41 G4-58 Freedom of expression 123 Adani Power Limited SDG Business Theme GRI Indicators Page Numbers Grievance mechanisms G4-EN34, G4-LA16, 42, 60-61, 92 G4-SO11 Inclusive decision-making G4-37, G4-38, 38-40, 38-39, G4-40, G4-45, 39, 38, 40 G4-53 Non-discrimination Public access to information Protection of privacy Responsible content dissemination Security Workplace violence and harassment 17 Partnerships Environmental investments for the Goals Foreign direct investment G4-EC8 53-54, 92-93 Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalise the global partnership for sustainable development 124 Sustainability Report 2016-17 SDG mapping | Mapping with IFC Mapping with IFC Performance Standards for Environment & Social Sustainability Performance Description Performance Reference to page Standard Indicators of GRI-G4 number in this Report PS 1 Social and Environmental Assessment & EC8 53-54, 92-93 Management Systems EC9 54 EN14 81-82 EN26 81-82 SO1 93-94, 95-98 PS 2 Labour and Working Conditions LA1 59-60 LA2 15, 65-66 LA3 66 LA5 69-70 LA6 69-70 LA7 70 LA8 15, 66 LA9 62-63 LA10 62-64 LA11 60 PS 3 Pollution Prevention and Abatement EN1 78 EN2 78 EN3 77-78 EN4 77-78 EN5 77-78 EN6 77-78 EN10 78-80 EN11 81-82 EN12 81-82 EN13 81-82 EN14 81-82 EN15 83-84 EN16 83-84 EN17 83-84 EN18 83 EN19 77-78 EN20 85 EN8 77-80 EN21 85 EN22 80 EN23 86-87 EN24 86 EN25 86 PS 4 Community, Health, Safety and Security SO1 93, 95-98 PS 5 Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement SO1 93, 95-98 PS 6 Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable EN11 81-82 Resource Management EN12 81-82 EN13 81-82 EN14 81-82 EN15 83-84 PS 7 Indigenous Peoples SO1 93, 95-98 125 Adani Power Limited Glossary Abbreviations AGM Annual General Meeting AMA Ahmedabad Management Association AMPRI Advance Process Material Research Institute APC Auxiliary Power Consumption APL Adani Power Limited APML Adani Power Maharashtra Limited APP Association of Power Producers APRL Adani Power Rajasthan Limited APSEZ Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone APTEL Appellate Tribunal for Electricity APTRI Adani Power Training and Research Institute ASC Apex Sustainability Committee AVT-OT All Volatile Oxygenated Treatment BoQ Bill of Quantity BRR Business Responsibility Reporting CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate CBD Convention on Biological Diversity CCEA Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs CCL Central Coalfields Limited CD Chart Datum CDM Clean Development Mechanism CEA Central Electricity Authority CEMS Continuous Emissions Monitoring System CEP Condensate Extraction Pump CEO Chief Executive Officer CERC Central Electricity Regulatory Commission CFO Chief Finance Officer CII Confederation of Indian Industry CIL Coal India Limited CNG Compressed Natural Gas COO Chief Operating Officer CPU Condensate Polishing Unit CRO Central Risk Officer CSIR Central Scientific and Industrial Research CSO Chief Sustainability Officer CSR Corporate Social Responsibility CT Cooling Tower DOA Delegation of Authority ECB External Commercial Borrowings EIA Environmental Impact Assessment EPC Engineering, Procurement & Construction ERP Enterprise Resource Planning ESP Electrostatic Precipitator ETP Effluent Treatment Plant ESMS Environmental and Social Management FAC Flow Accelerated Corrosion FGD Focus Group Discussion, Flue Gas Desulphurisation FICCI Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry FMEA Failure Mode Effects Analysis FOP Fingerprint Optic Power FOW Fingerprint Optic Wireless FSA Fuel Supply Agreement 126 Sustainability Report 2016-17 Glossary Abbreviations FTA Fixed Term Appointee FY Financial Year GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GCCI Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry GDP Gross Domestic Product GET Graduate Engineer Trainee GHG Greenhouse Gas GJ Giga Joules GPTWI Great Place to Work® Institute GRI Global Reporting Initiative GSC Gujarat Safety Council GUVNL Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited HCSD High Concentration Slurry Disposal HFO Heavy Fuel Oil HH Hydrazine Hydrate HOD Head of Department HPCL Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited HR Human Resources HSD High Speed Diesel HSE Health, Safety and Environment HSEQ Health, Safety, Environment and Quality HVDC High-Voltage Direct Current IBACS Integrated Biometric Access Control System IEX Indian Energy Exchange IFC International Finance Corporation IFE Institute of Fire Engineers IISWBM Indian Institute of Social Welfare and Business Management IPO Initial Public Offering IPPAI Independent Power Producers Association of India ISO International Standards Organisation IT Information Technology IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature JMC Junior Management Cadre KL Kilo litres KRA Key Result Area LCSD Lean Concentration Slurry Disposal LDO Light Diesel Oil LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate MAAS Management Audit & Accounting System M&A Mergers and Acquisitions MCL Mahanadi Coalfield Limited MCM Million Cubic Metre MHCU Mobile Healthcare Units MIS Management Information Systems MMC Middle Management Cadre MMT Million Metric Tonnes MMTPA Million Metric Tonnes Per Annum MoEF&CC Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change MOIS Micro Oil ignition System MoU Memorandum Of Understanding MSEDCL Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited 127 Adani Power Limited Abbreviations MT Metric Tonnes MTPA Metric Tonnes Per Annum MU Million Units MUPL Mundra Utilities Pvt. Ltd. MW Mega Watt NABET National Accreditation on Board for Education and Training NGO Non-Governmental Organisations NIHL Noise Induced Hearing Loss NIO National Institute of Oceanography NMPT New Mangalore Port Trust NOx Oxides of Nitrogen NRI Non-resident Indian NSC National Safety Council NVG-SEE National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business O&M Operation and Maintenance ODS Ozone-depleting Substances OH&S Occupational Health and Safety PA Primary Air PCB Polychlorinated Biphenyls PIL Public Interest Litigations PLF Plant Load Factor PMS Performance Management System PNG Piped Natural Gas PPA Power Purchase Agreement PRI Panchayati Raj Institutions QCFI Quality Circle Forum of India R&R Resettlement and Rehabilitation RBI Reserve Bank of India RBIA Risk-based Internal Audit RLDC Regional Load Despatch Centre RMC Ready-Mix Concrete S&CSR Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility SCRC Security Control and Response Centres SDG Sustainable Development Goals SEBI Securities and Exchange Board of India SECL South Eastern Coalfields Ltd. SERC State Electricity Regulatory Corporation SEZ Special Economic Zone SHR Station Heat Rate SLDC State Load Despatch Centre SMC Senior Management Cadre SOP Standard Operating Procedure SOx Oxides of Sulphur SPM Suspended Particulate Matter SRC Sustainability Reporting Committee SRI System of Rice Intensification SRT Site Review Technique SUP Supervisory Staff TNEB Tamil Nadu Electricity Board TNI Training Need Identification TPH Tonnes Per Hour TSP Tri Sodium Phosphate UNFCCC United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change UNGC United Nations Global Compact VFD Variable Frequency Drive VRM Vendor Relationship Management WP Writ Petitions 128 Adani Power Limited Shikhar, Near Adani House, Mithakhali Six Roads, Navrangpura, Ahmedabad 380 009 Gujarat, India. Tel: +91 79 2656 5555 Fax: +91 79 2656 5500 www.adanipower.com Sustainaibility Report 2016-17
