UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 Contents 01 Statement 02 Introduction 04 Human rights and labour 12 Environment 16 Anti-corruption 18 Further information Statement This is our second Communication on As for any complex group of people our Progress report against the ten principles of culture is key in this regard, but it is the UN Global Compact ( UNGC ). Since neither static or as consistent as simple becoming a signatory in October 2016, we assertions or sweeping commitments can have continued to increase focus and infer. If we are to take our social progress on our commitment and this obligations seriously, as we are committed report aims to inform that progress. to doing, we need to be open about the challenges. We see compliance with the As our firm's Chair, I am extraordinarily principles and a focus on the SDGs as proud of our people's efforts to contribute something that we will continue to engage to and recognise the social context in which with, not as a new concept but building on we work as a team, whether as lawyers or the desire to contribute and to do the right through other roles supporting our service thing, which we believe we must not lose to our clients and our own culture. sight of in competitive business environments. Combining the Like any other business, our firm can only achievement of success which, will allow succeed sustainably if our people feel us to sustain a strong culture, with a motivated and proud of the work they do values driven approach, is a continuous and the organisation they are part of. focus for us. Specifically as a law firm and as professionals, we have wider responsibilities I hope you will enjoy reading about some of beyond the laws applicable to other the ways in which we have pursued our businesses. In fact the values that being in commitment to the UNGC as part of that a profession seeks to represent are part of values driven goal. the integrity and responsibility that motivate so many of our people. We see our commitments to the UNGC principles and the Sustainable Development Goals ( SDGs ) as aligned to our values and the sense of purpose our James Palmer Chair and Senior Partner teams seek. Herbert Smith Freehills LLP HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT Introduction We operate from 27 offices around the world in most of the world's centres. We Principles seek to provide outstanding service to our clients and at the same time a fulfilling place to work. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and We believe that if we can be a good part of respect the protection of internationally people's lives while they work for us, and proclaimed human rights; and support values driven activities, we will not Principle 2: make sure that they are not only improve our own long term success, complicit in human rights abuses. but also help our people to contribute to responsible activities in whatever else they Labour do. Of course this is a challenge, but it is motivational and important for us, as a Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective global law firm. recognition of the right to collective bargaining; We hope to show with the following examples Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced some of the ways in which we have pursued each of and compulsory labour; the principles. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child Many of our staff become lawyers because of a sense labour; and of justice and social responsibility, and our extensive pro bono activities contribute to helping them pursue Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in those purposes. respect of employment and occupation. We understand that the principles are about how we conduct our core activities, and the values we seek to Environment enshrine in our firm. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Sustainable Development Goals We remain committed to aligning our work with the SDGs. Throughout this report, you will see examples of where our work incorporating the 10 principles of the UNGC aligns with the SDGs. //03 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human rights and labour We recognise that we have a responsibility to respect internationally recognised human rights. We seek to conduct our activities in a manner that respects and supports the protection of human rights. Our firm We remain committed to educating our people about We have several policies that address our approach to the risks our business faces in relation to modern identifying modern slavery risks and the steps to be slavery and human trafficking and about how these taken to prevent modern slavery and human trafficking risks can be negated. In the last year, we continued to in our operations. These include: work with Anti-Slavery International to train our key ••Responsible Procurement Policy people on these issues. We aim to provide further training on human rights to our people as appropriate. ••Procurement Compliance Standards ••International Standards of Conduct In January, the firm signed the Fair Hiring Pledge, committing us to encourage our employees in Hong ••Anti-Money Laundering Policy Kong to hire domestic workers fairly. Hong Kong’s Fair ••Whistleblowing Policy Employment Agency is tackling forced labour at its roots by reinventing the typical agency hiring model and ••Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy removing worker placement fees. Since its launch, the ••Human Rights Policy agency has placed over 1,800 workers and saved those workers US$2.7 million in recruitment debt, the ••Diversity and Inclusion Policy equivalent of 375 years of labour. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Our suppliers As a professional services business, our supply chain ••identify potential risks outside our “core” offices and predominantly consists of goods and services engage further with our suppliers outside the UK purchased to enable our people to deliver our services. regarding modern slavery and human trafficking risks. The key categories we procure are property space, facilities management, HR, professional services and We have introduced a three-step process to assess and information technology. Our global procurement team monitor the risks in our supply base. As part of this, we based in London supports the sourcing and purchasing have implemented a third-party risk intelligence tool to of goods and services across the firm. identify risks such as modern slavery, human trafficking, and bribery and corruption. Through this information, We continue to consider that the risk of modern slavery we can identify high-risk suppliers and carry out further and human trafficking being in our supply chain is low. due diligence to decide what actions are needed to Our evaluation of risk is based on the following: mitigate risk. ••We place an emphasis on value rather than price During the last 12 months, we have deployed a new alone in our procurement decisions. global contract management system that enables us to ••We do not typically have a policy of outsourcing. view our supplier contracts in one place and more easily Where we buy outsourced services, the delivery assess modern slavery and human trafficking risks. locations are rated as low-risk, examples being Alongside this, we have developed and introduced a London, Sydney, Melbourne and New York. new global Contract Management Policy and Framework for managing suppliers and contracts. We ••Most of our offices are in low-risk locations. have trained our contract managers in the policy to help ••We have communicated our expectations to our them to understand what actions they need to take to key suppliers through our Procurement manage contractual and supplier risk. Compliance Standards. We have continued to issue our Procurement ••Our global procurement team is trained in modern Compliance Standards directly to many of our key slavery and human trafficking and has excellent suppliers, as well as to the balance of suppliers working knowledge of the global supply markets for each with colleagues across our global network. If we discover category of spend. a case of modern slavery within our supply chain, we will ••We carry out a regular risk assessment of our global work with the supplier to implement corrective action or supply base, which confirms our view that the risk is terminate our agreement with them. low. We have also continued to seek agreement to our We analyse our spend with global suppliers annually so Master Services Agreement with key suppliers. Under that we can: this arrangement, the supplier warrants that it will comply with, and ensure that its agents, subcontractors ••understand the extent of our global supply chain; and employees comply with, all applicable laws, ••inform our risk assessment approach with updated, enactments, orders, regulations and other similar accurate information; and instruments, including the Modern Slavery Act 2015. //05 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT Our clients For example, we have helped our clients: Our cross-disciplinary and global Business and Human Rights team has many years of experience advising ••establish human rights policies and codes of clients in this field and includes both lawyers exclusively conduct to ensure respect for human rights and specialised in business and human rights and lawyers labour rights in their activities and supply chains; specialised in disputes, energy and infrastructure, ••perform due diligence on projects and target mergers and acquisitions ( M&A ), crisis management, companies regarding potential human rights and land rights and native title. labour rights impacts and their implications, supporting practical application of rights; We advise and encourage our clients to: ••understand and comply with best practices in Anticipate supply chain management regarding human rights and labour rights, as well as comply with related reporting obligations (eg UK Modern Slavery Act, French law on the corporate duty of vigilance, California Transparency in Supply Prevent Chains Act, EU non-financial reporting); ••resolve disputes over alleged human rights and labour rights impacts through arbitration, litigation and non-judicial proceedings, including Mitigate and remedy complaints before OECD National Contact Points; ••ensure operational-level grievance mechanisms are accessible and effective in delivering real and Communicate and monitor timely remediation to affected local stakeholders; and ••build knowledge among their executives, in-house lawyers and other employees. human rights and labour rights risks in their businesses and supply chains. Internationally recognised force in the developing business and human rights field” CHAMBERS GLOBAL 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS This year, we have provided business and human rightsrelated advice to clients across the following sectors: Communications Financial services Transport and networking technology Mining Manufacturing Charities and Energy Consumer goods non-governmental organisations Sports and Infrastructure entertainment The Business and Human Rights team also offers internal ••participating at the international and institutional training, knowledge-sharing, communication and support level in debates and developments shaping the future across our practice areas and regions to help all of our directions of the field (through our involvement in lawyers encourage clients to respect human rights and OECD working groups and sectorial working groups, labour rights in their activities and supply chains and especially on banks and human rights, and identify, prevent and mitigate potential risks and impacts mega-sporting events and human rights); with which our work may be associated. ••raising the awareness to lawyers on business and human rights through active collaboration and We have developed significant expertise in the field of conference with local bar associations, legal-sector business and human rights and operate at the forefront roundtable discussion groups and partnerships on of ongoing dialogue in developing best practice. publications, surveys and training; and We actively supported the development of the UN ••teaching about the theory and practice of business Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and and human rights in universities in several regularly contribute to working groups and industry-led jurisdictions. initiatives, including: ••participating in the International Bar Association ( IBA ) Business and Human Rights Working Group (contributors to the IBA Practical Guide on Business and Human Rights for Business Lawyers and the IBA Business and Human Rights Guidance for Bar Associations); //07 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT We also recognise the necessity to attain the SDGs and will play our role in this when it falls within the scope of our assistance. For example, this year we engaged in the following ctivities. Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure and Sustainable Cities and Communities ••We raised awareness about the main types of risks that investors and sponsors in an infrastructure project may face regarding businesses’ responsibility to respect internationally recognised human rights and the rights of affected communities; and ••advised on national and international soft-law and hard-law risks and potential human rights implications of infrastructure projects in several jurisdictions. Decent Work and Economic Growth ••We advised clients on issues of forced or bonded labour in the supply chain, including obligations and potential liability under national modern slavery legislation; ••led several pro bono initiatives on modern slavery and human trafficking, recruitment of migrant workers, licensing of third-party labour and base minimum standards for corporate conduct when hiring workers; and ••submitted an extensive response to the consultation paper released by the Australian minister for justice on a Modern Slavery in Supply Chains Reporting Requirement. Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions ••We participated in key legal thought leadership projects spanning: a partnership with Thomson Reuters, contributing towards leading publications and knowledge-sharing on the French law on the corporate duty of vigilance; roundtable groups convened by the British Institute of International and Comparative Law and UK Law Society's International Rule of Law Programme on Business and Human Rights (ongoing); “HSF has exceptional membership of the sounding board group for the development of The Hague Rules on Business and Human Rights Arbitration (ongoing); and knowledge of the UNGP speaking engagements at universities and conferences, for example on protecting and its application for a investors versus protecting human rights, including in international arbitration investment disputes. range of clients in sectors including sports, infrastructure and banking CHAMBERS GLOBAL 2018 COMMUNICATION HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS ON PROGRESS 2018 HERBERT UN GLOBAL SMITH FREEHILLS COMPACT Diversity and inclusion Inclusion refers to an environment that values diversity and enables people to be their authentic self in the workplace. Our inclusive workplace is the hallmark of a high-performance organisation and is characterised by openness, respect, equality and non-discrimination. We are not limited in our approach to diversity and have a range of initiatives across our organisation, including with respect to gender, race, age, religion and belief, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability and social mobility. Our Leading for Inclusion strategy sits alongside the firm's Beyond 2020 strategy and is framed around the following four pillars: Talent Innovation We work to counteract We innovate for our clients unconscious bias in our and our business by recruitment processes and Clients contributing diverse Values provide training for our perspectives. people on overcoming We have worked with We are a values-driven unconscious bias, along clients to address current organisation that aims to with mandatory workplace challenges that enable all our people to behaviour training. organisations face on connect, collaborate, excel topics including mental and lead within the context health and wellbeing, of our inclusive culture. gender diversity, LGBT issues and disability. //09 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT Pro bono In March 2017, we organised the first Sierra Leone Commercial Law Summit, involving 90 leaders from We are committed to using our expertise, resources business, government, the judiciary, and legal and and leadership to deliver social impact through our diplomatic sectors to map out reform priorities that global pro bono practice. In this work, we prioritise promote responsible private-sector development in vulnerable groups within society that may be at risk of Sierra Leone. marginalisation or systemic disadvantage. In the financial year 2018, we provided over 63,000 hours of Four of our lawyers have been seconded to GoSL legal support to our pro bono clients globally. We and, in the last year, the first GoSL employee undertake all pro bono legal work with the same degree undertook a secondment to our London office. of competency, expertise and professionalism as we do any other legal work. Labour rights Access to justice ••Our lawyers provide written responses to requests for advice received by the charity Working Families, ••We partner with The AIRE (Advice on Individual the UK's leading work-life balance organisation. The Rights in Europe) Centre to prepare written advice in charity helps working parents and carers and their response to queries from low-income EU migrants employers find a better balance between and their families on their residency rights under EU responsibilities at home and work, advising on law. We also partner with the Prisoners’ Advice employment rights such as maternity and paternity Service to provide similar written responses to UK leave, rights to time off in an emergency and prisoners requesting advice on prison law. pregnancy discrimination cases. ••We assisted Women’s Legal Service Victoria in ••We helped NGO Focus on Labour Exploitation collaboration with Lander & Rogers with a law reform ( FLEX ) to extend its labour exploitation project that aims to improve access to justice for accountability hub to Australia. In 2016, we advised women with small property claims in family law. Our on a research project looking at forced labour laws, lawyers provided research assistance, interviewed policies and enforcement mechanisms across 15 clients, and transcribed and analysed transcripts of jurisdictions. Our offices are continuing to assist FLEX client interviews. with updates to the hub. Human rights Herbert Smith Freehills and Justice Connect Homeless Law have collaborated closely on an outreach legal clinic at the Melbourne City Library as part of the International development Women’s Homelessness Prevention Project. Our ••In 2010, we established Fair Deal Sierra Leone, the lawyers and trainees represent and provide ongoing first large-scale pro bono facility offered by a law firm assistance to clients in relation to evictions and other in support of one country's development efforts. tenancy legal issues such as housing debts that are Through the initiative, we harness our international barriers to safe housing. and cross-practice experience to deliver free expert ••We have been partnering with the Public Interest legal support to the Government of Sierra Leone Advocacy Centre in its Sri Lanka transitional justice ( GoSL ) in support of responsible inward work by providing solicitors to assist with a investment and the rule of law. In particular: conflict-mapping project. In collaboration with Standard Chartered Bank and ••We set up the Herbert Smith Freehills Asylum Seeker Prudential, and supported by the UN, we prepared Clinic in Sydney in partnership with the Refugee and continue to update the Sierra Leone Investor Advice and Casework Service to respond to the Guide, an independent, private-sector view on the urgent need for lawyers to assist asylum seekers with investment climate in Sierra Leone. their statements. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS internships across all of our Australian offices and 64 Jawun secondees, or 384 weeks of capacity building with Indigenous organisations in the East Kimberley region, including in relation to the Empowered Communities reform agenda. Social impact investment Through our social investment practice, HSF Impact, we advise a range of social enterprises, impact investors, social finance intermediaries and impact funds. This Commitment: year alone, we have assisted over 20 sustainable We will continue to: investment clients. This included: ••assess and monitor the risks in our supply chain ••assistance for Ghanaian agribusiness Yedent in using our new systems and tools; transforming its corporate structure and, thereby, ••issue our Procurement Compliance Standards to attracting international investment. Yedent produces and distributes healthy and affordable cereal foods the remaining key suppliers in our supply chain; for schools, hospitals and communities in Ghana, ••review our charitable relationships with Africa and beyond. We continue to advise Yedent on orphanages worldwide; its development as a business and social enterprise; ••train our people on modern slavery and human and trafficking as appropriate; ••support for Beam, the world's first online ••consider ways in which we can further support crowdfunding platform to fund employment training the attainment of the SDGs through our work; and source stable paid employment for homeless and people. In its first 10 weeks, Beam raised over £20,000 from more than 500 supporters and ••follow, contribute towards and raise awareness received start-up funding from the Mayor of London of national and international developments in and innovation charity Nesta. business and human rights law and practice, including the proposed: Australian modern slavery legislation; Hong Kong modern slavery legislation; and business and human rights arbitral tribunal. Our communities Our community partnerships are driven by relationships. Across the Herbert Smith Freehills network, our people have many opportunities to actively engage with community organisations that promote access to justice and social inclusion. In the same way that we respond to any client, we listen to and respect what our NGO partners tell us about the needs of the communities they serve. They are the experts. We support them using the resources of a global law firm. Reconciliation We launched our first Reconciliation Action Plan ( RAP ) in 2011 in support of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander clients and communities. In May 2015, we became the first and only law firm to receive “Elevate,” the highest possible level of endorsement from Reconciliation Australia, for our RAP. In September ...we prioritise vulnerable 2018, we launched our second Elevate RAP. Since 2011, groups within society that we have contributed over 27,000 hours of pro bono legal support to Indigenous clients, to a value of over may be at risk of A$9.5 million. We have also provided 33 CareerTrackers marginalisation or systemic disadvantage” //11 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT Environment We recognise that we all have a part to play in balancing our growth as a business with reducing our impact on the environment. As a leading global firm, we have a responsibility to align our approach to sustainability across all of the offices in our network. We wish to create a business community that operates in an environmentally sustainable, economically feasible and socially responsible way. Our firm Along with our Environment Policy, we launched our identify energy-efficient products across the network. Global Environmental Sustainability strategy in 2016, Our offices in the UK and Brussels are supplied which comprises four main areas of focus. completely with electricity from renewable sources. In the UK, electricity usage is responsible for more than 40% of our carbon footprint. In November 2015, we received the Energy Management Accreditation, ISO 50001, for our energy management system. People engagement Raising awareness, engaging with our people and changing behaviours is a necessary three-step process that can help us improve our environmental performance. We engage with our people to tackle plastic pollution through our operations, including raising awareness by screening relevant documentaries and banning single-use plastic cutlery in London and all single-use plastic items in some international offices. We celebrate Earth Hour, UK Cycle to Work Day and the UN World Environment Day, also holding a series of We operate in a consistent and uniform way across our events and campaigns during Environment Week. network through two Sustainability Action Groups, one covering Europe, the Middle East, Africa and North The legal sector has changed significantly in the past America and the other covering Asia Pacific and few years and technological advancements allow us to Australia. Members of the groups are partners, senior conduct many aspects of our operations far more management and office managers. efficiently, which translates to a smaller environmental impact. To ensure that our interactions with the environment are carefully managed and that we minimise and For example, a centralised online global travel mitigate any negative impacts from our activities, we management tool helps us monitor our travel and have developed an action plan and established some identify areas where we can achieve reductions. New challenging global goals for 2020. videoconferencing technologies enable a more personal approach with our clients and reduce emissions We understand that there is always some business associated with travel for client meetings when possible. travel with a substantial impact on our carbon footprint. In this case, we offset the carbon emissions associated For internal meetings, we have implemented Skype for with specific activities, by supporting projects not only Business, which reduces non-essential inter-office with environmental but also with socioeconomic business travel. We also encourage collaboration impacts on local communities. between different departments. For instance, our document production team works very closely with the Our Gold Standard-certified carbon-offset project is IT department to identify ways to digitise paper-based installing 1 million biogas digesters and smoke-free cook processes and reduce paper and ink consumption. stoves in low-income households in rural Sichuan, China, providing households with clean, convenient and Reducing our paper consumption is a key goal and we free biogas for cooking, heating and lighting. rely heavily on new technologies to meet it. We have implemented a Follow-me printing regime to control As energy usage gives rise to most of our global carbon copying and printing and minimise unnecessary printing emissions, in 2015 we announced an Energy Policy for our and waste. This new printing regime has considerably UK offices. We are determined to develop energy-saving reduced our paper consumption, helping us meet our behaviours, implement energy-saving projects and paper reduction goal. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Raising awareness, engaging with our people and changing behaviours is a necessary three-step process that can help us improve our environmental performance //13 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT Leadership as part of the redevelopment of brownfield land. We also advise clients generally on their obligations to As a founding member of the Legal Sustainability comply with environmental law, requirements for Alliance, we report and publish our carbon emissions transparency and permits, and the potential for liability annually for the London and Belfast offices and through as a result of non-compliance. AUS Legal Sustainability Alliance for our offices in Australia. In the UK, we have reduced our carbon Renewables footprint by 14% and 20% per capita since 2014, taking into consideration our growth as a business. Many of the projects in which we are involved have intrinsic positive environmental benefits, such as We are regular contributors to thought leadership on biomass, sustainable feedstock, tidal energy power environmental themes. Our lawyers speak and write on generation, and solar and wind projects. We have a topics such as air quality, corporate governance leading financing practice in the energy sector, responsibilities regarding environmental impacts and particularly in renewable energy, where we have environmental class actions. We bring together our advised on a number of ground-breaking project clients and contacts for influential seminars, including financings across the globe, including hydropower recently on the subject of the SDGs. We are also generation projects in Nepal. members of the UK Environmental Lawyers Association and relevant committees of the City of London Law We also advise on nuclear power projects with the Society in the UK. Some of our senior lawyers are potential to generate large amounts of low-carbon visiting university lecturers on matters such as energy electricity and offset the need for fossil fuel generation. regulation and climate change. Plastic pollution Our suppliers We take plastic pollution seriously, through not only our We consider the environmental impact of our supply operations but also our commercial work. A prime chain and work with suppliers to ensure we do example is our work with Sky, where a cross-practice everything feasible to minimise it. Our global team in London advised on the structuring of the Responsible Procurement Policy addresses potential flagship Sky Ocean Ventures fund and on Sky’s first two environmental risks in the purchasing process and downstream investments in social enterprises tackling encourages pro-environmental behaviour. We also the global ocean plastics crisis. engage with our suppliers to appraise the sustainability of goods and services received. We have developed Choose Water is an early-stage social enterprise strong relationships with our suppliers and work with focused on creating a replacement for the single-use them to minimise our environmental footprint. We plastic water bottle, while Skipping Rocks Lab has expect all our suppliers to follow our Procurement developed proprietary technology to use natural Compliance Standards and to have their own internal materials extracted from plants and seaweed to replace policies and procedures in place to ensure they are able plastic packaging. to share our commitment to the areas set out within it. We also collaborated with Tideway and Thames21 to Our clients raise awareness of plastic pollution by cleaning the foreshore of the River Thames and conducting a We respond to climate change in various ways and one survey that will be used for further research and of these is through our legal advice to clients. campaign purposes. Environmental law practice Our global environmental team acts in the environmental aspects of corporate transactions in all sectors, in environmental litigation and in high-profile, high-risk projects and schemes spanning energy, infrastructure, mining, urban development and urban regeneration, as well as in remediation of contamination COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Pro bono Our flagship project in environmental pro bono work is Commitment: the award-winning Legal Response Initiative ( LRI ). By 2020, we will reduce The LRI provides free legal advice on a rapid-response basis to delegations from less-developed countries and our global carbon footprint 15% NGOs on negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. by In the renewable energy area, we have provided pro bono advice to the Government of Sierra Leone regarding a number of solar power projects and the Bumbuna Hydroelectric Plant, designed to raise access to electricity on a national scale. % in energy use by Environmental peacebuilding is a growing area for us. This 2020 approach integrates natural resource management within REDUCTION conflict prevention, mitigation, resolution and recovery to build resilience in communities affected by conflict. In particular, we are working with EcoPeace Middle East, a By 2020, we unique organisation that brings together Jordanian, will reduce our Palestinian and Israeli environmentalists with these aims. paper We have assisted the Government of Rwanda in meeting its commitments to environmental sustainability and the SDGs, and increasing levels of recycling by introducing an electronic waste facility to collect, recycle and consumption by 30% dispose of computers and other electronic items. Through our work in the sustainability area, we currently contribute to six of the 17 SDGs. We are working with our Sustainability Action Groups at a global level to identify new opportunities to expand the spectrum of our work under these goals. The legal sector has changed significantly in the past few years and technological advancements allow us to conduct many aspects of our operations far more efficiently, which translates to a smaller environmental impact //15 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT Anti-corruption Our firm Lawyers and legal advisors across the world have restrictions on external payments and requirements to professional duties to the public and to the court, and register certain gifts and hospitality given or received to duties to act honestly. Often, these duties also include certain higher-risk persons (for example, public officials). an obligation to not bring the profession into disrepute. Our lawyers and legal advisors and other employees Our suppliers globally are subject to these rules due to their We provide key suppliers with our Procurement qualification(s) and regulation by any applicable Bar/ Compliance Standards, which set out, among other Court, or by virtue of their employment relationship things, our expectations regarding anti-bribery and with the firm (or both). All of our employees are also corruption commitments for our suppliers. Further, our subject to the policies and procedures described below. standard terms for engaging suppliers include a requirement that our suppliers comply with applicable Our policies anti-bribery laws, including the extra-territorial UK Individuals across our network are required to comply Bribery Act 2010. with the firm's International Standards of Conduct. These set out the behavioural and professional Our associations standards that the firm expects and requires, and In some countries where we do not have offices, we include fundamental tenets on anti-bribery and have close associations with local law firms with whom corruption. These tenets are elaborated in the firm's we work to provide clients with a seamless service. We Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and supplemented provide our policy and programme to these by the Gifts and Hospitality Policy. associations and work with them on anti-bribery and ••The Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy sets out, corruption measures. among other things, the firm's policy obligations on all persons, including specific guidelines on high-risk recipients, facilitation payments and compliance by suppliers. It also lists red-flag situations of which to Commitment: be aware. ••Last year, we reworked our anti-corruption ••The firm's Gifts and Hospitality Policy requires all policies to ensure greater global application. partners and employees to comply with any These have been sent to clients and suppliers applicable client or supplier policies when offering or as part of our programme. We will continue to accepting gifts and hospitality. It also requires them engage with clients and suppliers to raise to comply with the firm's own policy, which prohibits awareness and standards. gifts and hospitality offered or accepted for the ••As a result of our previous year's targeted purpose of inducing someone to act improperly or awareness programme, we have continued to that may be perceived as related to same. The policy see reporting of gifts and hospitality in provides helpful guidelines to determine what is (or accordance with our transparency and may seem) inappropriate. assurance requirements. We will continue to keep our partners and employees aware of Prevention anti-corruption measures in the year to come. Partners and employees are reminded and educated about anti-bribery and corruption issues during the induction process and with follow up training seminars and firm-wide bulletins. Last year, we ran a renewed targeted awareness programme. Lawyers in our offices must annually declare that they comply with a variety of legal and professional obligations, including anti-bribery legislation. The firm's General Counsel and Risk team is available and accessible for any anti-bribery queries. We also employ a number of controls to monitor and restrict bribery and corruption risks. These include COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS Our clients We have a market-leading corporate crime and Recent highlights include representing global corporates, investigations practice with expertise in all areas of law institutions and individuals in large, high-profile, connected with bribery and corruption, sanctions, multi-jurisdictional anti-corruption investigations and fraud, money laundering, insider dealing, cartels and advising on the UK's first deferred prosecution corporate manslaughter. agreement under the UK Bribery Act. We also produce and maintain the Overseas Corruption Project, a The team, based across our offices in Asia Pacific, database of information on local anti-corruption laws, Australia, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and North particularly with respect to gifts and entertainment for America, has managed numerous complex and public officials, for 127 jurisdictions. sensitive national and international investigations, dealing with law enforcement agencies and regulators The team hosts major conferences across our network all over the world. offices where speakers include representatives from regulators, law makers, enforcement agencies and our We also help clients review, develop and implement all international partners. aspects of global compliance programmes, developing systems that will reduce corruption risk. In addition, we conduct anti-corruption, money laundering and sanctions due diligence for M&A activity and other transactional work. We also help clients review, develop and implement all aspects of global compliance programmes, developing systems that will reduce corruption risk //17 HERBERT SMITH FREEHILLS UN GLOBAL COMPACT Further information Business and Human Rights Practice Group Environment, Planning and Communities Practice Group Modern Slavery Act Statement Diversity and Inclusion Pro Bono and Citizenship (including sustainability and responsible procurement) Reconciliation Action Plan UNGC key contact: Emma Cooke Head of Citizenship emma.cooke@hsf.com Herbert Smith Freehills No part of this publication may be used for any purpose, in any format, without the specific permission of Herbert Smith Freehills LLP. The contents of this publication, current at the date of publication set out in this document, are for reference purposes only. They do not constitute legal advice and should not be relied upon as such. Specific legal advice about your specific circumstances should always be sought separately before taking any action based on this publication. Herbert Smith Freehills LLP and its affiliated and subsidiary businesses and firms and Herbert Smith Freehills, an Australian Partnership, are separate member firms of the international legal practice known as Herbert Smith Freehills. © Herbert Smith Freehills LLP 2018 HERBERTSMITHFREEHILLS.COM BANGKOK HONG KONG NEW YORK Herbert Smith Freehills (Thailand) Ltd Herbert Smith Freehills Herbert Smith Freehills New York LLP BEIJING JAKARTA PARIS Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Hiswara Bunjamin and Tandjung Herbert Smith Freehills Paris LLP Beijing Representative Office (UK) Herbert Smith Freehills LLP associated firm PERTH BELFAST JOHANNESBURG Herbert Smith Freehills Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Herbert Smith Freehills South Africa LLP RIYADH BERLIN KUALA LUMPUR The Law Office of Mohammed Altammami Herbert Smith Freehills Germany LLP Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Herbert Smith Freehills LLP associated firm LLP0010119-FGN BRISBANE SEOUL Herbert Smith Freehills LONDON Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Foreign Legal Consultant Office BRUSSELS Herbert Smith Freehills LLP MADRID SHANGHAI Herbert Smith Freehills Spain LLP Herbert Smith Freehills LLP DUBAI Shanghai Representative Office (UK) Herbert Smith Freehills LLP MELBOURNE Herbert Smith Freehills SINGAPORE DÜSSELDORF Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Herbert Smith Freehills Germany LLP MILAN Studio Legale Associato in association with SYDNEY FRANKFURT Herbert Smith Freehills LLP Herbert Smith Freehills Herbert Smith Freehills Germany LLP MOSCOW TOKYO Herbert Smith Freehills CIS LLP Herbert Smith Freehills © Herbert Smith Freehills LLP 2018 3203O /261018 UN Global Compact Co
