2017 Report Corporate Social Responsibility Making a difference to people’s health and quality of life, today and tomorrow Ferring Corporate Social Responsibility 4 The Ferring Philosophy Contents 5 Ferring Mission Statement One Section 6 A message from Michel Pettigrew President of the Executive Board and Chief Operating Officer 8 Our Industry 10 Our Business 14 Our Leadership Principles 16 Our CSR Heritage 17 Our CSR Foundation 17 CSR Governance at Ferring 18 Ferring CSR Statement 19 Ferring CSR Pillars, Objectives, Activities 19 Our CSR Pillars and UN Global Compact Two Section 20 Progress Report 2017 Our Activity 21 22 People Pillar 24 Business Pillar 26 Environment Pillar 28 Community Pillar 30 The Road Ahead Ferring This report describes Ferring’s Corporate Social commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility Responsibility and its progress during 2017. © 2018 Ferring, the Ferring logo and other Ferring product names included herein are trademarks of Ferring B.V. 2 3 Section One – Philosophy and Statement The Ferring Philosophy Ferring Mission Statement – the basis of how we do business Our philosophy, ‘People come first at Ferring’, is the cornerstone of our Driven by its entrepreneurial spirit As a privately owned, specialty business and our approach to CSR. It sets out what we expect of ourselves and enabled by a decentralised healthcare company that operates (towards our patients, employees, physicians and partners), as well as the organisational setup, Ferring will globally, Ferring will grow revenues at a expectations we have of those who make up the Ferring community. harness its world-class competencies rate that is 50% faster than the industry in science and business with other average. We will strive for efficiencies People come first at Ferring because: • that colleagues will never knowingly do anything to compromise their position as innovative technologies to create in our business and create flexibility to Patients using our products and physicians prescribing them have a right to expect that: Ferring employees; solutions for patients and doctors. invest in opportunities to build our future. • that all who represent Ferring will do so in By developing an understanding • we will only make available those products in We are, and continue to be, part of ways that generate respect for the company of people’s needs, we will deliver which we have full confidence; and its employees. a transparent and aligned company. • we will offer the best possible products at the personalised healthcare solutions, We strive to best address the needs of most reasonable cost; Ferring asks its employees to: integrating pharmaceutical products patients, stakeholders and customers • Ferring’s employees will always display courtesy • always do what is right, proper and ethical, with diagnostics, data, devices, and respect, and act professionally; by collaborating across functions, and encourage your colleagues to do so; education and support services to Ferring seeks the loyalty of these patients and experimenting and sharing our practices, • speak out when you think that wrongs are optimise health outcomes. physicians, and we are prepared to earn this being committed in Ferring’s name; and continuously learning. We are loyalty anew every day. • be loyal, but only to that which is just, Ferring will be the world-leading, always guided by the Ferring Philosophy. Ferring expects that its employees will create equitable, honourable and principled – most trusted healthcare company in value for the company and its stakeholders. and true to the Ferring philosophy. reproductive medicine and women’s No statement of principled behaviour can Ferring employees, at all levels, have health, and a leader in specialty areas ever cover every situation, or deal with every a right to expect from the company within gastroenterology and urology. Each contingency. It can only set the tone, making each and their colleagues: individual responsible for applying that tone to his of us at Ferring will contribute to providing • respect, support and encouragement; or her everyday practice. We strive to set that tone innovative solutions to help people live with five simple words: • a work environment that is safe, stimulating better lives. We will devote significant and rewarding; People come first at Ferring research and development investment to • the freedom to make mistakes and to admit to them without fear of retribution; Our CSR Statement is based on the firm new therapeutics, life cycle management • that the highest standards of integrity will be foundation of our Philosophy (see page 18). and next generation healthcare solutions. maintained at all times; 4 5 Section One middle-income countries that have a high burden of maternal deaths. This will be on a non-profit basis at an affordable and sustainable access price. Since reducing maternal mortality is one of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), I feel it’s a great example of where we can harness our core expertise for the greater good. This is exactly where Ferring should be focusing our CSR efforts Section One – Welcome – integrated into our business, to our purpose, and Welcome helping to address unmet needs. Of course, looking ahead, we want to build on signature programmes like this. Yet, we also need to work on embedding CSR into our daily business practices. Since we joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we’re committed to its ten principles. These affect all aspects of the business, not just in areas where A message from Michel Pettigrew we have a particular expertise – from business ethics through to responsible supply chains and good environmental practice. We’ve established a good foundation, but I’m keen to strengthen personalised healthcare solutions. This includes our governance in these areas, and to incentivise treatments, but also diagnostics, devices and and encourage the entrepreneurial spirit of my education. It’s not just about helping today’s colleagues in addressing some of the challenges. patients, it’s also about anticipating the needs of Indeed, they expect nothing less. tomorrow’s patients. Which, of course, is at the heart of our CSR mission – ‘making a difference I hope you enjoy this year’s report, and as to people’s health and quality of life – today and always, we look forward to hearing your views tomorrow.’ on our progress and to your continued support. In 2017 we launched our new Mission Statement, which sets out a bold new aspiration for the business – to be the world-leading, most trusted healthcare company in reproductive medicine and women’s health, and a leader in specialty areas within gastroenterology and urology. In order to do that, we need to continually earn Welcome to our latest Corporate the trust and confidence of our patients, doctors, Michel Pettigrew employees, suppliers and academic partners Social Responsibility (CSR) report. wherever we operate. Our CSR commitments President of the Executive Board It’s been a busy year for the help us do this, but they also help us in other ways and Chief Operating Officer business since we last shared our e.g. address risks in our supply chain, reduce our environmental footprint and give us a licence to progress with you. operate in our communities. Ferring is committed to helping people live better Of our flagship efforts to date, I’m particularly lives. Ferrring is a leader in reproductive medicine proud of our collaborative research programme and women’s health, but we know we have CHAMPION. Through the CHAMPION clinical trial, more to do. If we are to create next generation we are investigating a potential solution for reducing healthcare solutions for patients and doctors, deaths caused by post-partum haemorrhage, the we need to invest more strategically in research, leading direct cause of maternal mortality. If positive involve patients right from the start, and harness results are secured, Ferring will manufacture this our core competencies to develop innovative and treatment for the public sector of low and lower6 7 We are acutely aware of our role in • Reputation and ethics – The reputation championing good business at Ferring. An of our industry rests on how we, as individual businesses, conduct ourselves. Business increasingly challenged, globalised world ethics, transparency, product quality & safety with fast-evolving disease demographics remain vital to companies’ license to operate. means our industry has much work to do. While the sector as a whole has seen record fines for violations over the years, it is learning Section One – Our industry • Resource-constrained climate – some lessons. This only becomes more In a world where resource-constrained important with the advent of social media and governments seek to slow the rise in health increased regulatory oversight. care costs, pharmaceutical companies continue to face scrutiny related to the pricing • Strength through collaboration – and reimbursement of their products. Concern There are growing examples of collaborative over pricing practices is widespread and efforts in the sector aimed at strengthening remains an important issue on the political and healthcare systems and infrastructures, campaign agendas globally. harnessing the power of technology and technology transfer to countries that • Demonstrate high product value – could benefit greatly – mobile health Companies are increasingly under pressure to (mHeath), global vaccine programmes, demonstrate the value of their products and partnerships in HIV/AIDS, malaria, women’s ensure their pricing practices are sustainable. health and much more. These partnerships Access to healthcare and treatment for can only grow in number as the industry disadvantaged populations will continue recognises the limitations of individual to be an important issue for the industry company efforts. – and rightly so. And the needs of those disadvantaged are not just found in developing Ultimately, we are proud to be part of an markets, but developed ones too. industry that has the capability of providing • Shifting disease demographics – health solutions to all those who need them. Changing disease demographics mean that the This need comes with a duty of care which industry must evolve fast to keep up. One of cannot be carried alone. Our industry the sector’s greatest challenges is that it relies A sustainable, affordable healthcare requires heavily on R&D for innovation and product many actors to play their part – scientists, development which can take years to be marketdoctors, healthcare workers, NGOs and ready. Innovation breakthroughs require talented governments. We look to them to guide and researchers and scientists too. The industry must support our work, so that we may collectively continually strive to attract and retain this talent. build healthier communities of the future. Strength through collaboration 8 9 A history of pioneering Ferring was established 68 years ago in Sweden. Our Founder, Dr. Frederik Paulsen, became a pioneer in developing and selling pharmaceutical products based on natural peptide hormones produced by the body’s pituitary gland. He was convinced that these new compounds could play Section One – Our business an invaluable role in the treatment of life-threatening conditions. Over six decades later, Dr. Paulsen’s conviction has been proven. Today, peptides remain core to many of our therapeutic treatments. Ferring Pharmaceuticals is a research-driven, Our business speciality biopharmaceutical group committed to helping people around the world build families and live better lives. Headquartered in Saint-Prex, Switzerland, Ferring is a leader in reproductive medicine and women’s health, and in specialty ‘Our job is to continue to areas within gastroenterology and urology. respond to the needs of today’s Founded in 1950, Ferring now employs patients as well as anticipate the approximately 6,500 people worldwide, has its needs of tomorrow’s patients.’ own operating subsidiaries in nearly 60 countries Michel Pettigrew and markets its products in 110 countries. While Europe and the US are our largest markets, we History, strategy, research and focus President of the Executive Board and Chief Operating Officer are seeing our fastest growth in markets such as China and Japan. At the heart of the business is a commitment to develop personalised treatments that work on the body’s own terms. In other words, we use peptides and proteins that work with the body’s Distribution of Ferring’s total global sales own endocrine system to combat diseases and medical conditions. by region (2017) We have our own manufacturing facilities in 11 36% countries, including several European countries as well as Argentina, Israel, India and China. We have also built new facilities in the USA. 34% 19% Including acquisitions to date, this means we have capabilities in both recombinant biotechnology Global headquarters as well as more traditional pharmaceutical Ferring International Center, manufacturing. Saint-Prex, Switzerland Global reach Subsidiaries in nearly 60 countries Global sales Sales distribution in 110 countries 6% R&D Centres China, Denmark, India, Israel, Japan, Scotland, Switzerland, US Manufacturing network Argentina, China, Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, India, Israel, Mexico, Scotland, Switzerland, US 5% 10 11 Reproductive medicine and women’s health 16% of revenue Urology A strategy focused on sustainable Our intention is to be the world-leading, most trusted healthcare company in reproductive medicine and Gastroenterology growth and leadership women’s health, and a leader in specialty areas Section One – Our business within gastroenterology and urology. In order to do Other As patient demographics for diseases and chronic conditions evolve, we must continue to respond so, we need to invest more in research – specifically to the needs of today’s patients as well as in new therapeutics, life cycle management and next anticipate the needs of tomorrow’s patients. generation healthcare solutions. One of the advantages of being a privatelyR&D investment in all therapeutic areas owned business is that we can make our own decisions about how and when we invest, Power through research without being distracted by short-term quarterly Approximately 16% of our revenue goes back into results driven performance. research, which is in line with the industry average. We also work to adapt existing peptide based Gastroenterology A freshly-launched corporate mission statement will With R&D facilities based in nine countries, our medications to meet specific medical needs. activities are focused on developing first-class We develop products to support and supplement help us to focus on the next stage of growth. Our Often this means collaborating with scientific our leading gastroenterology therapy for the goal is to sustain growth at 50% higher than the therapeutic peptides and proteins in our key institutes and other biological and pharmaceutical therapeutic areas. As disease demographics treatment of Crohn’s disease and ulcerative industry average. Ferring will do this by harnessing companies throughout the world. Some of our colitis, as well as new treatment options for its core competencies in science and business with evolve, we are committed to creating new key partners include the Salk Institute (US), Louis medicines and developing patient-friendly drug inflammatory bowel diseases and other lower other innovative technologies to create the next Pasteur Institute (France) the Karolinska Institute gastro-intestinal conditions. generation of solutions for patients and doctors. delivery systems – such as pen injections with (Sweden) and the Chinese Academy of Science. We plan to develop and deliver personalised easily adjustable digital dosage mechanisms. We are also undertaking a large-scale research Urology healthcare solutions, integrating pharmaceutical project with the March of Dimes (a US-based We are keen to build on our work in this area by products with diagnostics, data, devices, education organisation) into the reasons for premature birth. introducing innovative products to supplement our and support services to optimise health outcomes. Our nine development sites include six product existing portfolio of drugs. 2017 Sales Overview development laboratories in Copenhagen (Denmark), Parsippany (US), Glasgow (Scotland), Looking ahead Be’er Tuvia (Israel), Basel (Switzerland) and Mumbai In order to deliver on our ambition, our strategic (India). Our main pharmaceutical development priorities are focused on driving transformation 9% hub is in Copenhagen. The Copenhagen and initiatives designed to unleash efficiencies in the Parsippany sites drive and execute product business, renewing our focus in R&D, accelerating Orthopaedics 1% innovation and development of new molecular a culture of innovation, and embedding stronger Other entities as well as further development of our leadership principles in management. 5% existing in-line products to better meet patient Endocrinology needs or address new disease areas. 46% Reproductive Medicine 23% and Women’s Health Our core areas of therapeutic focus Gastroenterology Reproductive Medicine and Women’s ‘This work, together with the CSR Health culture we’re building, means This is the most significant part of our business. We that if you’re a scientist, a college are already committed to therapies in fertility and graduate or a supplier, Ferring 16% obstetrics that harness the body’s natural processes to help couples conceive. We hope to offer new should be the kind of company you Urology and innovative products in this area and provide would want to work with.’ €1.9 billion ($2.4 billion) treatments to aid every stage of the reproductive Aaron Graff cycle. We also want to help improve women’s 2017 Total Sales Overview Executive Vice President chances of surviving childbirth, and to overcome or manage diseases of the reproductive system. and Chief Commercial Officer 12 13 Section One – Our business Ferring’s Leadership Principles Building a business sustainably cannot be cornerstone and are designed to strengthen the These seven principles will act as our guide in the achieved without building a collaborative and focus, efforts and behaviours of colleagues across pursuit of our new mission: with a shared sense of entrepreneurial culture that supports and enables the business, as set out below. purpose, empowered to be more entrepreneurial, it. We have launched a new set of Leadership encouraged to act with accountability, Principles to help us do this. These seven transparency and a collaborative spirit, we aspire principles have the Ferring Philosophy as the to deliver with excellence. g Philosophy Performance Empowerment Ferrin We achieve excellence We create leaders and intrapreneurs We set ambitious goals, we win We empower, we boost our teams, Performance Empowerment together we incite learning We achieve We create leaders excellence and intrapreneurs Innovation Accountability We experiment and build our future We own everything we do with Purpose courage We share one Innovation We search for new solutions, we mission, we are Ferring We experiment and take risks for innovation, we learn We seize responsibilities, we are guided by the build our future Ferring philosophy accountable for our decisions Mission Collaboration Transparency Accountability We are in this together Transparency We own everything We listen and share We listen and We work together across teams, share we do with We communicate honestly, courage functions and geographies we do it often, we make it simple, Collaboration we make it clear We are in this Purpose together We share one Mission, we are guided by the Ferring Philosophy Our seven P e o ple t Leadership Principles c o m e fir s We know why we are here, we that guide our central inspire each other Mission 14 15 CSR Governance at Ferring Central to what we do, is a commitment to the human cause. This was the founding principle by which Dr. Frederik Section One – Our CSR heritage Paulsen first established Ferring in 1950. His goal was to improve people’s health through medicine on the body’s own terms, and 68 years later, we strive to stay true to that mission. The company is named Ferring in honour of the community on the Island of Föhr, to Our core responsibility is to develop and deliver which Dr Paulsen’s family belonged. innovative therapies that improve the quality of patient lives, and in some cases, save lives. However, expectations of what constitutes corporate responsibility have evolved significantly since CSR CSR Board Ferring was first established. So too, have our own Sponsors Board Sponsors expectations of ourselves. Today we understand that we have a broader responsibility to both the people and organisations we impact throughout our daily operations – namely, our employees, patients, CSR Advisory CSR Advisory Group suppliers, research partners, and the communities Group and environment in which we operate. Ferring first expressed its view of this wider responsibility in The Ferring Philosophy ‘People Come First at Ferring’ in 2004. Then in 2012, we CSR Taskforce CSR Taskforce launched our formal CSR strategy and, building on The Philosophy, we created our CSR Statement (on Our CSR page 18). Subsequently, a globally representative Taskforce was established, and since then we have continued to build on those firm foundations. CSR Ambassadors CSR Ambassadors CSR Governance at Ferring At the centre of our governance structure is the Our CSR governance structure heritage CSR Taskforce, a cross-functional and global team, Dr. Frederik Paulsen and his wife Eva, which undertakes daily management of activities also a scientist closely involved in the across the business. Our outreach across the world company’s creation. is made possible with our network of nearly 20 CSR Ambassadors, located in nearly 20 countries. For decisions on strategic direction, policies or new global initiatives, we seek input and sign off from our senior Global Advisory Group, and our two key Board-level Sponsors, COO and President of the Executive Board, Michel Pettigrew, and Per Falk, Executive Vice President and Chief Science Officer. Our CSR responsibility has evolved to In 2017, we moved the responsibility for CSR into the reach the people, communities and Global Ethics & Privacy Office. Our intention is that by placing it at the heart of our ethical activities this will organisations we impact both strengthen oversight and facilitate embedding CSR throughout the business. 16 17 Philosophy: People come first at Ferring Section One – Our CSR approach & structure Our CSR pillars, objectives and activities are aligned to our Our CSR Statement Philosophy and Mission. Making a difference to people’s health and quality of life, today and tomorrow Four thematic pillars represent the range of CSR activities at Ferring. They lend a focus for our efforts and a means of telling our story. Our CSR Pillar Objectives Specific to each of our four pillars People Business Ethics Environment Community People Ethics Environment Community Our CSR activities Objective Objective Objective Objective Support, develop Conduct Minimise our Engage with and Our CSR Statement and meet ourselves ethically environmental support the people’s needs Aligned to pillar objectives in the market footprint communities and rights place around us – People come first at Ferring Our pillars and United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Principles Our pillars encompass the UN Global Compact’s The Ferring Philosophy places people at the heart of what we do. own set of Principles related to human rights, People We will address the needs and support those on whom we have an labour, anti-corruption and environment. impact in the communities where we operate. Our philosophy and values determine not just what we do, but how UN Global Compact Principles 1–10 we conduct ourselves in the marketplace, with our patients, employees, Human rights UNGC regulators, business partners and local communities. We aim to listen P1: B  usinesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human P. 1, 2,10 with respect and act with integrity. rights; and P2: m  ake sure that they are not complicit in human We believe that in a resource-constrained environmentally challenged rights abuses. Community Ferring UNGC UNGC Business CSR world, it is our duty to minimise our impact on the environment wherever Community P. All P. 3, 4, 5, 6,10 Labour Ethics we operate. P3: b  usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Our approach rests on the belief that in order to have a healthy right to collective bargaining; UNGC tomorrow, we must think beyond the needs of today. We aim to P4: the elimination of all forms of forced and P. 7, 8, 9,10 harness our research and expertise to secure a better future for all. compulsory labour; P5: the effective abolition of child labour; and P6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment P7: b  usinesses should support a precautionary Environment approach to environmental challenges; Making a difference to people’s health P8: b  usinesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and and quality of life, today and tomorrow. P9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our four CSR pillars encompass Anti-corruption the UN Global Compact Principles P10: w  ork against corruption in all its forms, including (P1-10), which together inform extortion and bribery. our CSR statement 18 19 This summary report offers up high-level with them, and to sharing this CSR Review as our Section Two reflections on our progress against goals we set annual Communication on Progress (CoP) to the ourselves in last year’s report. Compact. The Q&A from Michel Pettigrew, Ferring’s President of the Executive Board and COO, at Section Two – Our CSR report 2017 Over the past year we have made significant the beginning of this review, serves as our formal progress. It has also been a year of transition and statement of support for this initiative. restructuring in the business. Together with the launch of our new Mission Statement this has has necessitated a review of current endeavours and a re-orientation of our thinking. However, this restructure has enabled a sense of clarity which will carry us forward into the coming year. Our CSR Journey to Date For our Signature Programme in Maternal Health: after extensive consultation, we have decided to focus our efforts on existing programmes such First phase launch of our new Responsible Procurement Principles; CSR management moves as CHAMPION. This initiative, dedicated towards into the Global Ethics & Privacy Office reducing maternal death in childbirth, is the area we believe we can make the greatest difference. Building on our CSR Ambassadors (formerly Champions) network: we have begun the Joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), process of developing training modules for our started developing ideas for a global signature programme on maternal health. Created the role network and reaching out to new Ambassadors Senior Director, Industry Affairs & CSR across our business. The testing and roll-out of draft volunteering guidelines remains in consultation phase, in order to ensure fuller global support across key regions. We continue to make steady progress on our Published our first CSR Review, launched our global Our Progress CSR Champions Network, and completed our first EHS targets, driving resource efficiencies and stakeholder outreach and materiality assessment safety at site level, extending our carbon footprint assessment to Scope 3 emissions, and introducing more rigorous methods of measuring our progress. Further development of our sustainable purchasing strategy: roll-out of our new Principles has already CSR objectives are built into Ferring’s Global Report begun with 1st tier suppliers, though further work Business Plan will be conducted in the next year to ensure a wider and fuller engagement with other suppliers. Launch of first work-life balance initiative: our ‘Work Smarter, Live Better’ initiative, aimed at fostering better and more motivated employee CSR Guidelines developed. Global projects engagement and motivation, has been launched inventory compiled successfully. A subsequent survey conducted in early 2017 at Ferring’s headquarters reflected a wish for more flexible working arrangements. Our CSR journey to date Since then we have launched new guidelines allowing working from home. Ferring formally launches its CSR strategy As a signed up member of the Global Compact and Statement we look forward to continuing our learning journey 20 21 People ‘A key aspect of CSR is its contribution Section Two – Our Pillars to building Ferring’s employer brand identity… for attracting talent and keeping good people.. our CSR Ambassadors are a vital part of that.’ Introduction People Photo credit: Joni Kabana, Kabana Photography Lydia Chua, Senior HR Director, Asia Pacific Objective Supporting, developing and meeting people’s needs and rights speaks to the Support, develop and meet core intention of our work with, and for people – our colleagues, our patients, Within the business, we aim to provide a safe, people’s needs and rights healthcare professionals, and all those whose lives we affect, directly or indirectly, healthy and supportive environment for our in our working community. This ambition is underwritten by our Philosophy that colleagues, one that encourages performance and pride. At the same time, we seek to provide the ‘People Come First at Ferring’. right kind of support (whether training, financial or medical) to our patients and the network of healthcare partners around them. Photo credit: Joni Kabana, Kabana Photography Our Progress Selection of our initiatives ONGOING teams in Copenhagen are involved. Policies and Practices Combating maternal death Next generation gastroenterologists 1.5m Since our involvement began in We have a comprehensive set of policies and Excessive bleeding after childbirth, known as postOur Czech Republic office has been supporting 2015, between 200-300 academics/ Euro clinicians have been reached, more processes designed to enable and support colleagues’ partum haemorrhage (PPH), is the leading cause of the Kasafirek Prize for the last six years. It journeys through Ferring wherever they are around the maternal death. Each year, more than 80,000 women supports a long-term educational programme than 1,000 patients assisted, and up world. Some highlights: die from PPH. Oxytocin is currently recommended as for young gastroenterologists and endoscopists to 10,000 members of the wider global scientific the standard of care for preventing PPH. However, and is awarded for the best professional article community reached via publications. Ferring has • A  new Ferring Philosophy global training contributed EUR 1.5 million to a total collaborative programme “Leading with Integrity”, was rolled out it must be stored and transported at 2-8 degrees on gastroenterology or endoscopy published in Celsius which is difficult to maintain in many countries, a leading international gastroenterology journal. budget of EUR 13.5 million. http://reprounion.eu at manager levels across the business in 2017. meaning many women do not have access to this Candidates nominate their articles annually and the • In Asia Pacific our employee-run welfare lifesaving drug and, when they do, its quality may be expert committee (which includes Ferring) decides committees and CSR committees organise degraded due to heat exposure. on the winner. The Award-winner receives €2,000 Global Challenge – Body & mind fitness employee engagement activities to foster a sense during the opening ceremony of the largest global Together with its partners MSD of team spirit and collaboration (e.g. fun runs, movies, annual dinners etc). 30K for Mothers and the World Health gastroenterology congresses. We see this project as an example of our desire to support young 1.6K In the fourth year of Ferring’s participation in the Global Challenge, Organization (WHO), Ferring is • F  lexible working arrangements are now women physicians, our future opinion leaders in the sector, almost 1,600 employees took collaborating on the world’s largest Employees 10,000 steps a day during a 100 increasingly core to how we work, supported by and encourage their global recognition. clinical trial in maternal health. improvements in supporting technologies which day virtual journey around the world. CHAMPION has enrolled approximately 30,000 make telecommuting more accessible. Ferring China topped the team leader board with women from across 10 countries to compare the an impressive average of 25,000 steps per day. • F  erring Pharmaceuticals Russia was awarded the effectiveness and safety of Ferring’s medicine, heatFertility research collaboration Together, Ferring teams have walked a distance Aon Hewitt Best Employer of Russia 2017. The stable carbetocin, to oxytocin in the prevention of PPH. Ferring is a core member of ReproUnion, a equivalent to 30 circumnavigations around earth. business showed 92% levels of engagement and Our goal is to make PPH history. If positive results The 100-day Global Challenge encourages a participation rate of 97%. The Aon Global Best network of 13 clinical and research units across are secured from the trial, Ferring will seek to obtain employees to bike, walk, run, and swim to Employers’ programme recognises achievements Denmark and Sweden designed to foster research registrations and manufacture this treatment for improve overall health and wellbeing – and have that demonstrate excellence in the workplace. and clinical collaboration across disciplines and the public sector of low and lower-middle-income fun! The Challenge also offers tips on nutrition geographical borders in fertility. Central to its countries that have a high burden of maternal deaths. and a healthy mind-set. This year’s results prove philosophy is the desire to optimise the treatment This will be on a non-profit basis at an affordable the benefits, with 50% claiming to feel more of patients. By combining expertise from different and sustainable access price. In doing so, we aim productive and 70% less stressed. centres, patients can be referred to the right to play our part in supporting the UN Sustainable specialist in Sweden or in Denmark. Up to six See full project list @ Development Goal (SDG) 3: Ensure healthy lives and colleagues from our Therapeutic and Clinical ferringresponsibility.com promote wellbeing for all at all ages. 22 23 Business Ethics The business of ensuring we consistently develop, Section Two – Our Pillars manufacture, market and deliver safe therapies to patients in a responsible way worldwide is a complex one. Firstly, we have a legal responsibility to be compliant wherever we work around the world. Beyond our legal duties we also have a duty Introduction Business Ethics of care to everyone whose lives we touch in that process – from colleagues in the labs and factories Objective Conduct Good business ethics is at the heart of being a good corporate citizen. To through to doctors and patients around the world. ourselves ethically reinforce this, we recently moved responsibility for CSR into the Global Ethics As a company with a global footprint, we need to be sensitive to cultural norms and practices wherever & Privacy Office. There’s always work to be done to raise awareness, train and in the market place we operate. We believe in the universality of core empower people to do the right thing – ethical dilemmas are part of everyday ethics and principles enshrined in the UN Global business, and it is our job to enable colleagues to navigate these, and to support Compact – specifically on labour & human rights, them in cases where they can’t do this alone. transparency and anti-corruption. Our Progress Selection of our initiatives Policies and practices BI-ANNUALLY Ethics Awards 2017 The Global Ethics Office is the guardian of business ethics for Ferring. Our Global Ethics Officer reports The purpose of the Global Ethics Awards is to directly to the Group General Counsel and the Ethics engage and raise awareness on the values of and Compliance Board Committee, itself the custodian the Ferring Philosophy. Employees are invited to of Ferring’s commitment to integrity, corporate ethics submit their best ideas for what “People come and compliance. The core Ethics team is supported first at Ferring” means to them, using any creative by a global network of Ethics Ambassadors at local means they choose. The awards are an example of country level, who together aim to ensure that a cross-functional collaboration and teamwork. The culture of ethics is shared and fostered amongst both Global Ethics team was supported by Corporate new Ferring employees and senior managers alike. Communications and Ethics Coordinators, our local representatives for in-country efforts. A senior This approach rests on a core set of policies and executive panel selected the final winner – which guidelines in our Business Ethics Training Responsibilities ONGOING this year was China – whose team submitted an Standard Operating Procedures (SOP), which are Managers Ethics training engaging video explaining why ethics was essential updated regularly to stay on top of emerging issues. This to doing good business at Ferring. Training on business ethics is an SOP is rooted in the Ferring Philosophy, the cornerstone of our approach. Our policies and guidelines are 200 ongoing commitment at Ferring. IN PROGRESS Supplier Conduct Principles supported by a range of engagement tools such as the colleagues Our managers’ training is designed Ferring AlertLine and the Ethics E-Learning programme. trained to give senior colleagues the We have published our Supplier Conduct necessary tools and knowledge Principles. These are built around our commitments on how to handle common situations and ‘Our job is to create a working to the Global Compact, and focused in four areas: challenges that they might encounter in daily culture of trust and accountability operations, and to build leadership behaviours. Labour & Human Rights, Environment, Health & that we can be proud of – one that Safety, and Ethics & Anti-Corruption. We have We actively encourage participants to use started sharing these across our supplier base with supports good business ethics each other as sparring partners in challenging the aim that they should be included in every tender and the Ferring Philosophy.’ situations. The programme is facilitated by our document with our suppliers. Global Ethics team and regional management Jade L Shields, Snr which supports roll-out. This year, our training Chief Privacy Officer, Head of Business Ethics has reached approximately 100 managers from and Corporate Social Responsibility the Middle East (META) region, 60 managers See full project list @ ferringresponsibility.com (Global Data Protection Officer) from India and 40 managers from China. 24 25 Environment On environmental goals Section Two – Our Pillars • L  CA – Plans for product life-cycle assessment • C  arbon emissions – by 2017 we had (LCA) on key products. achieved a 15% absolute reduction and a reduction of 52% relative to sales against On health and safety a 2010 baseline. Our target is an absolute Introduction • O  n LTIR (Lost Time Injury Ratio) we continue Environment reduction of a further 10% by 2023 against a 2017 baseline, with plans to extend our to improve over time; our aim is to achieve the Objective Minimise our Business needs a healthy working and operating environment in order to thrive. assessment of Scope 3 emissions beyond Pharmaceutical Safety Group Benchmark by 2023 environmental Ferring’s commitments embrace both the provision of a safe and healthy working Product Supply to the rest of the business • A  continuation of EHS induction training across environment for our employees and a commitment to minimise our environmental footprint • W  ater index – we have site-based targets based on production volume and water scarcity, all Ferring sites footprint in the wider world. And in parts of the world where natural resources • E  mployee participation in health promotion with plans for a 5% improvement by 2023 are scarcer, or pollution and climate change challenges more evident, we have against a 2017 baseline programmes – e.g. the Global Challenge. a greater duty to play our part – for example, through scientific and site-based • W  aste – we apply a waste reduction hierarchy approaches to water scarcity. methodology to minimise our waste continually. Our Progress Examples of our work ONGOING Policies and practices ANNUALLY ONGOING World Environment Day Leadership through Safety® Our overall approach is one of continuous improvement against clear targets for energy, emission reduction, We celebrated World Environment Day at Ferring The Leadership Through Safety® (LTS) programme water, waste and packaging. This is supported by Headquarters to help raise awareness of the was launched to help drive an active and progressive implementation of International Organisation importance of the environment for our own transparent safety culture in Ferring across our for Standardisation (ISO) standards and audits across all wellbeing, the company and the community. A manufacturing sites. Participants are inspired to our manufacturing sites1. series of keynote speeches, seminars, exhibitions become caring leaders through a programme and and games encouraged understanding of how tools to drive sustainable change in self and team. We also seek to build a culture of training and individual actions make a difference. Teams tested A team of 16 facilitators from a range of disciplines education around environment, health and safety to e-vehicles, learnt about eco-driving, and took have been trained through a train-the-trainer raise awareness and engagement from colleagues test rides on urban, cross, and touring e-bikes. programme so that the initiative can be rolled out across our operations globally. Our Leadership Employees were also eager to learn about the across our global operations. All employees from Through Safety® (LTS) training is one example of how Swiss Polar Institute’s work on climate change Product Supply are expected to participate in the we aim to embed this culture at all levels. and air pollution, actively supported by Frederik programme over coming years. Paulsen, Chairman of Ferring. We fully endorse the three Global Compact Principles NEW EHS Velocity data management that relate to the environment: a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, initiatives to In order to enable greater transparency and promote greater environmental responsibility, and ownership of environmental, health and safety development and diffusion of environmentally friendly ‘We need to be more open about our (EHS) data, Ferring has started implementing a technologies. environmental footprint – not just data management system called EHS Velocity. in manufacturing but the rest of the This platform will provide an integrated solution to business too – for example, the impact support business operations across the Ferring of our travel. It’s important we publish Group so that we can better manage, monitor and this data and make it clear where we improve our EHS performance, ensure compliance need to improve.’ with EHS regulations, and have better analysis of relative costs and benefits. The central management Lars Peter, of EHS data will also help us report better to Executive Vice President and authorities, the UN Global Compact, ISO certification 1 ISO14001, ISO50001, ISO45001 Chief Production Officer bodies, customers and the wider public. See full project list @ ferringresponsibility.com 26 27 Community Section Two – Our Pillars Given the decentralised nature of our business, we are not overly prescriptive about which community activities our global operations should support. However, two abiding principles guide our approach: supporting local causes that are relevant to the community in question and that Introduction Community are close to employees’ own hearts; and of equal importance supporting needs in areas where we Objective Engage with and Ferring’s wellbeing is dependent on the wellbeing of the communities in have a particular expertise or skill, for example in support the which we operate. We have a longstanding history of engagement with local health, scientific education or operational logistics. communities around our factories and office sites. As we grow our business, we communities around us expect to grow our commitment to them too. Our Progress Selection of our initiatives ONGOING Policies and practices and early detection, and issued colleagues with VOLUNTEERING Children’s Network – Hungary materials to raise awareness. Aiding our efforts at a local level are our CSR Ambassadors, now nearly 20 across nearly 20 Some of our colleagues in the Hungary office, This effort reached both office and field based countries. Our Ambassadors are tasked with helping encouraged by a recently introduced volunteering colleagues, educating and sharing advice on risk, to raise awareness of our CSR efforts and lead local policy, have chosen to support the Serious Fun diagnosis and treatment options. community engagement efforts in their markets. We Camps for children suffering with serious or know we have more to do to empower and engage chronic IBD or oncological conditions. The camp Community Day – Belgium VOLUNTEERING our Ambassadors, and look forward to creating more (Bátor Tábor in Hungarian) organises therapeutic opportunities for their involvement in 2018. recreation camps for children and their families, Following successful initiation of a Ferring as well as for families who have lost a child to Community Day in 2015, we built on our success To date, we encourage individual countries to shape severe illness. The camp is designed to help and in Belgium by identifying two local organisations we their own community engagement efforts; countries support the children to become more resilient could support through volunteering. Ferrng Belgium such as the US and Belgium have led the way and able to cope. Three employees have spent employees (24 out of 27) contributed a day of their with their annual Ferring Community Days which a total of 10 days in the camp over the year, time to Steunpunt Welzijn, a local initiative focused encourage a full day of team volunteering. We intend volunteering their efforts and support. They too, on social integration, and Centrum Therapeutisch to introduce Volunteering Guidelines and a supporting have gained an important understanding of the Paardrijden, a charity that specialises in equine framework for local affiliates which will facilitate a more daily challenges to the children and their families. assisted therapy for children. Each employee was systematic roll-out of volunteering across the business. deployed to tasks where they could best contribute Cancer Awareness – US AWARENESS – everything from IT support, through to advice on market outreach and cleaning out stables. ‘Our CSR Committee strives to ensure Colorectal cancer can be fatal if it remains that the Ferring philosophy and our CSR undetected. To boost awareness of this disease RESEARCH pillars are evident in everything we do. Support for Prematurity and encourage better understanding of the risk Engagement with the local community factors – many of them lifestyle and diet related, Ferring has committed $10 million over 5 years to not only improves our team-building the GI team in Parsippany kicked off Colorectal support the network of March of Dimes Prematurity skills, but also ensures we put the spirit Cancer Awareness Month with activities in Research Centres in the US, including funding for support of Colon Cancer Alliance’s Dress in the new European-based centre. A multi-disciplinary of the Ferring Philosophy into practice.’ Blue Day™. The team organised a desk drop of approach, this support will help build a capacity Samantha Pozzebon, important colorectal cancer facts to promote the for first-class research focused on preventing birth See full project list @ CSR Committee, Ferring Canada importance of colonoscopy screening, prevention defects, premature birth and infant mortality. ferringresponsibility.com 28 29 Engage and Learn (internal and external) • S  upport development and delivery of training modules for key parts of the business at all levels: e.g. CSR Ambassadors network, Inductions, management training etc. Section Two – The road ahead • Initiate and support Product Supply team work and training on the Supplier Guidelines so that these can be more effectively rolled out into our supply chain. • C  ontinue to engage our stakeholders in order to inform our journey and help build a purposeful direction for CSR at Ferring. • F  oster a more entrepreneurial approach to CSR in the business to enable ideas and activities – e.g. more active participation in I am privileged to have been asked to UN Global Compact chapters, newsletters to take on the job of directing the next inform and stimulate discussion. stage of Ferring’s CSR journey. Communicate and Measure It is a journey that started, and has been sustained, by many committed colleagues around • D  evelop our own set of metrics and Key the world before me. With their continued support Performance Indicators (KPIs) to meaningfully and energy, I look forward to playing my part. measure progress both internally and against the UN Global Compact Principles. We will Building on the foundations we have, we will start this process by assessing our existing continue to build a strategy over the coming KPIs and benchmarking ourselves against year that is aligned with our Philosophy and new best practice. Mission Statement, as well as supportive of our decentralised business approach. The road ahead We remain steadfast in our commitment to CSR We will work to: and to putting meaningful measures in place. In doing so, we hope to both learn by doing and Support and develop existing CSR learn from others, so that we can deliver on our programmes promise: to make a difference to people’s health • C  onsolidate, support and build on current and quality of life, today and tomorrow. global and local activities e.g. CHAMPION, March of Dimes. Yours Sincerely, • E  nable initiatives that align to global objectives – such as unmet needs in reproductive health, ethical supply chains and reducing our environmental impacts (e.g. plans to introduce solar power into our India operations). Jade L Shields, Snr Strengthen Governance Chief Privacy Officer, • Build integrated CSR governance and profile to Head of Business Ethics and align with the business, embedding CSR into Corporate Social Responsibility organisational team meeting agendas. (Global Data Protection Officer) • A  strengthened Taskforce, Advisory Group and CSR Ambassador teams, with responsibilities that will best support this process. 30 31 Corporate Social Responsibility 2017 Review Ferring Corporate Social Responsibility www.ferring.com #ProjectFamily Printed onto 100% post-consumer recycled paper. This product is carbon balanced.
