2018 RESPONSIBILITY REPORT TRAFIGURA GROUP PTE. LTD. Performance Indicators Average number Employees trained Employees trained of employees1 on anti-bribery and corruption on anti-money laundering 5,591 995 989 2018 5,591 2018 995 2018 989 2017 4,857 2017 570 2017 565 2016 5,033 2016 502 2016 528 Health and safety Fatalities incidents reported Lost-time incidents Lost-time injury rate 4 495 64 2.40 2018 4 2018 495 2018 64 2018 2.40 2017 2 2017 423 2017 104 2017 3.62 2016 2 2016 469 2016 118 2016 4.58 Volume of oil spills Environmental Scope 1 and Scope 2 in litres incidents reported greenhouse gas emissions 4,725l 146 472,161tco e 2 2018 4,725 2018 146 2018 472,161 2017 43,351 2017 115 2017 356,721 2016 87 2016 293,220 Aggregate first purchases from Aggregate first purchases from NOCs in EITI countries in 2017 NOCs in non-EITI countries in 2017 Know Your Counterparty checks $2.7bn $30.0bn 6,475 2017 2.7 2017 30.0 2018 6,475 2016 1.1 2016 20.1 2017 5,975 2015 0.9 2015 12.7 2016 6,037 1. Employee numbers include assets where Trafigura retains management control, e.g. MATSA (Spain), Porto Sudeste (Brazil) and the Mawson West mine (DRC). Such assets are deconsolidated from Trafigura’s balance sheet and as such the average number of employees reported will vary between the Responsibility Report and Trafigura’s Annual Report. Trafigura Group Pte. Ltd. and the companies in which it directly or indirectly owns investments in are separate and distinct entities. In this publication, the collective expressions ‘Trafigura’, ‘Trafigura Group’, ‘the Company’ and ‘the Group’ may be used for convenience where reference is made in general to those companies. Likewise, the words ‘we’, ‘us’, ‘our’ and ‘ourselves’ are used in some places to refer to the companies of the Trafigura Group in general. These expressions are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying any particular company or companies. Cover: Field Services Supervisor, Midland, Texas, US Global trade brings the world closer together. It expands the wealth of nations, forges common interests and builds mutual trust. Trafigura makes trade happen. And we make it our mission to do that responsibly. We deploy infrastructure, skills and our global network to move physical commodities from places they are plentiful to where they are most needed. We have been connecting our customers to the global economy for a quarter of a century. We grow prosperity by advancing trade. To learn more about the structure of the Trafigura Group, turn to page 50. Alternatively find out more at: www.trafigura.com Contents Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations 02 Statement from the Executive 04 Our approach 10 Compliance Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 05 Our governance 14 Society 06 Responsibility framework 22 External voice: OECD and Pact – The importance of supporting ASM 07 Mapping what matters 26 Health and Safety 08 Engagement and transparency 34 Environment 09 External voice: Rabobank – Insights from a leader in sustainability-oriented banking 40 External voice: Smart Freight Centre – Understanding and minimising emissions from global freight and logistics 42 Our people 48 Trafigura Foundation 50 Trafigura at a glance 51 What we do For more information on the way we manage corporate responsibility, including videos and case studies, please visit www.trafigura.com/2018RR Throughout the Report, further details on a particular topic or case study can be found online by clicking on either of these icons. 2 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Statement from the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Trading responsibly “It is our declared intent within the Trafigura Group to take a leading role in corporate responsibility appropriate to our position as one of the world’s largest independent traders.” I am pleased to present Trafigura Group’s 2018 Responsibility Report. We believe this material demonstrates that responsible business This annual compendium of non-financial reporting on our business practices and policies are both integral to our strategy and embedded complements our Annual Report, which is published each December in our day-to-day operations. I would add that we see our overall and includes our audited financial statements. business mission itself as being responsible. It entails advancing This Responsibility Report is our fourth. Like its predecessors, it trade by tackling inefficiencies in the global commodities supply records progress in meeting the commitments we have made to chain and thus delivering value for producers and consumers. operate a responsible business. It also addresses challenges we have In turn, that involves performing due diligence on those with whom encountered in doing so. we choose to do business. It means assessing actual or potential It is our declared intent within the Trafigura Group to take a leading role impacts of our business on human rights and the environment. in corporate responsibility appropriate to our position as one of It also means ensuring we maintain an understanding of how the world’s largest independent traders of oil, refined products, regulations and markets are changing and what we need to do to non-ferrous metals and bulk minerals. stay abreast or ahead of these changes. As we grow our business, we We believe this underpins our ability to operate as a multinational are seeking to do the right thing by our stakeholders. business and it also supports our commercial objectives. Our I would like to highlight several areas that are the subject of more customers and our financial partners expect us to act transparently detailed reporting in the pages that follow. and responsibly. Doing so is vital to maintaining our reputation, Regrettably, we experienced four fatalities associated with our which is ever more important to business success in today’s world. operations in 2018. We continue to invest in improving safety Two years ago, Trafigura adopted a new Responsibility Policy and practices but still have work to do in meeting our objectives. accompanying Business Principles. This report provides a detailed Performance on injury frequency rates in our operations continues update on our performance against these goals and a series of to improve and we are making progress in managing the extensive practical case studies from around the world. network of contractors that we rely on to conduct our business. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 3 One of 39 crude oil and product tankers currently on order that will contribute to the use of a more modern fleet with lower emissions We continue to lead the industry in transparency by reporting our methods of transportation and more transparently and responsibly payments to National Oil Companies for purchases of oil and gas. sourced materials. In addition we have improved our environmental disclosure by Last but not least, we remain vigilant and proactive with regard to more accurately measuring greenhouse gas emissions from all our compliance in all areas of our business, not least in the application activities, and have taken steps to define a Climate Change Strategy of economic sanctions. to manage the emissions intensity of our business. Our approach is characterised by engagement and transparency, Responsible sourcing of cobalt, a vital component in the lithiumon the basis that this offers the most effective path to winning and ion batteries that power electric vehicles, is an important focus for maintaining public trust. Our counterparts in business, government consumers, battery makers and technology companies alike. In this and finance tell us that they recognise and welcome these efforts, report we describe our responsible sourcing initiatives. which will encourage us to maintain and intensify them over the As a founder member of the World Economic Forum’s Global Battery coming year. Alliance, we are also working with others in the battery supply chain to establish and disseminate best practice. Jeremy Weir Our broad exposure to the resources industry makes us acutely Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer aware of the significant changes afoot as a result of technological innovation and of the world’s ongoing transition to a lower-carbon economy. Trafigura has been active during 2018 in promoting the notion of a ‘commodities transition’ over the coming years and decades that will have radical effects, not just on the energy business but also on other commodities sectors, including metals and minerals. We are positioning our business to support this gradual transition towards cleaner, more efficient fuels, more sustainable 4 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Our Responsibility Strategy Responsible business practices and policies are integral to our strategy and are embedded in our day-to-day operations. Our approach Trafigura measures its performance against responsibility objectives in five key areas. 1. Compliance (pp10–13) 3. Health and safety (pp28–35) OBJECTIVE: To ensure that our employees operate in compliance OBJECTIVE: To perform our operations safely and to reduce and with our Code of Business Conduct and that activities are manage risk. compliant with all laws and regulations as applicable. Our Health, Safety, Environment and Communities (HSEC) Steering We maintain a comprehensive programme of Know Your Committee (see next page) is mandated by the Board of Directors Counterparty (KYC) checks and compliance training. In 2018, we to provide guidance and monitor its implementation across our continued our engagement with regulators on key issues relating to operations. the commodities trading sector. Safety in our operations remains a key priority. However, in 2018 we did not meet our goal of zero fatalities. We are saddened to 2. Society (pp14–25) report four fatalities associated with our operations during the year. OBJECTIVE: To increase positive impacts on communities This report explains what is being done to achieve the target at the while working to avoid negative social, environmental and earliest possible opportunity. economic impacts. In other respects, we are making good progress, with a reduction In 2018, we maintained our programme of reporting payments to in the lost-time injury rate (LTIR), improved incident and nearNational Oil Companies (NOCs) for the purchase of oil and gas miss reporting, and other steps to strengthen our management of under the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI). operational risk. We enhanced our Responsible Sourcing programme, first piloted in 4. Environment (pp34–41) 2017, to address the potential for adverse social or environmental impacts associated with mineral extraction. The programme is OBJECTIVE: To minimise adverse impacts on the natural cognizant of the OECD Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of environment and respond to the effects of climate change. Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. The initial We achieved our target of zero major environmental incidents focus here, described in detail on pp18-22, has been to conduct and we report good progress in setting minimum expectations for assessments of suppliers that either operate in high-risk geographies managing operations deemed to carry higher environmental risks. or supply Trafigura with high-risk products, such as cobalt. The The Group also adopted and started to implement a Climate Change programme was also extended to support our counterparties to Strategy aimed at managing greenhouse emissions within our scope enable them to address impacts associated with mineral extraction. of responsibility, with a particular focus on reducing the carbon intensity of our shipping operations. 5. Engagement and transparency OBJECTIVE: To develop relationships with our stakeholders, promote transparency and report on our performance. Stakeholder engagement is central to our approach in all the above areas and has been instrumental in our ongoing work to define and refine salient issues in our Responsibility Strategy (p07). We commissioned a survey with a number of our lenders and investors to seek their opinions on our external reporting. These consultations provided an overall validation of our approach and encouraged the inclusion of more data where possible, and more real-life case studies to reflect and reinforce our progress. In this report we also take the first steps towards mapping our activities against the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (p08). Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 5 Our governance Trafigura’s Corporate Responsibility Policy and Business Principles, along with our Code of Business Conduct, articulate our approach to corporate responsibility. Our governance structure aims to ensure that each of these policies is implemented consistently across our organisation. Board of Directors Management Committee HSEC Steering Compliance Operational Climate Change Committee Committee * Risk Group Group ** 2018 Initiatives 2018 Initiatives The HSEC Steering Committee met four times in 2018 and The Operational Risk Group (ORG) was formed by Trafigura’s considered the following: Trading Division. The intent is to continuously improve our •• Review of significant incidents: A standing agenda item to operations by making sure that traders and operators are ensure that sufficient and appropriate action is being taken correctly inducted into the company that they understand to remedy a given situation and to prevent recurrence. the risks, that procedures are clear and that we learn from our experiences. The ORG has met seven times since it was •• HSEC key performance indicators: At the final meeting established in November 2017 and the following initiatives have of the financial year, the HSEC key performance indicators been taken: (KPIs) for the forthcoming year were set. The Steering Committee will monitor performance against these KPIs and •• Launch of the Lessons to be Learnt (L2BL) process across the propose action to address any deficiencies throughout the Operations function within Trafigura’s Trading Division to coming year. encourage the sharing of lessons learned from incidents and near misses, in order to prevent recurrence. •• HSEC assurance: In line with the Group HSEC assurance framework, the Steering Committee approved a three-year •• Setting further minimum HSEC expectations for contractors ‘Category 1’ Group-led assurance review schedule, assessing involved in high-risk activities and continuing the roll-out owned and operational locations and activities deemed and implementation of those established previously. to be ‘high risk’ from an HSEC perspective. Four reviews •• Enhancements to and publication of a comprehensive were carried out in 2018 and the findings were presented to Vessel Vetting Guidance document in conjunction with our the Committee. Shipping and Chartering team that formalises the Group’s •• Climate Change Strategy: The Committee reviewed and vessel screening and selection process. approved the Group’s Climate Change Strategy prior to it •• Implementation of an emergency response preparedness being sent to the Management Committee for ratification. exercise. At the ORG’s request, an exercise was held in July to Among other initiatives reviewed and approved: test the Emergency Response Team’s ability to respond to a serious oil spill (p47). •• A new process for verifying the safety of airlines. •• A process for contracting security guards in alignment with the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. •• Guidance documents on the safe securing of loads to trucks (such as copper cathodes and blisters). •• Guidance documents on the inspection of mooring lines for vessels. * For more information on the Compliance Committee, see page 12 ** For more information on the newly formed Climate Change Group, see page 37 6 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Responsibility framework In order to embed responsible business practices in our day-to-day operations, our policies need to be put into practice in a consistent and coherent way. To this end, we have developed a comprehensive framework that translates our commitment to responsible business into practical activities that guide our operations. Compliance Health, Safety, Environment & Communities (HSEC) Corporate Responsibility Commitments We shall conduct We shall operate a systematic approach to the management of risks to people and the environment associated with our operations business within and in our selection of suppliers and contracting partners. applicable laws We will seek to earn and maintain a social licence to operate. and regulations. We will seek to provide our partners with assurance that we operate to high standards. Policies Code of HSEC Business Principles: (Health and Safety, Human Corporate Responsibility Policy, Transparency Policy, Business Rights and Labour Practices, Community Relations, Responsible Sourcing and Supply Chain Expectations Conduct Environment) Governance Compliance HSEC Steering Committee, Climate Change Group, Operational Risk Group Committee Approach Money Health and Environment Communities Engagement Transparency Responsible laundering Safety To minimise any To increase To develop strong To promote sourcing Sanctions and To perform our adverse impacts positive impacts and enduring transparency and To identify and trade operations safely on the natural on communities relationships with report openly on mitigate salient restrictions and to reduce and environment and while working our stakeholders. our performance social and manage risk. respond to the to avoid actual in pursuit of environmental Bribery and effects of climate and potential advancing trade risks in our supply corruption change. negative social, responsibly. chain. Anti-trust and environmental and competition law economic impacts. compliance Market behaviour Assurance Know Your HSEC Assurance programme Responsible sourcing Counterparty due diligence programme Checks Public Annual Financial Report, Responsibility Report, Carbon Disclosure Project Report, disclosures EITI disclosures, Regulatory transaction reporting Memberships United Nations Global Compact , World Economic Forum International Oil Spill Global Business Initiative Extractive Global Battery Swaps and Response Ltd on Human Rights Industries Alliance Derivatives Transparency Global OECD Association Initiative Maritime Forum MultiFutures Stakeholder Industry Group Association Commodities Markets Council Europe www.trafigura.com/responsibility Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 7 Mapping what matters In order to support our Responsibility Framework, Trafigura identifies and assesses actual and potential adverse impacts with which the Group could be involved, either through our own activities or as a result of our business relationships. This process, reviewed annually, draws on expertise within the Group and involves extensive consultation with potentially affected groups and other relevant stakeholders. Source Store Blend Deliver Business relationships: Trafigura has relationships with multiple entities in its value chain linked to its operations, products or services. Direct relationships – where Trafigura has control Majority-owned mines Transportation by Group-owned and Group-owned oil storage (e.g. by Trafigura Trading) and metals and minerals operated transport assets, e.g. vessels (e.g. by Trafigura Mining Group). warehousing (e.g. by Impala Terminals). and barges. Oil storage on Group-owned vessels. Indirect relationships – where Trafigura doesn’t have control but engages with its counterparties State-owned oil producers, refiners Third-party-owned oil storage (including Puma Energy) and metals and minerals Transportation by state-owned rail and marketers. storage leased in part or in full on a shortor long-term basis. network and pipeline providers. Oil storage on third-party-owned vessels Transportation by third-party-owned Multinational and regional oil producers, leased in part or in full on a time-charter rail, vessels, barges, trucks and pipelines refiners and traders. or voyage-charter basis. leased on a shortor long-term basis. Trafigura Group minority-owned refiners. Oil and petroleum product consumers State-owned mining companies, smelters (e.g. refiners, power generators, shipping and marketers. industry, aviation companies, petrochemical industry, major Multinational, regional and small-scale manufacturers and fuel retailers). mining companies, smelters and traders. Metals and minerals consumers (e.g. galvanisers, alloy producers, mills and Minority-owned mines and smelters. fabricators, construction and automotive sectors, aerospace and utilities). Salient issues: Example issues that could be faced by a commodity trader such as Trafigura directly or indirectly, e.g. via our business relationships. Payments to governments Nuisance smells Dust exposure Security Community consent Seafarers’ rights Access to grievance mechanisms Responsible sourcing Vapour capture Unsafe conditions Oil storage Transportation safety Dry cargo liquefaction Union recognition Pollution prevention Impact of product Climate change Bribery and corruption www.trafigura.com/responsibility 8 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Engagement and transparency As part of our effort to enhance dialogue with our stakeholders, we publish annual reports that, as well as accounting for financial performance, include comprehensive commentary on our trading and business activities. This is supplemented by an extensive online case study archive. We publish non-financial and sustainability metrics in our annual Responsibility Report. In this, our fourth Report, we have published more detailed data compared to previous reports. In publications such as ‘Commodities Demystified’ and ‘The Economics of Commodity Trading Firms’ we explain our role in global trade. We engage in topical debates as active participants in industry forums and by publishing white papers and opinion pieces on matters of public concern. As well as participating in hundreds of meetings across the globe and answering hundreds of enquiries from the media and public every year, we commission surveys and run multi-stakeholder forums globally to elicit responses from our employees, external stakeholders and civil society. www.trafigura.com/research Engaging with external stakeholders How Trafigura contributes to the Sustainable Development Goals Multi-stakeholder forums are an integral part of Trafigura’s By advancing trade responsibly, Trafigura contributes to meeting approach to transparency. These extended meetings provide the the UN Sustainable Development Goals or SDGs. We do this opportunity to engage at length with stakeholders. The more in a number of ways: through the taxes we pay, our trading we understand what our stakeholders regard as important, the activities, the assets we own, our influence on counterparties more accurately we can identify and prioritise salient issues. and through the activities of the Trafigura Foundation. In 2018 Trafigura hosted a multi-stakeholder forum (MSF) Global trade is a precondition for prosperity. By enabling the in Singapore. Senior representatives from government, efficient flow of commodities from one place to another, multilateral financial institutions, non-governmental traders contribute towards the fight against poverty (SDG 1) organisations, counterparts, banks and investors attended and the goal of ending hunger (SDG 2). along with key personnel from Trafigura. As a payer of taxes and royalties in many developing Previous MSFs have been held in Geneva in 2016 and in countries, Trafigura channels resources to governments Barrancabermeja (Colombia) and Johannesburg in 2017. On each which they in turn use to fight poverty, end hunger and occasion, we have aired topical issues with particular resonance stimulate development. at the selected location. In Singapore, international sanctions, Through our commitment to operate in accordance with responsible sourcing and responsible logistics emerged as core our Corporate Responsibility Policy and supporting Business discussion themes. Principles, we contribute to decent work and economic growth We will continue to host these meetings on a regular basis. (SDG 8). As a physical trading company, we operate mines, storage www.trafigura.com/2018RR-case-studies terminals and ports, and also manage complex logistics routes. It is through such infrastructure that we promote inclusive and sustainable industrialisation (SDG 9). Through our efforts to support the responsible procurement of commodities, many of which are essential in driving the green revolution, we encourage sustainable production patterns and facilitate efforts to combat climate change (SDG 12 and 13) Lastly, it is through our business relationships and our commitments to those around us that we strengthen the means of implementation and revitalise the global partnership for sustainable development (SDG 17). Singapore multi-stakeholder forum Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 9 External voice: Rabobank – Insights from a leader in sustainability-oriented banking Rabobank, one of Trafigura’s top ten lenders, shares its perspective on what soft and hard commodity traders can learn from each other in pursuit of corporate responsibility. The world faces a global food crisis. Rabobank, a Dutch multinational More sustainable livelihoods banking and financial services company, seeks to play a significant The Indonesian government’s Plasma Transmigration Programme role in ensuring food security for current and future generations. is offering inhabitants of rural and remote areas two-hectare palm The agricultural sector needs support from adjacent sectors if we tree plantation smallholdings, along with land for housing and are to build a future-proof and equitable food system. We can only growing their own food. The smallholders sell their produce to the deliver the food, energy and materials the world needs without companies at a price set by the government. In return, palm-oil increased climate change risks in a low-carbon, circular economy. sourcing companies provide guidance on developing the plantations Rabobank is supporting clients in their transition to more in environmentally and economically sustainable ways. They also sustainable supply chains. It partners with them to advance the help arrange bank loans and assist with debt repayments. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and deliver impact Sourcing sustainably produced products via where it matters most. cooperatives With that partnering comes the opportunity to share knowledge Traders are sourcing coffee and cocoa from farmers’ cooperatives from one sector with clients in other commodity sectors. For in Southeast Asia, Latin America and Africa. Cooperative members example, traders in agricultural sectors, such as palm oil, coffee benefit by being part of a strong sales organisation with a sound and cocoa, deal with a large number of small-scale farmers, while financial structure that supports the supply of sustainable, hightraders in metals and minerals supply chains may deal with artisanal quality farm produce. Traders share their knowledge about good miners. Both suppliers come mainly from disadvantaged local agricultural practices and sustainability standards. The Rabobank communities and lack the knowledge or financial means to manage Foundation provides working capital and finance for many such their activities sustainably. projects. Controversially, traders may also be associated with illegal deforestation, area pollution and human rights violations. This Sustainable production programmes poses a huge risk for trading companies that source commodities An international sugar trader has joined forces with a sustainability from small-scale farmers or miners. To manage that, traders such as consultancy to develop a sustainable sugar programme. This Trafigura should engage in a responsible way that promotes a more provides a flexible pathway to increased sustainability, tailored to sustainable approach. each participant’s pace and ability. The programme leverages the In recent years, agricultural production and trading companies have trader’s commercial expertise and the consultancy’s experience of become more aware of the strategic importance of sustainable sustainable agricultural production. entrepreneurship. NGOs, investors, consumer goods companies and banks want more transparency from traders about their supplier Big-data technology solutions relationships. In response, traders have put considerable effort into An increasing number of soft commodity trading companies providing technical assistance and guidance to small-scale farmers. are applying big data and blockchain technologies to establish field-to-fork digital solutions. Often smartphone based, these Agri-commodity traders have developed a number of different systems facilitate the tracking of sustainably-produced agricultural approaches to improving supply-chain sustainability, including: commodities and measure the environmental footprint of farmers. •• Supporting small-scale farmers in achieving more Rabobank fully supports commodity trading company initiatives that sustainable livelihoods; promote prosperity across the supply chain on three fundamental •• Organising sourcing of sustainable agricultural products criteria: people, planet and profit. The task now is to adapt these via producer-cooperatives; approaches for traders in other commodity supply chains to help •• Sustainable production programmes; develop future-proof livelihoods for the whole supply chain. Rabobank •• Sourcing and information-sharing solutions based on seeks to pool knowledge and forge networks with companies that big-data technology. share its ambition for a food-secured, low-carbon economy. Richard Piechocki, Head of Sustainability Trade and Commodity Finance, Rabobank www.trafigura.com/external-voices 10 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 11 Compliance Trafigura’s business is conducted within national and international laws and regulations. Wherever we operate, we aim to ensure our conduct is in line with applicable and relevant internationally recognised standards. Our performance •• 570 new-start, office-based Trafigura employees trained on our Code of Business Conduct. •• Anti-money laundering training delivered to over 989 staff members in 41 locations. •• Anti-bribery and corruption training delivered to over 995 staff members in 41 locations. •• 3,976 vessels screened by IMO number to mitigate risk associated with the reflagging of vessels by sanctioned countries, entities or individuals. 6,475 989 Know Your Counterparty checks Anti-money laundering training carried out in 2018 sessions delivered in 2018 (2017: 5,975) (2017: 565) 570 995 New start, office-based Anti-bribery and corruption employees trained on Code of training sessions delivered in 2018 Business Conduct in 2018 (2017: 570) (2017: 680) 2018 Priorities Progress Due diligence To continue to develop our Know Your Counterparty (KYC) programme by introducing efficiencies, improving intelligence and maintaining comprehensive coverage. Training To continue to develop and extend training on key risk areas to all staff members across all Group companies. Regulatory engagement To work with regulators on key issues for the commodities trading sector. Stakeholder engagement To engage with a wide range of stakeholders in depth. To contribute to the debate on compliant business conduct in international forums, on industry bodies and with trading partners. Not achieved Improving Achieved 12 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Our approach Compliance activities Trafigura’s Compliance department oversees Group activities. It Financial markets compliance operates in partnership with front-office functions to ensure our Trafigura accesses both exchange-traded and over-the-counter controls are relevant and robust. Trafigura’s Head of Compliance (OTC) derivative markets to manage the risks associated with our reports directly to the Group’s Chief Operating Officer. The Group’s physical market activities. As such, we are required to meet differing Compliance Committee meets twice a year. rules and requirements at various exchanges. We aim to maintain a responsible compliance culture where all staff We have put various controls and systems in place to meet recognise both personal and collective responsibility. We expect regulatory and exchange rules. We comply with relevant licensing high standards of behaviour from our people. rules; we apply both exchange-set as well as regulatory-compliant Principles of sound business conduct position limits and report derivative transactions as required. Every member of staff signs our Code of Business Conduct (the We monitor and manage our compliance with numerous regulatory Code). The Code sets out expected behaviours in all our business regimes that impact on our global business. This year, Trafigura activities. All management teams are charged with promoting successfully implemented the relevant requirements of the EU’s these behaviours amongst our employees. They are supported by revised Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II) by our Compliance, Legal, Human Resources and Corporate Affairs the January 2018 deadline. MiFID II aims to ‘improve oversight and departments. transparency of derivative markets’. We have updated our systems and processes to ensure we meet all relevant new provisions. Four key principles inform our approach: Regulatory reporting for derivatives and other instruments is constantly evolving. We allocate significant resources to the 1 Integrity development of systems that can facilitate transactions seamlessly across multiple jurisdictions. 2 Care and diligence Commercial compliance Best practice Commercial compliance centres on the application of Trafigura’s 3 CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT Code. During 2018, Trafigura updated the Code to ensure its continued relevance and relaunched it to staff. 4 Management and control All employees are bound by the Code, which encompasses: •• Anti-money laundering; •• Know Your Counterparty due diligence (KYC); •• Anti-trust and competition law; •• Sanctions and trade restrictions; •• Anti-bribery and corruption; www.trafigura.com/compliance •• Gifts, hospitality and entertainment; •• Political contributions and charitable donations; •• Reporting violations and grievance procedures. Anti-competitive practices Our people operate in many different jurisdictions and often interact with competitors. We provide detailed guidance on how to adhere to relevant competition law principles and what they should do to prevent the exchange of commercially sensitive information. Sanctions and trade restrictions As a company operating globally, compliance with applicable economic and trade sanctions is a legal requirement. Trafigura is compliant with all applicable sanctions. In a sometimes shifting sanctions landscape, we ensure we remain compliant by paying close attention to developing policy. During 2018, the US administration introduced several significant changes to existing sanctions regimes, targeting Iran, Russia and Venezuela in particular. The Compliance department works closely with the Legal team to track the introduction and evolution of sanctions, to raise questions where clarity is required and to ensure that we have correctly understood and applied the rules. Monitoring developing issues Trafigura seeks not just to keep pace with, but also to anticipate changing regulatory conditions. We maintain relationships with advisors in various jurisdictions to monitor developments that may impact our business. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 13 Employees at the Trafigura Singapore office Developing our KYC programme Broader and deeper stakeholder engagement Anti-money laundering The banking community is a key stakeholder group. We invest significant time in explaining and documenting our compliance An important element of our KYC and screening procedures is to systems and processes. Over the course of 2018, our Compliance highlight prospective counterparties that might pose any risk of department met with over 20 leading banks across the world’s implicating our business in money laundering. We have implemented financial centres. a range of measures to raise awareness internally. Mandatory online training gives employees a detailed understanding of the issue. We engage with regulators to participate in the development of appropriate regulations for our industry. We are also present on Counterparty due diligence industry advisory bodies, such as the International Swaps and Trafigura has been strengthening its KYC methodology. We screen Derivatives Association (ISDA), the Futures Industry Association counterparties using ‘Thomson Reuters Accelus’ enterprise risk (FIA) and the Commodity Markets Council Europe (CMCE). management software. We continually monitor the changing status of people and organisations to keep our KYC methodology up to date. We receive daily updates from Thomson Reuters World-Check on the evolving status of all counterparties. 2019 priorities and commitments Trafigura continues to apply the principles set by the Joint Money We are committed to continuously strengthening our Laundering Steering Group (JMLSG). JMLSG is widely seen as foundations for appropriate business conduct. embodying global industry best practice. Our KYC procedures delivered over 6,475 KYC checks during 2018 (2017: 5,975 checks). Commitment To continue to develop our KYC programme. Anti-bribery and corruption To develop and extend training on key risk areas to all staff members Market conduct across all Group companies. The Compliance department has rolled out a face-to-face global To enhance coverage and depth of stakeholder engagement, particularly training programme addressing key market conduct issues. amongst the financial community. We have continued to refine TradingHub’s Market Abuse To work with regulators regarding key issues relating to the commodities Surveillance Tool (MAST) to monitor for suspicious trading activity. trading sector. By customising MAST applications we can track our own trading activities using consolidated data from multiple sources. We have To engage actively with international forums, industry bodies and put a structured programme in place to monitor and analyse trading partners on ethical business conduct. outputs and, as needed, escalate our responses. 14 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Lubumbashi, the Democratic Republic of the Congo Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 15 Society We strive to promote closer links with communities and drive greater levels of transparency locally and internationally. Performance •• Trafigura’s ‘Responsible Sourcing and Supply Chain Expectations’ was distributed to all suppliers of metals and/or minerals from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and Zambia. Desk-based due diligence of all suppliers and multiple site assessments were conducted. •• ‘Responsible Sourcing and Supply Chain Expectations’ was distributed to all gold suppliers worldwide. Desk-based due diligence has been initiated following the provision of training to relevant in-house trading and operations staff. •• Trafigura worked with Kumi Consulting and the NGO Pact to formalise its expectations for suppliers of material recovered via artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM). These expectations were trialled and set the basis for site assessments at the Mutoshi Pilot Project in the DRC in collaboration with Chemaf. •• In April 2018, we presented our progress on responsible sourcing at the OECD’s ‘Forum on Responsible Mineral Supply Chains’ in Paris. •• Our Head of Corporate Responsibility has been helping to frame guidelines for ethical cobalt sourcing as Co-Chair of the Cobalt Working Group for the World Economic Forum’s Global Battery Alliance (GBA). •• Trafigura continued to support the EITI-mandated multi-stakeholder working group in developing guidance on ‘first-trade’ reporting of crude oil, products and gas sales by state-owned enterprises (SOEs). $2.7bn $30.0bn Aggregate first purchases from NOCs in EITI Aggregate first purchases from NOCs in countries in 2017 non-EITI countries in 2017 (2016: USD1.1bn) (2016: USD20.1bn) 2018 Priorities Progress International best practice To support the development and execution of guidance for the application of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) to the commodities trading sector. Operational risk To monitor and respond to the ‘dirty diesel’ issue through dialogue and direct action. To deliver improvements on the handling of operational-level grievances against the Trafigura standard. Responsible sourcing To deliver refinements to Trafigura’s responsible sourcing strategy and support counterparties in mitigating risk. To work with expert third parties and other trading participants to encourage responsible artisanal and small-scale mining. Transparency To continue to support and promote EITI activities and the application of the EITI Standard to the commodities trading sector. Not achieved Improving Achieved 16 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Our approach International best practice Our activities stimulate development in local communities and Developing UNGP sector guidance national economies. We create employment, develop skills, build With the support of the Swiss government, the Institute for infrastructure and procure from local suppliers. Human Rights and Business (IHRB) published specific guidance on At the same time, we recognise that our business activities can implementing the UNGPs in the commodities trading industry in have adverse impacts. We monitor and seek to encourage our November 2018. Trafigura is supportive of the efforts of the IHRB counterparties to manage risks where we have indirect supply chain and welcomes the publication of these guidelines. impacts. We endeavour to mitigate risks by acting responsibly and Over the course of 2017 and 2018, we hosted a series of meetings by exercising diligence in appointing suppliers and contractors. with the IHRB and have contributed case studies for inclusion in Internationally, we contribute to the expanding conversation on the guidance. impacts related to the commodities trading sector, the geographies in which we trade, the business relationships that we keep, the Promoting responsible business in Switzerland products that we handle and the services that we deliver. As part of our commitment to implement the UN Global Compact (UNGC), Trafigura continued to play an active role in the Swiss branch of the UNGC Network in 2018. OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES HUMAN RIGHTS AND The company co-sponsors the UNGC ‘Tour de Suisse on Responsible LABOUR PRACTICES Business’ which, over the next four years, will seek to raise awareness and promote responsible and sustainable business practices in We recognise our responsibility to respect the rights of people involved in our operations and strive to safeguard human dignity. We comply with local labour laws and regulations. We are committed to respecting internationally recognised Switzerland by hosting multiple events across various cities. human rights. We engage constructively with relevant stakeholders on human ADVANCING rights issues associated with our business and develop adequate measures for the prevention, mitigation and, where appropriate, remediation of adverse impacts. RESPONSIBLE TRADE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY POLICY 1. We promote respect, fairness, non-discrimination, equal opportunity, training and development opportunities, and diversity within and outside our workplace. 7. We maintain appropriate internal management systems and organisational arrangements that: a. Effectively identify and respond to human rights risks of our The roadshow will highlight what the Swiss Confederation expects from companies in the fields of corporate social responsibility and activities; 2. We recognise internationally agreed human rights, including labour b. Clearly inform our business partners of our expectations with rights, as outlined in the International Bill of Human Rights and the regards to human rights; International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental c. Implement controls that ensure human rights risks are avoided or Principles and Rights at Work. We support the UN Guiding Principles mitigated to the maximum reasonable level; human rights due diligence. Each event will focus on one aspect on Business and Human Rights. d. Require the reporting and investigation of human rights abuses in line with Trafigura’s ‘Incident Reporting and Investigation 3. We support and promote the creation of decent jobs, the participation Guidelines’; of local labourers, suppliers, contractors and communities and/or the e. Keep records of identified impacts, either real or perceived, and take provision of training and development. remedial measures to avoid or mitigate their recurrence. 4. We assess actual and potential human rights impacts of our activities and business relationships and seek to: a. Avoid causing or contributing to adverse human rights impacts through our own activities, and address such impacts when they occur; 8. We will establish grievance mechanisms for individuals who may be affected adversely by our operations and will promote their access to remedy. of responsible business and showcase corporate best practice. b. Prevent or mitigate adverse human rights impacts that 9. We will engage in voluntary partnerships and initiatives to strengthen are caused by our business relationships and are directly linked to our understanding of human rights and how they interface with our activities. our business. 5. We maintain the safety and security of our people and operations 10. We will communicate on our efforts to support and respect human while ensuring respect for human rights, avoiding human rights harm rights and our evolving approach to identify and address human through our security arrangements, including through misuse of our rights risks within our business context. equipment and facilities, and take steps to avoid complicity in such abuses by private and public security personnel. 6. We maintain and support the fundamental rights at work of our employees and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ACT RESPONSIBLY THINK COMMUNITY THOSE IMPACTED BY OUR ACTIVITIES DESERVE RESPECT 10.11.2016 www.trafigura.com/compliance www.trafigura.com/compliance Chemaf’s fully mechanised Etoile mine, DRC Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 17 Operational risk Owing to the nature of our activities, it can be difficult to establish these grievance mechanisms at operational level. For instance, Group-level grievance mechanism our fluvial operation in Paraguay operates over a long stretch of We believe that every grievance must be acknowledged, logged river that passes through four countries. Lessons from our barging and managed consistently, with due respect for the complainant. operation in Colombia have been shared. During an HSEC review it In 2016, Trafigura established an anonymous 24/7 multilingual was noted that awareness of the grievance process, which is reliant telephone hotline, web reporting and email service for reporting on a freephone number, could be improved. Action is being taken to external grievances. The service is promoted and explained across communicate the system accordingly. several channels, including Trafigura’s website where it is readily accessible from the landing page. In 2018, we reopened our Mawson West mine in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). Activity associated with this operation Logging and investigating all grievances doesn’t mean that they will has the potential to impact neighbouring communities and villages all be accepted as legitimate complaints. As a point of principle, the through which vehicles travelling to and from the mine will pass. In responsibility of Trafigura to remediate grievances is limited to those order to identify any concerns early, we have established a network cases where the alleged harm/wrong was directly caused by the of Community Liaison Officers (CLOs) who are our eyes and ears operation for which Trafigura is legally responsible. in the communities. Receiving early notification of community In 2018, Trafigura received a number of grievances reported via concerns and taking action before resentment builds is an important this mechanism, typically related to alleged breaches of company part of maintaining our licence to operate. policies. While the system offers a responsive point of access to the Unfortunately, we have not been able to maintain a good business, its use (as reported in 2017) remains limited. We believe relationship with communities around our Catalina Huanca mine in this is partly due to the fact that logistics operations are typically Peru. During 2018, there were repeated blockages of access roads by carried out by third parties and as such negative impacts are not communities, which at times have prevented us operating the mine. immediately attributed to Trafigura. Dialogue remains ongoing. Operational-level grievance systems Fuel quality in some African countries As a matter of policy, we require that all major facilities operated by In our 2017 Responsibility Report, we set out our response to Trafigura have a functioning external grievance management system a campaign calling for stronger fuel standards in some African in place. Each system aims at enabling local stakeholders to have an countries. Trafigura remains ready to support the introduction of accessible and trusted process of raising concerns or complaints in lower sulphur diesel and regards this as an issue that governments relation to any activities linked to a facility, project or site where we need to reshape. have a significant presence. 18 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Responsible sourcing Affected and High-Risk Areas’ (OECD Guidance). It incorporates three Our Responsible Sourcing programme recognises the potential for sets of standards that define our specific expectations of suppliers: adverse social or environmental impacts associated with extraction, •• Metals and Minerals Responsible Sourcing and Supply Chain processing and trading commodities. It is not limited to specific Expectations; metals, minerals or geographies. •• Artisanal and Small-scale Mining (ASM) Expectations for Suppliers; In our 2017 Responsibility Report, we described the Responsible •• Business Principles for Health and Safety, Human Rights, Sourcing programme that we had developed and piloted that year Community Relations and Environment (HSEC). on our copper and cobalt business in the DRC and Zambia. We are The Responsible Sourcing programme is led by Trafigura’s Head of committed to continuing the roll-out of this programme and to Corporate Responsibility, who works closely with senior traders and report on our due diligence and risk management actions. operations managers. Our Head of HSEC provides advice and input. Management approach Delivery of programme activities is supported by retained external Trafigura’s Responsible Sourcing programme is based on the OECD’s advisors, Kumi Consulting and ERM, and by our relationship with the ‘Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflictinternational NGO, Pact. The key supply chain due diligence activities within the Responsible Sourcing programme are summarised as follows: Activities Outputs Desk-based review •• Review of publicly available information on social, human •• Initial risk evaluation rights and environmental risks/impacts (media reports, •• Tailoring of Level 1 assessment questionnaire to address NGO reports, etc.) specific identified risks, as appropriate •• Trafigura Responsible Sourcing Expectations issued with formal requirement for the supplier to agree to support Level 1 assessment •• Level 1 questionnaire issued to the supplier and required •• Risk rating and identification of priority high-risk suppliers to be completed and returned, with supporting evidence •• Information gained informs the Level 2 assessment as appropriate of prioritised suppliers •• This includes specific questions in relation to mineral origin and management of health and safety, labour practices, security provision and community relations Level 2 assessment •• Level 2 site-based assessment of prioritised suppliers; •• Supplier risk categorisation typically two days in duration and encompassing a visual •• Report on findings and recommendations for actions inspection of mineral production and processing areas, to address identified risks provided to both Trafigura interviews with management and workers, and reviews of management and the supplier relevant documentation •• Provides basis for ongoing risk mitigation and monitoring •• Level 2 Assessment Protocol guides the scope and consistency of the assessment process Risk mitigation and monitoring •• Follow-up engagement with suppliers to understand progress •• Informs the nature and scope of continued supplier made in addressing identified risks engagement including, where appropriate, follow-up site visits •• Where appropriate, provision of assistance to suppliers •• Supplier risk management recommendations made and to support risk mitigation activities performance improvements monitored Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 19 Copper and cobalt suppliers in the DRC and Zambia Although no evidence of serious abuses (such as child labour) was Building on the pilot implementation of the Responsible Sourcing identified during due diligence, some suppliers lacked the management programme in 2017, we continued to extend our risk assessment and controls to provide us with confidence that our standards would be due diligence activities across our suppliers in the DRC and Zambia. consistently upheld. We are engaging with them to elicit assurances During 2018 we: on how recommendations from the Level 2 assessment reports are •• Completed desk-based due diligence on all 24 suppliers with whom being addressed. Where appropriate, we are also offering Trafigura’s Trafigura had, or was establishing, a commercial relationship; internal toolkits and resources by way of support. •• Completed Level 1 assessments for 16 suppliers, with follow-up We have provided support to our counterparty Chemaf during assessments required for 11 suppliers; the year to assist in implementing processes to mitigate potential sourcing risks (see page 21). Our support for Chemaf’s Pilot Mutoshi •• Completed Level 2 due diligence assessments of five prioritised Project demonstrates our commitment to working with commercial higher risk suppliers; and counterparties and subject-matter experts to help mitigate risks in •• Completed four site-based independent monitoring assessments, the supply chain. including of our counterpart Chemaf’s ‘Mutoshi Pilot Project’. Gold suppliers We have now completed site-based responsible sourcing assessments Trafigura has a small but growing portfolio of business trading gold. for the majority of our copper and cobalt suppliers in the region. Effective implementation of our Responsible Sourcing programme Such reviews have proven valuable as Trafigura considers and seeks within Trafigura’s gold trading business will deliver several important to support mitigation measures undertaken by our counterparties in benefits: response to a broad range of human rights and environmental risks present within the supply chain. •• Simplifying compliance: Developing regulation in key markets is putting increased emphasis on due diligence based on the There is considerable diversity among Trafigura’s copper and international framework (OECD Guidance). This has already been cobalt suppliers in the DRC and Zambia, both in terms of the scale incorporated into Trafigura’s Responsible Sourcing programme. of suppliers’ operations and of the sophistication of management approach for responsible sourcing and social and environmental •• Complying with customer requirements: The majority of the performance. In most cases, our engagement with suppliers world’s gold refiners (>90 percent of refined gold production) are on responsible sourcing was the first time they had experienced audited annually for their compliance with standards based on in-depth enquiry on responsible sourcing issues. OECD Guidance. They require that these standards be applied across their supply chains. Our Responsible Sourcing programme identified some key challenges during the year: •• Ensuring responsibility across the value chain: Due diligence helps Trafigura determine if and where risks are in the gold •• A significant number of suppliers to Trafigura supplement supply chain so that management can take appropriate and ores from their own mining operations with supplies from timely action. third parties. In such cases we have sought to encourage our counterparties to develop comparable processes of their own to •• Strengthening relationships with counterparties: Trafigura Trafigura’s Responsible Sourcing Minimum Expectations when is supporting continued or increased market access for its assessing the operational integrity of their supply chain. counterparties’ gold production by working with them to implement processes to address risks. •• There was scope for a number of suppliers to improve their management of health, safety and environmental risks, including •• In 2018, our Responsible Sourcing programme for ensuring greater consistency in the application of supplier’s own gold included: safety rules. – Development of a responsible sourcing due diligence manual •• Road safety risks for both workers and local communities for gold, adapting the Level 1 and Level 2 assessment associated with the transportation of commodities. methodologies to relate to the specifics of gold; •• Several suppliers lacked a systematic approach for engaging with – Training on responsible sourcing for Trafigura’s gold trading team; local communities or for consistently monitoring any potential – Desk-based due diligence for all 15 active gold suppliers; impacts from their operations on local communities. – 8 Level 1 assessments were conducted and follow-up sought During 2018, our responsible sourcing due diligence activities as required. classified five suppliers as ‘High Risk – Close Monitoring’ following One of our priorities for 2019 will include Level 2 site-based on-site assessment. None were disengaged. assessments of identified high-risk gold suppliers. 20 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Stakeholder engagement We are continually engaging with internal stakeholders on the Documenting ASM Expectations Responsible Sourcing programme, particularly with traders and Based on Trafigura’s standards for non-ASM suppliers, our ASM senior management. We have discussed our efforts in numerous Expectations refer to and align with a suite of internationally bilateral meetings with banks, downstream customers, the London recognised standards, including but not limited to OECD Annex Metal Exchange, as well as with members of the DRC’s Lualaba II, OECD Practical Actions on Child Labour and the CRAFT Code. Provincial Government, and will continue to do so. The Expectations were developed for suppliers of any ASMIn April 2018, we presented our progress on responsible sourcing at recovered material that employ, contract and/or purchase ore the OECD’s ‘Forum on Responsible Mineral Supply Chains’ in Paris. and ore-bearing materials from ASM contractors or cooperatives. In June, to further raise internal awareness and understanding of the Suppliers to Trafigura that have ASM in their chain are expected programme’s objectives, we invited the Secretariat from the OECD’s to demonstrate that they meet these Expectations, or are Responsible Business Conduct unit to present to our executive making good faith efforts to do so. management and senior trading teams on the evolution of responsible Expectations comprise two parts: the first part outlines sourcing and how it would likely impact Trafigura in the future. management systems and disclosure requirements; the second Trafigura is a founding member of the World Economic Forum’s presents a wide range of requirements that should be met at a Global Battery Alliance (GBA). As Co-Chair of the GBA Cobalt site level. Working Group, our Head of Corporate Responsibility is helping to Our ASM Expectations have now been passed to the Secretariat formulate industry standards for ethical sourcing of cobalt. In July, we of the World Economic Forum (WEF) and the Global Battery submitted our ASM Expectations (see adjacent box) to the Working Alliance (GBA) for consultation and refinement. It is hoped that Group. These had been developed in close collaboration with Kumi the Expectations will encourage other companies to recognise Consulting and fellow GBA member Pact. that responsible ASM supply chains are feasible and that they Next steps will adopt similar due diligence standards within their supply We believe we have made substantial progress in our Responsible chains. Sourcing programme in 2018, but we recognise that such efforts are Trafigura is piloting the Expectations at Chemaf’s Mutoshi part of a continuing process. Project for onward deployment at other sites. At the same time, the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) is rolling out a Pilot Cobalt Refiner Supply Chain Due Diligence Standard. Once both Observation from initiatives are fully aligned, it is intended that the Expectations Kumi Consulting will directly complement the new RMI Standard. “Engagement with some suppliers on responsible sourcing remains a challenge. Surprisingly, this can sometimes include a reluctance by suppliers that publicly promote their own responsible sourcing practices to engage with Trafigura’s due diligence requirements. Addressing this requires a willingness by senior management to have ‘tough conversations’ with commercial counterparts. During the past year we’ve seen substantially increased engagement by Trafigura’s senior executives on responsible sourcing matters; such support will remain critical to the success of the responsible sourcing programme.” Trafigura presenting its Responsible Sourcing programme at Bloomberg’s Sustainability Summit in London Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 21 From ASM to semi-mechanised mining at Mutoshi Cobalt Switching from fossil fuels to electrified transportation is a core To support this initiative, Trafigura has established a strategic strategy in the global effort to combat climate change. The relationship with Pact, an internationally respected NGO and a resulting demand surge for cobalt is piling pressure on a vulnerable sector leader in the practical implementation of responsible ASM supply chain. Two thirds of global production is in the DRC, where and semi-mechanised mining (SMM). 20 to 40 percent of cobalt output is produced in the ASM sector. Day-to-day, workers are monitored by Chemaf and Comiakol’s Well over 200,000 miners, working in tough, often dangerous Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) team, two full-time conditions, rely on the sector for their livelihoods. Pact representatives as well as representatives of the DRC’s Rather than isolating ASM workers, we want to apply our position State Regulator for ASM, SAEMAPE (Service for Assistance and as an international trading and logistics company to increase Supervision of Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining). transparency and transform their working conditions. Our pilot We have commissioned sustainability specialist Kumi Consulting project at Mutoshi demonstrates what can be achieved. to provide quarterly project reviews that assess performance In 2018, Trafigura signed a three-year cobalt hydroxide marketing against our responsibility policies and expectations. agreement with mining company, Chemaf. As part of this, we Pact’s involvement, expertise and local presence are crucial. undertook to bolster Chemaf’s ability to manage social and It provides risk assessments, on-site technical support and environmental impacts in line with international standards. stakeholder engagement, and specialised training and support Chemaf has been developing Mutoshi, a major copper-cobalt in incident management. Trafigura’s interaction with Pact is now mining concession, in the DRC. There are multiple communities extending to other localities and relationships. on and around the concession that have, for years, been engaging The Mutoshi pilot project has yielded important results that are in unofficial, unregulated ASM activity. Rather than attempting applicable across other business relationships. We are sharing what to evict these workers, Chemaf has set up a pilot project that we have learnt with other stakeholders focused on the complexities supports enhancements to ASM activity so that it can become of formalising and legitimising partnerships with the ASM sector. formalised and ultimately semi-mechanised. It has appointed Comiakol, a cooperative representing Learn more about this project please refer to our website at approximately 5,000 workers and authorised by DRC Regulatory www.trafigura.com/responsible-sourcing Authorities, to operate as a mining contractor on a designated area known as Mutoshi Cobalt. The miners there work in a regulated environment and are able to sell their product at a rate consistently priced off the international market price. Day-to-day formalised semi-mechanised operations at the Mutoshi concession, DRC 22 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations External voice: The importance of supporting ASM – a perspective from OECD and Pact The OECD Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from booklet that provides practical guidance and answers frequently Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas clarifies how companies can asked questions relating to sourcing from artisanal and smallidentify and better manage risks throughout the entire mineral scale mining globally. It can be very challenging for international supply chain, from miners, local exporters and mineral processors companies to engage, or even consider engaging with artisanal and to the manufacturing and brand-name companies that use these small-scale miners, for various reasons. For example, one of the first minerals in their products. and most immediate challenges often put forward by companies The OECD Guidance, which is applicable to all minerals and is global is the illegality of most of the ASM producers. Under the OECD in scope, aims to help companies respect human rights, observe Guidance, however, this issue does not represent sufficient grounds applicable rules of international humanitarian law in situations for not engaging in this potential business relationship. In this of armed conflict, avoid contributing to conflict, and cultivate instance, the OECD Guidance recommends that companies work both transparent mineral supply chains and sustainable corporate with artisanal miners that are not associated with the most severe engagement in the mineral sector. forms of risks and who are willing to engage in credible legalisation processes; and use their leverage – jointly with local partners – to The overall objective of the Guidance is therefore twofold: engage local authorities and convince them to tolerate and support 1 To build secure, transparent and verifiable supply chains responsible ASM production and export by allowing for formalisation and legalisation. 2 To promote responsible investment and trade in fragile areas This is only one of the many challenges of exploring commercial relationship opportunities with informal ASM entities. However, In this context, one of the substantive areas of the OECD’s work in experience has shown that these challenges can be overcome when the responsible sourcing of minerals is to ensure that international companies choose to adopt a progressive and constructive stance. standards do not further marginalise workers of the informal sector. This implies working on the formalisation of ASM. The OECD is encouraged to see the increased interest from the The OECD, together with participating stakeholders of the international community (governments, international organisations, OECD Guidance implementation programme, aims to support industry associations and civil society organisations) to engage in all initiatives seeking to improve international market access for collaborative approaches to promote responsible ASM production legitimate artisanal mining communities, so that they can benefit of all sorts of mineral resources. Still, there is a need for even greater from ongoing trade in conflict-affected and high-risk areas and to awareness within the global industry, in particular that responsible support their development. production also means sourcing responsibly from conflict areas ASM can play a crucial role for the local development of rural and supporting artisanal miners in their efforts to meet the new economies in producing countries. This acknowledgment led to demands of the market. the inclusion of a specific appendix in the OECD Guidance, calling on stakeholders to engage in the legalisation and formalisation OECD Secretariat of artisanal mining communities. The OECD has also developed a ASM mining: Pact’s perspective quality. Some are concerned that the sub-standard ore bodies it Artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) has a vital role produces contaminate their own products. to play in poverty alleviation and rural development. It Given these facts, it is entirely understandable that there are those also poses severe human rights and social challenges. that advocate for ASM to be replaced with larger, safer installations, ASM supports millions of livelihoods around the world and can but this fails to appreciate its economic and cultural importance. For be a major contributor to local and national economies. The men, practitioners, ASM is more than just an attractive source of income, women and sometimes children that work in the sector use basic it is imbued with history, cultural significance and questions of tools in tough, often unsafe conditions to produce as much as 15 resource rights. percent of the world’s cobalt, 15 percent of its new gold, 50 percent Rather than trying to avoid, ignore or ban ASM, we need to explore of its tin and over 80 percent of coloured gemstones. ways to manage it responsibly and look at how we can integrate The social and environmental challenges and abuses associated with ASM material more effectively into formal supply chains. ASM are widely understood. In conflict-affected areas, miners are The challenges posed by responsible cobalt sourcing offer a remarkable frequently forced to work under duress. In areas of extreme poverty, opportunity to demonstrate the value of this formalisation of ASM in workers may be operating in dangerous conditions. Large-scale mainstream mineral markets. If this can be achieved, the benefits for mines also complain about ASM’s inefficiency and poor product the sector will stretch far beyond Africa’s Copperbelt. www.trafigura.com/external-voices Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 23 Transparency To date, eight EITI countries have made efforts to improve In 2014, Trafigura became the first independent commodities disclosures relating to the sale of oil, gas and minerals on behalf trading company to declare its support for the Extractive Industries of the government as part of the targeted efforts on commodity Transparency Initiative (EITI). The EITI, whose standard is currently trading transparency1. Dedicated commodity trading reports have implemented in 51 countries worldwide, promotes the open and been published in Ghana and Indonesia and are underway in Albania accountable management of natural resources. and Nigeria. Commodity trading companies have been encouraged to disclose sales data at national and global levels. Trafigura remains By publishing our payments to state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in the only privately held commodity trading company that discloses EITI countries, we provide useful information on a matter of global information on the oil it purchases from EITI countries (country-bypublic interest. country), as well as non-EITI countries (on an aggregated basis). Developing EITI guidance on commodity trading As a result of these efforts, disclosure of commodity trading data is In 2018, we continued to work with an EITI-mandated multibecoming more granular. As countries shed more light on the sales stakeholder working group, which includes trading companies, process, stakeholders are better able to understand how the national NGOs and SOE representatives that help implementing countries share of oil, gas and minerals is being sold and how the proceeds of with significant commodity trading activities in increasing their those sales are managed. transparency about revenues received from commodity sales. The governments of Switzerland and the United Kingdom provided financial assistance to the project. 1. Albania, Cameroon, Chad, Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana, Indonesia, Mauritania and Nigeria. Payments to governments for oil 2017 Aggregate first purchases from EITI country NOCs where the initial load port is inside the EITI implementing NOC home country1 Government Parcel load owned Product Volume Volume Volume Value port country Counterparty percentage type (thousand tonnes) (thousand barrels) (MMBTU2) (USD) Colombia Ecopetrol SA 93 Crude oil 904.19 6,199.96 n/a 305,711,612.94 Ecopetrol SA 93 Refined 574.06 3,583.20 n/a 153,254,861.40 Ecopetrol (Refineria de Cartagena S.A.) 93 Crude oil 529.53 4,038.38 n/a 238,276,078.83 Indonesia PT Pertamina (Persero) 100 Refined 33.15 280.00 n/a 15,182,800.00 PT Pertamina EP 100 Refined 10.02 86.05 n/a 5,035,019.54 PT Pertamina Hulu Energi Tomori Sulawesi 100 Refined 6.15 51.92 n/a 2,622,684.06 Mexico PMI Trading Ltd 100 Refined 762.65 6,743.11 n/a 332,033,064.77 Imopetro Importadora Mozambique Mocambicana de Petroleos 54 Refined 0.32 2.52 n/a 145,379.20 Nigerian National Nigeria Petroleum Corporation 100 Crude oil 520.65 3,862.16 n/a 219,100,738.73 Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (Napoil) 100 Crude oil 125.73 949.62 n/a 47,985,088.99 Norway Equinor ASA 72 Refined 454.47 4,034.83 n/a 269,893,733.87 Statoil ASA 72 Crude oil 158.19 1,201.84 n/a 67,274,767.61 Statoil ASA 72 Refined 382.38 3,286.23 n/a 195,008,463.61 Statoil Marketing & Trading (US) Inc 72 Refined 70.60 594.77 n/a 40,118,201.59 Peru Petroleos del Peru Petroperu S.A. 100 Refined 148.10 1,093.82 n/a 56,308,398.13 Trinidad Petroleum Company of Trinidad and Tobago and Tobago Limited 100 Refined 1,965.78 13,905.16 n/a 758,650,634.46 Grand total oil payments to EITI implementing countries 6,645.99 49,913.57 2,706,601,527.73 1. Our disclosures relate to purchases of crude oil, refined products and gas by Trafigura Group majority owned companies over the course of the calendar year. NB: Trafigura’s financial year runs from 1 October to 30 September. 2. One million British Thermal Units. 24 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Payments to governments for oil 2017 Aggregate swap3 of crude oil and corresponding delivery of refined products from and to NOCs in EITI countries where the initial load port is in the EITI implementing NOC home country Government Parcel load owned Product Volume Volume Volume Value port country Counterparty percentage type (thousand tonnes) (thousand barrels) (MMBTU) (USD) Nigerian National Petroleum Crude oil Nigeria Corporation (NNPC) 100 (received) 262.93 1,899.45 n/a 104,123,009.00 Nigerian National Petroleum Refined Nigeria Corporation (NNPC) 100 (exchanged) 212.38 1,777.39 n/a 123,092,246.00 2017 Aggregate purchases from NOCs of EITI countries with a load port outside the EITI (i.e. likely to be non-equity oil)4 Government Parcel load owned Product Volume Volume Volume Value port country Counterparty percentage type (thousand tonnes) (thousand barrels) (MMBTU) (USD) n/a n/a n/a n/a 1,483.98 11,330.00 10,063,144.00 573,511,116.88 2017 Aggregate purchases from NOCs from non-EITI countries Government Parcel load owned Product Volume Volume Volume Value port country Counterparty percentage type (thousand tonnes) (thousand barrels) (MMBTU) (USD) n/a n/a n/a n/a 76,374.29 570,295.90 183,832,995.18 30,025,300,526.97 3. A value for value arrangement where the operators deliver corresponding net product value, i.e. inclusive of demurrage cost, to the net value derived from the crude oil loaded, i.e. exclusive of associated costs – demurrage. Any imbalance between crude oil exported and refined products imported is addressed on a rolling basis over the duration of the SWAP agreement. 4. When transacting with an EITI country NOC, many of which have international trading arms, we may take title of product in a non-EITI country. As such, it is unclear whether indeed the product is ‘equity oil’ or is in fact sourced from another location. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 25 Our trading disclosures Our policy commits Trafigura to disclosing payments to National 2019 Priorities and commitments Oil Companies (NOCs) from EITI-implementing countries for crude We are committed to continuously strengthening our social oil and petroleum products, including gas, as well as associated performance against all impacts. Where our focus in 2019 corporate taxes and licence payments to governments. relates to a specific salient issue, we have defined it as such. Trafigura’s disclosures for transactions executed in the 2017 calendar year, as outlined in full in the previous pages, were limited to trades Commitment Salient issue undertaken with NOCs of EITI-implementing countries, and where To deliver improvements on the Failure to provide adequate the load port of the product was that same country. This approach handling of operational-level access to grievance and remedy was aligned with the EITI Standard (4.2) and focused on the ‘first grievances against the Trafigura compromises the ability of purchase’ of ‘equity oil’. As such, it excluded data relevant to standard. affected communities to express purchases from EITI-country NOCs that were active in buying and concerns and have them addressed appropriately. selling oil on international secondary markets. To maintain and, as appropriate, In 2017, Trafigura’s aggregate first purchases of oil and petroleum initiate new, desk-based and products from NOCs in EITI countries amounted to USD2.7 billion site-based due diligence (2016: USD1.1 billion). assessments of our copper and Relevant to our EITI disclosures, we can confirm that in the 2017 cobalt supply chain in the DRC calendar year, Trafigura entered from time to time into spot preand Zambia, and for suppliers of payment arrangements with the Petroleum Company of Trinidad and gold worldwide. Tobago Ltd. To continue to support Chemaf in Our aim in making very particular distinctions in our disclosures establishing Mutoshi as a benchmark site for responsible, is to ensure that the structure and standards of our reporting are large-scale semi-mechanised fully aligned with the existing EITI framework. The EITI’s multimining. Production and/or onward sale of stakeholder process commits all relevant stakeholders, including commodity could contribute to, governments, to report in an agreed format. This represents the To conduct and support, as benefit from, or result in the necessary, targeted due diligence commission of serious human optimal approach to disclosure as it allows payments made by and impact mitigation activities rights abuses. companies such as Trafigura to be compared directly to receipts in support of the responsible published by EITI country governments. sourcing of all metals and Following the EITI framework supports our intention to release minerals by Trafigura. information in a manner compatible with the legal requirements of To support stakeholder dialogue countries where we purchase and with existing commercial contracts. in advancing the responsible This stance is aligned with EITI Principle 6, which recognises that the sourcing of metals and minerals, achievement of greater transparency must be set in the context of including but not limited respect for laws and contracts. to active liaison with Pact, the OECD, Global Battery Our EITI payments, as disclosed above, compare to total payments of Alliance and the London Metals USD30.0 billion to NOCs in non-EITI countries (2016: USD20.1 billion). Exchange (LME). Our extractive activities and tax disclosures To continue to support and A state’s ability to deliver an array Trafigura does not operate and is not a majority shareholder in promote the activities of the EITI of services may be compromised extractive projects in the oil and gas sector. and the application of the EITI by corrupt management of its Standard to the commodities national resources. As is standard global industry practice, no taxes were directly levied trading sector. on Trafigura’s purchases of crude oil, refined products and gas from NOCs. In the 2017 calendar year, Trafigura’s Mining Group was a shareholder in mining projects in the DRC through Luna Mining and in Peru through Catalina Huanca Sociedad Minera. A fund managed by Galena Asset Management (which is wholly owned by the Trafigura Group) owned a majority stake in Mawson West. Both the DRC and Peru are EITI-implementing countries. The DRC government received payments of CDF340,023,112 (USD213,594) (2016: USD263,742) relevant to Mawson West and CDF48,671,367 (USD30,574) (2016: USD2.8 million) relevant to Luna Mining. Luna Mining has since been liquidated. The Peruvian government received payments from Trafigura of USD6,832,026 (2016: USD3.1 million) relevant to Catalina Huanca Sociedad Minera. The details of 2017 payments will be published in relevant EITI country reports when reconciled in the coming months. 26 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 27 Health and Safety Performing our operations safely is of fundamental importance to the Trafigura Group. Performance •• Four fatalities associated with Trafigura operations. •• Greater rigour brought to serious incident reviews through enhanced oversight. •• 38 percent reduction in total amount of lost-time incidents. •• 34 percent reduction in overall Group-wide lost-time incident rate (LTIR). •• 204 percent increase in near-miss reporting. 495 2.40 Number of health and safety incidents Lost-time incident rate (LTIR) reported (level 1-5) (2017: 3.62) (2017: 423) 64 Lost-time incidents (LTI) (2017: 104) 2018 Priorities Progress Employee safety Zero fatalities. 20 percent improvement in Group lost-time incident rate (LTIR) on 2017 data. Improved data Measurable improvement in the number of near misses reported and lessons to be learnt (L2BLs) shared Group-wide. Due diligence To deliver further enhancements to our contractor due diligence and Group-wide assurance programme. Not achieved Improving Achieved 28 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Our approach Three health and safety objectives determine our approach. First, Reported fatalities2 in 2018 we aim for zero work-related fatalities; second, we seek to reduce Trafigura Mining Group, near Catalina Huanca mine, Peru the number of serious incidents we experience; and third, we work In May 2018, a contractor suffered a fatal electrical shock at to share lessons from incidents and near misses, with a view to a remote location three hours’ distance from the Catalina continually improving our performance. Huanca mine site. The mine’s contractor, a specialist electrical The tragic loss of the life of one of our contractors in Peru and the company, was undertaking repair works on a 33 kilovolt power deaths of three people in a road traffic accident in the DRC are stark line. reminders that we still face major challenges. Actions and initiatives The worker was up an electrical pole re-assembling an electrical set out in this Responsibility Report have significantly reduced the bypass when the power line was re-energised. lost-time incident rate (LTIR)1, but we recognise that there is still much to do. Road Traffic Accident in the DRC In September 2018, a Landcruiser in troop carrier configuration In 2017, we introduced new reporting protocols that improved our carrying employees and contractors from our mine at Kapulo ability to review incidents and avert accidents by disseminating best to Lubumbashi had a road traffic accident (RTA) which resulted practice and lessons learnt across the Group. Our strategy in 2018 in three fatalities, four serious injuries and three minor injuries. built on these developments, improving how we report and what we Two of those casualties were employees of Mawson West mine. learn from near misses and actual incidents. The RTA was a single vehicle incident. Our strategy is based on a key principle of the ‘Bird safety model’ (see below), that the ratio between minor and serious incidents Actions is broadly constant. Although the Bird model has limitations, this Trafigura continues to encourage a focus on awareness of risk and suggests that the number of serious incidents can be curtailed by operational safety practices amongst its staff and contractors. reducing the frequency of minor incidents. We have put this into practice across the Group. Our data indicates that this is currently delivering concrete improvements in safety. Operational health and safety Actual number of incidents 2018 – Bird safety model Our operations develop and maintain management systems appropriate to the nature and scale of their activities. Each division Incident severity and operating company is expected to: •• Identify and evaluate health and safety risks; 25 •• Implement controls that eliminate or reduce risks to as low as Level 4/5 reasonably practicable; •• Take action to prevent repeat incidents; 75 Level 3 •• Report all incidents and near misses; •• Investigate serious incidents and high-potential near misses; 495 •• Plan for emergencies; Level 1/2 •• Set improvement targets and track performance; 1340 •• Ensure the workforce has the appropriate level of competency Near miss and adequate resources; •• Undertake periodic checks and audits to verify the effectiveness Lost-Time Incident Rate is one key measure of performance. of these measures. This fell by 34 percent this year. While we can never be definitive about incidents that have not occurred, in statistical terms this LTIR reduction equates to 22 serious injuries avoided when compared with the 2017 LTIR. This said, there were four fatalities. We recognise that more effort and focus on fatality prevention is absolutely essential. 1. LTIR: Lost-time incident rate. The number of incidents that resulted in at least one An active international network of HSEC practitioners is taking day (or shift) being lost from work, divided by actual total hours worked over one year, the lead in embedding a safety-conscious culture throughout the multiplied by one million. organisation. Operational managers are highly receptive to the 2. Includes fatalities of any employee of a Trafigura Division or Operating Company as a result of an occupational injury or disease sustained or contracted whilst undertaking Group’s philosophy, which embraces good HSEC practice and regards a work-related activity; and of any contractor working on Trafigura-owned or managed it as reinforcing rather than detracting from commercial objectives. sites or undertaking a work-related activity on behalf of Trafigura. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 29 Health and safety summary report Group Oil & Petroleum Metals & Shipping & Trafigura Impala Mining (aggregate) Products Trading Minerals Trading Chartering Desk Corporate Terminals Group KPI 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Number of fatalities: employees and contractors 4 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 2 Total number of health and safety incidents reported 495 423 9 14 5 7 1 0 0 1 300 205 180 196 Value of health and safety related fines and penalties (USD) 55,781 14,789 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 55,781 14,789 LTIs 64 104 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 34 55 29 47 LTIR 2.40 3.62 0.00 0.78 0.00 0 1.92 0 0.00 0.6 2.70 3.72 3.08 5.16 Fewer injuries A readiness plan for ebola We manage operational risks by analysing data and making appropriate decisions based on evidence. We monitor and manage The ebola virus disease is virulent and highly contagious. Once it incident and near-miss reporting on Safeguard, Trafigura’s online has taken hold in a region, it is extremely tough to contain. In the HSEC data reporting system. We are unifying and improving the DRC, Trafigura is on the front line. Our overriding intention is to data collection processes on the Safeguard platform to strengthen protect those that work on our site as well as their families and the quality of our data and improve trend identification. dependants. A 38 percent reduction in lost-time incidents3 (LTIs) across the Group Trafigura’s ebola crisis readiness plan identifies four alert levels: to 64 (2017: 104) was a tangible sign of our improved performance no threat (green), remote threat (yellow), immediate threat in 2018. Our overall Group lost-time incident rate (LTIR) also fell, (orange) and direct impact (red). by 34 percent to 2.40 per one million hours worked (2017: 3.62) – considerably better than the 20 percent target that we had set Isolated cases of ebola were reported in the DRC in 2018. ourselves for 2018. Both the number of LTIs and the LTIR have In line with our plan, managers at our sites have used this almost halved in the last two years (2016 LTI: 118, LTIR: 4.58). A total period to prepare for the worst. They reviewed hygiene and of 495 health and safety incidents4 were reported during 2018 (2017: security protocols. They also stocked up on materials that 423), demonstrating how the culture of reporting minor incidents might be needed should conditions deteriorate – everything has continued to improve this year. from food, water and diesel to disinfectant, medicines and quarantine tents. These improvements stem in part from successes in promoting a safety-conscious culture, sharing lessons learned, focusing local Local cases pose an immediate threat and sites will declare an management attention on safety by setting HSEC KPIs and improving orange alert if ebola is detected within 500 kilometres of our the quality of HSEC leadership across our workforce. operations. Orange alert protocols require managers to take direct action to limit the risk of infection. Non-core personnel In 2018, a total of USD55,781 (2017: USD14,789) was paid are demobilised, people from infected areas are denied access, to governmental authorities in relation to health and safety fines regular medical screening is introduced and special measures and penalties. are put in place for washing and catering. We will continue to track and report significant injuries and focus on A red alert is triggered if a state of emergency is declared locally reducing their frequency in 2019. or there is a suspected case associated with one of our sites. The site in question is immediately quarantined and managers implement their contingency plans. The plan sets out comprehensive, proportionate actions to preserve safe, effective operations at escalating risk levels. Trafigura also stands ready to lend its expertise and resources 3. LTI: the number of incidents that resulted in time lost from work amounting to at least one day (or shift) by employees and contractors working on Trafigura-owned or to the wider community to combat a severe ebola outbreak. managed sites, or contractors undertaking a work-related activity on behalf of Trafigura. www.trafigura.com/2018RR-case-studies 4. Total number of health and safety incidents reported including all injury and illness category of severity ‘Level 1’ and above that relate to employees, contractors or members of the public. 30 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Near-miss reporting In other locations, we see a correlation between improved near-miss Near-miss reporting is enshrined in Trafigura’s HSEC Golden Rules. reporting and reduced injury incidents. At our mine in Cuba, near-miss Far greater emphasis on near-miss recognition and reporting across reporting almost doubled (2017: 110, 2018: 208) while LTIs fell from the Group has been a significant contributor to the improvement ten in 2017 to two in 2018. At our joint-venture mines in MATSA Spain, in our safety performance. In 2018, we rolled out a near-miss we have seen a fivefold increase in near misses reported (2017:92, reporting campaign in English, Spanish and French. 2018: 494) with LTIs falling by a third (2017: 27, 2018: 18). Our 450-person strong HSEC network, includes full-time HSEC practitioners and those that combine with HSEC responsibility with other duties. They are spreading this message and driving the reporting of near misses locally. The parts of the Group that reported more actively in 2018 won formal recognition. Where reporting was less frequent, we investigated whether this was because of fewer incidents or due to weaker HSEC leadership and culture. Road Traffic Accidents (RTA) In 2018, trucks carrying our commodities travelled more than 12 million kilometres. A new key performance indicator we have been introducing over the last two years is road traffic accident frequency (RTAF), the number of RTAs per million kilometres. We transport a lot of commodities by truck and understanding the frequency of RTAs in particular geographies and contractors is key to focusing our resources effectively. Most RTAs involve contractor trucks carrying our commodities. However, we have been improving Near miss reporting poster displayed our data capture. In 2017, 98 RTAs were reported, while in 2018 125 across Group facilities were reported. Last year we had to estimate kilometres driven, this year we are receiving information about actual kilometres driven. The frequency of near misses far outweighs the number of serious RTAF has gone up from 0.33 last year to 0.98 this year, but this incidents, so identifying and mitigating their causes is one of the reflects improved RTA reporting and more accurate assessment of most effective ways of reducing incidents. In effect, near misses kilometres driven and is not indicative of reduced road traffic safety. offer lessons on what we can do to avoid real incidents. Additionally, as we learn from incidents we develop tools to prevent Recorded near misses nearly trebled in 2018. Over the last two repeat incidents. For instance, we have had a number of incidents years, there has been a more than tenfold increase in the number where loads have fallen off trucks. When we investigated these of near misses reported. This is partly due to better understanding incidents we found low levels of knowledge about how to secure a about what qualifies as a near miss. Importantly, there has also load. We subsequently developed guidance on how to secure our been a transformation in the culture of reporting. Previously, many loads which we have shared with trucking companies as well as Trafigura employees and contractors thought they might be blamed the smelters where our commodities are loaded onto trucks. This for perceived mistakes if they reported near misses. Now, it is widely is one example of how we work with trucking companies and our understood that the opposite is true. Near misses are valuable commodity suppliers to share knowledge and improve safe practices. learning experiences; those reporting them are credited with making a positive contribution to improving our safety culture. Lessons to be learnt (L2BL) For instance, at Impala Terminals Colombia, transporting In 2018 we built on the success of our L2BL processes by improving hydrocarbons, an inherently high-risk activity, is carried out over long our follow-up. We continue to share knowledge gained from distances, exclusively by contractors. Just one near miss was reported incidents or near misses. on Colombia’s roads in 2016. A year later, 36 near misses were reported The L2BL programme encourages operating companies to share and in 2018, 47 were reported. With better information Impala lessons learnt from near misses and incidents. Root causes have to Terminals has been able to put targeted safety measures in place. It has be identified and lessons learnt. set up a series of checkpoints along the main routes where vehicles are checked and their drivers tested for fatigue and alcohol consumption. 167 18 Lessons to be learnt shared in 2018 Lost-time incidents at MATSA across the Group mines in Spain in 2018 (2017: 50) (2017: 27) 494 208 Near-misses reported at MATSA Near-misses reported at our mine in mines in Spain in 2018 Cuba in 2018 (2017: 92) (2017: 110) Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 31 In 2017, we shared 50 L2BLs; this rose to 167 in FY2018, an increase Asset location risk assessment of 234 percent. In fact, the process has been so successful that it has As part of our more systematic approach to managing HSEC been extended to cover not only HSEC incidents but also operational performance, we introduced an assessment process in 2017 that loss occurrences. allows us to rank our installations by risk. This allows us to allocate As more L2BLs are distributed, managers and HSEC practitioners are resources and management time more effectively. more likely to be overloaded with information. This increases the We evaluate the inherent risk associated with the environmental, risk that individual lessons get insufficient attention. We took care in social and economic setting of the asset. The second part of the 2018 to target our distribution more precisely; L2BLs were only sent assessment looks at the operations being conducted at the facility. to recipients for whom the content was most relevant. The third element, the one easiest to affect, is its performance. Building incident investigation competency We have incorporated a tiered approach to asset ownership and control. As a Group, we are ultimately reliant on the quality and skills of our This lends clarity as to which assets we control and where we have people. We have improved our incident investigation training and limited or no control, and can encourage counterparties to develop and rolled it out across the HSEC practitioner and operations workforce. implement their own processes to manage risk. Ten incident investigation training sessions have been held and By combining these factors, we are able to categorise all fixed approximately one hundred people trained. A guidance document for location facilities, from high risk to low risk. conducting quality incident investigations has also been distributed. Employees at health and safety briefing at MATSA mine, Spain 32 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Contractor HSEC management Trafigura has minimum HSEC expectations for the following highand the necessary equipment to perform safely. risk activities listed below: Those that pass the Phase 1 assessment meet minimum •• Waste slops handling; expectations and are approved. Within a set timeframe those •• Ship-to-ship hydrocarbon transfers; approved receive an on-site inspection (Phase 2) that is designed to verify the Phase 1 assessment. •• Trucking contractors; Those contractors that fail the inspection, but are willing and able •• Oil and bulk liquid terminals; to work with Trafigura to improve, can gain temporary approval •• Warehouse and bulk storage. while they upgrade their processes. Those that fail Phase 2, or are Our requirements have been designed to identify and avoid using unable or unwilling to do this, are rejected. poor performing contractors who are more likely to have an In 2018, our worldwide due diligence activities resulted in: incident. Each assessment is based on a two-stage due diligence •• 403 contractor HSEC assessments considered; process. •• 176 approved providers worldwide; When a new contractor is under consideration, Trafigura conducts its KYC process and performs a Phase 1 assessment, comprising •• 202 contractors rejected; an initial, desk-based review. The contractor is required to confirm •• 438 new contractors being actively assessed at year-end 2018. its ability to meet our minimum HSEC expectations, including whether it has competent staff, sound maintenance procedures Contractor workflow status (as at 30 September 2018) 250 202 200 193 176 150 136 144 101 100 50 25 8 0 New Awaiting Pending Active Approved Approved Rejected In renewal notifications contractor reviews reviews Phase 1 Phase 2 response Number of contractors www.trafigura.com/2018RR-case-studies Truck drivers handling copper cathodes at Impala Terminals Ndola facility, Zambia Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 33 HSEC assurance Occupational health The structured approach to assurance introduced in 2017 has aligned We are developing global policies and targeted local strategies to site-based assurance with the perceived risk status of operational enhance health management in the workplace. locations and activities, and allowed more assessments to be We use both education and controls to implement preventive completed. Specific assurance protocols have been introduced for strategies. We have targeted policies to manage health issues contractors, suppliers and potential merger and acquisition partners. locally. For instance, where mosquitoes are rife, we have introduced Category 1 assurance is for those locations or activities considered strategies to combat and treat malaria, yellow fever, dengue fever high risk from an HSEC or social perspective. This consists of a and other mosquito-borne diseases. site-based assessment by a Group-led specialist team, personally Different locations present specific challenges. For instance, at our supervised by the Head of HSEC. The team’s findings and remote Catalina Huanca mine in Peru, it takes many hours by road recommendations are shared with local managers. The location to reach the nearest medical centre. Should workers experience agrees an action plan in response to the review. These actions are injuries, accurate diagnosis and early-stage treatment are critical. We tracked at Group level, with overdue actions reported to the HSEC have medically trained personnel on site with diagnostic equipment Steering Committee. and telemedicine services. A telemedicine facility at the mine allows The Head of HSEC-led assurance teams with expertise from across workers to present injuries and symptoms and get real-time diagnostic the Group in four Category 1 assessments in 2018. The teams and treatment advice from medical specialists in Lima and elsewhere. reviewed a mining joint venture in Brazil’s Minas Gerais iron ore quadrangle that has a tailings dam near a local population centre; fluvial operations transporting oil and petroleum products between Argentina, Bolivia and Paraguay; the Campana oil terminal, located in a sensitive area near Buenos Aires; and a bulk terminal in Spain where a higher-than-average LTIR had raised concerns. HSEC assurance categories •• Category 1 assurance reviews: four are conducted annually, but many more Category 2 assurance reviews are undertaken across the Group. •• Category 2 assurance is supervised by HSEC Managers with high-risk locations or activities under their area View an interview with Richard Head, Trafigura’s Head of responsibility. of Health, Safety, Environment and Communities. www.trafigura.com/2018RR •• Category 3 reviews focus on high-risk contractors and assess the degree to which Group-level policies, principles and standards have been adopted. •• Category 4 assurance is supplier focused, assessing supplier 2019 priorities and commitments performance against Trafigura’s responsible sourcing and We are committed to strengthening our health and safety supply chain expectations (see p18). performance continuously. Where our focus in 2018 relates to a specific salient issue, outlined in our Responsible Strategy •• Category 5 merger and acquisition assurance integrates chapter (p.07), we have defined it as such: HSEC liability assessment into the due diligence that Trafigura conducts into prospective acquisition targets. Commitment Salient issue •• Category 6 is external assurance, the third-party Zero fatalities. certification of our operational facilities. Unhealthy and unsafe working 20 percent improvement in conditions infringe on the rights Group LTIR on 2018 data. of individuals to the highest attainable standard of health and Measurable improvement in the to just and favourable conditions number of near misses reported of work. and L2BLs shared Group wide. Catastrophic failure of oil storage may result in severe injury or loss of life. Insufficient suppression of dust To deliver further enhancements from metals and minerals storage to our contractor due diligence and the insufficient capture of and Group-wide assurance vapour from oil storage could programme. lead to serious health and safety impacts. Unsafe road practices impact right to life. 34 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations The Jungfrau Explorer LPG vessel sailing through the Panama Canal Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 35 Environment We aim to minimise any adverse impacts from our business operations on the natural environment. This includes building our understanding of climate change and responding to its effects. Performance •• More comprehensive and accurate reporting on Scope 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions. •• Publication of full-disclosure Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Report. •• Global Logistics Emissions Council (GLEC) reporting framework adopted. •• Group Climate Change Strategy adopted. 472,161tCO e 2 4,856,738tCO e 2 Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions Scope 3 GHG emissions (2017: 356,721 tCO2e) (2017: 2,421,642 tCO2e) 10 4,725l Total number of oil spills Volume of oil spills in litres (2017: 13) (2017: 43,351) 2018 Priorities Progress Environmental incidents To achieve zero Level 4 and Level 5 environmental incidents. Due diligence To deliver ongoing improvements to our due diligence programme for ship-to-ship and waste management providers. Greenhouse gas emissions To develop a Group GHG strategy. To monitor and seek to reduce Scope 3 GHG emissions by exerting influence on our supply chain. Disclosure To complete a full Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) disclosure. Not achieved Improving Achieved 36 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Our approach Impala Terminals Mining Group We are required to handle, store, blend and transport significant (number of assets or (number of assets or operations covered) operations covered) volumes of commodities safely every day, including oil and ISO 9001 Quality petroleum products, ores, concentrates and refined metals. It is our Management 19 1 duty to prevent, minimise or remediate any unintended releases of ISO 14001 these products into the natural environment. 6 1 Environmental Management Trafigura divisions and operating companies that manage industrial ISO 17025 General requirements for the assets aim to eliminate or mitigate any adverse environmental competence of testing and 1 – impacts associated with their activities. We are committed to calibration of laboratories setting targets and strengthening performance. OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and 4 1 We seek to reduce emissions, explore ways in which we can improve Safety Management supply chain efficiencies in logistics and adapt our operations to meet the reality of climate change. In 2018, we improved our Pollution prevention data collection in order to be able to report GHG emissions more The commodities we trade pose significant social and environmental accurately across the Group. risks if not handled correctly. The severity of those risks varies Environmental management according to the type of commodity, the activity and the location. Our divisions and operating companies are required to maintain In 2018, 10 spills of hydrocarbon products were recorded across our environmental management systems appropriate to their activities. global operations, amounting to a total of 4,725 litres. As well as Many of our offices, industrial assets and operational activities are fewer spills overall, there was a substantial reduction in the volume recognised under local, national or industry-specific management spilt (2017: 13 spills, 43,351 litres). We believe the absence of any systems. We recognise the value that these external assurance significant spills in 2018 was due largely to operational practice schemes bring to our operations and will continue to support improvements, gained by learning from past incidents. certification where it makes business sense. Any pollution, wherever it occurs, is unacceptable. Preventing and minimising such risks is a key priority. Key Performance Indicators Group Oil & Petroleum Metals & Shipping & Trafigura Impala Mining (aggregate) Products Trading Minerals Trading Chartering Desk Corporate Terminals Group KPI 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Number of environmental incidents reported 155 115 28 30 1 2 5 4 0 0 94 53 27 26 Number of oil spills 10 13 6 7 0 0 2 0 0 0 2 6 0 0 Associated spill volume in litres 2 4,725 43,351 1,763 17,424 0 0 1,213 0 0 0 1,749 25,926 0 0 Value of environmental related fines and penalties (USD) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ISO 14001 certified facilities 7 6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6 5 1 1 Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO 2e emissions (tCO 2e) 472,161 356,721 0 0 0 0 251,717 107,4022 7,973 12,2581 89,116 113,599 123,355 123,463 Scope 3 CO 2e emissions (tCO 2e) 4,856,738 2,421,642 64,784 24,813 148,279 198,772 4,490,696 2,104,814 12,573 19,9861 93,232 73,258 47,175 0 1. Emissions associated with Trafigura offices and company-owned vehicles. 2. Emissions associated with owned vessels only (chartered vessels are classified as Scope 3 emissions). Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 37 Climate change We have been reviewing the potential impacts on our business of Environmental performance plays an increasingly important role in the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) that countries shaping commercial decisions. Many of our banking partners have have made in accordance with the Paris Agreement. In their NDCs, integrated environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) countries set out the post-2020 climate actions through which they factors into their decision making. Environmental performance plan to achieve their emission reduction objectives. By analysing metrics, such as management of GHG emissions, are increasingly these we are gaining early warning of new or increased carbon taxes included in lending criteria. and future business opportunities, including for instance, a shift from coal or oil to LNG for power generation. Trafigura is identifying Trafigura has adopted a climate change strategy reflecting the the new business opportunities that will come from supporting priorities proposed by the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on countries in delivering their NDC targets. Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). The strategy sets out Trafigura’s ambitions and includes policy GOVERNANCE STRATEGY initiatives in four main areas: governance, strategy, risk management, Accountability: Collaborate to influence and metrics and targets. In each of these areas we have defined Management Committee Support new technologies specific commitments, actions and areas for improvement. Responsibility: and processes to manage We have established a Climate Change Group to coordinate policy Climate Change Group GHG emissions development and implementation. Our main priorities are managing the GHG emissions caused by our activities and ensuring Trafigura adapts as we transition to a lower METRICS RISK carbon economy. AND TARGETS MANAGEMENT We seek to collaborate with industry groups and others to ensure Improve accuracy of Quantify business that we influence and remain informed on the climate change GHG reporting impact of climate change debate and react in a coordinated way. We are active participants Define science-based GHG Anticipate and in key industry bodies, including the Global Maritime Forum and the target within two years future-proof the business Global Battery Alliance. We advocate a clear and consistent policy Establish the Best Available on carbon pricing. Technique (BAT) process We support the development of new technologies and processes that improve the way Trafigura manages its GHG emissions and influence Improved data collection the way customers manage emissions from the products we sell. The complexity and diversity of our operations present numerous Climate change risks and opportunities challenges in reaching an accurate assessment of our direct and indirect Trafigura is playing its part in the transition to a lower carbon emissions. We have adopted a rigorous approach to the calculation economy by supplying the commodities required in an efficient of our overall emissions. We report Scope 1 and 2 emissions data – i.e. manner. Commodities such as lead, nickel and cobalt are needed for direct emissions from owned or controlled sources as well as those batteries, aluminium is being used to construct lighter vehicles and emissions from the generation of purchased energy. We also report copper will be required in increasing quantities for wind turbines and Scope 3 emissions which are indirect emissions incurred across our electric vehicles. LNG is a key transition fuel for power generation. value chain, including upstream and downstream, where contractors and other counterparties are undertaking logistics operations on Climate change is already having an impact. We are experiencing our behalf. storms of increasing frequency and severity. Global weather patterns are becoming more volatile and this can affect our supply We have improved data capture and reporting considerably during chains in unexpected ways. For instance, last winter an extended 2018. We extended the boundaries of our GHG inventory and have cold-weather period in the US led to increased demand for road worked to improve the accuracy of the emissions reported to the salt. Since a lot of US road salt is brought in from Chile, more ships point where we are now confident that we have a broadly accurate were needed to transport additional supplies. The resulting pressure and comprehensive baseline of GHG emissions associated with on shipping capacity in South America pushed up prices. Trafigura our activities. incurred higher chartering rates, which increased the cost of shipping Our data collection process currently relies upon semi-annual commodities from Chile to China. submissions from our operations. We rank the quality of submissions and give recognition to the best to incentivise improvement across the Group. 38 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Evolution of our GHG Inventory KPI Material emission sources Scope 2016 2017 2018 2019 Shipping & Chartering Desk Wet, owned vessel 1 Partial Partial Yes Yes Wet and Dry time charters 3 Partial Partial Yes Yes Wet and Dry spot charters 3 No No Yes Yes Wet and Dry vessels in port 1 and 3 No No Yes Yes Containers on container vessels 3 No No No Yes Mining Group Power generation 1 Yes Yes Yes Yes Purchased electricity 2 Yes Yes Yes Yes Trucking 3 No No Yes Yes Impala Terminals Power generation 1 Yes Yes Yes Yes Barges 1 Yes Yes Yes Yes Purchased electricity 2 Yes Yes Yes Yes Trucking 3 Yes Yes Yes Yes Rail 3 No No No Yes Oil & Petroleum Products Trading Trucking 3 Partial Partial Yes Yes Barges 3 No No Yes Yes Metals & Minerals Trading Trucking 3 Partial Partial Yes Yes Barges 3 No No Yes Yes Trafigura Corporate Offices 2 Yes Yes Yes Yes Flights 3 Yes Yes Yes Yes Aligning GHG reporting with international standards million tCO2e (2017: 2.78 million tCO2e). The increase is primarily due As signalled in our 2017 Responsibility Report, Trafigura published a to improvements in data collection; more sources are now captured full-disclosure report in 2018 on its carbon emissions performance in our reporting, especially Scope 3 emissions, which account for 91 to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). This was our first full percent of our total emissions. report; it provides a benchmark for improvement in future years. Our commitment to CDP aligns the business with best-practice reporting and reflects our determination to monitor and manage our environmental performance more effectively. As a trading and logistics specialist, the majority of our emissions are transportation related. Globally, freight transportation is a sector that has, up to now, received insufficient attention in the campaign 5.33mtCO e 2 Scope 1 Scope 2 367,016 105,146 Total reported emissions Scope 3 4,856,738 to combat climate change. It is also one of the toughest areas to decarbonise. Recent estimates suggest that freight accounts for approximately eight percent of global GHG emissions. This proportion is expected to grow rapidly; the International Transport Forum (ITF) projects a nearly fourfold increase in international trade versus 2010 levels While total GHG emissions are important, the intensity of our by 2050. emissions is more relevant for emissions management and The Global Logistics Emissions Council (GLEC) has led the benchmarking. In order to derive accurate emissions intensity figures, international effort to bring consistency to emissions reporting. we need three data points for each journey: the fuel consumed or Its reporting framework provides a methodology for calculating actual emissions, the tonnage transported and the distance travelled. logistics emissions across modes and regions. This is an increasingly With this data we can determine the emissions per tonne per recognised accounting approach, which aims to standardise the kilometre or nautical mile – a standard industry metric for the reporting of emissions across the logistics industry. efficiency of logistics operations. We will apply this approach to This year we have aligned our reporting with the GLEC framework. A emissions across shipping, trucking, barging and railways in the feature of the GLEC reporting framework is that it includes the Scope 3 coming years. emissions associated with the making of the fuel that we use, known It is not currently possible to obtain all data necessary to calculate as ‘well to tank’ emissions. This increases Scope 3 emissions by our emissions intensity for all commodities transported, but we are about 15 percent and contributes to the significant increase in our updating our databases and reporting systems so we will be able to reported Scope 3 emissions in 2018. improve in the future. We have set ourselves a two-year target to report on carbon intensity. By 2020, we plan to track GHG emissions GHG emissions profile in kilograms per tonne of commodity moved per kilometre or We are committed to achieving reductions in GHG emissions. nautical mile. Accurate benchmarking of our operations is a necessary precursor. Although there is scope for improvement, our current reporting Scope 1 and 2 emissions protocols now capture the overwhelming majority of our emissions. On an aggregate Group basis our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, i.e. Our total reported emissions significantly increased in 2018 to 5.33 direct emissions from owned or controlled sources as well as those emissions from the generation of purchased energy, amounted to Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 39 472,161 tonnes of CO2 equivalent (tCO2e) in 2018 (2017: 356,721 Shipping and chartering tCO2e), an increase of 32 percent. The increase reflects the addition Shipping emissions account for 89 percent of Trafigura’s total GHG of two new mines this year and more comprehensive data collection inventory. We have been reporting GHG emissions from shipping for from our owned shipping fleet. Our lead and zinc mine in Cuba, several years, but in the past these figures have not been as complete which was under construction in 2017, began full operations this as we would have wished. year and we reopened our copper mine in the DRC that was under In 2018, we included data from all owned and time-charter vessels, care and maintenance in 2017. Both contributed to the increase. both while they are at sea and in ports. Emissions from spotScope 1 emissions from our owned shipping fleet increased, with the chartered wet and dry freight vessels have also been included for inclusion of additional vessels and emissions from vessels in port the first time. As a result of these changes, combined emissions for being included for the first time this year. shipping and chartering more than doubled to 4.74 million tCO2e Emissions from our fluvial operation in Paraguay increased by five (2017: 2.21 million tCO2e). percent as pushers and barges now also supply fuel to southern Shipping data availability differs depending on how we are Bolivia, doubling journey times. However, the focus on efficiency chartering the vessel. Where we purchase the fuel for the charter has delivered a 20 percent increase in activity with only a five and have control of the route, we can straightforwardly calculate the percent increase in fuel used; this translates into a 13 percent emissions that result. However, where a contractor is undertaking improvement in fuel efficiency. Put differently, the energy efficiency this for us, we typically do not have data that show actual fuel gains in 2018 saved 351,068 gallons of fuel compared to what consumption and emissions. would have been burnt otherwise, equivalent to 3,550 tonnes of There is a particular challenge in deriving data relating to spotavoided GHG emissions. chartered vessels. For these charters we contract a third-party Scope 3 emissions vessel and have little information about the amount of fuel used. Total Scope 3 emissions amounted to 4.86 million tCO2e in 2018 To overcome the issue of limited data, Trafigura has worked with (2017: 2.42 million tCO2e), a doubling of reported emissions. These University Maritime Advisory Services (UMAS) to estimate the figures are not directly comparable however, as this sharp increase is emissions resulting from spot charters of vessels carrying Trafigura primarily due to an increase in the scope of our data capture. Scope oil. UMAS used data from the IMO’s database on global shipping 3 emissions reported this year include those from all wet and dry voyages to determine the route, tonnage and estimated emissions time charters and, for the first time, wet and dry spot charters. Also from each vessel chartered. reported for the first time are emissions from barges and from trucks hauling material from our mines to ports. Responsible chartering Trafigura is one of the largest charterers of vessels worldwide. We The largest increase in Scope 3 emissions came from our shipping regularly review our policies to counter the threat of marine spills activity. Emissions more than doubled from 2.11 million tCO2e in 2017 and lower our carbon footprint. During 2018, we overhauled and to 4.49 million tCO2e in 2018, mainly due to improved data capture. enhanced our vessel vetting procedures – for example, by reducing Impala Scope 3 emissions rose 27 percent to 93,232 tCO2e the maximum age for dry bulk vessels we charter. (2017: 73,258 tCO2e). This was partly because of increased trucking In April 2018, the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) activity in Colombia and Africa where significantly larger volumes of adopted its climate change strategy to reduce GHG emissions from commodities have been traded. shipping. As a business leader in the shipping value chain, we are Last year our Mining Group did not report any Scope 3 emissions. This pleased to be a lead signatory on a CEO ‘Call to Action’ launched year we report emissions of 47,175 tCO2e from trucks transporting in October 2018 by the Global Maritime Forum (GMF). We endorse commodities to ports. the IMOs vision of phasing out GHG emissions as soon as possible. Increases in Scope 3 emissions in Oil and Petroleum Products Trading The IMO strategy – to reduce the total annual GHG emissions from reflect the inclusion, for the first time, of emissions from third-party international shipping by at least 50 percent by 2050 compared contractors providing bargeand vessel-based transportation. to 2008 – is a step towards achieving GHG emissions reductions consistent with the Paris Agreement temperature goals. To achieve Trafigura 2018 GHG Inventory this, the shipping industry needs to further improve operational and technical energy efficiency, and must transition to zero-carbon fuels Trafigura Corporate 0% and new propulsion systems. We are promoting ambitious climate Impala Terminals 4% action via the GMF and we invite other CEOs from the maritime Mining Group 3% (continued on page 41) Oil & Petroleum 1% Metals & Minerals 3% Shipping & Chartering 89% Shipping and Chartering 2018 GHG Inventory Wet freight, owned vessels 6% Wet freight, time-chartered 40% Weight freight, spot-chartered 13% Dry freight, time-chartered 18% Dry freight, spot-chartered 23% View an interview with Rasmus Bach Nielsen, Trafigura’s Head of Wet Freight Shipping. www.trafigura.com/2018RR 40 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations External voice: Smart Freight Centre – Understanding and minimising emissions from global freight and logistics Freight and logistics are the backbone of today’s global economy. recognised, harmonised method for calculating and reporting An estimated 16 trillion dollars’ worth of merchandise is exported emissions across the multi-modal logistics supply chain. The every year and this figure is growing. The sector faces five major GLEC Framework is consistent with the GHG Protocol that most challenges: explosive growth, inefficiency, rising costs, high fuel use companies already follow and is included in the reporting guidance and environmental impact. of CDP, as well as the UN-led Global Green Freight Action Plan. Freight transport accounts for 7-8 percent of total carbon dioxide Many companies have now adopted it and are aligning their carbon emissions worldwide. Total freight emissions will need to be almost accounting process accordingly. 65 percent lower than 2015 levels by 2050 if we are to meet the Organisations with a responsibility for transporting commodities ambitions set out in the Paris Climate Agreement. Yet demand for are particularly well placed to drive positive supply chain impacts freight transport is predicted to triple over the same period according by adopting the GLEC Framework. They have a strong commercial to the International Transport Forum. It will take nothing less than incentive to get data from their logistic providers which, at present, a transformational decarbonisation of the global freight sector to is often not included in GHG reports. Further downstream, other meet the Paris objective. multinational companies will use this information to report on their value chains. It also informs global and regional policy making that is Commodity transport emissions focused on reducing logistics emissions. Commodities have complex value chains, from extraction, The GLEC Framework is part of a bigger picture. SFC has always manufacturing and use to recycling of the finished product. Freight focused on bringing the logistics community together and evolving and logistics provide the irreplaceable link between each phase. a common approach for companies that want to be Smart Freight Traditionally, the dozen or so companies that control the majority Leaders. As multinationals embrace this approach, they will drive of commodities trading worldwide have focused on their roles positive change through their own supply chains. Our conviction as producers and marketers. There has been relatively little is that business-led, practical solutions deliver emission reduction industry synergy on reporting and reducing freight and logistics more effectively than poorly informed, external regulation. It’s the emissions globally. smart thing to do. One reason is that since these activities are often subcontracted they have been classified as Scope 3 (i.e. third-party) emissions, About Smart Freight Centre even though this is an essential corporate activity. The complex, Smart Freight Centre is a global, mission-driven organisation fragmented nature of the logistics industry is another factor. dedicated to a more efficient and low-emissions global freight sector. We bring together the global logistics community to But this is changing. Consumer-facing multinationals are under drive transparency and mobilise multinational companies and pressure to disclose GHG emissions across the supply chain. By their logistics partners to take action. This is done through global extension, there is more onus on commodity trading companies, industry guidelines and solutions for emissions calculation, their logistics providers and specialist suppliers to report credible reporting and reduction, the first of which is the GLEC Framework, GHG data. and by recognising Smart Freight Leaders. To scale our impact we Smart Freight Centre (SFC) recognised that one of the first barriers are present in Europe, the Americas and Asia and collaborate with to reducing emissions from freight was the lack of a global standard existing initiatives, partner organisations and experts worldwide. for understanding and comparing emissions impacts in logistics supply chains. Differing approaches to calculation and reporting Sophie Punte, made it hard to acquire accurate data. Executive Director, Smart Freight Centre SFC formed the Global Logistics Emissions Council or GLEC together with leading companies, associations, industry programmes and experts. In 2016, it published the GLEC Framework: the only globally www.trafigura.com/external-voices Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 41 industry to join us in seizing the opportunity to innovate and lead Lowering our carbon footprint the transition to a new shipping industry for the 21st century. on the oceans One of the three main components of the IMO’s strategy envisages a reduction in the carbon intensity of new-build ships by embedding Lowering bunker fuel consumption by our oceangoing fleet a progressively more demanding Energy-Efficiency Design Index both saves money and reduces our carbon footprint at sea. We (EEDI) into the approval process. The EEDI requires a minimum have improved baseline performance by chartering younger energy-efficiency level for new-build vessels. We have supported vessels. Additional gains rely on operating and maintaining the the order and construction of 39 best-in-class crude oil and product fleet with increasing efficiency. tankers, which will join our fleet over the next four years. These are Optimising bunker usage is the single most effective way to more fuel-efficient than the majority of vessels currently operating. improve the operational efficiency of our owned and chartered Their EEDIs exceed the IMO’s specifications. The new-build vessels vessels. We have adopted a three-pronged approach: port are also fitted with sulphur scrubbers to meet the IMO 2020 optimisation, speed optimisation and route optimisation regulations on sulphur-oxide emissions. strategies, all of which take account of environmental conditions The IMO strategy also includes a target for the reduction of carbon and cover each vessel on every voyage. intensity of existing international shipping. Trafigura plans to publish Our port optimisation guidelines for vessels at anchor aim its own carbon-intensity metrics in the future. to minimise bunker usage while maintaining safe operations. In the meantime, we are reducing average GHG emissions by Recommended measures include switching off engine room favouring younger, more energy-efficient vessels when chartering. vent fans, halting certain pumping operations and addressing We have adopted a range of techniques, including route optimisation airflow and temperature regulation. and slow steaming, to improve operational efficiency. Speed optimisation guidelines require vessels at sea to balance bunker usage with journey times. We want to avoid vessels arriving at a port but then having to sit outside until a berth The role of ERM becomes available. We are aiming for vessels to steam as slow In its capacity as a specialist sustainability advisor to Trafigura, as possible but arrive at the port just in time for their delivery. ERM supported the development of the Group GHG strategy and Masters are asked to apply super-slow steaming where they can reviewed the completeness and accuracy of the GHG data and still ensure their vessels reach their destinations by the agreed the associated statements included in the 2018 Responsibility delivery times. Report. The data review was undertaken as part of the internal Trafigura data validation process and covered all Trafigura The third element, route optimisation, is driving substantial divisions and entities included in the scope of the Responsibility bunker savings. Over the last 18 months, we have introduced Report, with a focus on the material GHG emission sources smart navigation services across the fleet. Our ships share from operations and logistics. This involved testing the data voyage and vessel data with our external partners at weatheraccuracy, checking that the appropriate conversion factors related navigation consultancies. Their analysts plot the most have been applied and advising on the emission sources to be bunker-efficient route ahead of each journey, factoring in tides, included in the GHG inventory, as well as supporting Trafigura currents and meteorological conditions. Vessels also receive in its aim to adhere to the GHG Protocol, CDP and Global course adjustment recommendations once underway. Logistics Emissions Council (GLEC) reporting standards. Taken together, these measures generated an estimated USD6 million in bunker savings in the last financial year, equivalent to avoiding 50,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions. www.trafigura.com/2018RR-case-studies 2019 priorities and commitments We are committed to strengthening our environmental performance. The table below sets out our 2019 priorities. Commitment Salient issue Hydrocarbon spills and inadequate disposal of waste To achieve zero Level 4 and could infringe on health and Level 5 environmental incidents. cause damage to the environment. To implement the Group climate change strategy. To monitor and seek to reduce GHG emissions. GHG emissions contribute to To benchmark and improve climate change which threatens GHG performance. the full and effective enjoyment of human rights. To report on carbon intensity in kilogram per tonne of commodity moved per kilometre Two Suezmax vessels under construction, NTS shipyard, China or nautical mile by 2020. 42 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 43 Our people We manage office professionals and employees at major industrial installations and typically recruit from the local population. Long-term business success is built on a highly skilled and productive workforce. Our meritocratic and collaborative working environment promotes an atmosphere of integrity, ethical conduct, equal opportunity and mutual respect. We invest in attracting, developing and retaining the best people. Performance •• 2,150 employees joined the Trafigura Group in 2018 (49 percent office workers and 51 percent blue-collar workers). •• 32 people hired onto the Graduate Programme (including five from our Apprenticeship Programme), six onto the Apprenticeship Programme, 25 onto the International Trader Opportunity and five onto the Impala Terminals Graduate Programme. •• 26,736 learning and development-related activities completed across the Group, including e-learning modules, structured on-the-job training, classroom training and skills evaluations. •• 484 employees had a career development opportunity, i.e. a change of role or a promotion. •• 102 employees relocated internationally. 5,591 average total employees worldwide (2017: 4,857) 2018 Priorities Progress Learning and development Building the technical capabilities and interpersonal skills of our staff. Leadership capabilities Developing people management and leadership capabilities within the organisation. Improving efficiencies Improving the efficiency and productivity of our workforce by creating high-performing teams. Career development Providing career development opportunities for suitably qualified employees who have demonstrated that they are ready and able to take on increased responsibilities. Not achieved Improving Achieved 44 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Our approach Trafigura’s workforce is increasingly productive. Year-on-year, we Trafigura fosters a culture where people can flourish and maximise are trading greater volumes without an equivalent increase in their potential. Respect, diversity and performance are its basic tenets. headcount. Our teams need to coordinate their efforts to perform consistently across a complex supply chain. We achieve this by We set high standards. Trafigura’s people combine entrepreneurialism focusing on teamwork. with responsibility. Devolved decision-making allows employees substantial autonomy. Robust global systems and processes maintain Embedding and upholding this level of awareness across the cohesion and ensure full accountability. organisation requires continuous attention. We need to collaborate across teams without losing our entrepreneurial spirit. We stress Our people strategy seeks to motivate staff, promote agility good communication and we invest in learning and development and allow close-knit teams to operate effectively across diverse programmes to make this happen. businesses with differing needs and in varying socio-economic conditions. Trafigura’s Human Resources (HR) team oversees our Supporting our people people strategy. The Global Head of HR reports to Trafigura’s Chief The Trafigura Group has a proven track record of creating worldOperating Officer who sits on Trafigura’s Management Committee class operations around the globe. Everywhere we operate, we and Board of Directors. employ and invest locally. Trafigura’s headcount increased in 2018 with the acquisition of Pampa The Way We Work Energia’s downstream assets in Argentina and the incorporation of In 2018, we published a guide that describes the defining Mawson West copper mine in the DRC into Trafigura Mining. Our characteristics of Trafigura’s culture and sets out what we (average of) 5,591 employees in 2018 (2017: 4,857) performed expect of our employees. ‘The Way We Work’ is available in a diverse range of tasks across the Group. Fifty-eight percent are English, Spanish and Chinese. In an accompanying video, senior office-based and 42 percent are in the field – working in terminals, managers recount their own experiences and convey their sense transportation and mines. of what makes Trafigura’s people effective. There is strong Keeping everyone safe and healthy is a priority. Trafigura engages emphasis on teamwork within a non-hierarchical organisation. both with individual employees and workforce representatives on All new entrants receive the guide and video, together with health and safety. Trafigura’s Code of Conduct as part of their induction. All We oppose discrimination of any kind. Management prioritises employees have been encouraged to review the guide, which is treating all employees fairly and with dignity and respect. available on Trafigura’s intranet. We have a special responsibility in those areas where we are one Teamwork, entrepreneurialism, accountability and responsibility of a small number of employers in the community. Our presence are intrinsic to our corporate culture. ‘The Way We Work’ supports local contractors, employees and local economic activity. codifies these values and describes the behaviours we expect of As well as those we employ directly, we work onand off-site our employees: with numerous contractors and suppliers. We seek to promote •• We listen, challenge employment conditions and human rights compliance that are in and innovate; line with our principles. •• We collaborate, support We engage with employees and contractors, both directly and through and empower; their trade unions and other representatives, on issues that may affect •• We take accountability for THE WAY them. Where there are employee grievances – whether individual or and deliver against WE WORK collective – we aim to address them promptly and thoroughly. ambitious targets; Collective bargaining •• We act responsibly. Where our people have union representation we negotiate working ‘The Way We Work’ distils our conditions with their union representatives. In May 2018, Trafigura company culture and working acquired most of the downstream assets of Pampa Energia in ethos. It is now available Argentina. We took on an additional 700 personnel: some of whom externally to potential recruits work at its Ricardo Elicabe refinery and others that are employed and other stakeholders as a in company-owned and operated service stations. Some of Pampa downloadable PDF and video TRAF5284_18_Trafigura_The_Way_We Work_document_A5_ARTWORK.indd 1 www.trafigura.com/way-we-work 15.06.18 12:31 Energia’s former employees are covered by a collective bargaining in the careers section of agreement. Soon after the acquisition, it became clear that the our website. macro-economic and regulatory situation will make it challenging to keep the business as it is currently constituted. We have been engaging with union representatives on practical steps that will Developing our culture allow Pampa to continue as a sustainable business. Corporate responsibility is founded on personal responsibility. We aim to Most years we have collective agreements that expire and have to promote a culture where all colleagues consider the wider consequences be renegotiated. For example, Impala Terminals is currently of their actions and are prepared to question practices that may expose negotiating collective agreements with union representatives in our the business to social, environmental or commercial risk. terminals in Callao, Barranquilla and Barrancabermeja. We conduct negotiations in a spirit of cooperation while always focusing on the Trafigura has experienced rapid growth in dynamic markets. longer-term sustainability of the business, mindful of affordability and Maintaining that growth and sharpening our competitive edge workforce stability. depends on a ready flow of information between teams. Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 45 Total workforce* Oil and Petroleum Metals and Shipping and Group Products Minerals Chartering Trafigura Impala Mining aggregate Trading Trading Desk Corporate Terminals Group Performance 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Average no. of full time employees 5 591 4 857 886 613 596 535 95 97 909 842 1 755 1 655 1 350 1 115 Male (%) 79 78 78 73 60 58 78 77 61 61 87 88 89 87 Female (%) 21 22 22 27 40 42 22 23 39 39 13 12 11 13 Under 30 yrs (%) 26 27 34 41 38 38 34 35 26 29 28 26 10 12 30 – 50 yrs (%) 63 63 55 54 59 58 64 63 65 63 61 63 72 71 Over 50 yrs (%) 11 10 11 5 3 4 2 2 9 8 11 11 18 17 White collar (%) 58 59 80 92 100 100 100 100 98 98 29 29 31 33 Blue collar (%) 42 41 20 8 0 0 0 0 2 2 71 71 69 67 Full time (%) 99 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 98 98 99 100 100 100 Part time (%) 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 2 1 0 0 0 Permanent contract (%) 91 93 1 99 89 89 0 100 5 94 13 92 88 90 Temporary contract (%) 9 7 99 1 11 11 100 0 95 6 87 8 12 10 Covered by collective bargaining agreements 1 588 1 243 138 39 0 0 0 0 0 0 975 822 476 381 * All numbers are annual averages and have been rounded to the nearest full number. All employee numbers include assets where Trafigura retains management control, e.g. MATSA (Spain), Porto Sudeste (Brazil) and Mawson West mine (DRC). Such assets are deconsolidated from Trafigura’s balance sheet and as such employee numbers will vary between this report and Trafigura’s Annual Report. Employees by region within the Group. Africa 510 North America 260 Europe 1,312 Asia & Australia 988 Although we sometimes use external recruitment firms, most of our LATAM 2,483 Middle East 38 candidates are directly sourced. We advertise positions online and 5,591 in newspapers and industry publications. We received over 91,000 job applications in 2018, a 28 percent increase on the previous year, and hired 2,150 new employees, including acquisitions (2017: 1,007). We have an active LinkedIn presence, with 120,000 followers across our different businesses, which represents an increase of about 15 Attracting talent percent over 2017. Over 3,000 advertisements were posted on the Our recruitment policy takes no account of age, gender, sexual site, which averaged well over 600 views each. orientation or ethnicity. We simply want to attract the most talented We sometimes recruit externally for specialist senior positions; more people. Experience, skills and attitude are our primary criteria. We often, we promote from within. Many of our top managers have prefer to recruit locally where possible so that our workforce reflects worked their way up through the ranks. In the past financial year, and understands the local environment. Cultural fit is another 484 employees within the Group had a role change. important factor. We look for candidates who will respond well in Our Future Talent programmes provide a pathway into the Trafigura’s dynamic environment. industry for young people. The centrepiece, a two-year graduate We regard diversity as a source of strength. Our people come from programme , is built around structured placements in different parts across the globe and many walks of life. This breadth of experience of the business. In 2018, we selected 32 people from thousands enriches and informs our approach. of applications; five of them were graduates from our apprentice Trafigura seeks to attract and retain the most qualified and programme. In addition, five recruits joined the Impala Terminals motivated candidates for every role in the Group. Historically, Graduate Programme. women have been under-represented in the industry. We are The Global Commodity Trading Apprenticeship is a parallel initiative committed to equality but recognise that balancing the gender split, aimed at promising non-graduates. For successful participants, particularly in senior roles within the Group, will take time. As part this one-year programme culminates in a place on our graduate of its aim to increase the number of women in senior roles, Trafigura programme. Six people were accepted onto the apprenticeship will continue seeking to attract female lateral hire applicants as well programme in 2018. as encouraging internal development and promotion. Our International Trader Opportunity (ITO) Programme recruits We are pleased to report some progress in attracting more female promising internal and external candidates to trading desk roles. Any applicants at an entry level: the 2019 International Graduate employee, with the support of their manager and a senior trader, Programme resulted in a 50/50 gender split of first-round can apply. In 2018, we ran two separate ITOs programmes: one in interviewees. Maintaining our usual approach of selecting the most China and one in Switzerland. We received over 3,000 external qualified and motivated candidates, over 60 percent of the job applications in 2018 which resulted in 25 permanent hires. offers were to female candidates. Attracting female applicants is an important step towards achieving a gender balance at all levels 46 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations Managing our people Our global learning and development initiatives are complemented The dynamic culture and scope of the career opportunities that we by specific programmes that meet local operational needs. Impala can offer have encouraged many high-quality people to make a longTerminals is a case in point. term commitment to the company. But it does not suit everyone. Impala Terminal’s Brillamos programme operates in Brazil, Colombia, In 2018, 961 employees left the Trafigura Group (2017: 759), Mexico and Peru as well as in the DRC, Tanzania and Zambia. The including 200 employees with fixed-term contracts. Of this figure, programme’s 40 participants, identified as potential future leaders, 63 percent of staff were white collar workers, while 37 percent are receiving support to facilitate their growth in the organisation. were blue-collar workers. This level of attrition (circa. 15 percent of Impala has launched the Freight Forwarding Excellence Programme the average headcount excluding fixed-term contracts ending) is to upskill Latam-based employees in this area of the business. After broadly in line with expectations. going through specific training, they receive an internal qualification. Demographics also have a role. Around 25 percent of our staff Integrating skills development are under 30. Typically younger employees change their employer We hold competency reviews in trading support departments every more frequently. two years to measure skills gaps and put corresponding action plans A range of initiatives is helping to reduce attrition. Our interview in place. process puts more emphasis on cultural fit; we get early feedback Office-based employees also participate in a six-monthly performance from new recruits; we signal internal career opportunities more assessment with their managers to ensure they have a structured clearly; and we are investing in team leaders to improve their people performance and developmental conversation twice a year. management skills. Retaining talent The scope and scale of Trafigura’s business interests continue to Managing high-performing teams grow. We want our people to grow with us. The Group aims to drive efficiency and productivity. Our track record of strong performance and growth enables us to reward Trafigura can only flourish by continuously improving employees competitively. Salaries and conditions compare well with productivity and efficiency. We have to be agile in increasingly industry benchmarks. competitive markets. As a global company, we need to collaborate internationally. Teamwork is critical. Ownership is shared across the management team. Over 600 employees from around the organisation own a stake in the business. We are developing team management as a core leadership skill It means that key decision-makers are incentivised to act in the through in-house training. Our latest programme builds on the Group’s long-term best interests. success of our ‘Leading for Results’ training module. ‘Managing High-Performing Teams’ is tailored to Trafigura’s needs. The The career development prospects implicit in our meritocratic, workshop focuses on four key elements: empowering style of working appeal to people with entrepreneurial flair, who welcome responsibility – these are the kinds of people we •• building effective relationships wish to attract and retain. •• team processes Our integrated approach to people management focuses on •• the organisation of work hiring the right people, developing their capabilities, incentivising •• team direction performance, providing constructive feedback and prioritising job At the end of the session, participants draw up action plans opportunities for qualified internal candidates. to enhance their team leadership capabilities. This halfThis has helped us maintain a healthy talent pipeline in markets that day workshop was launched in December 2017. It has been often have a shortage of suitably skilled people. Our approach will delivered to most middle and back office managers at Trafigura remain consistent in 2019. offices in China, Greece, India, Singapore, Switzerland, Uruguay and the US. At Impala Terminals, similar training sessions were Learning and development delivered in Colombia, Peru and Spain. There is a growing emphasis on formal training. Our Learning and Development department is adding increased focus and structure In August 2018, we introduced a follow-up module. In this twoto our approach to knowledge and skills development. Over 26,000 hour, case study-led workshop, managers collaborate in small learning and development-related activities were completed across groups to diagnose the root causes of an underperforming the Group in 2018, including e-learnings, structured on-the-job business and draw up an action plan to turn it around. The case training, classroom training and skills evaluations. study session applies the four levers that were the focus of the half-day workshop to solve practical problems. Both sessions Structured formal induction plans have now been developed for are facilitated in-house by Trafigura’s HR team. most trading departments. This helps new recruits understand their areas of focus and where to go for information www.trafigura.com/2018RR-case-studies Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 47 Our new online Learning and Development system, rolled out in Enhancing crisis preparedness November 2017, is enhancing the learning experience. Training activity and performance are managed in the same online system, allowing employees and their managers to track and direct their own Trafigura transports combustible and hazardous raw materials learning needs. in large volumes around the world. We recognise that despite our best efforts, risk can never be entirely eliminated. Should A library of over 125 in-house modules, converted into e-learning the worst happen, we have crisis management protocols based and including a 12-module trade lifecycle e-learning pack, which on international best practice. They include detailed plans for presents an A-Z review of commodity trading processes, have been serious incidents. created, with more than 25 under development. In all, over 700 e-training modules are available globally. But plans alone cannot replicate the stresses and strains of a real-life emergency. If accidents happen, our people need to be Workshops and live training sessions that complement e-learning as ready as possible. are held in all our major centres. The ‘Trading for Non-Traders’ programme helps colleagues in trading support roles understand We plan and execute emergency response exercises to give our core Trafigura activity. We also hold responsibility workshops people in-depth training and practical experience of different globally, which are building awareness of social and environmental incident scenarios. risk across the Group. In July 2018, Trafigura joined forces with a specialist crisis As our business grows, more of our managers are being promoted management consultancy to develop realistic, multi-dimensional at an early age. They are highly skilled and motivated. Senior HR simulation exercises that help our people hone their response Managers coach up-and-coming managers Group-wide in workshops skills so they are sharp and ready at a moment’s notice. and on a one-to-one basis to help develop their team leadership and A half-day exercise in July used a simulated oil spill to test communication skills. In 2019, we will roll out new workshops focusing our Geneva-based Emergency Response Team’s (ERT) crisison resilience to further develop our managers’ skills. readiness in realistic conditions. Trafigura personnel at remote Mentoring and on-the-job training have always been important locations took on the roles of Regional Response Coordinator and these remain core practices. Line managers devote significant (RRC) and ship’s captain. time and energy to developing their teams. As a result, many of our Rehearsing worst-case scenarios strengthens our crisis people have strong specialist skills. preparedness. This exercise was part of a continuing programme Our ‘Audience With…’ initiative has proved extremely popular over of similar events. Stress testing our plans and processes is the years. Senior people share information about their departments revealing scope for improvement. Critically, these simulations and discuss key topics. The sessions are open to all on a first-come help key managers develop the skills and coping mechanisms first-served basis. Over the past year 1,266 employees have attended they will need should an actual incident occur. 43 sessions in our hub offices. www.trafigura.com/2018RR-case-studies We share best practice internationally and regularly relocate employees and their dependants to broaden and deepen their skills. We supported 102 (2017: 120) international relocations in 2018. 2019 priorities and commitments We are committed to strengthening respect, diversity and performance in our culture. The table below sets out our 2019 priorities. To build the technical capabilities and interpersonal skills of our staff. To develop people management and leadership skills within the organisation. To improve the efficiency and productivity of our workforce through The Emergency Response Team in Geneva, Switzerland continuous improvement of processes, systems and work organisation. To provide career development opportunities for employees who have demonstrated they are ready and able to take on increased responsibilities. We aim to achieve a 50:50 gender split on all interviewees for the graduate programme. To roll-out new workshops focusing on resilience to further develop our managers’ skills. 48 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Responsible Operations Operations Trafigura Foundation Providing long-term funding and expertise to improve socio-economic conditions for communities around the world. A decade of activity In 2017, the Foundation reframed its strategic orientation to maximise The Trafigura Foundation was established in 2008 to contribute to its impact by forging stronger, more strategic relationships. It now Trafigura’s philanthropic aspirations and in 2018, it marked its tenth focuses on programmes in two areas of activity: Fair and Sustainable anniversary. Over the past decade, it has engaged in projects involving Employment and Clean and Safe Supply Chains. Each of these furthers around USD58 million globally. the Foundation’s mission of improving the socio-economic conditions of vulnerable communities in countries where Trafigura has a presence, The Foundation uses its financial resources and technical expertise to driving positive and lasting transformational change for those who need support programmes that respond to specific local needs and deliver it the most. long-lasting results. Its governance structure ensures independent philanthropic decision making when selecting and supporting its various projects. 51 29 programmes financed countries of operation 48 $5.7m partners supported allocated in grants in 2018 NGO FairFishing works to develop a sustainable and thriving fishery sector in Somalia, an untapped economic resource for the country which has the potential to generate food security, create new jobs and provide an alternative source of income to those on the road to piracy and other illegal activities Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 49 Fostering Fair and Sustainable Employment The Foundation is also working with international NGO, FairFishing, to The Foundation aims to create employment opportunities for provide an alternative source of income to those on the path to piracy marginalised populations, such as people living with disabilities, and other illegal activities in Somalia. FairFishing’s programme aims to disenfranchised youth, smallholder farmers and women in develop a sustainable and thriving fishing industry. This is an untapped vulnerable situations. It believes that a market-based approach, economic resource with the potential to generate food security and which bridges skill gaps by strengthening capabilities and fosters the create new jobs for Somali communities. During the first year of creation of new jobs with fair remuneration and working conditions, partnership, 100 people, including fishmongers, chefs and household is an effective way to fight the root causes of poverty. cooks were trained on topics such as hygiene, fish conservation and cooking techniques. In Colombia, the Foundation supports non-governmental organisation Fundación Carvajal on a project to improve living conditions in the port city of Buenaventura. This city has to cope with alarming poverty rates; job opportunities are few and far between. The project provides financial, managerial and life skills for microentrepreneurs in Buenaventura to help them stabilise and grow $58m Total grants disbursed their businesses so that they can increase their families’ incomes in in the last 10 years (2008-2018) a sustainable manner. Carvajal’s programme aims to reach a total of 450 entrepreneurs by 2020. To date, 156 micro entrepreneurs Africa27% North America 9% have graduated. Asia21% Middle East 1% The Foundation’s innovative approach to the promotion of Fair Europe21% Global reach 5% and Sustainable Employment supports social entrepreneurs whose Latin America 16% results-oriented, business mindsets often produce financially sustainable enterprises. These not only advance pioneering solutions to pressing social challenges but also create jobs for their communities. Encouraging staff engagement In India, it partners with Sustainable Agro-International (SAI), a An essential part of the Foundation’s work is to maintain strong social enterprise which leverages the paper industry’s growing operational connections through its links with the numerous Charity demand for pulp. SAI provides farmers with inputs, such as seeds and Committees in Trafigura offices around the world. Each Charity saplings, as well as technical training and capital advances so that Committee raises funds and acts as a conduit for staff members they can supply this raw material reliably. It also teaches farmers who wish to engage in philanthropic activities by contributing time to plant multiple crops, increasing their families’ food security and or expertise. providing them with an additional source of income. To date, 500 Through the Charity Committees, the Foundation supports staff local Indian farmers have been trained and 441 have completed the engagement initiatives and generates awareness among its corporate plantation of trees and crops. colleagues about the challenges faced by communities where they live and work. The Foundation supports employee fundraising efforts by matching the amount collected for each initiative and by providing Promoting Clean and Safe Supply Chains grants to ‘Charity of the Year’ programmes elected by local offices. The Foundation aims to support projects that mitigate the social and In 2018, over USD500,000 was raised for charities around the world environmental issues caused by supply chains on land and at sea. It is via 17 staff-led fundraising initiatives. Four organisations were elected committed to providing communities with access to vital resources, as ‘Charity of the Year’ and all funds raised were matched dollar for services and amenities, such as markets, healthcare centres, education dollar by the Foundation. and last-mile delivery. The Disaster and Emergency Fund is another initiative involving As part of this focus area, the Foundation is collaborating with Trafigura staff. This was created in 2017 to provide post-disaster international organisation Pact to improve the lives of communities in relief to those affected by natural catastrophes in countries where Myanmar and in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) that are the Group has operations. The fund is financed through corporate reliant on the artisanal mining sector. e-card activity: the Foundation donates USD10 to the Disaster and In Myanmar, the Foundation financed a study to understand the Emergency Fund for each e-card sent by employees. diverse social, health and environmental issues faced by the local artisanal mining industry. For more information, please visit: www.trafigurafoundation.org In the DRC, the Foundation’s support for Pact (see p19) is strengthening The Trafigura Foundation’s financial year runs from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. local child protection institutions, providing vocational opportunities All 2018 figures referred to are calculated on 1 October 2018. to adolescents dependent on mining incomes and enhancing economic opportunities for adult family members within and outside the mining sector. By the end of the first year of partnership, this programme is expected to have impacted the lives of more than 200 children and their parents. 50 Overview Responsible Strategy Responsible Operations At a glance Trafigura’s core business is physical trading and logistics; our assets and investments complement and enhance these activities. Trading and logistics Oil and Petroleum Products Metals and Minerals Shipping and Chartering 275.2 (Total volume traded) mmt1 95.9 mmt (Total volume traded) 4,190 fixtures In a fragmented market where no single We are one of the world’s largest metals Our Shipping and Chartering desk is closely company has a dominant position, we are one and minerals traders. We negotiate offtake integrated into Traﬁgura’s business model, of the world’s largest traders by volume of and supply agreements with miners and providing freight services to commodity oil and petroleum products. Traﬁgura is one smelters and invest in logistics through our trading teams internally and trading freight of the few oil and petroleum product traders subsidiary, Impala Terminals, to improve externally in the professional market. with global presence and comprehensive market access for our clients. coverage of all major markets. Industrial and financial assets Impala Terminals is a multimodal logistics Trafigura Mining Group manages mining Galena Asset Management provides provider focused on export-driven emerging operations, develops projects, conducts investors with specialised alternative markets. It owns and operates ports, port technical audits of existing and potential investment solutions through its terminals, warehouses and transport assets. partner projects; and provides advisory investments in real assets and private It has particular expertise in providing and support services to Trafigura’s trading equity funds. It operates independently, but efficient logistic solutions in challenging desks, trading counterparties and Galena beneﬁts from the Group’s insights into the environments and hard-to-reach locations. Asset Management. global supply and demand of commodities. North America 260 Europe Employees 1,312 Employees Middle East Asia & Australia 38 989 Employees Employees Latin America Africa 2,482 510 1. Million metric tonnes Employees Employees 2. Volume figures as at 30 September 2018 www.trafigura.com/locations Trafigura Responsibility Report 2018 51 What we do We connect counterparties, build capacity and develop physical commodity markets reliably, efficiently and responsibly. We are adding value to the global trade in natural resources with exceptional service and performance across the supply chain. Trafigura – Value Creation End Producers Source Store Blend Deliver Users Processors Source Store Blend Deliver We negotiate offtake We store petroleum products at We blend physical commodities We operate efficient, safe agreements with oil producers, owned and third-party tankage. to regional, market and and high-quality logistics. We refiners, mining companies and We store metals and minerals customer specifications in move commodities by barge, smelters. We own mines and at Impala Terminals and thirdstrategically located terminals truck, rail, pipeline and vessel invest in logistics that improve party-owned facilities. and warehouses around in support of our core trading market access for our suppliers. the world. activities and for third parties. Trafigura adds value By transforming commodities By reducing costs By managing risks •• Global network •• Hedged financial risks In space •• Market knowledge •• Political and liability risk insurance •• Low financing cost •• Integrated systems and processes In time •• Operational efficiency •• Regulatory compliance •• Economies of scale •• Governance and responsibility In form •• Infrastructure investment •• Supply chain optimisation Printed by Pureprint on Oxygen offset which is 100% recycled and FSC certified. Pureprint is certified to ISO 14001 environmental management system, is registered to EMAS the Eco Management Audit Scheme, is a Carbon Neutral Company and has been awarded the Queen’s Award for Enterprise: Sustainable Development. Designed and produced by Group Charlescannon SARL Geneva, Switzerland Photography by Charlescannon, NTS, Richard Head, Edwin Koo, Bloomberg, WMP, Gareth Bentley, FairFishing Trafigura Group Pte. Ltd. 10 Collyer Quay #29-00 Ocean Financial Centre Singapore 049315 Email: enquiries@trafigura.com www.trafigura.com TI/0271.1e
