Communication on Progress Period 2017-2018 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Renell A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. During this last period, Renell prioritised optimising and reducing fuel consumption as well as extending the Nordic Ecolabel licence to cover our window washing service. As a result, a quarter of our fleet has been substituted with new more fuel-efficient vehicles and our Ecolabel licence now covers our window service. In the coming year, we will continue to work with the Global Compact ten principles throughout our daily operations and with the UN sustainable development goals 3-Good health and wellbeing, 5Gender equality and 12-Responsible consumption and production. Yours sincerely Simon Elleskov Director Sustainable development Goals Good Health and Wellbeing, Gender Equality and Sustainable consumption and production Renell’s goal is to advance sustainable development through our business practices and the solutions we develop. As such we aim provide a pleasant work environment with very good work conditions, which take into account both the physical and psychological needs of our employees. The priorities of employee wellbeing, gender equality and sustainable consumption and production are of utmost importance at Renell and as such a part of our overall strategic business priorities. Simply put, it’s good for business Healthy, non-stressed employees are not only more efficient but because of their near contact to customers, they are also better representatives for the company and can therefore strengthen customer and stakeholder relations. Supporting gender equality also makes good business sense providing a better balance in in the workplace in terms of employee input and ideas contributing to our sustainable goal. Sustainable consumption and production relates to our business practices of sourcing the products we use and the product we offer. We source products that are less harmful to our employees and the environment and offer a service that is certified as the best available in reducing related environmental impacts. In order to achieve priorities above, Renell works with concrete policies and tools within the guidelines of the Global Compact 10 principles. Human Rights and Labour Relevant Global Compact principles 1-6 Policies and goals Renell supports the principles contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the United Nations Global Compact. Furthermore we support the fundamental principles that protect workers’ rights defined in ILOsInternational Labour Organisation core conventions. We expect that all our business partners work with human rights issues in a responsible manner and we expect that all our business partners support the fundamental principles described in UDHR and ILOs core conventions as a minimum. Human rights abuses will not be tolerated. Renell will not engage in businesses with any stakeholders where human rights abuses occur. In the coming year, our aim is to continue to work with human rights and labour issues to ensure that all employees are treated fairly, with respect and according to the applicable laws covering our industry and to ensure that our influence on our surroundings is positively contributing to human rights support. Assessment Assessment of our policies, procedures, working conditions and employee rights occurs through the Nordic Ecolabel certification process, the annual environment evaluation (APV), the regular internal meetings and through an external CSR consultant. The APV is both compulsory and a good tool that enables us to look at the work environment, the ergonomics and the psychological aspects associated to our daily operations. A group (AMU) was elected to work with APV issues. The group members received competence building courses regarding APV work and they meet quarterly to discuss complaints, possible improvements and so on. A part of the criteria in the Nordic Ecolabel concerns the rights of the workers such as minimum wage assurance, third party insurance, training and education of employees. The Nordic Swan has become a very useful tool when assessing, implementing and measuring our performance regarding human rights, Labour, anti-corruption and environment. Implementation Our implementation is based on a hands-on/on-going strategy which means we are continuously working to improve the physical and the psychological aspects relating to working conditions in our daily operations. This occurs through one-to-one meetings as well as the general quarterly meetings All employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states the terms and conditions including salary rates and overtime arrangements. All employees are furthermore issued with a company handbook and instruction manual which includes: The company’s training and education programs Information on the company such as the company’s philosophy, the company structure and what the company provides in terms of social activities and facilities such as bathing and massage option, provision of computer access, fruit and drinks The company’s standard terms of employment such as salary, sickness leave, holidays etc. The company’s policies, rules and expectations regarding ethical and social issues such as, smoking, alcohol and mobbing policies etc. Work and machine instructions and education activities Minimum wage policy for both Danish and foreign workers Renell supports the local community through sponsor programs such as “Børnevilkår”, cancer foundation, Denmark against injustice and a number of local sports clubs. Regarding gender equality, we are a member of a an industry organisation which requires that all employees receive equal payment regardless of gender. Presently our workforce is devided into 45% men and 55% women. Renell organises various occasions where employees have the opportunity to get together, have fun and socialise. All employees are now able to train in a recently established fitness room in the cellar and Renell has organised free entrance to all employees who wish to swim at the local swimming hall. Renell prepares an action plan and implements the actions that are a result of the APV evaluation and of employee input. Measurement of outcomes Renell has been nominated for the CSR people prize which is organised by a network promoting social responsibility in businesses “Virksomhedsforum for socialt ansvar”. Renell holds a cleaning services licence under the Nordic Swan Ecolabel scheme which is an ISO type I label and we are in the process of applying for a licence covering our window cleaning. Complaints from employees were again non-existent. Renell has an excellent reputation both within the industry, with customers and the local society. Renell has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations Renell uses external consultants to assist is assessments, as well as implementation of planned activities and control of compliance issues. A team of two employees have been appointed as CSR responsible and they work closely with the external consultants, management and other elected internal groups to ensure a continuous improvement in human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Environment Relevant Global Compact principles 7-9 Policies and goals Our goal is to reach a stage where our impacts are minimised to the full potential according to available technologies and procedures We have set specific goals regarding chemical use, transport, waste and sourcing of related products we use both in the cleaning and our offices. Renell’s environmental policy requires reduction of environmental impacts throughout our operations. Assessment and Implementation Renell uses external consultants that work closely with the CSR team to assess our environmental impacts that include chemical use, transport, waste, sourcing and product use. Priority actions for minimising impacts are planned and implemented after which and evaluation is conducted to determine the effectiveness and whether adjustments are needed After the suggested action have been formulated, the CSR team reports to the management for determining the priorities, approval and resource allocation. Measurement of outcomes Renell continues to hold a Nordic Ecolabel licence and complies with the criteria, which surpasses environmental laws and regulations. The licence has now been extended to include our window cleaning service which means that all window activities are also compliant to the chemicals, transport, waste and product use environmental criteria. We are using more that 95% Nordic Swan certified chemicals in our daily cleaning and we are using 0,63 ml/m2 and an average of 5,36 L/100 km. All paper products used at our facilities are now Nordic Swan certified and we are working with our customers to replace paper products we dispense to them 100% Certified. All printing of information and marketing materials is also done at a Nordic certified printer. Using Goods and services that are Nordic Swan certified is an assurance that we are ethically compliant to National legislation, using the best available products in terms of minimal environmental impact and better for health. Anti-Corruption Relevant Global Compact principle 10 Policies and Assessment Bribery and corruption in any form is strictly prohibited. Business partners must demonstrate a high degree of integrity, honesty, professionalism and compliance with Renell’s anti-bribery policy requirements. Business partners must have a policy that prohibits bribery and corruption in any form. The policy shall be effectively communicated to all workers. Gifts are only acceptable if they are approved by Renell’s management and are reasonable, proportionate and made in good faith. Otherwise, it is strictly prohibited to offer or receive gifts. Facilitation payments are not allowed. It is not allowed to select a supplier based on a receipt of gifts, hospitality or payment. It is not allowed to make political contributions from company funds. Contributions made to charities or community projects must be approved by the Renell management and made in good faith. All expenses and transactions must be reported, properly documented and recorded. Implementation The managing director is ultimately responsible for handling any corruption or bribery issues. As licence holders of for the Nordic Ecolabel, we follow and comply with ethical criteria built into the scheme regarding compliance with laws such as compliance with all applicable laws. Measurement of outcomes Renell has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery External accountants used by Renell have not yet identified any related corruption or bribery
