LUNDBECK UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 1 LUNDBECK UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT LUNDBECK UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2 ENRIC ÁLVAREZ GUAYTA Enric is 63 and resident in Barcelona, Spain. In 2014, he was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease. Enric is no longer capable of making plans or seeing things in a larger context and he has lost his initiative. Yet he can still live at home. He has always loved drawing and painting, and his family makes sure that he attends art-therapy and memory classes. Enric worked as a customs broker until 2012, when he lost his job in a round of layoffs. LUNDBECK UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 3 CONTENTS Executive statement 4 Our business model and sustainability framework 5 Ethics 7 Society 8 Employees 9 Environment 11 Key performance indicators 13 REPORT SCOPE AND METHODOLOGY Lundbeck’s values and the UN Global Compact principles set out the framework for our business conduct and our sustainability efforts. We have assessed that these efforts directly support six of the UN Sustainable Development Goals and several of the underlying targets. This report represents Lundbeck’s ninth annual Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact and our non-financial report on sustainability according to the Danish Financial Statements Act. The report describes Lundbeck’s global activities and progress in 2017 (1 January to 31 December), and contains descriptions of planned activities and targets for 2018. The report has been developed without direct engagement of external stakeholders. The health, safety and environmental (HSE) data cover our corporate headquarters in Denmark and larger1 affiliates with research, development and manufacturing activities. Selected HSE data have been assessed by Deloitte in accordance with the ISAE 3000 standard to obtain limited assurance (see page 13 for details). The remaining affiliates are not included in HSE data. 1 Lundbeck affiliates with more than 50 employees. LUNDBECK UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 4 EXECUTIVE STATEMENT Lundbeck continues to support the UN Global Compact and to promote initiatives that demonstrate our commitment. I am pleased to express our continued support to the UN Global Compact. We recognise our corporate responsibility to respect human and labour rights, to commit to environmental protection and to work against corrupt behaviour. This report provides an overview of the progress we made in 2017 where we fulfilled nine of our 11 sustainability targets. It delivers additional clarity on how Lundbeck aims to contribute to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable ‘We continue to operate Development as adopted by the world’s nations. with open-mindedness, integrity and a high level of In several areas, we are currently evaluating the results we have achieved and are defining our future actions. These include our efforts to promote ambition within mental health, to reduce our impact on climate change and to manage sustainability’ expectations to our suppliers. The updated strategies will drive our behaviour and contribute to a sustainable development of Lundbeck. Our commitment to enhancing transparency of our actions is unchanged. I hope this report will inspire its readers to engage into a dialogue on the results we have achieved and the targets we are pursuing. Anders Götzsche Interim CEO and EVP, CFO LUNDBECK UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 5 OUR BUSINESS MODEL AND SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK Lundbeck strives for global leadership in psychiatry and neurology by improving the lives of patients. In this section, we outline our business model along with our strategic framework, achievements and targets on compliance and sustainability. Lundbeck is a global pharmaceutical company highly committed to improving the quality of life of people living with psychiatric and neurological disorders. For this purpose, we are engaged in the research & development (R&D), production, marketing and sale of pharmaceuticals across the world. The company’s products and development projects are primarily targeted at depression, schizophrenia, Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s disease. According to the World Health Organization, WHO, more than 700 million people live with psychiatric and neurological disorders globally. These are serious and life-threatening diseases that affect the quality of life of the patients as well as of their relatives. As these diseases also involve major socio-economic costs, it is imperative for the general society that new and innovative pharmaceuticals are developed. Over the past 70 years, new pharmaceuticals have revolutionised the treatment options, but there remains a large unmet need for new and innovative therapeutics. Focus on R&D is the most important pillar in Lundbeck’s ambition to improve treatment for people living with psychiatric and neurological disorders. We are specialists in our area and have approx. 900 employees working within R&D. We cooperate closely with strategic partners all over the world, ensuring the best possible foundation for innovation and the development of new treatment solutions. Lundbeck markets several different pharmaceuticals for the treatment of psychiatric and neurological disorders. You can read more about our business activities in Lundbeck’s Annual Report 2017 and on www.lundbeck.com. Our sustainability framework aims to ensure that our business activities are conducted in a way that mitigates the related significant risks and that supports the UN Global Compact Principles and the relevant UN Sustainable Development Goals. LUNDBECK’S SUSTAINABILITY UN GLOBAL COMPACT UN SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK PRINCIPLES DEVELOPMENT GOALS Ethics: Ethical considerations we make Human Rights principles while delivering safe and efficacious (1 and 2) medicine to patients Society: Our contribution to local economies Labour Rights and Anti-Corruption and actions to prevent corruption and bribery principles (3, 4, 5, 6 and 10) in any form Employees: Providing safe and healthy Labour Rights principles working conditions, respecting labour rights (3, 4, 5 and 6) and promoting employee development Environment: Preventive actions we take to Environmental principles minimise the environmental impact of our (7, 8 and 9) business activities LUNDBECK UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 6 Risks within the four focus areas Ethics, Society, Employees and Environment are continuously assessed and managed as part of the planning and execution of our business activities. As a research and development based global pharmaceutical company many of these risks are governed by detailed legal requirements or industry self-regulation. Consequently, we have established a Compliance Structure (illustration) to ensure that relevant requirements and controls are clearly described (documents), are properly understood (training) and are being followed, and that areas of improvement are identified (monitoring). Collectively the management of our significant risks aims to assure safe use of our medicine, avoid unethical conduct by our employees and business partners, provide decent, safe and healthy working conditions, optimise our use of resources and minimise adverse impacts on the environment. Based on this we annually evaluate our sustainability performance and establish targets for the coming year to enhance our risk mitigation, business processes and performance. The result of the evaluation and the new targets are shown below. TARGET 2017 STATUS TARGET 2018 Provide Code of Conduct training for all Update Code of Conduct and provide training Achieved Lundbeck employees globally for all Lundbeck employees globally Ethics Promote responsible and transparent Promote responsible and transparent Achieved interactions with Healthcare Professionals interactions with Healthcare Professionals Support mental health and well-being by Identify, pursue and publicly report on our Achieved analysing our role and defining further actions Access to Health initiatives within suicide prevention Continue the enhancement of our audit Achieved and monitoring processes Society Enhance the global process for evaluation, due diligence and monitoring of suppliers Ensure that relevant suppliers complete Not achieved business ethics training (comment on page 8) Employees Not achieved: 5.9 Lost time accident frequency ≤ 4 Lost time accident frequency ≤ 5 (comment on page 10) Work related diseases ≤ 2 Achieved Work related diseases ≤ 2 Reduce energy consumption by 3% in Achieved Replaced by internal energy reduction goals 2017 compared to 2016 Environment Reduce CO2 emissions by 5% in 2017 Reduce CO2 emissions by 3% in 2018 Achieved compared to 2016 compared to 2017 Recycling of 40% of selected solvents Achieved Recycling of 50% of selected solvents Zero environmental incidents with an Zero environmental incidents with an impact Achieved impact on the environment on the environment An overview of selected key indicators for Lundbeck’s sustainability performance is provided on page 13. LUNDBECK UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 7 ETHICS Lundbeck takes action as warranted to provide safe and efficacious medicine and we recognise our broader responsibility to support patient’s needs. We apply high ethical standards to safeguard the integrity of the stakeholders we interact with. Lundbeck strives to improve the lives of people living with psychiatric and neurological disorders. We pursue this vision in accordance with regulatory requirements defined by authorities and the ethical principles we have articulated in our Code of Conduct. Our actions are governed by these commitments and our dedication to the patients who need our medicine. We want to give our employees the best possible conditions to act responsibly. Every year all employees are asked to complete ethical training that places our Code of Conduct and relevant procedures in a business context. In 2017, the global training aimed at delivering a consistent application of the principles by practicing a four-step process for making ethical considerations: Think – Explore – Discuss – Decide. Employees and managers were encouraged to continue discussions on a local level throughout research, development, manufacturing and marketing of medical products. It is critical that the Code of Conduct and other ethical initiatives remain appropriate and support the organisation in making the right decisions. This feedback is ensured via two executive management committees that evaluate the company’s ethical performance and prioritise preventive actions. The information that goes into this process covers a wide range of sources including findings from Lundbeck’s internal monitoring, new regulations from regional or global industry associations, monitoring of media, proposed legislation and supranational initiatives related to the Sustainable Development Goals. The information is evaluated thoroughly and decisions are made to update established procedures or initiate new actions. Transparency supports Lundbeck’s ethical focus Lundbeck became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2009 and we have reported openly about our efforts to further the ten principles every year. In addition, our membership of regional and global industry associations has promoted openness about our ethical conduct. These commitments support our ethical focus for example by providing access to the results from our clinical research. We also disclose information about our interactions with and transfers of value to Patient Organisations and Healthcare Professionals. These interactions are well-regulated and include research activities, development of new treatments, exchanges of scientific information, support to patient advocacy groups and marketing. All information can be accessed on www.lundbeck.com/global/sustainability/ethics. We believe that the transparency initiatives that are being enacted globally will help promote the general acceptance of these professional relationships and their value to the enhancement of patient care. Long-term actions to promote mental health and well-being The leaders from 193 nations have adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). As a global pharmaceutical company highly committed to improving the quality of life of people living with psychiatric and neurological disorders, we take special interest in SDG 3 and target 3.4: By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from non-communicable diseases through prevention and treatment and promote mental health and well-being. One of the indicators for SDG 3 monitors suicide mortality rates. We share society’s concern that suicide is the second leading cause of death among young adults between the ages of 15 and 29, and that depression and schizophrenia too often lead to suicide. We know that mental illness deeply affects the individual, their friends and families. In 2017, we evaluated Lundbeck’s work to promote mental health and well-being, which includes a range of activities and initiatives at national levels. Inspired by these results and the long-term global focus established with SDG 3, we have decided to take on a more active role when it comes to suicide prevention. In 2018, we will analyse our role and define further actions we can take to support this goal. LUNDBECK UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 8 SOCIETY Lundbeck’s ambition is to contribute to society by improving the quality of life of people living with psychiatric and neurological disorders. We recognise our impact on other societal aspects and take action to prevent corruption in any form. Lundbeck’s most significant contribution to society is developing and delivering innovative treatments of psychiatric and neurological disorders. We are fully aware of other societal impacts that our business has at global and national levels. We would like to maintain a business model that gives patients access to efficacious medicine and also allows reinvestments in innovation to meet unmet medical needs. We recognise that healthcare systems are facing affordability challenges of innovative medicine. We address some of the complex issues related to pricing in our global pricing position that is available on www.lundbeck.com/global/sustainability/society. Managing a societal impact Globally, we engage a wide range of stakeholders such as healthcare professionals, patients, public officials, suppliers and partners. These collaborations serve specific purposes e.g. developing new knowledge about a disease; obtaining a required approval; or entering into an agreement to supply or purchase products. Collaborations like these generally add value to the local economies. However, we are conscious that these collaborations potentially may also adversely impact society. Our actions to prevent such adverse impacts take different forms operationally, but the essential principles are derived from our Code of Conduct and our commitment to the UN Global Compact. As an example, we ask our suppliers to prevent corruption, provide safe and healthy working conditions, minimise their impact on the environment and respect human & labour rights in the mutually binding agreements we enter. Specific suppliers are selected for a more detailed evaluation based on requested product or service and the supplier’s location. This evaluation process involves a review of prospective supplier’s commercial capabilities, their quality standards, the adequacy of their business ethics controls and their overall performance. Enhancing our comprehensive monitoring programme Since 2016, the supplier evaluation process has covered all new agreements made by Lundbeck entities globally. In 2017, we completed the evaluation of 524 existing collaborations to finalise the global implementation of our supplier evaluation process. Today, our comprehensive monitoring programme includes a wide array of activities including communication with our global business units, audits and investigation of reported concerns in our Compliance Hotline. Lundbeck’s Compliance Hotline is available for reporting legal or other serious concerns, which cannot otherwise be properly addressed. Reports are handled strictly in accordance with our global investigation procedures, including relevant data protection requirements and Lundbeck’s non-retaliation policy, which does not accept any retaliation or discrimination against anyone who communicates a concern in good faith. We received 20 reports in the Compliance Hotline and completed 15 of the initiated investigations in 2017. Nine of these investigations (60%) were substantiated and appropriate corrective and preventive actions were initiated. Five reports were made in the last two months of 2017 and the investigations will be concluded in 2018. Our teams of skilled auditors conducted 196 internal audits that covered research, development, manufacturing, health, safety and environment, marketing, sales, IT and finance during 2017. In addition, they conducted 171 audits at key suppliers and partners during 2017. All audits are documented in accordance with Lundbeck’s procedures and appropriate actions are taken. The valuable insights we have gained from the monitoring of our suppliers will be consolidated and discussed with relevant parts of our global organisation and senior management in 2018. This will include considerations whether to provide relevant suppliers with business ethics training, which we did not manage to do in 2017. Overall, we aim to define the best ways to improve our standards, minimise adverse impacts and most efficiently enhance our monitoring programme in the coming years. LUNDBECK UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 9 EMPLOYEES Lundbeck takes action to provide a safe and healthy work environment for our employees and to promote diversity and development opportunities for our employees. Lundbeck wants to offer our approx. 5,000 employees globally employment conditions that respect the individual’s fundamental labour rights, offer relevant developing opportunities and a working environment that safeguards their health and safety. Our supplier evaluation, due diligence and audits aim to ensure the same rights and principles are upheld in our supply chain. The internationally recognised labour standards as set forward by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and national requirements form the basis for our corporate policies for recruitment and diversity. We want to support a culture of mutual respect and believe that diversity among our employees contributes to enrichment of ideas that drive innovation and progress. Workplace assessments direct our efforts to provide a safe and healthy workplace. We offer regular training to our managers and employees to minimise the number of work-related accidents and to increase awareness of mental health at work. We have integrated our policy and procedures within Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) because we believe this approach holds mutual benefits and supports a culture based on continuous improvement, cooperation and business efficiency. Diversity in management maintained According to our target regarding diversity at Board of Directors level, at least one of the members elected by the shareholders should be of the underrepresented gender. In 2017, we had one female board member out of five members elected by the shareholders and one female board member out of three members elected by Lundbeck’s employees. At the other managerial levels, we aim to ensure that the proportion of the underrepresented gender is at least 40% globally. This target was met in 2017 and in recent years excluding 2014 where the proportion was 39%. Our actions to meet the target are unchanged. We will continuously offer equal opportunities for men and women across organization in accordance with our employee policies and guidelines. Dialogue promoting individual development and company performance At Lundbeck, we regularly run Employee Satisfaction Surveys (ESS). All employees globally are invited to respond to the same survey covering a range of topics within the areas of satisfaction and motivation, including the individual’s job, development opportunities and work environment. The ESS primarily takes place to support open dialogue within teams and enable discussions of topics that are most important to that team in regards to satisfaction and motivation in the workplace. Action plans are agreed upon and implemented throughout the year. Lundbeck has established a set of behavioural competencies, ‘My competencies’, which describe the most critical skills and behaviours needed to drive the performance and development of employees. The aim is to help identify how our employees best contribute to the overall success of Lundbeck and improving the lives of patients. During 2017, employees and managers used ‘My competencies’ in the annual performance review to set expectations, evaluate performance and work with individual development. In 2018, the work continues towards reaching the full potential of ‘My competencies’. Health benefits to our employees Over the years, Lundbeck has improved the health benefits we offer our employees. The benefits include easy access to training facilities, healthy lunch, health insurance, individual health checks and advice. In 2017, we offered a voluntary health check to our employees in Denmark. Four out of ten employees took the opportunity, which is slightly more than in 2015 when the previous offer was made. The results showed that our employees are generally healthy and their condition is as good as in 2015. However, 13% of the participants do not meet the Danish health recommendations. This highlights the value of our continued efforts to support the employees in making healthy choices. Our Italian manufacturing site offers similar health checks LUNDBECK UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 10 to everyone annually in addition to the compulsory occupational health checks for laboratory, maintenance and chemical manufacturing staff. Health checks are also offered at our French manufacturing site where employees are offered advice and training on good body postures and osteopathic treatment. Decreased level of work-related accidents Lundbeck strives to minimise the number of work-related accidents. At our sites with research, development and manufacturing activities, all accidents are registered and systematic root cause analysis is performed to identify preventive actions. In 2017, we intensified training to support the safety culture and raise awareness of working safe. We believe this contributed to the observed decrease in accidents per 1,000,000 working hours from 7.3 in 2016 to 5.9 in 2017. The accidents were less severe as the average hours of absence per 1,000 working hours dropped from 1.05 in 2016 to 0.19 in 2017. Despite the positive developments, we did not meet the established target for accident frequency (4.0). We are determined to reduce the number of accidents even further. The training in work related risks and safety culture will continue. We will enhance our preventive efforts by analysing trends and sharing knowledge across our sites in 2018. Last phase of the extensive REACH project The EU regulation for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) entered into force in 2007. After 10 years of hard work, Lundbeck is approaching an important deadline defined by REACH. By May 2018, we must finalise the remaining registration of substances and modification of work processes at our chemical production sites in Denmark and Italy to meet the Strictly Controlled Conditions. After completing the REACH project activities, we will move into the compliance stage, which will also require significant efforts. As an innovative pharmaceutical company, we expect to continuously need new substances, which require registration according to REACH. Our efforts to modify work processes to meet the Strictly Controlled Conditions remain relevant in the years to come. IMPROVEMENT OF SAFETY IN LABORATORIES The value of having conscientious and alert employees was demonstrated in a case from 2017 at our Danish research laboratories. Reports of solvent odours were used to identify internal leaks in the solvent waste system, which was replaced by an improved system. As a precautionary measure, all solvent waste systems at our research and production laboratories were investigated. Identified leaks were either repaired or activities moved to other laboratories. Additionally, in 2017 Lundbeck requested a qualified third party provider to investigate all laboratories with similar solvent waste systems for potential health risks. The analysis showed that no employees had been exposed to any health risks. In the coming years, all the solvent waste systems will be replaced with the improved systems and pressure tests will be conducted regularly. LUNDBECK UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 11 ENVIRONMENT Lundbeck promotes environmental responsibility by optimising manufacturing processes, recycling solvents, controlling pharmaceuticals in the environment and minimising our emissions to the air of CO2 and other pollutants. Lundbeck’s research, development and manufacturing activities are based on chemical synthesis. Consequently, we use considerable amounts of organic solvents, energy and generate waste and emissions to the air. We are managing these environmental impacts effectively through our integrated approach to Health, Safety and Environment (HSE). Our ambitions on environmental responsibility are cascaded from our HSE Policy and transformed into action through our HSE strategy. The strategy ensures that efforts are prioritised and coordinated to minimise our environmental footprint. For many years, the strategy has yielded many tangible results. For instance, at the end of 2017 we had reduced our CO2 emission by 64% compared to 2006. New HSE strategy and improved HSE system In 2017, we initiated the development of a new long-term HSE strategy by involving managers and employees. Through workshops we have gathered input regarding business development and future ambitions. The new HSE strategy will be finalised and launched in 2018. Our ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified HSE management system is the foundation for achieving our strategy and targets. The system’s due diligence approach ensures a coordinated and prioritised effort and enables managers and employees to think and act safe and green. Following a revision of the international standards ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, we have updated key elements of the HSE system. The scope of the system now reflects impacts in the value chain and stakeholder perspectives. Additionally, Lundbeck’s binding obligations have been made more tangible and communicated to the relevant parts of the organisation. All updates have been implemented and the HSE system is ready for certification in 2018. Expanding facilities makes energy reduction challenging The past year has been very challenging to Lundbeck in terms of saving energy. We are expanding our manufacturing and laboratory facilities, which increases the energy consumption at our chemical sites. Despite these challenges, we achieved our annual energy and CO2 reduction targets on 3% and 5%. Our overall energy consumption decreased by 4.9% and our CO2 emission decreased by 13.5% compared to 2016. These results were due to the termination of a research site in the US and execution of several energy reducing projects. We have reached a stage where it becomes increasingly difficult to reduce energy consumption while having increasing production volumes. We will continue optimizing processes and facilities, but have decided to replace the corporate energy reduction target with local energy targets. The local targets will provide better control measures tailored to the local sites conditions and possibilities e.g. targets related to reducing energy intensity for specific processes. LUNDBECK UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 12 Second consecutive recognition to Lundbeck Lundbeck has made it a priority to track and disclose our CO2 emissions. This effort was acknowledged by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which is one of the leading global environmental benchmarks. The CDP benchmark rates the companies’ ability to disclose and manage their greenhouse gas emissions. For the second year running Lundbeck has been named in the world elite by being listed on CDP's 2017 Climate A List. The A list includes only 106 global companies out of over 6,300 companies reporting to the CDP. Development of new long-term climate target In 2016, Lundbeck reached its long-term target of reducing CO2 emissions by 55% in 2020 compared to 2006. We therefore initiated the development of a new long-term climate target in 2017, which will include additional indirect emissions e.g. related to purchased goods and services (scope 3). We strive for getting the new climate target approved as ‘Science Based’ by the UN Global Compact, the World Wildlife Fund for Nature (WWF), World Resources Institute and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Through this we ensure that we contribute to the official target described in the Paris Agreement, UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP-21), requiring all nations to keep the global warming below two degrees in 2100. Minimizing adverse impacts on water resources As a research-based company, we invent new pharmaceuticals containing new active ingredients. A condition for obtaining Marketing Authorisation is that, we perform eco-toxicological tests and evaluate the environmental impact of these new active ingredients. Internally, we use this knowledge to design the manufacturing processes in a way that minimises the environmental impact. Results of eco-toxicological tests on a new pharmaceutical made us implement additional wastewater treatment in Denmark in 2017. By cleaning and neutralising selected fractions of the wastewater we ensure that pharmaceuticals are not entering the municipal wastewater treatment plant. Another example from 2017 is taken from our manufacturing site in France, where we have implemented a new method for analysing the wastewater and strengthening the control of our emissions. Our general effort to minimise adverse impact on water resources is also extended to our suppliers and part of the supplier evaluation criteria mentioned on page 8. Recycling is beneficial for the environment and business Lundbeck’s chemical manufacturing site in Lumsås has implemented a process to recycle solvents. After purifying the used solvents by distillation to virgin quality, they can be reused in all processes repeatedly. So far, this has successfully been adopted for toluene, tetrahydrofurane and acetonitrile. In parallel, several solvents are reused in specific processes. During 2017, Lundbeck recycled 56% of the nine most used solvents. This eliminated the need to purchase approx. 1,600 tons of solvents, which consequently saved additional resources for external production and transportation. We will continue to develop our knowledge and technical capabilities to increase the recovery of organic solvents in the coming years. LUNDBECK’S HSE AWARD 2017 Every year Lundbeck rewards initiatives that improve our employees’ health, safety or the environmental impact from our operations. In 2017, our Italian site won the award for their excellent work to optimise processes with the Green Chemistry principles as defined by the American Chemical Society. By improving the synthesis for a new chemical substance, they have reduced the amount of waste from the process to approx. 25% of the original amount and substituted hazardous starting materials with less hazardous materials. LUNDBECK UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2017 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 13 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS We consider the data presented here key indicators for Lundbeck’s sustainability performance in 2017. Please visit www.lundbeck.com/global/sustainability to obtain more detailed information and data from the current and previous years. INDICATOR Finished goods production Pieces 2,354,627,717 Chemical production Tonne 494 Raw materials, organic solvents Tonne 3,808 Water consumption (55% potable water, 45% unfiltered water) m3 349,943 Energy consumption MWh 93,413 CO2 emission Tonne 17,244 Waste (91% chemical waste, 9% non-chemical waste) Tonne 13,364 Waste water m3 320,183 Incidents with an impact on the environment * Number 0 Work-related accidents with absence Number 19 Frequency of lost time accidents * Frequency 5.9 Work-related diseases * Number 2 Internal audits conducted * Number 196 External audits conducted * Number 171 Compliance Hotline reports * Number 20 Employees globally * Number 4,980 * These data are not included in Deloitte’s assurance in accordance with the ISAE 3000 standard. H. Lundbeck A/S Ottiliavej 9 2500 Valby Denmark Corporate Compliance & Sustainability Tel. +45 36 30 13 11 compliance@lundbeck.com www.lundbeck.com/global/sustainability CVR number 56759913
