CATTINI & FIGLIO S.r.l. Communication on Progress for year 2018 to the UN Global Compact 1 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2018 to the UN Global Compact • SUMMARY: • Continuous commitment to the UNGC and its principles. • 2018 Status. • 2019 Targets. 2 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2018 to the UN Global Compact CONTINUOUS COMMITMENT TO THE UNGC AND ITS PRINCIPLES: As we are approaching our 10th anniversary from our enrolment in the UN Global Compact community, we are delighted to continue to confirm our commitment to the UNGC’S 10 universal principles. We feel that our Customers, Suppliers and Stakeholders are happy with our continued support to the principles that define a better work for a better world and wish to share our joy and pride to believe that this important achievement will be possible with our little contribution too. The year now coming to the end has been full of rewards for Cattini & Figlio and, despite the many challenges ahead, we feel this global alliance is feeding us with all the energy we need to proceed in the right direction and be part of the Companies that will set the standards for future operating models. Casarile, December 14, 2018 Lorenzo A. Cattini – Chairman, C.e.o. 3 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2018 to the UN Global Compact • HUMAN RIGHTS STATUS (1): • Cattini & Figlio never tolerated and never will tolerate any kind of abuse in respect with the universal known human rights. • There has been no reported case of inobservance of any human rights since the e-mail anonym hotline has been established in 2010. • Cattini & Figlio will endlessly continue to stress the importance of respect of human rights throughout its entire organization and to all stakeholders including Suppliers. 4 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2018 to the UN Global Compact • HUMAN RIGHTS STATUS (2): • Health and safety issues are covered by periodical meetings between employees and management representatives as well as by procedures included in the management model according to legislative decree 231, recognized by the Italian government. • Employees are represented by a serious and competent committee. • Cattini & Figlio has appointed a management representative for health, safety and environment duly empowered to act. • Plenary health and safety session is held annually. • The totality of employees is covered by collective bargaining agreements. 5 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2018 to the UN Global Compact • LABOUR STATUS (1): • Cattini & Figlio recognizes the right for all employees to associate to unions and confirms that the unions are not to be subject to any kind of discrimination. Year 2018 Total employees 249 Associated to unions 45 Above headcount exclude temporary workers. 6 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2018 to the UN Global Compact • LABOUR STATUS (2): • The use of child and/or forced labour in Cattini & Figlio’s plants as well as in our Suppliers facilities has never and will never be tolerated; no person will be enrolled under the minimum age permitted by the Italian law. Age employees from 15 to 20 years 0 from 20 to 35 years 72 from 35 to 50 years 142 from 50 to 60 years 35 above 60 years 0 Above headcount exclude temporary workers. 7 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2018 to the UN Global Compact • LABOUR STATUS (3): • One of Cattini & Figlio’s maior objectives is to take care of its human resources and to endlessly develop their potential through appropriate business climate, training, job rotation and other universally accepted practises. • During selection and recruitement of new personnel, only job specific issues are taken into account to identify the best possible candidates for the position. • Cattini & Figlio takes into account each person’s attitudes and performances only without making any gender, racial or other kind of discrimation. 8 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2018 to the UN Global Compact • ENVIRONMENT STATUS (1): • Cattini & Figlio takes care to minimise the impact to the environment as much as possible taking into consideration the inevitable constrainsts due to the fact that materials and manufacturing methods are specified by its Customers. • In FY 2018 we renewed our environmental certification to the international standard ISO 14001:2015. • In FY 2018 we decommissioned many old machines in favour of more efficent manufacturing systems. • In FY 2018 we removed a large portion of asbestos on our roof and isolated it for better comfort and environmental efficiency. • We use synthetic based lubricants to reduce consumption and emissions or, whenever technically possible, we use no lubricant at all. 9 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2018 to the UN Global Compact • ANTI-CORRUPTION STATUS: • Corruption has never and will never be tolerated by Cattini & Figlio: so far, no non compliance to our policy has been reported to the top management ouf our Company. • Our Code of Ethics has been updated and published on our website; it is extremely clear about non-ethical issues and our Company will stop or not enter into business relations with any third parties responsible for such painful acts. 10 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2018 to the UN Global Compact • STATUS 2018: WHAT WE HAVE DONE 1. We’ve been audited to verify the effectiveness of the voluntary management model according to the legislation act 231 with excellent results. 2. We’ve completed transition to the new automotive management system standard IATF 16949 in February and renewed our environmental certification ISO 14001. 3. We’ve performed a pre-assessment for future health and safety certification ISO 45001. 11 Cattini & Figlio’s COP for year 2018 to the UN Global Compact • TARGETS FOR 2019: 1. Continue to spread the UNGC principles throughout our supply chain and within our association; 2. Prepare for health and safety certification within FY 2021. 12 CATTINI & FIGLIO S.r.l. END OF COP FOR YEAR 2018 Thank you for your attention! 13
