COP 2017 CONTENT Declaration of Support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Description of Actions Human Rights .................................................................................... 5 Labour........................................................................................... 7 Envirronment .................................................................................... 9 Anti-Corruption ................................................................................. 15 Equality and Diversity ........................................................................... 17 Selected Sustainable Projects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 Cover: Mærsk Tower The Maersk Tower is a state-of-the-art research building whose innovative architecture creates the optimum framework for world-class health research. DECLARATION OF SUPPORT C.F. Møller Architects has since the beginning in 1924 had a strong focus on social, economic and environmental sustainability and this focus has increased over the years. C.F. Møller has played a central role in building Sincerely Yours, up the welfare states in the Nordic Countries, The partnership of C.F. Møller and exporting the concepts of social, economic and environmental sustainability worldwide Klaus Toustrup Julian Weyer since 1924. We view sustainability as a holistic practice, Mads Mandrup Lone Wiggers fully integrated into our Nordic architectural values. We see architecture as a creative process where we interpret our clients’ aims Klavs Hyttel Mårten Leringe to create buildings that work at functional, technical and æstetical levels, whilst also achieving high sustainability goals. Michael Kruse Christian Dahle Examples of this in 2017 are our increased use of wood and timber in buildings, and the employment of a new Head of Sustainability who is responsible for the enhanced holistic approach to architectural solutions fortifying local integration with a global impact. With this 2017 COP, the management of C.F. Møller Architects, again proudly wishes to express their continued support for the UN Global Compact and its 10 principles. 3 HUMAN RIGHTS At C.F. Møller Architects, the key to a sustainable and great working space, great facilities and strong relations is to run the company on the principles of human rights. We comply with European laws protecting human rights. At C.F. Møller, we make sure to protect our That is one of the reasons why we are members employees from workplace harassment, of the board in The Danish Association physical, verbal, sexual or psychological for Responsible Construction (Foreningen harassment, abuse or threats through clear and for Byggeriets Samfundsansvar), the new strong internal policies. association that develops and promotes social responsibility in the Danish property and We provide safe, suitable and sanitary work construction sector. facilities. This goes for our own departments in Denmark, Norway, Sweden and England, but is When we work in countries outside the EU, also of great importance at construction sites. we strive to describe and refer to binding We also make sure to only use sub-consultants legislation and human rights laws that must and collaborators who work by the same be taken into account. We emphasize the principles and policies as we do. importance on safety of the work to be performed and on ensuring that work is We try to spread our knowledge and performed in accordance with the human experiences on human rights to the entire rights proclaimed by the United Nations. industry. Policies: C.F. Møller Architects supports the UN Declaration of Human Rights. We support all current legislation ensuring equal treatment in relation to human rights. We have a formulated CSR policy which can be seen at www.cfmoller.com. 5 LABOUR At our six offices, we comply with national laws and regulations governing health and safety, organisation, working conditions, working hours, salaries, child labour and forced labour. We constantly monitor any problems in the We focus on ensuring a working environment health and safety of our employees, and that protects and keeps all employees safe. develop new solutions to improve working conditions at our offices. Our statistics on work injuries show that our efforts do work, and in 2017 we only registered At least every three years, we conduct a one case of physical work injury for less than workplace assessment (WPA) at our offices in two days. We had no cases of work injuries Denmark. This means amongst other things lasting two days or more. that we evaluate the working environment and any stresses, the employees may be exposed To safeguard young people working in our to – physical as well as psychological. The offices we have a policy to ensure fair wages results are analysed and shared with the entire for everyone including students. In our field of organisation at practice meetings, and plans of work, we receive portfolios every week from action are implemented to solve any problems. students who wish to work without payment. We do not think this is a fair way for young people to enter into the world of architecture and we therefore ensure that they receive proper reimbursement for their work and talents. 7 Stork Meadow Climate adaptation integrates resilience into the nature park that brings the unique Gudenå delta closer to the centre of the city of Randers and its ENVIRONMENT residents. C.F. Møller Architects focus on New Nordic Sustainability, where method and process are the drivers for our local projects setting new global sustainability standards. In this way C.F. Møller’s contribution to an Firstly, we focus on the sustainability services increased sustainable environment reaches where we can create greatest value for our much further than the location of our offices clients and users, and where we can integrate as a central part our integrated design these directly into our architectural methods approach which seamlessly blends urban from the earliest stages in the design process. design, landscape, building design and building This creates alignment between clients goals, component design. our working practices and environmental aims. To strengthen this even more we have in Secondly, we focus on our working processes 2017 employed a new Head of Sustainability and workflows, so that the creative talents to lead these activities. This stems from the of all our staff can be fully utilised in the introduction of our Core Values in 2017 to creation of more sustainable built and natural improve life for people and planet, and our environments. We develop best practice aspiration to be global influencers by caring for workflows and use continued professional the local context based on innovation, quality development to ensure our staff have the and sustainability. highest levels of competency. New Nordic Sustainability Finally, C.F. Møller are acknowledged leaders C.F. Møller work with a holistic approach to within Building Information Management sustainability within the fields of architecure, (BIM) at a European level, and are now using design and urban planning. We focus these competencies to strategically integrate methodically on three central strategies the necessary sustainability tools into our BIM needed to transform the concepts of workflows. This allows sustainable parametric sustainability into the built urban and natural design and documentation services to be environments we create. integrated into our architectural methods. 9 Nordic Light Urban Nordic We tailor our services, processes and tools to In each individual architectural design exercise, Nordic Water Light reflect the different stages during procurement, from acquisition, through the early creative we interpret and weight these three values differently, and this creative tension can be Light Urban Urban Water stages and to the detailed project design. This creates added value for our clients, building seen as the core of our architectural method We use this as the basis for our approach to Function Water users and the global environment. sustainability. We have defined four themes Users which sit between our architectural values. We Spatiality Function Architectural Values Function use these themes to define our value-driven At C.F. Møller we view environmental approach to sustainability. Users Context Users sustainability as a holistic practice, fully Spatiality Place integrated into our Nordic architectural values. Timeless Transformation Spatiality Creative tension We see architecture as a creative process A very long lifespan is the key to creating a Climate Context Context where we interpret our clients’ aims to create sustainable architecture with cultural roots, yet & interpretation Creative tension Place Creative tension Place buildings that work at functional, technical buildings need to adapt over time to meet ever and æstetical levels, whilst also achieving high changing needs. Timeless, longlasting buildings Timeless Climate sustainability goals. In this architectural process we use three overall design values: are able to express cultural and societal values and create meaning that stands the test of & interpretation Transformation Climate & interpretation time. This can be experienced at Aarhus Timeless Context: Where is the building located? What Timeless University, which C.F. Møller designed in the Transformation is “genus loci” of the place and space? How do we relate to the surroundings? What does the Transformation 1930’s, and which can easily be transformed and rebuilt to accomodate new functional Materiality Nordic climate and region have to offer? requirements for today’s users. Tradition Timber Modernity Materiality Function: Who are the users, and what is the As the operational energy of new buildings hasMateriality Tradition Timber building to be used for? What are the differing been greatly reduced, attention is now rightly Tradition Timber functions that need to be accommodated, and focussing on the environmental impact of Modernity how do they spatially relate to each other? construction materials. For new buildings the Modernity How may the use change over time? environmental impact of construction materials can be larger than the space heating demand. Materiality: How should the building be built? What is it trying to express? How do we A very long lifespan is therefore dependent C.F. Møller’s balance traditional building materials with on the functional organisation of spaces and architectural values modern construction methods? the positioning of loadbearing structures and building services around these spaces, such C.F. Møller’s C.F. Møller’s C.F. Møller’s architectural values 10 architectural values sustainability themes C.F. Møller’s C.F. Møller’s sustainability themes Timeless Transformation means that long lifespan is the key to sustainable architecture with cultural roots, where buildings adapt over time that the buildings can adapt over time to meet buildings are healthy and comfortable, whilst to meet changing ever changing patterns of usage, without also meeting ambitious energy demands, user needs. needing to carry out extensive rebuilding. such as with the Mærsk Tower at the Panum Institute, University of Copenhagen. Timber The Nordic landscape is dominated by forests. Urban Water Timber Linking carbon neutrality with the circular Whilst the Nordic countries are large and links carbon economy gives buildings that can potentially sparsely populated, the vast majority of the neutrality with the store greenhouse gases for centuries. population live in large cities and urban areas circular economy and in coastal, estuarial and lowland regions. can give buildings that This is the case with CLT (Cross Laminated Here there is a need to develop high density store greenhouse Timber) where we have increased our work, sustainable urban areas to meet changing gases for centuries. with more projects in Sweden and the UK, and demographics and economic patterns, assure with sharing this specific knowledge on TV, in open and easy access to natural environments magazines and newspapers all over the world. for residents, and ensure that climate change We are a part of a national research team in with incrasing levels of rainfall and rising water Sweden seeking to constantly push the edge of levels can be accommodated. the envelope of what is possible with CLT. C.F. Møller work actively with sustainable urban Nordic Light planning and water management. “City to the The Nordic countries are characterised by Water” is a far-reaching urban development unique daylighting conditions. From the long project that sets out to open up the city centre summer solstice to the short winter days, of Randers, Denmark, to the water and connect dynamically changing qualities of daylight the medieval city with its surrounding nature. are experienced. Daylighting has especially The heart of the project has been to find played a central role in the functional roots of and disseminate the different potentials and Nordic Modernism. Creating space and meeting synergy effects in the tension field between functional demands with the use of natural urban life, nature, climate adjustment, traffic daylighting has been a regional differentiator in and overall finances. The overarching aim is to the Nordic context since the 1920’s make Randers an even more enjoyable city for residents and visitors. Urban Water Nordic Light With today’s focus on CO2 neutrality and low integrates climate unites the energy buildings, we use daylighting as the resilience into nature architectural and architectural driver needed to ensure that and brings it closer to functional use of daylight city centres for the to create healthy and 12 enjoyment of the comfortable lowresidents. energy buildings ANTI-CORRUPTION We are committed to fight corruption and it is at the heart of our core values to never accept corruption of any kind. We have signed off on the principles of the We therefore have a strong focus on Corporate UN Global Compact values and our company Social Responsibility in all of our business, and policies reflect this charter. In 2017 we updated we have committed all our employees to the our Code of Conduct policy including measures following guidelines: and guidelines to prevent corruption. Copenhagen International School • We ensure, that all our employees are working within the confinements of the law The school building’s unique facade will be covered • We ensure that all our workers have a working agreement which safeguard their rights in 12,000 solar panels, each • We analyze our projects to assess whether they can entail specific risk of breaching the individually angled to create a Global Compact principles and we take action to avert the breaking of these principles sequin-like effect, which will supply more than half of the • We offer our clients to take randomized test of building materials on the site of production school’s annual electricity to ensure there are no breeches of the Global Compact Principles consumption. 15 Danish TIONALITIE Norwegian Swedish British NA HE TEAM S T FICE OF DE S EN R Associerede Partnere Vice-koncerndirektør Koncern-økonomidirektør ts | 1 Ic Arkitekter Afdelingsledere elander | 1 Irishman | 1 Designere/Interiørarkitekter Landskabsarkitekter G C ro a Sy r i a n e|2 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY |1R g ues om ani o rtu an | 2P |1 Sw s i ss ak ov |1 Sl Me |2 cape A rchite ct s | 1 3 Engine xi ar ia n | 15 L ands ers | 9 Te ch ca n Diversity is the cornerstone of an inclusive and creative high lg Norgeead ers London Aarhus nic København al Aalborg |1 Stockholm Il performing workplace. Bu /L lus Ca |2 s t ra ad na to He an di rs an ric ch /A me a n ss |1 2A 9 Br i st Au Women currently make up 43% of our Equity Partners, as well as 2 male employee |1 Women Men • 50 OSLO • 16 an st r n| ma c. O LM LON ts alia workforce and 45% of our office managers in representatives. et KH DO |8 OC N •2 n| Denmark. C.F. Møller is continually looking for Ger on ST 7 Pa rtn 1 So ati ch | st r ers ways to safeguard equality and diversity in Our Executive Management consists 3 uth order to continue being an Equal opportunity of 3 members. With 2 female and Co n st . M a n a g e m e n t | 2 |6 ards | 6 Pole s | 4 I t alians | 3 F Af r i c 0 •2 A ss o employer. For example, we seek to have at 1 male members, over 65% of the Executive ch. & RG u tc h least one woman among final three candidates Management are female. an | 1 D BO AA L c i a te 2 Ad for any management position. h. Te re n Pa r t n e rs | 5 I T | 4 D e s i g 330 C.F. Møller already comply with the 60-40 WOMEN 43% 57% Danish Norwegian Swedish British min IN TOTAL C.F. Møller adopts a zero-tolerance stance division between men (40%) and women A rc against discrimination of all kinds. We (60%) at the senior managerial level and MEN encourage employees to report any incidences 60% men and 40% women at the middle i AAR that they come across. C.F. Møller did not management level, and therefore the company pani 68 register any alleged discrimination cases in is not required by law to have an equal |6S HU N• S• ners HA GE 9 14 | 2017. opportunity policy for the managerial levels of 1 CO ns N A PE the organization. r i to B CO O 47 Our Board of directors consists of 6 members, s| B |1 11 CF s| ee O where 4 are recruited from our group of C.F. Møller currently employ 330 people with in n gia |1 Senior Equity Partners and 2 are employee 25 different nationalities. We encourage our Tr a He we |5 8 al or hc t representatives. In 2015 we set out a goal to managers to employ with diversity in mind s 17 N ct ar te hi Co e recruit two female members by 2020 and as we experience that this is beneficial to our s| Ar ns de e c 122 an ult we have not yet reached this goal. Our board workplace environment and gives benefit to Sw t now consists of 3 male and 1 female Senior our projects. 2 |4 es Da n 216 Women Men 17 SELECTED SUSTAINABLE PROJECTS C.F. Møller Architects strive constantly for new and innovative architectural solutions to improve life for people and planet. The following shows examples focusing on social and environmental sustainability that has gained international attention. Building with Timber and recently won competitions. We are The Nordic landscape in Sweden and Norway is contributing to spread the knowledge of dominated by sustainably managed forests. timber buildings as a member of a Swedish national research team and by participating in In recent years there has been a huge growth interviews and conferences worldwide. We are in the use of timber as a construction material actively working to promote the use of timber in the Nordic countries, because of timber’s in Denmark in cooperation with leading R&D positive environmental qualities, and an institutes. abundant supply of a renewable resource. This has also included the use of highly engineered Wood is the natural choice when it comes timber construction components of crossto materials for innovative residential Building laminated timber (CLT). These solutions development: It is an environmentally with Timber allow the use of massive timber to construct friendly and durable material which creates The use of industrial buildings of a much larger scale, with up to 10 a comfortable and healthy indoor climate wood products has created storeys. and, surprisingly enough, also constitutes a the foundation for innovation very efficient protection against fire. Timber and sustainable construction. C.F. Møller has currently 140,000m2 of is a renewable material, with low energy R&D initiatives within buildings constructed with CLT in the pipeline consumption and a limited carbon footprint. C.F. Møller have inspired in Sweden, Norway and the UK. This covers the development of the construction projects which are nearing The use of timber does not just have a positive Örnsro Timber Town completion, projects under detailed design, environmental profile. Since trees absorb and 19 Storstrøm Prison the world’s most humane closed prison, with architecture that supports store greenhouse gases from the atmosphere mental and physical well-being and also the inmates’ mental and during growth, the use of timber as a ensures a secure and pleasant workplace for physical well-being and construction material is a way to sequester CO2, employees. ensures a secure and as the greenhouse gases are removed from the pleasant workplace for atmosphere for an extra time, equating to the One of the project’s major architectural employees. building’s lifespan. challenges is for the high-security prison, which can accommodate around 250 inmates, to be Örnsro Timber Town less institutionalised. Örnsro Timber Town is a visionary residential quarter in central Örebro, in Sweden, that is The overall architectural intent is to create a built in solid timber and focuses on integrating facility that echoes the structure and scale of nature into the urban landscape. a small provincial community. This will ensure a familiar and varied experience of the prison The new urban quarter comprises several environment and keep the prison’s institutional apartment buildings of varying heights. The atmosphere to a minimum. The townlike buildings will be created with solid timber structure also resembles the surrounding frame structures, and will contribute positively villages, and is thus a natural element of the to the overall lifecycle perspective of the landscape. project. Timber is a renewable material, with low energy consumption and a limited carbon To create further variation, facades and roof footprint. In this way the architectural and ridges are angular in different ways and the sustainability goals are united together. facade materials alternate between lightcoloured bricks and a combination of concrete The residential buildings in Örnsro Timber and galvanised steel – all durable materials Town interact with the new urban city park, which weather beautifully and do not need that includes a variety of activities and plazas much maintenance. for social meetings and recreation. The urban city park gives the area an unexpected meeting The cells are gathered in units comprising between the city and wild nature. four to seven cells, placed around a social hub. The units have access to a living room Storstrøm Prison area and a shared kitchen, where the inmates Storstrøm Prison is the setting for the world’s prepare their own meals. The living room most humane and resocialising closed prison, areas are decorated in colours which are less with architecture which supports the inmates’ institutional, just as structurally-integrated art 20 and artworks created especially for the prison involves and develops the surrounding can be found throughout the prison. neighbourhood. A unique element of the new Campus Park is the zigzagging ‘floating path’ Daylight is important for people’s well-being that leads pedestrians and cyclists across parts and each cell has daylight flowing in from of the Maersk Tower. This allows the public the two windows, from where the inmates also opportunity to get up close to the building have views of the surrounding landscape and and the researchers while at the same time, the sky. Physical activity is also important for creating a new connection across the city. the inmates’ mental social welfare, and both indoors and outdoors, there are opportunities The façade of the Tower is divided into a for sport, games and physical exercise. relief-like grid structure of storey-height copper-covered shutters. The shutters of the Mærsk Tower façade function as movable climate shields, The Maersk Tower is a state-of-the-art research that automatically opens or closes according to building whose innovative architecture creates direct sunlight, ensuring direct heat gain in the the optimum framework for world-class health laboratories is kept to an absolute minimum. research, making it a landmark in Copenhagen. At the same time the shutters provide a deep It aims to contribute positively by linking the relief effect to the facade, breaking down University of Copenhagen with the surrounding the considerable scale of the Tower. In their neighbourhoods and wider city. The Mærsk expression, they also offer a sense of fineness Tower has won numerous international and verticality. architectural awards in 2017. The Maersk Tower hosts Denmark’s most The Tower is an extension of Panum, the energy-efficient laboratories, where waste Mærsk Tower University of Copenhagen’s Faculty of Health energy is recycled to a hitherto unprecedented award winning research and Medical Sciences, and contains both level, and where the building is supplied with building for the University of research and teaching facilities, as well as cold sea water from the Port of Copenhagen Copenhagen creates world-class a conference centre with auditoriums and which serves as a eco-friendly district cooling health research, and unites the meeting rooms, connected to the latest system. This in combination with the movable architectural and functional use technology. heat shielding of the façade and other energyof daylight, to create a healthy saving measures, makes the Mærsk Tower and comfortable low-energy By selecting a tower typology, there is greater the most energy-efficient and sustainable building allowance for a green and urban campus laboratory building in Denmark. park, which is open to everyone and therefore 23 Stork Meadow is a far-reaching urban development project, that integrates climate resilience into nature and brings it closer to Stork Meadow: City to the water proven the success of the method in creating the centre of Randers city in “City to the Water” is a far-reaching urban value far beyond the traditional scope of Denmark for the enjoyment development project. It sets out to open up masterplanning, and in unlocking the full of the residents. the city centre of Randers, Denmark, to the potential of cross-disciplinary approach. water and connect the medieval city with its surrounding nature, including the Gudenå River Mental Health Hospitals in London and the Randers Fjord. The first of two new mental health hospitals designed by C.F. Møller Architects, with a Few Danish cities have such a striking strong focus on healing architecture, has countryside lying right at their feet. The recently received planning approval from the aim is to supplement the city centre with a Royal Borough of Kingston Upon Thames. variety of nature experiences and activities that bind the town closely to the water, The Tolworth mental health hospital was opening up new residential, recreational and carefully developed following years of activity opportunities. First and foremost, the evidence-based research and consultation with countryside and water must no longer be a users, carers, clinicians and other stakeholders. barrier, but instead become a unique resource. The design seeks to deliver therapeutic and safe environments that meet current and future As an urban development project, a thorough user needs. analysis of various development scenarios has been carried out. They are created with a view The hospital wards are arranged around a to both urban planning and overall finances. In variety of garden courtyard spaces, providing this way, the consequences and opportunities direct access to nature and open air within a of various visions are actually comparable at an secure building envelope. Wherever possible early stage, before the dreams take hold. the architectural design seeks to create noninstitutional environments. Good sightlines, As a consequence of this, the Municipality attention to reducing noise, ample daylight, of Randers has now been able to choose an natural ventilation and access to garden spaces unforeseen and innovative path of future have been the key design goals to create development, which includes turning one of healthy and sustainable environments. the former port basins into a “lagoon” that can handle vast amounts of urban stormwater, The project is based on the principles of while providing completely new living qualities “Healing Architecture”. While there is great and infrastructural connections. This has variation in types of illness and service user 24 pathways in mental health facilities, a growing and warehouses that previously characterized body of evidence demonstrates the health the port. At the same time, the terminal has an benefits of design in improving patient ambitious sustainable profile, characteristic of recovery and outcomes. We have therefore the entire development of the area. employed “Knowledge and Evidence-Based Design and innovation” to find scientifically The main idea has been to create natural backed solutions in promoting optimal links between central Stockholm and the new therapeutic environments for patients, carers urban area by the terminal, so that city life and the hospital staff who care for them. will naturally flow into the area. The terminal is raised to be level with the urban zone, so it Värtaterminalen is easy for pedestrians and traffic to access. Värtaterminalen, the city of Stockholm’s new The roof of the terminal building is designed ferry terminal, stands out as landmark for social as a varied green landscape with stairs, ramps, and environmental sustainability. It functions niches, and cosy corners, giving views of the both as a new urban park for people to engage ferries, the archipelago, and the city skyline. socially and bring life to a new urban area, and as infrastructure securing a safe destination for Solar energy and geothermal heating/cooling more than 4 million passengers a year. are provided via the building’s integrated systems, making the terminal self-sufficient The terminal recalls the shape of a moving in energy. Värtaterminalen will receive the vessel and the architecture with large cranes environmental certification level Gold. Mental Health Hospitals in London based on the principles of “Healing Architecture” and “Knowledge and EvidenceBased Design and innovation” to promote optimal therapeutic environments for patients and the hospital staff who care for them. 27 OSLO STOCKHOLM AALBORG AARHUS COPENHAGEN LONDON WWW.CFMOLLER.COM ”  .F. Møller Architects’ core business is to create C long-term surroundings which are sustainable for both people and the planet, and which, in their social, environmental and economic aspects, create maximum benefit and shared value for our most important stakeholders.
