EIZO CORPORATION CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 Contents Corporate Information / Corporate Philosophy / EIZO Group Principles of Conduct – Seven Promises 02 Seven Promises 4: Open and Fair Trade 23 Financial Highlights / 6th Mid-Term Business Plan 03 President ’s Message 04 Seven Promises 5: Strong Bonds of Trust with Stakeholders Management Roundtable Discussion 06 Relationship with Each Type of Stakeholder 24 Our CSR Approach and Materiality Analysis 08 Relationships with Customers 25 Major Results of Activities in Fiscal 2017 09 Relationships with Shareholders / Relationships with the Local Community 26 Seven Promises 1: Creating New Value Seven Promises 6: Strict Respect and Compliance with both the Letter and Spirit of the Law Wherever You Look, You See EIZO 10 Corporate Governance 27 EIZO Solutions 11 Risk Management / Compliance 28 Competitive Advantages of EIZO 13 Protecting Intellectual Property that Enhances Value 14 Seven Promises 7: Broadminded Corporate Culture Quality Management Policy / EIZO’s Quality Assurance System 15 Laying the Foundations for a Motivating Workplace 29 Work Style Innovation / Human Resource Development 30 Seven Promises 2: Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations Our Global Initiative 31 Environmental Policy / Environmental Management System 16 Securing Safety and Health 32 Environmental Targets / Performance Report 17 Basic Product Development Sequence / Green Procurement / 18 Appendix Compliance with Environmental Standards and Legal Requirements GRI Sustainability Reporting Standard 2016 Index 33 Overview of the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations / Environmental Risk Management / 19 Comparison Table for the United Nations Global Compact / Independent Third-Party Assurance 34 Energy Consumption and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement Collection and Recycling of Used Products 20 Seven Promises 3: Operating as an International Corporation Editorial Policy for the CSR Report Development and Production Network – Coherent Development and Production System / 22 • Editorial Policy: We have compiled an explanation on topics we • Issue date of next report: October 2019 consider important and a report on the impact and effects of • CSR Promotion System: CSR activities come under the responsibility Sales Network – Group Companies and Distributors our business activities on society and the environment, using of the General Affairs Division, are supervised by the operating officer the GRI Guidelines as reference. responsible for CSR and implemented by all Group companies. They • Scope of the report: EIZO Group Exceptions to the scope of are also subject to a review by the CSR Committee, comprising the coverage are explained in the notes to the relevant sections. heads of each department. • Period covered: April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018 (FY2017) • Contact information: EIZO Corporation General Affairs Department • Issue date: October 2018 Tel: +81-76-274-2406 • Issue date of previous report: October 2017 EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 01 Corporate Information Corporate Information Corporate Philosophy/ Principles of Conduct – Seven Promises Company Name EIZO Corporation Business Activities Development, design, manufacture and sales of total visual solutions and related services Established March 6, 1968 Corporate Philosophy President Yoshitaka Jitsumori Address of Headquarters 153 Shimokashiwano, Hakusan, Ishikawa 924-8566, Japan Through the pursuit of imaging solutionswith advanced technologies,we enrich Group Sales 84,057 million yen (FY2017) people in their professionaland personal lives. Group Employees 2,325 including temporary workers (consolidated, as of March 31, 2018) Group Companies 17 (EIZO Corporation and its 6 domestic subsidiaries and 10 overseas subsidiaries, as of October 1, 2018) Development, EIZO Support Network Corporation (Japan) EIZO Group Principles of Conduct – Seven Promises Production and Sales Carina System Co., Ltd. (Japan) Irem Software Engineering Inc. (Japan) We establish the following “EIZO Principles of Conduct” as guidelinesfor each EIZO Group EIZO MS Corporation (Japan) employee and as a commitment to our stakeholders.We pledge to conduct our business in EIZO Engineering Corporation (Japan) accordance with these Principles. EIZO GmbH (Germany) EIZO Technologies GmbH (Germany) 1. We will supply high-quality products and services loved by customers through creating and offering new value by unique technologies and ideas. EIZO Rugged Solutions Inc. (USA) 2. We will promote our manufacturing and business activities in consideration ofreducing their environmental EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. (China) burdens. Sales EIZO Inc. (USA) 3. We will act as an international corporation with a global outlook and mindset. EIZO Nordic AB (Sweden) 4. We will conduct open and fair trade. EIZO Europe GmbH (head office in Germany and branch offices in Belgium, Czech Republic, Italy 5. We will seek to build and maintain strong bonds of trust with our stakeholders (businesspartners, employees, and the Netherlands) shareholders, and the local community). EIZO AG (Switzerland) 6. We will strictly respect and comply with both the letter and the spirit of the law as agood corporate citizen. EIZO Limited (United Kingdom) 7. We will respect basic human rights and value a broadminded corporate culture. EIZO Austria GmbH (Austria) Other EIZO Agency Corporation (Japan) EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 02 6th Mid-Term Business Plan (Fiscal 2018–2020) Financial Highlights Synergy Transformation—Creating a Growth Engine ■ Sales and Percentage Breakdown by Category (Consolidated) (millions of yen) 84,057 Basic Policy for the Mid-Term Management Plan 80,000 78,284 74,878 7,297 4,527 4,973 EIZO is shifting toward becoming a “visual technology company” that provides customers in various markets with 15,233 18,408 optimally tailored products and system solutions. In doing so, we are applying our world-leading expertise in 60,000 15,279 7,885 6,870 6,956 imaging technology, which has enabled the company to create highly-reliable products of outstanding quality. 5,749 6,355 5,470 Other Under our 6th Mid-Term Management Plan, we have embarked on the creation of an growth engine that will drive 40,000 Amusement 29,780 us into the future. More specifically, we are pursuing what we call “Imaging Chain Innovation,” the technology 23,408 26,097 V&S (Vertical & Specific) Creative Work that bundles together image capture, recording, distributing and displaying, in order to expand EIZO’s Healthcare, 20,000 Healthcare Creative Work and V&S (Vertical & Specific) domains and generate a new market. 17,991 16,822 18,111 B&P (Business & Plus) 0 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Priority Measures Numerical Targets 1. Business strategies in major markets Two-digit ratio Operating income to sales ▶ Healthcare (10% or higher) • Expand our domain in the operating room field ■ Operating Income (Consolidated) ■ Ordinary Income (Consolidated) through Imaging Chain Innovation. Consolidated sales for fiscal 97 billion yen 2020 (final year of the plan) (millions of yen) (millions of yen) • Increase sales in the endoscope field by enhancing 10,000 10,000 9,505 the product lineup and exploring new sales channels. 8,554 • Reinforce sales of diagnostic monitors by adding Operating income for fiscal 2020 (final year of the plan) 11 billion yen 7,500 7,033 7,500 7,105 Southeast Asia to the conventional markets of priority 5,698 and strategic markets. 5,081 ▶ Creative Work 5,000 5,000 • Establish market dominance by leading in the HDR*1 era Performance Targets 2,500 2,500 ▶ V&S Enhance the product lineup and offer total image Plan for FY2020 0 0 solutions to promote the business in priority markets, FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 such as those related to air traffic control, security and surveillance, and maritime operations. Other: ▶ Amusement 3 billion yen Business & Plus: Stay ahead of market changes to maintain the number one Amusement: 18.5 billion yen 970 position leveraged by R&D and production capabilities. 13.5 billion yen ■ Net Income Attributable to Owners of Parent (Consolidated) ■ Basic Net Income (Consolidated) Sales billion yen V&S (millions of yen) (yen) 2. Investment for growth (Vertical & Specific): (consolidated) ▶ R&D: Increase investment to accelerate “Imaging Chain 13.3 billion yen 8,000 7,138 400.00 Healthcare: 334.82 Innovation”. Creative Work: 40.5 billion yen 6,000 5,661 300.00 ▶ Capital investment: Aggressively invest in bolstering 8.2 billion yen 265.54 development and production, mainly in Europe and 4,202 197.10 4,000 200.00 Japan. Operating income/ 2,000 100.00 ▶ Higher productivity: Streamline workflows through the use of RPA*2 and IoT under Work Style Innovation. Operating income to 11 billion yen / 11.3% sales 0 0 *1 High dynamic range FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 *2 Robotic process automation EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 03 President’s Message “Imaging Chain Innovation” Creating a New Solution for Social Needs Towards a New Growth Engine Enriching Our Society & Future As released in May 2018, the 6th Medium-Term Recently, we more frequently encounter people who Management Plan outlines our medium-term goal are interested in the company’s SDGs (Sustainable of creating a new engine for additional growth. More Development Goals). Since a business should exist to specifically, we intend to realize our “imaging chain contribute to society, it is EIZO’s responsibility to play a innovation”; a comprehensive strategy for not only lead role in the attainment of SDGs. ‘Displaying’ but also image ‘Capturing’ and ‘Recording’. EIZO’s corporate philosophy is to enrich people in This will not only strengthen and expand our current their professional and personal lives through the pursuit of business models, but will also generate opportunities in imaging solutions. In daily life, images are everywhere and new markets themselves. our imaging solutions have in fact helped professionals We have been providing industry-leading imaging in healthcare, education, public transportation and many solutions for a diverse array of professionals by utilizing other industries to enhance the quality and efficiency of image display technologies we have refined since our their work, thereby enabling us to contribute greatly to foundation. The inclusion of Carina System Co., Ltd. in betterment of the society we are a member of. March 2018 to the Group has expanded the range of our technology and product development, enabling us to provide comprehensive solutions, from image capture through to display. This acquisition has provided EIZO with a more powerful and deeper technology portfolio to take on even greater challenges. September 2018 President, EIZO Corporation Yoshitaka Jitsumori EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 04 President’s Message Contributing to SDGs Attainment EIZO’s Growth and Employee Experience of 50th Anniversary & Beyond Fulfilled Lives In healthcare, one of our priority markets, we have 2018 marks EIZO’s 50th anniversary since our foundation. developed highly reliable, high-definition monitors We are also persistently addressing internal concerns. Since foundation we have consistently changed with equipped with new functions to enhance the accuracy As noted in the previous CSR Report, the ‘Work-Style the times aggressively transforming ourselves into a and efficiency of medical diagnoses. Moreover, we have Innovation’ project has been underway in our Japanese successful industry leader that continues to grow. used our influence to raise awareness among healthcare group companies to establish working environments Nevertheless, our future business models cannot professionals about the importance of displaying images that offer a sense of satisfaction and fulfilling work for simply be extensions of our past approaches. We will as precisely as possible. Long mindful of the need for employees while improving productivity and maintaining continuously seek out the next strategy for robust environmentally sound manufacturing, we have worked the high quality and reliability of our products. sustainable growth and understand the new roles EIZO meticulously to generate features and functions that Improvements identified and completed under the needs to play to enrich society further. enable users to automatically save energy. project during fiscal 2017 have already been successful, We welcome the comments and feedback of our It is clear, however, that we must further advance significantly reducing overtime work. We will continue stakeholders towards identifying the next answers to the level of our SDGs initiatives, and we are constantly to advance this project for even higher productivity and these vital challenges. reviewing our efforts towards creating and achieving new performance, enhanced satisfaction and quality of life as goals. In this CSR Report, we included information on our the cornerstone of any mature enterprise. businesses and how they are related to specific SDGs, as well as observations from the SDGs discussion in a roundtable management discussion section. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 05 Management Roundtable Discussion EIZO’s Business & SDGs How are EIZO’s business operations, products and services related to our SDGs and which social issues does and should the company address? Operating officers who serve as members of the CSR Committee discussed EIZO’s roles in relation to SDGs and our future business model based on these goals. Raised Awareness of Customers & Investors Relations Between EIZO’s Business & SDGs Hira: In the Japanese Sales Division we have had more opportunities than ever before to hear Hashimoto: EIZO contributes to society through its businesses while utilizing its leading about the SDGs and ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) from customers. In fact, customers technology and quality in ways that enable us to respond to such industries as healthcare, creative are choosing our products not only because they are environmentally sound but also out of their production and air traffic management, of which the quality of work is directly affected by image appreciation for our approach to environment and corporate governance. It’s clear that the general quality and monitor reliability. For example, quality is key to diagnostic monitors since a faulty public is becoming increasingly conscious of these issues. image display could result in a misdiagnosis. Moreover, image brightness and other characteristics naturally decline over time and so it is particularly important for medical-use monitors to retain a Arise: The same can be said about EIZO investors. In the Investor Relations (IR) Department we given level of quality for years in order to ensure the quality of medical care. have direct regular contact with investors. They are more frequently asking about EIZO’s ideals, visions and value chain strengths aside from our business environment, business model and Shimura: In healthcare, we not only provide monitors; we also conduct training in diagnostic competitiveness. The SDGs present an ideal picture for 2030, a medium to long-term period. I think imaging. While helping physicians deliver accurate image diagnoses introducing them to EIZO individuals and companies are looking farther into the future and becoming more conscious of products, such efforts also contribute to good health and well-being, represented by SDG No. 3. longer term sustainability. Hiraki: We reduce costs and recycle resources by reusing waste materials generated during our Murai: That’s exactly right! An increasing number of companies have declared their commitment manufacturing processes as packing materials for the shipment of components to other EIZO Group to SDGs, and more and more investors are engaged in corporate investments based on company Companies. This is our contribution relevant to SDG 12, or responsible consumption and production. approaches to the environment, society and governance; ESG investing. Since EIZO markets products around the world, stakeholders, including customers and shareholders have come to Hira: The Japanese Sales Division helps customers reduce waste by not including accessories, view EIZO’s social responsibilities as globally diverse and we have to respond to these expectations which they would not use in the package. sincerely through our business activities. Participants (positions current as of the roundtable discussion in June 2018) Yuichi Murai Masayuki Hashimoto Kazuhide Shimura Toshimine Hiraki Kiyotaka Hira Masaki Ebisu Manabu Arise Hideki Bansho Senior Executive Operating Senior Executive Operating Officer Executive Operating Officer Senior Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Officer Research & Development Product & Business Senior Manager Senior Manager Senior Manager Senior Manager Senior Manager General Affairs, & Human Development Manufacturing Accounting & Finance, & Quality Assurance, & Regulatory Sales & Marketing, Japan Procurement Resources Sales & Marketing, Global Investor Relations (IR) Compliance and Safety EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 06 Management Roundtable Discussion EIZO on the Way to DESGIN 2025 Shimura: Our monitors are highly reliable and last a long time, thereby helping users to reduce waste by not having to purchase replacement monitors for some time. Arise: EIZO’s DESIGN 2025, a set of discussions on EIZO’s future business model, presents a scenario for 2025. The focus is on changes that can occur in society by that time and the transformations Ebisu: Furthermore, at EIZO, the procurement, manufacturing and sales divisions closely coordinate EIZO should undergo in response to such anticipated societal changes and to help address social to adjust supply to demand and minimize waste of raw materials in production processes. As we issues. can also standardize and utilize common components in the design stage as well, we are able to further reduce the volume of raw material waste and better contribute to society. Our partners, too, Hashimoto: EIZO has so far evolved around displays, based on a business model in which we are committed to environmental conservation, compliance and the elimination of child or forced pursued monitors with unrivaled added value. Demand, however, is shifting toward solution labor based on the EIZO Supplier Code of Conduct. systems that handle all processes, from image capture to display. Monitors alone cannot respond to these emerging needs. Bansho: In recent years, standards such as TCO certification*1 and EPEAT*2 have incorporated CSR and supply chain requirements beyond product ergonomics and saving energy. As a company that We should apply our display technology to the entire image processing pipeline, i.e., image manufactures and sells final products to consumers, we should ensure even more attention is given capture, recording, display and broadcasting technologies, and provide a single solution that to our entire supply chain, which includes suppliers of components, units and raw materials, in would be far more useful in society and play a bigger role in the resolution of social issues. I hope order to pay due consideration to the impact on society at large. we will continue to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society by consistently responding to the needs of the society and markets while engaging in image information processes entirely Murai: For us to contribute to society through business activities, we should also tackle corporate capitalizing on our competitive technology. issues, such as working environments and diversity. Having a sound corporate environment is a prerequisite to producing outstanding products and services. Arise: That’s true, and I think we should combine two strategies: implementing initiatives during daily operations, inside-out, and creating a business that leads to the resolution of social issues, outside-in. *1 An international certification of a third-party organization to ensure that IT products are produced, used and recycled responsibly in terms of the environment, society and economy. *2 Green Electronics Council, an NPO in the U.S., verifies and assigns ratings to PC and PC peripheral manufacturers according to various criteria, such as reduction of hazardous substances, recycle design, product longevity, end-of-life management, and corporate performance. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 07 Our CSR Approach and Materiality Analysis We applied the following process to identify the material issues that EIZO must address through its business. EIZO’s Approach to CSR Our business activity in itself constitutes our most important social responsibility. We are aware ■ Organizing issues that our social responsibility lies in engaging in business with integrity, which includes contributing Organizing material issues for CSR with a panoramic view of the EIZO Group’s value chain Organizing to society with products, solutions and services, returning all the benefits produced through our activities with key stakeholders see page 24 for details business to society, and complying with laws and regulations while respecting human rights. In addition, with the view that participating in and supporting regional activities constitute part of ■ Evaluating materiality our social responsibility, we enthusiastically engage in such activities. Evaluating the issues to be addressed along two axes: influence on stakeholder evaluation and decisionIn this context and as the basic policy underlying our CSR, we uphold the EIZO Group Principles of making, and impact on the economy, environment and society from the Group’s business activities. Conduct, which serve as both a guideline for the EIZO Group and our promise to stakeholders. ■ Extracting aspects Extracting material aspects using the GRI Standard as reference Toward the Attainment of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) So that we can contribute to the attainment of the SDGs, adopted by the United Nations in 2015, we are exploring the fields and goals to which we can contribute. High Impact on the evaluations made by and Economy Environment Society • Economic performance • Raw materials • Employment • Procurement practice • Energy • Diversity and equal • Prevention of corruption • Biodiversity opportunity • Anti-competition •Air emissions • Respect for human behavior • Water discharge and rights Participation in the UN Global Compact decision making of stakeholders • Local communities waste disposal EIZO joined the UN Global Compact, or the UNGC, in September 2012. The UNGC is an international • Marketing and labeling initiative in which businesses voluntarily participate and exercise responsible and creative leadership so that they may act as good social members and thereby seek their sustainable growth. As a participant of the UNGC and a leader who supports the ten CSR basic principles, EIZO Low High is committed to protecting human rights, eliminating Impact on the economy, environment and society wrongful labor practices, treating the environment properly from the Group’s business activities and preventing corruption. ■ Reconfirming Principles of Conduct Reconfirming they are represented in the EIZO Group Principles of Conduct – Seven Promises see page 02 for details EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 08 Major Results of Activities in Fiscal 2017 The following table shows the major results of our activities in fiscal 2017 as well as newly disclosed information. Report Seven Promises Major Results of Activities in Fiscal 2017 and Newly Disclosed Information Fiscal 2018 Activity Goals Relevant SDGs Related Business Activities Page Activity We launched EIZO-branded 2D and 3D surgical monitors, making a full-fledged entry into the surgical/endoscopy monitor market. We also started a service for uniformly managing quality We will continue striving to provide control operations such as regular inspection and repair of monitors for use in hospitals. products and services that contribute • Launch of monitors for electronic charts and operating rooms to addressing social issues by • Launch of a surveillance monitor for observing train platforms P.6-7 Creating New Value creating and offering new value • Launch of a monitor for use at air traffic control towers P10-15 Disclosure through our pursuit of unique ideas • Launch of a monitor for use in vessel cockpits Operating officers serving as members of EIZO’s CSR Committee took part in a roundtable and technologies. talk on the roles of the Company to address social issues and contribute to the attainment of SDGs. The roundtable talk is included in this CSR Report. see page 6 Activity Environmental We attained Environmental Targets for all items except “reduced fuel consumption. We will continue creating • Proper control and reduction of use of chemical substances Consideration see page 17 products and promoting business • Development of energy-saving monitors activities with the aim of reducing for Our Products environmental impact in accordance • Reduction of energy consumption P.16-20 Disclosure and Business • Environmental Policy (2) We extended the Scope 3 calculation to include overseas consolidated subsidiaries for all items with our environmental targets. Operations • Energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions Categories 1 (purchased goods and services), 4 (upstream transportation and distribution) and see page 17 6 (business travel). see page 20 We will endeavor to grow into a • Group companies and distributors around the world with customers in more Operating as an more mature group of companies by than 80 countries or regions, and production sites in Japan, Europe, the U.S. Activity respecting the cultures and other values and China International We continued to hold EIZO United in fiscal 2017 and strengthened bonds inside the Group particular to each member’s country • Efforts related to conflict minerals P.21-22 Corporation through an exchange of information on technologies, market trends and business strategies. or region and by maintaining close Retrospective survey with our supply chain participants by using the Conflict connections among the members. Minerals Template, which is an international standard format We will continue to conduct open and • Environmental conservation Activity fair trade as a matter of course while Proper disclosure of information about chemical substances, including those Open and Fair We obtained an agreement on the EIZO Supplier Code of Conduct in the form of the Supplier seeking to establish relationships of of very high concern P.23 Trade trust based on mutual prosperity with • Compliance related to the prohibition of offering or accepting bribes, excessive Declaration from all business partners involved in procurement. our suppliers. entertainment, gifts, etc., for the purpose of obtaining improper benefits Activity We continued to sponsor various organizations and activities and make donations to them, thereby building and maintaining good relationships with the local communities in which Strong Bond we operate. As a member of these communities, we contribute to the development of the We will strive to forge even stronger • IR (investor relations) activities of Trust with regions as well as environmental efforts. bonds with our stakeholders through • Participation in local volunteer activities P.24-26 Stakeholders ongoing dialogue. • Donations to and sponsorship of local organizations Disclosure We continued to introduce initiatives that contribute to local communities, not only at the head office in Japan but also at overseas Group companies. see page 26 Strict Respect and Disclosure We will maintain our efforts to raise Compliance with We continued to improve the soundness and transparency of management and reinforce awareness of compliance among the monitoring function. Officers and other employees were thoroughly reminded of the officers and other employees and strive • Compliance training and the internal whistle-blowing system P.27-28 both the Letter and to reinforce risk management and EIZO Group Principles of Conduct—The Seven Promises. Also, educational activities to raise Spirit of the Law awareness about compliance were carried out. governance. Disclosure • Support for the active participation of women Broadminded We will further promote activities of the • Groundwork for a motivating workplace We evaluated the FY2017 activities of Work Style Innovation, our initiative to balance employee Work Style Innovation initiative to attain P.29-32 Corporate Culture • Promotion of careers of persons with disabilities happiness with company growth, and we published the results. see page 30 a 50% reduction of overtime work. • Respect for human rights EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 09 Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value We will supply high-quality products and services loved by customers through creating and offering new value by unique technologies and ideas. In accordance with our belief that business is a social responsibility, we listen and respond to customer requests and needs and relentlessly pursue proprietary technologies and ideas toward creating and offering new sets of values that will enrich our culture, society and daily life. Wherever You Look, You See EIZO Visual solutions enrich every setting of daily life. EIZO, as a “Visual Technology Company,” delivers a sense of security and inspiration with its systems that add unique value to visual displays. 1 Office 9 Marine vessels For business Professional photography, 9 Equipment for cockpits and printing, design, video production inter-vessel security control 1 and other creative work 2 Airport 2 8 Educational facilities 3 8 6 7 5 Air traffic control and ticketing 4 For search systems at libraries operations and online learning at schools 3 Hospital 4 Railway 5 Factory 6 Commercial and leisure facilities 7 Home Equipment for consultations, exams and For railway platform monitoring For machine operation and For security control inside facilities For displaying websites, editing operating rooms security control photos, playing games, etc. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 10 Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value EIZO Solutions Surgical and Endoscopy Monitors with the EIZO Name Launched to Enhance our Lineup For the Business & Plus Markets for the Market Pursuing User Comfort and Energy Conservation to Raise Computer Work Efficiency and Energy Saving In 2017, we launched a surgical monitor and an endoscopic monitor, both under the EIZO brand, The FlexScan series, which has been introduced to a number of financial businesses, features to enhance our product lineup. The 2D and functions and structures suitable for long-hour and multiple data operations. The series supports a 3D monitors reproduce in high definition comfortable environment and work efficiency by offering a virtually frame-less design that allows for the images of microscopic and endoscopic seamless viewing across a multi-monitor configuration and reduced blue-light and screen reflection surgery. CuratOR EX3220-3D / EX2620-3D CuratOR EX3140 to alleviate eye fatigue, as well as a mechanism and circuit design that controls noise and flickering. Energy-Saving EIZO Monitor Selected by Zuiderzeeland Regional Water Authority For the Creative Work Markets Zuiderzeeland Regional Water Authority operating water and sewage plants in the Dutch Raising Work Efficiency by Displaying and Maintaining Accurate Colors province of Flevoland, launched a full-scale countermeasure against climate change in the We are committed to color reproduction quality and seek to enhance efficiency and accuracy summer of 2017 and has since transformed its office with a view to the future. For instance, in every creative setting by offering monitor solutions that facilitate achieving and maintaining they decided to replace their PC monitors in their efforts to reduce office energy use. After accurate color display. Our ColorEdge series of color management monitors and the exclusive comparing several products, they selected EIZO’s FlexScan EV2450 for its excellent energycalibration software installed with the monitor enable users to adjust the displays. With a saving performance, which allowed corresponding color management solution, allowing for the management of multiple ColorEdge the water authority to halve its monitors online, the monitor administrator can remotely and simultaneously set the color mode power consumption, compared to for several monitors. This enables users to maintain a uniform color display throughout the entire the monitor it previously used. workflow, from production to referencing, regardless of their role in the process, and thereby boosts work efficiency. Office spaces Color-matching Solution Receives the Good Design Award for FY2017 For the Healthcare Market The combination of the Quick Color Match, a software supporting color-matching between a Constructing Optimal Visual Environments to Keep Pace with Advances in Healthcare monitor and photo printer, and the ColorEdge CS2730, a 27-inch LCD monitor, received the Good In today’s increasingly advanced and complicated healthcare systems, not only healthcare doctors Design Award for FY2017. but also nurses, clinical engineers and other healthcare professionals are cooperating in the Color-matching between a monitor and printout is challenging except for those using treatment of patients. It is therefore essential to create environments that facilitate information Quick Color Match and the ColorEdge CS2730, since this combination accurately displays sharing and cooperation. Moreover, there is now a much greater need for efficiency in viewing colors when printing on paper, and the user does not feel any massive amounts of various image data, generated at hospitals using state-of-the-art imaging frustration. The ColorEdge CS2730 is wide enough to display an instruments (modalities), and due to the spread of operating rooms hybridization. EIZO provides image in the A3-plus size despite its slim, flat design. consulting services to propose comprehensive visual solutions that encompass image display equipment and image control software, as well as network layout, toward the construction of the optimal visual environment that meets operating room needs and development of innovations in ColorEdge CS2730 / Quick Color Match visual environments for medical care. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 11 Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value For the Vertical & Specific Markets Responding to Needs Varies Depending on Monitor Use and Environment as We Support One of Europe’s Main Meat Suppliers Reduces Monitoring and Control Costs with EIZO’s Operations with Highly Reliable Display Performance IP Monitor ATC (Air Traffic Control) Sopraco is a major meat supplier in Europe for wholesalers, supermarket chains, butchers, We support the important mission of ensuring safety in the sky by providing the total solution for and the hospitality industry. To ensure the best food safety and quality, the company visual environments required by ATC. This includes monitors, graphic boards and video recorders monitors all processes from production to shipment, around the clock, using more than 100 used in air traffic control towers, control centers and training & simulation facilities. IP cameras. These also capture people as they enter or leave the factory as well as the license Maritime plates of vehicles. EIZO provides display monitors with high reliability and that meet various standards for ships under At Sopraco, these images are viewed on the DuraVision FDF2304W-IP, EIZO’s 23-inch the harsh environment inside these vessels as well as excellent display performance. Our image IP monitor, and the FDF4627W-IP, the 46-inch model. The company chose these because display systems are used in pilothouses and for a range of onboard applications, such as surveillance they do not require the use of and monitoring instruments, and are thereby contributing to ensuring safe navigation. a PC or any other hardware or viewer software. Additionally, they are easy to set up and costEIZO Launched a 46-inch LCD Touch Panel Monitor in Response to Digital Charts and Ineffective, with high IP decoding vessel Networking performance, image quality and Sopraco in Belgium DuraVision FDF2304W-IP In 2017, we launched the DuraVision MDF4601WT, a 46operability. inch high-definition touch panel monitor that displays electronic charts and thereby allows users to examine water routes and monitor navigation. Moreover, it Factory Automation serves as a chart table when installed horizontally, We provide products that withstand dust and dripping water and ensure clarity of display, as well which several people can read easily since it is flat with as a variety of housings, to flexibly respond to diverse needs for incorporation into equipment and no dents or protrusions on the bezel. The projected systems. capacitive touch panel allows for ten simultaneous operations. For the Amusement Market DuraVision MDF4601WT Enlivening the Market by Providing Products Supported by Our Technological Excellence We design and manufacture LCD monitors installed in pachinko Security & Surveillance equipment, capitalizing on the EIZO Group’s advanced visual As the need for security and surveillance broadens, we contribute to enhancing public safety display technology. Our products enliven the amusement market with products that feature superior display performance under varying conditions. These include by offering a realistic expression of images and stories with a IP monitors that can be directly linked to surveillance (IP) cameras and monitors mounted with strong gaming feel, and they become customer favorites year proprietary technology for improving visibility. after year. ©SANYOBUSSAN CO., LTD. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 12 Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value Excellence in Development and Quality Competitive Advantages of EIZO Development Since its founding, the EIZO Group has consistently focused its technology and passion on creating visual In the course of creating visual display products, we have gained the full spectrum of technologies display products. We continue to concentrate our energy and efforts on developing products that are a required for developing monitors. This in turn has enabled us to quickly deliver new, cutting-edge step ahead of the times by using advanced devices and pursuing cutting-edge technologies. Our goal is to products and high-quality products with enhanced functionality. deliver reliable, high-quality products that both satisfy and inspire our customers. The outcomes of all these Quality efforts are EIZO’s competitive advantages: our business model, excellence in development and quality, and Consistent quality control through 100% self-development and self-production our global network. We have always been committed to 100% self-development and self-production. One of our competitive advantages lies in our ability to integrate quality control, from development and Business Model manufacturing to after-sales service, and we remain committed to working in concert Group-wide The Imaging Chain Innovation, which encompasses the technology for the capturing, recording, to further enhance quality. distributing, and displaying of images, enables us to provide solutions for a number of different Development of environmentally sound products markets. We have a proven track record of incorporating the principle of environmental preservation into product development, and since the early years of our company, we have been highly regarded in Europe, where environmental standards are particularly stringent. As public concern for the environment grows, we will work harder to develop environmentally sound products by, for example, actively participate in the formulation of environmental standards. Rigorous attention to quality control The key to the success of our products is the stringent inspections we conduct on the image quality of our monitors at different stages, from development to production. We make every effort to ensure that the image quality of all our products is reviewed at the highest level of accuracy from the perspective of the user, through measures such as confirming inspection criteria by human eye as well as by machine. Global Network We leverage our extensive capabilities by generating synergies in development, production and sales among our 17 Group companies worldwide. For details on our global network, please refer to page 21. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 13 Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value Centralized Management of Intellectual Property for the Entire Group Protecting Intellectual Property that Enhances Value We have centralized the management of all intellectual property (including patents, design rights, We actively seek to obtain patents and design rights for the technologies and designs created through and trademarks) owned by the Group and encourage the creation of intellectual property Groupproduct development. wide. We have also established a system to facilitate the use of intellectual property and sharing of Our recent focus has been on attaining patents and design rights in countries and regions related information among Group companies. where we expect product sales to grow such as China, India and Russia, in addition to Japan, Europe and the United States, currently our main markets. Our overall goal is to construct a global network Creating Intellectual Property and Obtaining Rights of intellectual property. We have introduced a survey and application procedure for patents and designs to our product We also believe that trademarks, including the names of our company and products, are key to development process with the aim of preventing missed opportunities for identifying new core and protecting and enhancing EIZO brand value. We therefore strive to obtain and maintain trademark peripheral technologies created during the process. rights in all the countries where we sell our products. Our goal is to ensure that every patent or design application technology is being utilized as a powerful patent or design right which is useful in our business. To achieve this, we strategically ■ Number of Patents Obtained by the EIZO Group select target countries for the applications and develop a network of patents and design rights 400 371 2 centered on application technologies. Japan Australia 332 25 350 296 309 2 17 2 24 In addition, we regularly assess the value of patents and design rights to manage our intellectual U.S.A. Russia 280 2 6 23 300 2 2 13 20 17 property appropriately. Europe Other 1 1 11 250 232 4 7 93 100 China 183 1 90 91 86 Encouraging the Creation of Intellectual Property 200 6 56 139 1 23 24 31 40 45 We have established and manage an incentive program for employee inventions to encourage 150 131 125 45 21 9 6 6 17 staff to produce patents and designs. We also have an internal awards program for inventors and 37 37 100 14 37 14 164 170 155 150 152 creators of patents and designs that have contributed to our business. 14 147 114 50 82 71 68 Respect for Intellectual Property Rights 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal Year) Beyond creating intellectual property, we also exercise the utmost care to ensure our products and applied technologies do not infringe upon any third-party intellectual property rights. In the ■ Areas the EIZO Brand Has Penetrated (Countries with Trademark Protection) event that a third party is found to have infringed upon the intellectual property rights of EIZO, we demand that appropriate action be taken to protect these rights. ■ Countries with trademark protection EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 14 Seven Promises 1 Creating New Value Planning and Development Process EIZO is engaged in the planning and development of high-quality products based on its core Quality Management Policy competencies, which include video signal transmission technology, development and processing technology for display devices, image processing algorithms and environmental compliance. We The EIZO Group is committed to continually fulfilling customers’ expectations by proposing maintain complete compliance with the rules, laws and regulations of each country as well as and offering high quality products, services, and solutions, and therefore we will: various certification standards at the development stage while also rigorously assessing risks for 1 Aim to develop high-quality products by pursuing the world’s highest level of technology. each market and application. Moreover, we verify processes based on reliability standards that reflect diverse events, including cases 2 Carry out our responsibility for environmental preservation by actively reducing our impact from both in and outside the company. on the environment in every business activity, from product development to manufacturing, sales and service. To offer a rapid, flexible response, which includes customizing 3 Set quality targets to be carried out and reviewed by all the employees in every business products to meet customer needs, we maintain close collaboration activity. with our development partners and suppliers throughout product 4 Establish a quality management system, periodically review it, and continually improve it to planning and development. sustain its validity and suitability. Manufacturing Process 5 Respond to the trust of both medical professionals and patients by providing medical equipment with assured quality, effectiveness and safety. At left are the comments of an employee involved in manufacturing EIZO products. Each employee works with a strong commitment to the 6 Comply with legal and social requirements. manufacture of products with superior quality and reliability and that can be used with confidence. To achieve and maintain high product quality, we provide specialized employee training for each task at the Training Center inside EIZO’s Quality Assurance System the manufacturing site. In addition, we are automating the production lines at our new factory building to raise the efficiency of production Under our Quality Management Policy, we seek to deliver while reducing employee workload. We are also actively utilizing IoT to PDCACycle a sense of security and excitement to customers and Stop looking for the reasons why you cannot do it. monitor product quality in real time to facilitate quick feedback. other people who depend on EIZO products. We do Think seriously about how you can do it!! this by constructing an integrated quality management system encompassing the entire process, from planning Sales and After-sales Services Act and development to manufacturing, sales and after-sales EIZO conducts its sales and after-sales services through Group companies and distributors, Check service. constantly sharing the latest necessary information with them throughout our global network. To Additionally, we have obtained certification under ensure that customers can use our products with confidence, we organize user training seminars. the international quality management standard ISO 9001 We also seek to minimize customer inconvenience when responding to their queries or to Do and ISO 13485 for medical equipment, and use these malfunction reports by creating a support system that enables us to take prompt action. standards in our ongoing, voluntary efforts to enhance We will continue to strive to accurately understand what customers expect from our products Plan each process in the Group’s quality management system. and services. At the same time, we will reflect their opinions in the rigorous management of product safety while promptly disclosing information and developing new products. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 15 Seven Promises 2 Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations We will promote our manufacturing and business activities in an effort to reduce environmental impact. Aware of the importance of environmental preservation as a common issue for all humankind, we are committed to doing our utmost to protect the environment in all aspects of our corporate operations, with a particular emphasis on efforts that result in environmentally sound products. Environmental Management System Environmental Policy After establishing an environmental management system under our Environmental Policy, we We, the EIZO Group, are aware that our products have an impact on the environment. obtained ISO 14001 certification* in July 1998. Since then we have implemented measures for waste In our product development work we therefore consider friendliness to the reduction and reduced resource and energy consumption. We have also taken a step further in environment to be part and parcel of product quality. We endeavor to supply our light of a number of factors, including society’s movement toward environmentally sound products customers worldwide with products developed to common specifications that meet and growing public interest in eco products, by operating our environmental management system, or exceed the environmental requirements of individual countries as well as our own which emphasizes environmental targets centered on environmentally sound products. environmental standards. We are conscious of the importance of environmental *EIZO MS Corporation, EIZO GmbH, EIZO Technologies GmbH, and EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. have also obtained certification. preservation as a common issue for all humankind and pledge to do our utmost to protect the environment in all aspects of our corporate operations. Activities under the Environmental Management System 1 We endeavor to constantly remain up to date on and to strictly adhere to environmental laws and Enhancing the environmental performance of our business operations requires integrating standards applicable to our corporate operations and products, as well as other environmental them with our environmental protection activities. To do so, EIZO has environmental protection preservation requirements of society at large. We determine environmental objectives and targets based on a clear understanding of such requirements as well as the environmental impact of our corporate initiatives in place that comply with the revised ISO 14001:2015 standards under the leadership operations and products. These objectives and targets are reviewed on a regular basis to achieve ongoing and control of the director responsible for environmental management. These initiatives are linked improvement of our environmental management system and performance. with management policies and business strategies set by top management. The Corporate Safety Section of the General Affairs Department is responsible for Raising Customer Satisfaction 2 2 At the research and development stage, we pay careful attention to the design of our products to promoting our corporate activities while also managing the minimize the consumption of resources and energy, ensure ease of recycling, and reduce the volume of toxic substances. Our aim is a continuous raising of our environmental standards. energy consumption of our facilities and equipment, chemical Act substances and waste. The Certified Standards Section of the Environmental Check Management System Plan 3 3 In our corporate operations we give due consideration to conserving energy and resources. We work to Technology Management Department is responsible for our reduce the volume of waste products generated by our operations and to dispose properly of all waste Do products, gathering environmental information from around generated. We are engaged in positive efforts to promote the collection and recycling of used products discarded by consumers. the world and promoting the development of environmentally Stakeholder sound products. 4 4 We constantly monitor the latest information related to the environment through our information network, which includes our overseas facilities and affiliated companies. We endeavor to share information Environmental Management System Audits appropriately by disclosing and disseminating details of our own environmental initiatives, and we work with others in common efforts aimed at preserving the environment. Our ISO 14001 certification was maintained and updated in fiscal 2017 after a third-party institution conducted an external audit. Internal audits and customer-led audits concerning chemical 5 5 We educate all company members and strive to deepen their awareness of environmental matters, while substance management have also been carried out in response to increased awareness of chemical creating members of a team that will be committed to the effective use of natural resources and energy, substances in recent years. and to the protection of our global environment. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 16 Seven Promises 2 Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations Environmental Targets/Performance Report Scope: EIZO Corporation headquarters area, EIZO MS Corporation, and EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Environmental SelfFY2017 Environmental Targets FY2017 Actual Results FY2018 Targets Themes evaluation Assessed risks for chemical substances and • Assess risks for chemical substances reviewed new chemical substances Continue to perform reviews of new chemical substances and risk Pollution control ○ • Introduce a new format for managing chemicals in products (chemSHERPA) Completed the renewal of the database on assessment of chemical substances chemical substances in products (chemSHERPA) Commercialize products with low impact on the environment Commercialize products that are more advanced in terms of having • Deploy fully flat monitor products • Develop fully flat monitor a lower impact on the environment • Explore lightweight structure technology Launched fully flat monitor products ○ products • Increase the usage ratio of recycled materials in products • Develop technology to reduce the weight of structure • Explore lightweight structure • Optimize the use of plasticizer for cables and harnesses Sustainable use materials by 50% technology of resources Efforts to curb waste generation and use reuse Explore with material makers a development possibility toward • Develop reuse products Shipped some products with reuse components ○ • Reduce industrial waste components higher reusability • Optimize inventory Curb industrial waste emissions and copier paper purchase Industrial waste emissions: 349.4 t/year Curb industrial waste emissions and purchase of copier paper • Effectively use waste materials Industrial waste emissions: 375 t/year Purchase volume of copier paper: 5,833 kg/year ○ Industrial waste emissions: 351 t/year Purchase of copier paper: 6,450 kg/year Purchase of copier paper: 5,711 kg/year • Reduce energy consumption in • Reduce energy consumption in business activities business activities Energy consumption targets: Energy consumption targets Energy consumed • Comply with energy saving law Electricity: 9.287 kWh/year Electricity: 9.44 million kWh/year Electricity: 9.432 kWh/year Climate change • Upgrade to energy-saving △ LPG: 124.4 t/year LPG: 130 t/year LPG: 136.5 t/year mitigation and equipment (air conditioning, Kerosene: 16.7 kl/year Kerosene: 18 kl/year Kerosene: 18.4 kl/year adaptation production facility, LED lighting, • Manage CO2 emissions (calculate Scope 3 and obtain third-party hybrid vehicles, etc.) certificates) •Develop and expand sales of low Introduced energy management aimed at complying electricity consumption products Comply with the energy saving law ○ Obtain ISO 50001 certification with the energy saving law Planted trees and cared for the green areas on the • Appropriately manage the Environmental company premises Plant trees on the company premises and continue to care for the green environment of company premises protection/ Cleaned up waterways around the premises on a • Greening of premises ○ areas on the premises and surrounding waterways biodiversity regular basis • Develop waterways around Participate in environmental conservation activities preservation Participated in Clean Beach Ishikawa and Nagisa premises Clean Activity Incorporated the latest regulations and standards in EIZO’s Green Procurement Standards to maintain • Respond promptly to Continue green procurement ○ Continue green procurement the optimal material procurement for products in environmental rules and Legal compliance compliance with environmental standards standards, such as chemical and standards Obtained/maintained certification for 16 FlexScan substance rules and energy compliance Obtain ENERGY STAR 7.0 certification ○ standards series products Comply with the revised EPEAT and next TCO Certified Obtained/maintained certification for 13 FlexScan Develop models compliant with TCO Certified Displays 7 ○ series products ○: Results exceeding 75%, △: Over 50% and under 75%, ×: Under 50% Status of Group Companies The current status of Group companies is as follows. • EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. (ISO 14001 certification: 2011) Environmental targets applied to the EIZO Corporation headquarters area and EIZO MS Corporation (Hakui and Nanao factories) were also applied to EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. starting in fiscal 2012 to establish an environmental management system encompassing all three companies. • EIZO Technologies GmbH (ISO 14001 certification: 2012) and EIZO GmbH (ISO 14001 certification: 2009) Both companies operate in accordance with local environmental conditions and regulations, including those for CO₂ emissions reduction, the 3Rs and management of chemicals. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 17 Seven Promises 2 Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations Management of Chemical Content Information Basic Product Development Sequence Amid growing concern for the environment across the globe, we voluntarily monitor chemical In product development, we endeavor to meet the legal requirement and standards as well as to substances toward obtaining certifications for environmental standards in Japan and overseas, and enhance the environmentally sound quality of our products including compliance with the legal support our green procurement efforts. These efforts ■ Flow of Chemical Content Survey requirement and standards, domestic and overseas legal requirements and standards, industry trends include surveying the environmental activities of our Request and social conditions. In addition, we conduct product environmental assessments in accordance with suppliers and the chemical substances contained in Environmental efforts survey Environmental our own Environmental Compliance Standards to measure the environmental soundness of products. the parts we procure from them. We have established Information Database The standards are linked to our system for developing, implementing and meeting environmental a database for collecting and managing the results Chemical substance survey list Supplier (EIZO MIS File) targets for each fiscal year, and are revised every year toward improving the environmental soundness of these surveys to determine which suppliers and Material Information Sheet of our products. We also evaluate and control chemical substances throughout our supply chain in line materials best align with our values, and we also use the (JAMP AIS File) with our Green Procurement Standards so that they comply with chemical substance regulations. information in evaluating the environmental compliance Survey response of our own products. ■ Basic Product Development Sequence Environmental Objectives, Targets, Criteria Product Development Flow Compliance with Environmental Standards and Legal Requirements Standards Laws Industry trends Planning Annual Environmental Targets Design Planning Actions for In our effort to proactively develop environmentally sound products, we observe the legal requirements the next of Japan and other countries and comply with major voluntary environmental standards in each market Environmental Compliance Standards Environmental Assessment (Prototype Assessment) product for our flagship products. Actions for the next fiscal year Improvement In Europe a number of regulations are being enforced, including the WEEE Directive (collection and Commercialization recycling of discarded electrical and electronic equipment), the RoHS Directive (use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment), the REACH Regulation (registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemicals) and the ErP Directive (eco-designing for energy-related Green Procurement products). These regulations were developed in Europe; however, they have been playing an important role in encouraging other countries and regions to take similar steps. Our products comply with these Our Philosophy on Green Procurement regulations. Our Environmental Policy for preserving the global environment applies to all our business operations, and We also respond to environmental labeling standards such as TCO Certified Display 7 (international respect for the environment is incorporated into product development to create a recycling-based society. comprehensive standards for monitors), EPEAT (international environmental standard for PCs/monitors), Our Green Procurement Standards were established to guide material procurement and to meet the ENERGY STAR 7.0 (energy efficiency standard established in the United States) and PC Green Label expectations of customers and society as a whole by maintaining and strengthening our environmental (Japanese environmental standard for PCs/monitors). In addition, we are actively involved in the preservation activities. The standards were also intended to fulfill our social responsibility by enabling us development of TCO, ENERGY to quickly respond to the evolving environmental rules and regulations in each country. STAR and PC Green Label. Our suppliers’ efforts to reduce environmental impact and preserve the environment are just as EIZO will continue to focus important to us as their quality, prices, delivery schedule, services and technological excellence. In on developing green products selecting products, parts and materials, including packaging, we place higher priority on those that are while keeping an eye on the development environmentally sound as well as meeting our quality, function and cost requirements. of environmental labeling. These efforts are helping to reduce the environmental impact of our business operations while at the same time expanding markets for environmentally friendly products. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 18 Seven Promises 2 Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations Overview of the Environmental Impact of Our Business Operations Environmental Risk Management (Scope of calculations: six areas as listed below) Facility Management Suppliers in Japan and overseas In principle, we ensure compliance with stringent voluntary management standards, including standards not bound by law. Energy usage: CO2emissions: 105,145GJ Regulatory Compliance 6,505t-CO2 Electricity: 9.877million kWh Waste We comply with Japanese regulations governing corporate activities such as the Air Pollution Control Kerosene: 18.4 kl EIZO Group LPG: 136.5 t Waste breakdown: Act, the Water Quality Pollution Control Act, and the Waste Disposal and Public Cleansing Act by INPUT OUTPUT Compressed air: 35,000m3 Industrial waste: 416.3t collecting information on revisions and new regulations and by regularly monitoring and measuring the Copier paper: General waste: 16.3t status of our response. Our emissions of air pollutants NOx, SOx, soot and dust are regularly measured in 30.033 t Wastepaper: 558.9t Recycling rate: 95.3％ accordance with the Air Pollution Control Act and have remained well below the legal limit. In addition, Water usage: 28,449 m3 we adhere to our own voluntary management standards, even in operations for which there are no applicable laws. No compliance problems were found in fiscal 2017, and no administrative guidance, admonitions, orders or reprimands were received. Customer Energy Consumption and Greenhouse Gas Emissions ■ Environmental Impact by Area Since the new test and evaluation building in the EIZO Corporation headquarters area began EIZO EIZO MS Corporation EIZO Display EIZO Area Corporation Technologies EIZO GmbH Technologies Total operating in April 2017, energy use has increased. headquarters Hakui Nanao (Suzhou) Co., (Germany) GmbH area factory factory Ltd. (China) (Germany) During the same period, we set up the Energy Saving Promotion Committee to improve our energy use and drive changes at our facilities to ■ Emissions of Greenhouse Gases Development Development Development Development and Production of Assembly of and and and save energy, including the replacement of lights (Japan, China and Germany) Operations manufacturing manufacturing manufacturing manufacturing (assembly) of circuit boards monitors (assembly) of (assembly) of (assembly) of with LEDs. (t-CO2) CO2 emissions Energy use (GJ) 8,000 120,000 monitors monitors monitors monitors In January 2018, we started purchasing power 101,896 105,145 Energy usage (GJ) 60,944 29,068 9,024 1,632 1,471 3,006 105,145 Electricity from the so-called Power Producer & Supplier 90,131 89,119 89,847 6,000 90,000 544.7 291.6 90.5 16.4 14.4 30.1 987.7 Energy Resources (10,000 kWh) for the area around the EIZO Corporation Kerosene (kl) 18.4 18.4 headquarters and have since indirectly 4,000 60,000 LPG (t) 136.5 136.5 contributed to the reduction of greenhouse gas 6,304 6,505 Compressed air 4,582 5,667 5,800 (10,000 m³) 3.5 3.5 emissions related to electricity use. 2,000 30,000 Copier paper (t) 4. 569 815 168 281 24.200 30.033 Since Group companies in Germany were Water usage (m³) 22,588 2,365 2,611 885 28,449 added to the scope of calculations in fiscal 2016, 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) CO₂ emissions (t-CO₂) 3,810 1,820 565 108 66 136 6,505 there is no continuity between data for this year Industrial waste (t) 226.2 37.8 85.4 48.6 18.3 416.3 *Calculations of CO₂ emissions associated with electricity use General waste (t) 11.9 2.5 0.9 1.0 16.3 and that for fiscal 2015 and earlier. Waste are based on the conversion factor of Hokuriku Electric Power Wastepaper (t) 319.3 68.1 136.1 21.2 14.2 558.9 Company for Japan and the calculation methods of each country. Recycling rate (%) 98.8 98.0 99.5 70 95.3 EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 19 Seven Promises 2 Environmental Consideration for Our Products and Business Operations Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Appropriate Management of Chemical Substances In fiscal 2017, for five of the categories shown in the following table, we extended the scope of We closely manage the kerosene, organic solvents and other chemical substances we use in our business calculations to include not only our domestic consolidated companies but also those overseas. We have activities so that we maintain compliance with regulations such as the Fire Service Act and Industrial yet to compile data for all the categories and to unify the scope of data; however, we intend to continue Safety and Health Act. to improve the accuracy of our calculations. Category CO₂ Emissions(t-CO₂) Composition (%) Scope of Data Collection and Recycling of Used Products 1 Purchased goods and services 128,458 21.9 EIZO Corporation headquarters The EIZO Group has been collecting and recycling used products in compliance with environmental 2 Capital goods 4,910 0.8 Consolidated Fuel and energy-related activities not laws and regulations in each of the countries where it operates. 3 included in Scope 1 or 2 350 0.1 Consolidated Upstream transportation and Shipment volume of products as cargo 4 distribution 524 0.1 owner Japan 5 Waste generated in operations 262 0.1 Consolidated Collection of Used EIZO Products from Homes End-of-Life EIZO Monitors (for Home Use) In compliance with the Waste Disposal Act and Collected in FY2017 6 Business travel 603 0.1 EIZO Corporation headquarters 7 Employee commuting 731 0.1 Consolidated the Law for Promotion of Effective Utilization of CRT Monitors LCD Monitors 11 Use of sold products 451,875 76.9 Consolidated Resources, EIZO established its Product Collection Volume in Weight (kg) 10,666.1 10,479.0 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products 30 0.0 Consolidated and Recycling System for the free collection of Quantity (units) 432 1,497 Total 587,743 100.00 home-use monitors purchased after October 1, Recycled volume (kg) 7,463.6 9,131.8 2003, in accordance with the PC Recycling Mark Recycling ratio (%) 70.0 87.1 Water Use program. End-of-Life EIZO Monitors (for Business Use) We use only groundwater in the area around EIZO Corporation’s headquarters (affiliated companies Collection of Used EIZO Products from Collected in FY2017 use the public water supply). We monitor water usage and wastewater discharge to reduce the risk Corporate Users CRT Monitors LCD Monitors of subsidence and stress on wastewater treatment systems. Moreover, we use water in our corporate In compliance with the Waste Disposal Act and Volume in Weight (kg) 543.2 896.0 buildings as well as for a snow melting system and for watering plants in the summer. Our manufacturing the Law for Promotion of Effective Utilization Quantity (units) 22 128 processes do not use any water. of Resources, we have been collecting and Recycled volume (kg) 393.2 694.3 recycling used products for business use under Recycling ratio (%) 72.4 77.5 Industrial Waste our Product Collection and Recycling System. Our total volume of industrial waste is still large, ■ Discharge of Industrial Waste and Recycling Rate Europe despite having decreased compared to the previous (t) Industrial waste discharged Recycling rate (%) In August 2005, the European WEEE Directive went into effect with the aim of reducing year. A major factor is the increased size of packing 500 97.1 97.2 98.3 95.6 95.3 100 environmental impact through promotion of the 3R’s of reduce, reuse and recycle for discarded materials to accommodate larger liquid crystal display electrical and electronic equipment. EIZO has complied with the directive by establishing a 400 80 panels, procured externally. Since Group companies in collection and recycling system for applicable products sold in Europe. 300 60 Germany were added to the scope of calculations in United States fiscal 2016, there is no continuity between data for this 200 311.2 280.5 338.2 435.8 416.3 40 EPEAT standards require the provision of collection services for used electric/electronic equipment year and that for fiscal 2015 and earlier. 100 20 based on the “Plug-In to eCycling Guidelines for Materials Management” issued by the United States 0 0 Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). EIZO has met this requirement by establishing a collection 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (FY) and recycling system for applicable products sold in the United States. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 20 Seven Promises 3 Operating as an International Corporation We will act as an international corporation with a global outlook and mindset. In order to ensure the delivery and ongoing worry-free use of our products worldwide, our Group companies and distributors in various countries maintain strong mutual relationships to support customers and achieve sound corporate growth. EIZO is represented in over 80 countries and regions worldwide by a network of 17 Group companies and 20 distributors. ■ Numbers of Employees by Country (as of March 31, 2018, includes temporary workers) Japan Germany USA China United Kingdom Germany Germany Sweden EIZO Corporation (R&D, manufacturing, sales and marketing) ( 4 branch offices )* 1 EIZO Technologies GmbH EIZO Nordic AB Group companies (R&D, manufacturing, sales and marketing) EIZO Europe GmbH 1,797 291 72 63 24 Group companies (sales and marketing) Distributors Countries where EIZO products are sold Switzerland Sweden Czech Republic The Netherlands Austria 19 16 10 9 7 Italy Belgium Saudi Arabia UAE India Germany ( 1 branch office )* 2 EIZO GmbH Japan 7 5 2 1 1 EIZO Corporation Hong Kong ( 6 group companies) United USA EIZO Rugged Solutions Inc. 1 2,325 Kingdom EIZO Limited Total USA EIZO Inc. China Saudi Arabia EIZO Display Technologies ■ Composition of Net Sales by Region (FY2017) (Suzhou) Co., Ltd Saudi Arabia regional sales office Austria North America 7% Others 5% EIZO Austria GmbH 5,810 million yen 3,785 million yen Switzerland EIZO AG Consolidated Net Sales 84,057 *1 EIZO Europe GmbH is headquartered in Germany with branch offices in Belgium, Italy, the Netherlands, and the Czech Republic. Europe 36 ％ million yen Japan 53 % *2 EIZO GmbH is headquartered in Karlsruhe with a branch office in Plauen. 30,057 million yen 44,404 million yen Net sales figures are broken down by country or territory where the customers are located. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 21 Seven Promises 3 Operating as an International Corporation EIZO United Development and Production Network Coherent Development and Production System Group companies and distributors gather once a year at the EIZO Corporation headquarters to The EIZO Group has three production sites in Japan, Germany, the United States and China, participate in technology showcase and forming a network that maintains a coherent development and production system throughout general and individual meetings to deepen the Group. This enables us to apply stringent quality control from development to production, their understanding of EIZO products. They promote the creation of development synergies that maximize the strengths of each base, and also exchange information on their respective construct an optimal production system for each market and customer. In addition, we promptly activities to broaden their collective base share information obtained in the course of development and production along with opinions of knowledge and forge closer ties among and requests obtained from markets and customers to incorporate into product development and Group companies and distributors. customer support. Mindset as an International Corporation—Efforts Related to Conflict Minerals Sales Network Group Companies and Distributors We are deeply concerned that some important mineral resources used as raw materials for components of IT and electronic products and quarried in troubled regions of the Democratic EIZO products are sold in more than 80 countries and territories through our Group companies and Republic of the Congo and its nine neighboring countries are used to fund military groups that 20 global distributors (as of June 2018). abuse human rights and destroy the environment. Given this concern, the Dodd-Frank Act of the United States requires that efforts be made to ensure that designated conflict minerals, including Direct Sales System in Europe tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten, are only purchased through legal means with no connection Our business extends to healthcare, graphics and V&S (Vertical & Specific) markets. Customers in to potential misconduct. The EIZO Group endorses these requirements and has adopted its own these markets demand direct, ongoing communication with the manufacturer as well as solid policy of using only parts made of raw materials purchased from companies that are not involved global support. To effectively respond to these specific market environments and diversified sales in any misconduct and that conduct business lawfully. In addition, to fully comply with this policy, channels, we have sales subsidiaries in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Switzerland the EIZO Group has been reviewing its entire supply chain using the Conflict Minerals Template, a and Sweden. We strive to achieve further business growth in Europe by reinforcing regional sales widely-adopted international standard format developed by the Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), in North America and Europe. Furthermore, to expand our sales activities into emerging markets, of which the EIZO Group is a member. where our specialized markets are expected to grow, we have employed local sales staff in Saudi Arabia, the U.A.E. and India and are enhancing our approach to customers. One Country/Territory, One Distributor System From the very beginning of selling proprietary products outside Japan, we have adopted a one country/territory, one distributor system, in which a single distributor (or Group company) is responsible for all sales within a given country or territory. This unique system enables us to accurately discern customer needs in each country or territory by distributors or Group companies that fully understand the culture and values of their respective regions and provide optimal products. It also allows us to offer products through sales methods that are appropriate for each country or territory. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 22 Seven Promises 4 Open and Fair Trade We will conduct open and fair trade. Our suppliers are essential partners for ensuring the long-term viability of our business. We therefore ensure that transactions are conducted in a fair and equitable manner and strive to forge relationships of trust based on mutual prosperity. Relationships of Trust Based on Mutual Prosperity through our business activities as well as with our suppliers by asking all business partners involved With respect to our suppliers, we are committed to forging relationships of trust based on mutual in procurement to actively promote CSR activities, including compliance, respect for human rights, prosperity to build successful, long-term partnerships, and we strive to conduct transactions that environmental preservation, and safety and health. are fair, equitable and transparent. In overseas sales, authority is delegated in each country to Group Supplier Declaration companies and distributors who are knowledgeable about local culture and values. This has enabled us We obtained an agreement on compliance with the EIZO Supplier Code of Conduct in the form of to actively engage in overseas sales based on a deep understanding of our products. We have sought Supplier Declarations from all business partners involved in procurement. The suppliers conduct self-checks to expand sales by building on the relationships of trust and powerful partnerships we have developed on the status of implementation and compliance in an effort to improve and enhance their operations. over time, cooperating with distributors in organizing exhibitions, and providing customer support. Basic Procurement Policy Enhancing Employee Awareness We deal with suppliers on an equal opportunity basis in accordance with procurement policies. In Conducting transactions in a fair and open manner requires that each employee have the necessary conducting transactions, we select suppliers who meet our standards as listed below. level of knowledge and awareness. We seek to deepen their understanding and awareness with a Selection Standards for Suppliers steady flow of compliance information through our intranet and study sessions. Related topics include ❶ Sound management anti-trust regulations directly associated with business transactions. They also include procedures for ❷ Technological excellence that will contribute to the quality of our products ❸ Appropriate quality, prices and delivery schedules for products and materials to be supplied to us handling confidential information, as required by regulations that prohibit insider trading and that ❹ Stable supply capacity and ability to respond flexibly to fluctuations in demand govern relationships with suppliers. ❺ Compliance with relevant laws, consideration for the environment and an active involvement in environmental preservation Handling Information Obtained through Suppliers We obtain confidential information from suppliers and customers through proper channels and will Developing Mutual Understanding with Suppliers not seek to obtain or use information that is known to have been improperly obtained or disclosed. In As a manufacturing company striving to create excellent products that satisfy customers around the addition, we pay the utmost care in handling the information that we have obtained and in managing world through our primary business operations, we place high priority on controlling quality, delivery it follow the appropriate procedures. schedules and the cost of parts and materials procured from suppliers as well as confirming that supplier operations are environmentally sound. We provide opportunities for regular exchanges of Unequivocal Prohibition of Bribery information to address these issues and ensure that our suppliers share a common understanding with We do not offer money or other benefits in violation of the law governing relationships with public us in regard to each other’s management policies and technical strategies. servants and employees of public institutions. Likewise, in our relationships with suppliers, we do not offer Materials Procurement Briefing or accept entertainment, gifts or benefits that violate the law or deviate from generally accepted business We conduct regular briefings with our suppliers to explain our basic practices, and we are explicit in communicating our corporate stance to ensure that they understand it. procurement policy and request their cooperation. Also, we share information on the market environment and our future direction. EIZO Supplier Code of Conduct These briefings, attended by many suppliers, contribute to a greater The company established the EIZO Supplier Code of Conduct to ensure that sound business operations understanding of EIZO and are used to gather information for subsequent are being undertaken globally and under the EIZO Group Principles of Conduct. We will pursue CSR incorporation into business decisions. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 23 Seven Promises 5 Strong Bonds of Trust with Stakeholders We will seek to build and maintain strong bonds of trust with our stakeholders (business partners, employees, shareholders, and the local community). We will sincerely engage with stakeholders to forge closer bonds of trust through communication channels while fulfilling our responsibilities. Relationship with Each Type of Stakeholder EIZO’s Stakeholders EIZO’s Responsibility Objectives Approaches • Developing better products • Setting up Contact centers as customer liaison points • Creating and offering products with new value −Responding to questions and inquiries before and after purchase • Developing products from the customer’s standpoint Customers In addition to offering products that satisfy customers, we listen closely to −Preand post-sales technical support • Responding clearly to questions and inquiries • Sharing information with relevant departments and considering incorporation into P.25 their feedback and provide useful support. • Thoroughly responding to customer requests and products feedback • Interacting with customers at showrooms and through direct dialogue • Providing and collecting information through participation in trade shows • Providing timely information via the corporate website We view suppliers as essential and important partners in the continuation • Building relationships of trust Suppliers • Sharing information and creating mutual understanding as partners • Fair business transactions of our business, and forge powerful relationships by sharing management • Establishing selection standards, dealing with suppliers on an equal opportunity basis P.23 • Explaining corporate policy and broadening policies and technical strategies. • Holding material procurement briefings understanding among suppliers We are a company focused on creative development that requires the imaginative ideas and powerful motivation of its employees. We therefore • Motivating workplace environment • Providing various educational programs Employees • Developing excellent personnel • Supporting self-development activity work to create a broadminded corporate climate and a workplace in which P.29-31 • Promoting work-life balance • Creating workplaces that reflect employee opinions and sound labor-management employees have a sense of security, and we support our employees in • Securing safety and health relations through consultation conferences their self-development. We strive to gain the understanding and trust of our shareholders • General shareholders meeting (holding informal gatherings) Shareholders by providing fair and accurate information on management policies, • Timely and appropriate disclosure of information • Stable dividend payment • Enhanced corporate value P.26 business strategies and financial performance, and by maintaining • Investor relations transparency in our corporate management. We seek to build solid relationships with the local community to • Receiving company visits Local • Preventing accidents and disasters at each business site gain their understanding and cooperation in pursuing our business • Sponsoring various events and organizations • Protecting the regional environment Community • Supporting environmental conservation activities operations. • Cooperating with regional development and • Corporation with Local Community and association P.26 We are committed to fulfilling our responsibilities as a corporate citizen. promoting culture • Participating in local voluntary activities EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 24 Seven Promises 5 Strong Bonds of Trust with Stakeholders Relationships with Customers EIZO Contact Center (Japan) ■ Calls to the Contact Center(from June 1, 2017 to May 31, 2018) The EIZO Contact Center in Japan Company and stock Other We provide product information on our Website, at our showrooms and through sales and responds to customers with answers 0.1% 1.1% promotional activities. Also, we strive to communicate directly with customers through various to their inquiries related to product Support/Warranty/Recycling 8.7% Functions/ channels in order to answer their questions fully and respond to their requests and feedback. specifications and functions as well as Orders/ Operational Sales service-related procedures consultations related to purchasing 9.7% 38.9% ■ Feedback System for all Types of Customer Input products, by phone, e-mail and fax. Troubleshooting 10.7% Customer Liaison Consulting/ Product compatibility Product overview EIZO Contact Center 11.8% 19.1% Customer liaison dedicated to ordering Customer liaison for technical support Showroom Showroom Visitors can test the performance of our products while trying out their functions at our showroom, Direct sales website which also serves as a space for communicating with customers. Website EIZO Galleria Ginza (Japan) Distributors EIZO Galleria is a showroom located in the Ginza district of Tokyo. Our dedicated onsite staff Sales companies/Retail stores Customers introduces products and provides advice to customers who want to know more about them. Here our seminars, which have been well received, on a variety of topics also provide information on the Customer Liaison operating environments of computers for office and home use and on more effectively using EIZO Each Group company has set up a customer liaison process (including access by phone or e-mail) products. Moreover, the showroom is used as a communication space for other types of events to receive inquiries and questions related to EIZO products and technology. Customer inquiries such as exhibitions of photographs taken by customers. and requests are promptly shared and appropriately addressed within the company, relevant departments and the Group. They are also utilized to guide product development and prepare the information we provide to customers. Group Company Responses EIZO Corporation (Japan) • Set up a dedicated liaison for responses by phone, e-mail and fax EIZO Technologies GmbH (Germany) • Set up a dedicated liaison for responses by phone and e-mail Photo exhibition Showroom Seminar room EIZO Limited (United Kingdom) • Provides customer support and technical support by e-mail • Provides a dedicated liaison for after-purchase inquiries over the phone EIZO Inc. (United States) • Offers an e-mail address for general inquiries EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 25 Seven Promises 5 Strong Bonds of Trust with Stakeholders Relationships with Shareholders Relationships with Local Communities We conduct investor relations activities based on the principle of providing fair and accurate We seek to build and maintain good relationships with the local communities in which we information on management policies, business strategies and financial performance to all operate. Also, we will contribute to developing these areas and creating better environments as a stakeholders. community member by sponsoring and funding local organizations and activities. Basic Policy on Information Disclosure Examples of Contributions to Local Communities We disclose information in a timely and appropriate manner in compliance with the Financial EIZO Corporation (Japan) EIZO Inc. (USA) Instruments and Exchange Act and related regulations as well as the “Timely disclosure rules and • Participation in beach cleanups in Hakusan City • Donation to activities supporting breast cancer treatment other regulations for issuers of listed negotiable securities or valuable instruments” of the Tokyo • Cooperation with the Ishikawa Keiei Tensho Juku (an educational project for young corporate managers and Stock Exchange. We strive to ensure any material information that may affect investment decisions future entrepreneurs who will bear responsibility for EIZO AG (Switzerland) is delivered to all market participants in an equitable manner. the future of the regional economy) through • Donation to an organization that supports the Special operational advice and Olympics and sports activities by children with disabilities General Shareholders Meeting lectures • Sponsorship and support of We schedule our annual general shareholders meeting while taking the convenience of cultural and sports activities EIZO Limited (United Kingdom) shareholders into careful consideration. Invitations are sent far in advance to provide enough time in Ishikawa Prefecture • Cooperation as an executive • Donation to a charity run sponsored by an organization for shareholders to examine the proposed resolutions and the state of our operations. Furthermore, committee member and Participation in a beach cleanup in Hakusan City supporting sick children and their parents and funding for co-sponsor of the Ishikawa its new facilities we provide opportunities for direct communication with our shareholders, such as by displaying Kanazawa Spring Green • Co-sponsorship of a graduation exhibition held by products and holding informal meetings with shareholders on the occasion of the general Music Festival students at the Central Saint Martin’s Design University • Organizing of a workshop by shareholders meeting. EIZO GmbH (Germany) a professional photographer at a local school • Participation in and donation • Gardening for an institution Company Presentations for Investors for child patients with a to a charity run sponsored serious disease We invite institutional investors to our semi-annual earnings results briefings in Tokyo, where we by an organization that • Donation to a charity supports local hospitals report on our business direction, activities and performance. Also, we hold briefings for individual in promoting the early organization supporting activities for children around Gardening at the medical institution investors to promote a greater awareness of our company. diagnosis and treatment of the world for children childhood cancer patients Runners wearing T-shirts with the Status of Shares and Shareholder Composition EIZO logo ■ Status of Shares (as of March 31, 2018) ■ Distribution of Shares by Shareholder Type (as of March 31, 2018) M N EIZO Pink Ribbon Day Treasury stock Securities companies LU Shares authorized 65,000,000 1,410,536 shares 195,995 shares Besides our breast imaging monitor being instrumental in terms of accurate diagnosis and the O C Shares issued 22,731,160 1 holder 36 holders early detection of breast cancer, we participate Shareholders 5,992 in and sponsor academic conferences and General Financial institutions corporations 7,313,640 shares other activities related to breast cancer as 4,004,397 shares 38 holders means of diffusing the importance and uses of 5,653 holders such monitors. On EIZO Pink Ribbon Day at our Individual investors Foreign investors domestic and overseas sites, we have worn pink and others 5,770,378 shares clothing or accessories and have deepened our 4,036,214 shares 197 holders understanding of this disease. EIZO employees overseas in the same pink shirts. 67 holders EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 26 Seven Promises 6 Strict Respect and Compliance with both the Letter and Spirit of the Law We will strictly respect and comply with both the letter and the spirit of the law as a good corporate citizen. We seek to gain stakeholder trust by consistently generating corporate value as a Group. In doing this we believe that we must enhance our corporate governance and raise the compliance awareness of each employee. Board of Directors Corporate Governance The Board of Directors, composed of three directors who are not members of the Audit and We strive to be a company that builds and maintains relationships of trust with stakeholders who Supervisory Committee and four directors who are members of the Audit and Supervisory support us and consistently enhances its corporate value. To this end, ensuring sound, transparent Committee, bases its decisions on frank discussions while also striving to strengthen its supervision and efficient management is essential, as is viewing the ongoing enhancement of corporate of management. The board meets on dates scheduled for each fiscal year and as needed. All governance as a vital management concern. important matters related to the company’s decisions are discussed, and status reports on the execution of operations are presented on a regular basis. ■ Corporate Governance System Three of the four directors who are members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee are Shareholders’ Meeting outside directors (as of June 21, 2018). They maintain no special interests in the company and Election/dismissal Election/dismissal Election/dismissal Audit and Supervisory Committee 取締役会 Board of Directors’ Meeting therefore act in a highly independent capacity. The outside directors participate in decision-making 4 directors who are Audit and Supervisory Committee members Auditing/ supervision Board of Directors on important matters from an objective and impartial standpoint while auditing and supervising (including 3 outside directors) (3 directors who are not Audit and Cooperation Supervisory Committee members) the execution of operations by directors. We have selected all the outside directors mentioned Report Appointment/dismissal above as independent directors as stipulated under the Tokyo Stock Exchange regulations. Instructions/supervision Report Instructions Report President Management Committee Instructions Management Committee Inspection Report Instructions/supervision The Management Committee is mainly composed of full-time directors and operating officers and of accounts Internal Auditing Internal Auditing Operating Officers is convened as required to accelerate strategic decision making, respond to important issues and Accounting Department (Audit Office) Instructions/supervision Auditor Cooperation Report Departments/ Group Companies deliberate or report on the status of operations and other matters. Operating Officer System We have introduced an operating officer system to separate the supervision of management and the execution of operations while accelerating the pace of operational execution. Audit and Supervisory Committee Our Audit and Supervisory Committee is composed of four members including three outside directors. It meets on dates scheduled for each fiscal year and as needed. Its members audit and supervise the execution of duties by directors in accordance with the audit policy, plans and other committee decisions. These audits and supervisory functions are conducted through the investigation of operations and assets by attending the Board of Directors and other important meetings in cooperation with the Internal Auditing Department and Internal Control Department. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 27 Seven Promises 6 Strict Respect and Compliance with both the Letter and Spirit of the Law Internal Auditing System Compliance The Internal Auditing Department carries out internal audits in accordance with the Basic Annual Audit Plan, based on the Basic Regulations on Internal Audits, which specifies audit policies. All Our Approach findings of these internal audits are reported to the president. The Internal Auditing Department is We have established an organizational structure for guaranteeing compliance and have been composed of two members. An auditor who has wide knowledge of the departments to be audited developing measures and systems to ensure effectiveness. We are steadily promoting these is separately appointed to carry out the audit. measures in accordance with an annual plan from a long-term perspective. Internal Control System Compliance Training We have a basic policy underlying a system that ensures directors execute their tasks in compliance For officers and other employees, regulatory and other related information are always available on with the law and articles of incorporation, along with a system for ensuring the appropriateness of the corporate intranet, and we regularly provide training material to encourage them to update other operations. Under this Basic Policy on Internal Control System, we have proceeded to develop and enhance their knowledge. We also organize study groups for each job position, such as officers, related systems and to complete the groundwork for managing our internal control systems. managers and new employees to establish full awareness of the role and importance of compliance An internal control system concerning financial reporting is also in place in accordance with the and cultivating an ethical mindset. Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. We established the EIZO Group Principles of Conduct – The Seven Promises to clarify our corporate philosophy and action guidelines in concrete terms and to serve as a standard in Risk Management decision-making, evaluation and in the actions undertaken through the course of our business activities and seek to instill a thorough awareness among all Group officers and employees in Japan As part of our development of an internal control system, we have established and operate a risk and overseas. management system to integrate and centralize the management of risks that could affect our business activities. Risk management is supervised by the Management Conference and the Risk Strengthening the Information Management System Management Committee, and risks identified by each department are examined by the committee. We ensure the proper handling of important information managed internally, including confidential Any risk that could have a significant impact on our business is identified as a material risk by the information and personal information, in accordance with our established guidelines. We have also Management Committee. Appropriate countermeasures are discussed and implemented. appointed an information management representative with overall responsibility for establishing a In view of the increasingly global nature of our business, we expanded the scope of risk company-wide information management system. identification and evaluation to include Group companies in and outside Japan. Internal Whistle-Blowing System Business Continuity Plan (BCP) To further strengthen our compliance system, we set up a liaison point both inside and outside the To be prepared in the event of a major disaster and other incidents, EIZO formulated a BCP company to provide answers to questions and advice on problems concerning legal issues or the disseminated throughout the company. Particularly with regard to our BCP for disaster response, content of the Principles of Conduct, which may arise in the course of our operations. In addition, we have established procedures for restoring critical operations and resuming the supply of our we strive to ensure early detection of illegal activity or misconduct and to prevent misconduct by products within one month, in addition to confirming employee safety and facilitating necessary operating a whistle-blowing system that requires officers and employees to report to the liaison rescue operations in the immediate aftermath of a major disaster. point immediately upon learning of activities in violation of laws or ethics, regardless of their own involvement. We ensure that the privacy of the whistle blower is protected and that the individual will not be placed at any disadvantage for reporting the violation. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 28 Seven Promises 7 Broadminded Corporate Culture We will respect basic human rights and value a broadminded corporate culture. EIZO is a company focused on creative development that requires the imaginative ideas and powerful motivation of all its employees. We therefore take various measures to create a broadminded corporate culture by developing an environment that encourages the free exchange of opinions and a workplace in which employees have a sense of security. Much of our top management at overseas Group companies is composed of local personnel, and we pay due consideration to the diversity of each country’s cultures and customs in order to create the most suitable working environments. management relations at Group companies under the specific circumstances of each country Laying the Foundations for a Motivating Workplace or company. As a result, the EIZO Group maintains a high retention rate, which contributes to We undertake various activities to create a motivating workplace environment that cultivates mediumto long-term human resource development and business operations. excellent human resources for the sake of the long-term growth of our personnel as well as further corporate development. ■ Turnover Rate of Young Employees (within One Year of Joining the Company): EIZO Group (in Japan) 2015 2016 2017 Employment 4.08% 2.56% 2.94% To ensure that EIZO continues to develop cutting-edge visual technology for creating and offering new values as a company focused on creative development, we are expanding our engineering staff and creating a motivating workplace for our employees. Promoting the Careers of Persons with Disabilities Persons with disabilities are engaged in careers at many of our worksites. As of March 2018, 24 ■ EIZO Group as of March 31, 2018 disabled persons are employed by the Group, with the percentage of persons with disabilities of Japan Overseas Total the workforce at all the Group companies in Japan meeting the minimum legal requirement. As the Number of employees (including temporary workers) 1,635 512 2,147 total number of Group employees is on the rise, we have been making active recruitment efforts. Male 892 341 1,233 These include participation in joint company information sessions for persons with disabilities Female 743 171 914 and the acceptance of interns with the intention of hiring recent graduates. We will continue to Engineering staff included in the above numbers 341 88 429 make these recruitment efforts and improve our workplace environment while creating work Average age 39.9 44.2 40.9 opportunities for disabled persons as we expand our business. Average length of service 14.2 11.3 13.5 ■ Percentage of Employees with a Disability: EIZO Group (in Japan) ■ EIZO Group in Japan March 2016 March 2017 March 2018 Graduate recruits (joined the company in April 2017) 39 2.08% 1.87% 2.18% Mid-career recruits (joined the company between April 2017 and March 2018 (full-time)) 26 Average annual working hours (FY2017) 1,964 Paying Due Respect to Human Rights To curtail behavior that undermines individuality at the workplace and throughout our operations, Developing Trust-Based Labor-Management Relations such as forced labor and child labor, discriminatory remarks or actions, and sexual or power harassment, we have clearly stated our position on the matter in our Principles of Conduct and Mutual understanding is the cornerstone of labor-management relations. In keeping with this provide related education for all Group employees. fundamental point, we endeavor to develop trust in labor-management relations by encouraging dialog through the establishment of a consultation conference. These conferences discuss a wide range of topics, from labor-management agreements and reduction of overtime to ways for improving the work-life balance and employee benefit packages. We also maintain good laborEIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 29 Seven Promises 7 Broadminded Corporate Culture Supporting Childcare and Nursing Care Work Style Innovation Under the respective laws of each country, we support various programs including maternity leave, To respond to diversifying work styles and ensure that employees are able to work with a sense of childcare leave and nursing care leave, shorter working hours, and leave to care for sick children. We have satisfaction, accomplishment and happiness, we believe in the importance of creating extra time for developed a supportive working environment that includes measures such as reducing working hours up employees to refresh their mind and body. To that end, we launched the Work Style Innovation project to two hours per day for childcare to flexibly meet employee needs. We plan to enhance our programs for in Japan to supplement our ongoing initiatives. We intend to balance the happiness of our employees supporting employees with childcare or nursing responsibilities by introducing benefits such as childbirth with corporate growth by maintaining the high quality and reliability of our products and services leave for prospective fathers. while significantly enhancing operational efficiency and productivity. We will rebuild the structure and mechanism of our work through Business Process Re-engineering, plan investments in infrastructure and ■ Number of Applicants (EIZO Group in Japan) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 systems with an eye on the future, such as introducing AI and IoT, while simultaneously changing the Childcare/Nursing Care Leave 56 54 52 mindset of our employees who will sustain this initiative. Reduced Working Hours for Childcare or Nursing Care 57 63 67 Creating Leisure Time In fiscal 2017, the Work Style Innovation brought about year-on-year reductions of 20% and 5% in time Human Resource Development spent for meetings and for documentation, respectively, in the development division. In a company-wide project, we reviewed workflows, selected 95 of them for improvement targets, and refined 41 of them. Reinforcing Management Capabilities As a result, overtime work in the administrative division decreased by 23% year-on-year. We are targeting Management-level employee training is a high priority at EIZO. We ensure the practical usefulness of a 50% reduction of overtime work in fiscal 2018 toward the ultimate goal of zero overtime work during training by setting a theme for each fiscal year, such as strategic thinking, customer development and normal operations. Our average rate of paid leave taken by all employees continues to rise compared to operational reform. Training is offered to candidates for management positions, and newly appointed the national average of companies of a similar size. This is the result of introducing measures to encourage managers receive training on compliance, fair job evaluation and effective allocation of work to deepen employees who have been taking fewer paid leaves to take more days off or consecutive leave. We believe their understanding of these areas. that the extra time created through these initiatives will benefit employees in that they can refresh their mind and body, engage in self-development and social contribution activities, broaden their perspectives Supporting the Active Participation of Women and enhance their abilities through such activities. For employees whose overtime pay is reduced because EIZO has formulated and released its the Action Plan for Promoting the Role of Women and is working to of their success in streamlining workflows, we introduced a bonus system that rewards such efforts. improve the working environment so that female employees can play leading roles in the company. The ratio of female managers in the EIZO Group in Japan is currently 3.4%, and to attain our target of 5% during ■ Average Working Hours (EIZO Group in Japan) ■ Rate of Taking Paid Leave (EIZO Group in Japan) fiscal 2019, we are encouraging participation in management training seminars conducted by outside FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 institutions and providing training for selected mid-level employees. In future, we will provide various types 2,016 hours 2,005 hours 1,964 hours 66% 73% 71% of support, including an interview program to advance career development and the encouragement of networking among female employees. Opportunities for Recreation and Exchange A variety of sports and cultural activities have been established within the company, and employees are enthusiastically engaged. The company provides an environment that supports these activities by, for example, supplementing costs and permitting the use of company facilities. Tennis club EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 30 Seven Promises 7 Broadminded Corporate Culture Emphasis on Educating Younger Employees addition, we appointed a local employee as a board member in fiscal 2017. First-year employees participate in programs on basic knowledge for corporate etiquette and on To develop global human resources, EIZO in Japan and overseas Group companies provide an the company policy, organization and rules. They also receive onsite factory training to learn about exchange program for engineers. Through the program, staff in Japan are dispatched for two or the foundations of our company. We conduct a variety of programs specifically targeting first-year three years to an overseas Group company, and for young core personnel there is also a trainee employees, including technical training for new engineering staff to ensure they acquire a broad program (a short-term assignment of about two weeks to three months). Those programs aim to foundation of knowledge on our basic technologies. Additionally, we provide a comprehensive increase the number of employees who can work effectively in a different culture and manage education program combining on-the-job training (OJT) and off-the-job training (Off-JT) for young technology with a global perspective, as well as to cultivate new technological expertise. employees, enabling them to develop the ability to get things done well with market insight and a global mindset. For OJT in each department, managers draw up three-year career plans in VO I C E consultation with young employees, thus providing a basis for a systematic OJT program. I worked at EIZO Rugged Solutions Inc. in the U.S. state of Florida from January 2016 to March 2018. My work at the Group company included electrical design Our Off-JT for upgrading the skills of young employees includes group-based training for acquiring of air traffic control graphics and research on embedded devices. Doing this has business skills, selling in stores to identify market needs, and overseas internships that provide shortenabled me to create a platform for a next-generation graphics board and to term assignments at overseas Group companies. improve a design check flow for higher development quality. Working and communicating with local staff and business partners, while ■ Education Programs for Young Employees going beyond the differences associated with culture and manners, has nurtured in me a global mindset. I hope to make use of this experience so that I can help 1st year 2nd year 3rd year 4th year 5th year+ to foster a global mindset across our companies in Japan. Technical Expertise seminar (in and outside the company) As a member of EIZO in Japan, I am determined to develop and be part of a Takeshi Gun training Image Product Development for new new business model in five to ten years, which will include our Group companies engineering Training for young employees Department Technical staff across the world. I hope that it will help EIZO respond to the expectations of its Joined the company in 2004 (one and Off-JT 1: Business skill training shareholders and build relationships of trust with them. a half months) Off-JT 2: In-store sales training New Off-JT 3: Overseas internship for selected employees employee Training Sales/ office work training (one after assignment Off-JT 4: Customer visiting training VO I C E month) Well-planned OJT: 3-year plan with periodic interviews with the supervisor I went through a one-week training program conducted by EIZO’s Manufacturing Business knowledge training (accounting/financial affairs, marketing, compliance, etc.) Department from March 12 to 16, 2018. The program gave me an opportunity Development of Global Human Resources to mingle with many Japanese colleagues in all sections of this department and Common (overseas trainee/temporary assignment, company English conversation classes) learn about how the Japanese approach raising efficiency, managing quality, Support for personal development (correspondence study, acquisition of qualifications, online English conversation, etc.) reducing costs and working toward improving the environment. I found it particularly impressive that most members of the department are staff involved in Fostering the next generation of leaders with job performance, market insight and a global mindset the KAIZEN activities. I think that is what EIZO Display Technologies (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. needs. We are among the youngest companies of the EIZO Group and are still developing. Every employees working for the company needs to make more Our Global Initiative of an effort and dedicate his or her skills to the company. The KAIZEN activities Chen Yun Manager Manufacturing I learned in Japan will serve as one means to make that happen. I am going to EIZO Display Technologies Development of Global Human Resources imprint what I learned and experienced in Japan at my worksite in China for the (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Many top management members of the Group companies outside Japan are local businesspeople company’s growth. who can build a workplace environment that suits the particular country’s culture and practices. In EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 31 Seven Promises 7 Broadminded Corporate Culture Medium-Term Plan (Fiscal 2016–2018) Securing Safety and Health Maintain and improve a lively workplace environment so that each one of us can work safely, The ongoing development, design and production of high value-added products requires not securely and effectively. only a significant investment of management resources but also a consistently safe workplace and efforts to safeguard employee health. ■ Fiscal 2018 Targets/Key Actions and Fiscal 2017 Results Management Efforts in Safety Management Area FY2018 Targets/Key Actions FY2017 Results Evaluation We investigate dangerous situations and toxicity and implement countermeasures at each worksite • Workplace accidents 3 Achieve zero workplace accidents (including using risk assessment methods and strive to prevent workplace accidents and impaired health, traffic accidents during working hours) * Frequency rate 0.99 Severity rate 0.00 in addition to KYT (hazard prediction training) and 5S activities. We will continue these efforts by Key points identifying and reducing risks through risk assessments and safety screening of newly installed Safety • Improve and maintain an appropriate working △ Management environment 8 (2 injured someone machinery and equipment, and by raising awareness on safety through workplace patrols and • Check and repair equipment and facilities • Traffic accidents during else, 5 injured self only, 1 working hours employee training. (including chemical substances) injured by someone else) • Conduct risk assessments to eliminate disaster factors Efforts in Health Management Implement mental health measures in the workplace Our efforts in this area include regular health checkups and preventive checkups for lifestyle-related diseases, dedicated contact points for responding to employee anxieties and concerns, mental Key points • Ensure follow-up measures on health checkups • Follow-up on health checkups 96.3% health checkups and face-to-face consultations with industrial physicians, and follow-up guidance Health • Promote preventive measures for lifestyle-related • Ratio of employees taking stress check tests 77.2% △ Management based on the results of health checkups. We will seek to safeguard employee physical and mental diseases (and specific health guidance) • Promote mental health efforts through well-being by raising individual awareness of health management. implementation of stress check tests • Eliminate health hazard risks from workplaces and operations Workplace accident frequency rate: Number of deaths and injuries caused by industrial accidents per million working hours. Used to express accident Basic Policy on Safety and Health (Safety and Health Management Regulations) frequency. Workplace accident severity rate: Number of work days lost due to industrial accidents per million working hours. Used to express accident severity. Note: Traffic accidents during working hours exclude commuting traffic accidents. The basic policy on the safety and health of EIZO Corporation is intended to create a healthy and safe working environment for all employees. This is achieved through management of risk factors related to safety and health. Specifically, we constantly strive to identify unacceptable risk factors in the workplace and neutralize them, with the ultimate goal of eliminating workplace accidents. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 32 Appendix GRI Standard Index The EIZO Corporation Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 has been prepared in reference to the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016. The relevant contents and their locations are indicated below. GRI 102: General Disclosures Indicator Report Page Indicator Report Page 1. Organizational profile 2. Strategy 102-1 Name of the organization a. Name of the organization. 2 a. A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or Statement from senior 102-14 equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy 4-5 a. A description of the organization’s activities. decision-maker Activities, brands, products, for addressing sustainability. 102-2 b. Primary brands, products, and services, including an explanation of any products or services that are 10-12 and services 3. Ethics and integrity banned in certain markets. Values, principles, 102-3 Location of headquarters a. Location of the organization’s headquarters. 2 102-16 standards, and norms of a. A description of the organization’s values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior. 2 a. Number of countries where the organization operates, and the names of countries where it has behavior 102-4 Location of operations 2, 21 significant operations and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in the report. 4. Governance 102-5 Ownership and legal form a. Nature of ownership and legal form. 2 a. Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. 102-18 Governance structure 27 a. Markets served, including: b. Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social topics. i. geographic locations where products and services are offered; Role of highest governance a. Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating 102-6 Markets served 2, 10-12 ii. sectors served; 102-26 body in setting purpose, of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to 24 iii. types of customers and beneficiaries. values, and strategy economic, environmental, and social topics. a. Scale of the organization, including: 5. Stakeholder engagement i. total number of employees; ii. total number of operations; 102-40 List of stakeholder groups a. A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 24 102-7 Scale of the organization 2, 21 iii. net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); Collective bargaining iv. total capitalization (for private sector organizations) broken down in terms of debt and equity; 102-41 a. Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.  ー agreements v. quantity of products or services provided. Identifying and selecting a. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender. 102-42 a. The basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders with whom to engage. 24 stakeholders b. Total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region. a. The organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement c. Total number of employees by employment type (full-time and part-time), by gender. Approach to stakeholder 102-43 by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was 24, 25 d. Whether a significant portion of the organization’s activities are performed by workers who are not engagement Information on employees undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. 102-8 employees. If applicable, a description of the nature and scale of work performed by workers who 29 and other workers a. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, including: are not employees. Key topics and concerns i. how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its e. Any significant variations in the numbers reported in Disclosures 102-8-a, 102-8-b, and 102-8-c (such 102-44 24, 25 raised reporting; as seasonal variations in the tourism or agricultural industries). ii. the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. f. An explanation of how the data have been compiled, including any assumptions made. a. A description of the organization’s supply chain, including its main elements as they relate to the 6. Reporting practice 102-9 Supply chain 23 organization’s activities, primary brands, products, and services. a. A list of all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent Entities included in the a. Significant changes to the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply chain, including: documents. 102-45 consolidated financial 2 i. Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and b. Whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent statements Significant changes to the expansions; documents is not covered by the report. 102-10 organization and its supply ii. Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration No change a. An explanation of the process for defining the report content and the topic Boundaries. Defining report content chain operations (for private sector organizations); 102-46 b. An explanation of how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for defining 8 and topic Boundaries iii. Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or relationships with report content. suppliers, including selection and termination. 102-47 List of material topics a. A list of the material topics identified in the process for defining report content. 8 Precautionary Principle or 102-11 a. Whether and how the organization applies the Precautionary Principle or approach. 27 Restatements of a. The effect of any restatements of information given in previous reports, and the reasons for such approach 102-48 ー information restatements. a. A list of externally-developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other 102-12 External initiatives 8 a. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the list of material topics and topic initiatives to which the organization subscribes, or which it endorses. 102-49 Changes in reporting No change Boundaries. Membership of a. A list of the main memberships of industry or other associations, and national or international 102-13 18 102-50 Reporting period a. Reporting period for the information provided. 1 associations advocacy organizations. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 33 Appendix Indicator Report Page GRI 200: Economic topics 102-51 Date of most recent report a. If applicable, the date of the most recent previous report. 1 Indicator Report Page 102-52 Reporting cycle a. Reporting cycle. 1 GRI205: Anti-corruption Contact point for questions a. Total number and percentage of governance body members that the organization's anti-corruption 102-53 a. The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 1 regarding the report policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region. a. The claim made by the organization, if it has prepared a report in accordance with the GRI Standards, b. Total number and percentage of employees that the organization’s anti-corruption policies and Claims of reporting in procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region. either: 102-54 accordance with the GRI 33-34 Communication and c. Total number and percentage of business partners that the organization’s anti-corruption policies i. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option’; Standards training about antiand procedures have been communicated to, broken down by type of business partner and region. ii. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option’. 205-2 23 corruption policies and Describe if the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to a. The GRI content index, which specifies each of the GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures procedures any other persons or organizations. included in the report. d. Total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on antib. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: corruption, broken down by region. i. the number of the disclosure (for disclosures covered by the GRI Standards); 102-55 GRI content index 33-34 e. Total number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti-corruption, broken ii. the page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either within the report or in down by employee category and region. other published materials; iii. if applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission when a required disclosure cannot a. Total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption. be made. b. Total number of confirmed incidents in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for Confirmed incidents of corruption. No incidents a. A description of the organization's policy and current practice with regard to seeking external of corruption 205-3 corruption and actions c. Total number of confirmed incidents when contracts with business partners were terminated or not were assurance for the report. taken renewed due to violations related to corruption. reported. b. If the report has been externally assured: d. Public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the organization or its employees during the i. A reference to the external assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included in the reporting period and the outcomes of such cases. assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, a description of what has and what 102-56 External assurance ー GRI206: Anti-competitive Behavior has not been assured and on what basis, including the assurance standards used, the level of assurance obtained, and any limitations of the assurance process; Legal actions for antia. Number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period regarding antiii. The relationship between the organization and the assurance provider; No incidents competitive behavior, competitive behavior and violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation in which the organization of corruption iii. Whether and how the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking 206-1 were anti-trust, and monopoly has been identified as a participant. external assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. reported. practices b. Main outcomes of completed legal actions, including any decisions or judgments. GRI 103: Management Approach GRI 300: Environmental topics Indicator Report Page Indicator Report Page GRI103: Management Approach GRI301: Materials a. An explanation of why the topic is material. a. Total weight or volume of materials that are used to produce and package the organization's primary b. The Boundary for the material topic, which includes a description of: Materials used by weight or products and services during the reporting period, by: i. where the impacts occur; 301-1 19 Explanation of the material volume i. non-renewable materials used; 103-1 ii. the organization’s involvement with the impacts. For example, whether the organization has ー ii. renewable materials used. topic and its Boundary caused or contributed to the impacts, or is directly linked to the impacts through its business Reclaimed products and a. Percentage of reclaimed products and their packaging materials for each product category. relationships. 301-3 20 their packaging materials b. How the data for this disclosure have been collected. c. Any specific limitation regarding the topic Boundary. a. An explanation of how the organization manages the topic. GRI302: Energy b. A statement of the purpose of the management approach. a. Total fuel consumption within the organization from non-renewable sources, in joules or multiples, c. A description of the following, if the management approach includes that component: and including fuel types used. i. Policies b. Total fuel consumption within the organization from renewable sources, in joules or multiples, and The management ii. Commitments including fuel types used. 103-2 approach and its 11-32 iii. Goals and targets c. In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: components iv. Responsibilities i. electricity consumption v. Resources ii. heating consumption vi. Grievance mechanisms iii. cooling consumption Energy consumption within vii. Specific actions, such as processes, projects, programs and initiatives 302-1 iv. steam consumption 19 the organization a. An explanation of how the organization evaluates the management approach, including: d. In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: Evaluation of the i. the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach; i. electricity sold 103-3 11-32 ii. heating sold management approach ii. the results of the evaluation of the management approach; iii. any related adjustments to the management approach. iii. cooling sold iv. steam sold e. Total energy consumption within the organization, in joules or multiples. f. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. g. Source of the conversion factors used. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 34 Appendix Indicator Report Page Indicator Report Page a. Amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and a. Total weight of hazardous waste, with a breakdown by the following disposal methods where efficiency initiatives, in joules or multiples. applicable: Reduction of energy b. Types of energy included in the reductions; whether fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all. i. Reuse 302-4 17, 19-20 consumption c. Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption, such as base year or baseline, including the ii. Recycling rationale for choosing it. iii. Composting d. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. iv. Recovery, including energy recovery a. Reductions in energy requirements of sold products and services achieved during the reporting v. Incineration (mass burn) Reductions in energy period, in joules or multiples. vi. Deep well injection 302-5 requirements of products b. Basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption, such as base year or baseline, including the 17, 20 vii. Landfill and services rationale for choosing it. viii. On-site storage c. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. ix. Other (to be specified by the organization) b. Total weight of non-hazardous waste, with a breakdown by the following disposal methods where GRI303: Water Waste by type and disposal applicable: a. Total volume of water withdrawn, with a breakdown by the following sources: 306-2 20 method i. Reuse i. Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans; ii. Recycling ii. Ground water; iii. Composting 303-1 Water withdrawal by source iii. Rainwater collected directly and stored by the organization; 19 iv. Recovery, including energy recovery iv. Waste water from another organization; v. Incineration (mass burn) v. Municipal water supplies or other public or private water utilities. vi. Deep well injection b. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used. vii. Landfill GRI305: Emissions viii. On-site storage ix. Other (to be specified by the organization) a. Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. c. How the waste disposal method has been determined: b. Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. i. Disposed of directly by the organization, or otherwise directly confirmed c. Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. ii. Information provided by the waste disposal contractor d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: iii. Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor i. the rationale for choosing it; Direct (Scope 1) GHG ii. emissions in the base year; GRI307: Environmental Compliance 305-1 19 emissions iii. the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year a. Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and/or emissions. regulations in terms of: e. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to Non-compliance with i. total monetary value of significant fines; the GWP source. 307-1 environmental laws and ii. total number of non-monetary sanctions; Not applicable f. Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control, or operational control. regulations iii. cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms. g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with environmental laws and/or a. Gross location-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. b. If applicable, gross market-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. c. If available, the gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. GRI 400: Social topics d. Base year for the calculation, if applicable, including: Indicator Report Page i. the rationale for choosing it; Energy indirect (Scope 2) GRI403: Occupational Health and Safety 305-2 ii. emissions in the base year; 19 GHG emissions iii. the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year a. Types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational disease rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR), emissions. and work-related fatalities, for all employees, with a breakdown by: e. Source of the emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP) rates used, or a reference to Types of injury and rates i. region; the GWP source. of injury, occupational ii. gender. f. Consolidation approach for emissions; whether equity share, financial control, or operational control. 403-2 diseases, lost days, and b. Types of injury, injury rate (IR), and work-related fatalities, for all workers (excluding employees) 32 g. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. absenteeism, and number whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization, with a breakdown by: a. GHG emissions reduced as a direct result of reduction initiatives, in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. of work-related fatalities i. region; b. Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. ii. gender. Reduction of GHG c. Base year or baseline, including the rationale for choosing it. c. The system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics. 305-5 17, 19 emissions d. Scopes in which reductions took place; whether direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), and/or GRI404: Training and Education other indirect (Scope 3). Programs for upgrading e. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. a. Type and scope of programs implemented and assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. employee skills and GRI306: Effluents and Waste 404-2 b. Transition assistance programs provided to facilitate continued employability and the management 30 transition assistance of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment. programs EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 35 Appendix GRI405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Indicator Report Page Comparison Table for the United Nations Global Compact a. Percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance bodies in each of the following diversity categories: Coverage by EIZO Group Principles of United Nations Global Compact Page i. Gender; Conduct – Seven Promises ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old; Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 3. We will act as an international corporation Diversity of governance Principle 1 proclaimed human rights. with a global outlook and mindset. 405-1 iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups). 29 21,23 bodies and employees 4. We will conduct open and fair trade. b. Percentage of employees per employee category in each of the following diversity categories: 7. We will respect basic human rights and 29 i. Gender; Principle 2 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. value a broadminded corporate culture. ii. Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old; Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective iii. Other indicators of diversity where relevant (such as minority or vulnerable groups). recognition of the right to collective bargaining. GRI412:Human Rights Assessment 3. We will act as an international corporation Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory with a global outlook and mindset. labour. 21,23 a. Total number of hours in the reporting period devoted to training on human rights policies or 4. We will conduct open and fair trade. Employee training on 7. We will respect basic human rights and 29-31 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 412-2 human rights policies or 29 value a broadminded corporate culture. b. Percentage of employees trained during the reporting period in human rights policies or procedures Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of procedures Principle 6 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. employment and occupation. GRI416: Customer Health and Safety Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning 2. We will promote our manufacturing and Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental business activities in consideration of 16-20 the health and safety impacts of products and services within the reporting period, by: responsibility. reducing Incidents of noni. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty; No incidents heir environmental burdens. compliance concerning the of corruption Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 416-2 ii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning; were Principle 9 friendly technologies. health and safety impacts iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. reported. of products and services 4. We will conduct open and fair trade. b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a 23, Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion 6. We will strictly respect and comply with brief statement of this fact is sufficient. and bribery. both the letter and the spirit of the law as a 27-28 good corporate citizen. GRI417: Marketing and Labeling a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by: Incidents of noncompliance concerning i. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty; No incidents of corruption Independent Third-Party Assurance Statement 417-2 ii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning; were product and service iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. reported. information and labeling b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by: Incidents of noni. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty; No incidents compliance of corruption 417-3 ii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning; were concerning marketing iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. reported. communications b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. GRI418: Customer Privacy a. Total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy, categorized by: Substantiated complaints i. complaints received from outside parties and substantiated by the organization; concerning breaches of Not 418-1 ii. complaints from regulatory bodies. applicable customer privacy and b. Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data. losses of customer data c. If the organization has not identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. GRI419: Socioeconomic Compliance a. Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and/or regulations in the social and economic area in terms of: i. total monetary value of significant fines; Non-compliance with laws No incidents ii. total number of non-monetary sanctions; of corruption 419-1 and regulations in the were iii. cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms. social and economic area reported. b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with laws and/or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. c. The context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred. EIZO Corporation CSR REPORT 2018 36
