United Nations Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS 03 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT 04 KEY TARGETS FOR 2017 06 COMPANY VALUES 07 HUMAN RIGHTS 10 LABOUR 12 ENVIRONMENT 14 ANTI-CORRUPTION 15 COMMUNICATION E-VOYAGES GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 02 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED EMMANUELLE SPRIET SUPPORT CEO, E-VOYAGES GROUP E-voyages Group is the leading incoming tour operator for tailor made experiences in the United Kingdom and Ireland. We are committed to find a unique solution for each of our clients that fits with all their requirements and align with our sustainable policies, our mission and our values. At E-voyages Group, we are determined to use our influence and network in order to encourage our collaborators to join our efforts in leading the industry towards a sustainable and responsible tourism. We remain committed to adopt the principles of the UN Global Compact in our policies and ways of managing our business. We will continue to share our intentions and expectations to our suppliers in order to encourage them in joining our efforts and set common objectives. To do so, we aim to: Work with our clients to create more sustainable products and highlight the importance of sustainability and responsible tourism among our partners and suppliers. Develop internal tools in order to measure our progress and value our achievements. Develop our internal training tools to give our team access to the necessary knowledge. Keep on developing our policies towards a more sustainable management. Increase our communication among our clients and through our network in order to raise awareness among them. Develop new objectives and extend the list of SDGs we focus on. We are also very grateful to the UNGC for their active support in our learning and look forward to go further in the year to come. Emmanuelle Spriet Chief Executive Officer E-voyages Group E-VOYAGES GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 03 KEY TARGETS FOR 2017 KEY TARGETS FOR 2017 In 2017, we have selected five objectives to accomplish towards which we have started our journey. We have grasped this opportunity to go further the SDGs and set the bar higher as both a SME and a new member. We evaluated our resources and strategy in order to choose those that fit best with our business and its progression. This has allowed us to set the bases, amending our policies smoothly while fully training our team, clients and suppliers. The five objectives we have chosen are as follow: 1. RECYCLE & GO GREEN We believe in “less is more” and have implemented strict recycle and go green policies in our offices which we highly follow and control. Our policies regulate and control the use of ink, energy, paper and other components promoting the use of recycled material and avoiding waste. 2. EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE Our team is the key enabler in performing our strategic and sustainability goals. We believe in promoting ethical awareness and behaviour, as well as mutual respect among our employees. We also request from our team to share these values with our suppliers and business partners. 3. CHOOSING SUPPLIERS By choosing to do business with our suppliers we are implicitly supporting their business ethic and practices. Our strategy involves a combination of policies, service level agreements and targets to define our expectations relating to the environmental, social and ethical performance of our suppliers. 4. TRANSPARENCY To make sure we progress towards a more sustainable future, we will be transparent about the various aspects of our sustainability development. 5. BE AN INFLUENTIAL LEADER We play an active role in organisations and networks that we participate in. We therefore strive to challenge and lead the debate on how organisations should be operating in a sustainable manner. E-VOYAGES GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 05 E-VOYAGES’ VALUES AND MISSION Mission Our aim is to be the number one choice for the group travel trade to United Kingdom and Ireland through partnerships, personalised customer service, expert knowledge and excellent value for money. Values At E-voyages Group, we are proud of our TOP SERVICE values and work daily on maintaining them as well as sharing them with our peers and partners. Teamwork: one company, working together. Ownership: we take responsibility and do not give excuses. Professionalism: we take pride in all we do and deliver what we promise. Solution-based thinking: we focus on solutions, not problems. Enthusiasm: we share our passion for the destination in ways that go beyond making business. Respect/Trust: we base all our relationships in mutual respect; we have to earn the trust and keep it through merit. Value: we provide the best value for money. Integrity: we do what is right and are transparent about our methods. Care: we put our clients at the centre of our business and manage to keep them because we care. Expertise: we use our up-to-date knowledge to provide the right solution. E-VOYAGES GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 06 HUMAN RIGHTS People are at the very heart of our business, leading every single step of it. Our work ethics place our clients and their interest at the centre of our concern which is why we always go an extra mile to guarantee that they receive the best treatment possible. Our management policies place our employees’ welfare at the top of our priorities and we are committed to make their work conditions as good as possible, by maintaining mutual respect within the team, clear communication, fair processes and both professional and personal support. This year, we have decided to focus on the people around us: our team, our clients and our community. To make the atmosphere in our office more fair and enjoyable, we have started appointing our Staff Representatives, in charge of receiving any issue or complaints and finding solutions to resolve them. They also plan internal activities such as fam trips and team building activities in order for the team to grow stronger. We have also been looking at adapting our policy in order to support our employees’ active role within the local community. For example, they can now outsource their work up to two days per year and use that time to take on volunteering actions or obtain more days off thanks to actions such as giving blood. As a company, we also want to be an example which is why we have been in contact with local organisations in order to look at the different ways our business can be of any help. One of the projects we are really eager to develop is volunteering during WE Day, an event which will be held in London in March 2018. It is organised by WE, a charity which shares the UNGC values and aims at helping communities overcoming poverty through their collaborative programmes such as Free The Children’s WE Villages. Implementing those policies has led to an internal comparison led throughout the year in which we studied the results in terms of equity and out of the office participation. E-VOYAGES GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 08 E-voyages currently holds a 70/30 split between female and male employees, and a large variety of foreign cultures are represented among our employees. This has natural effects on our management: we defend our staff members’ right of expression in organising thematic events where the team get to discover the culture of their colleagues. In 2017, we have led 3 fam trips where an average of 50% of the team members participated and we held 2 main internal events during which the entire company took part. Finally, we have counted an important number of our employees who have manifested their interest in regards to the volunteering project and request to take part in its organisation. E-VOYAGES GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 09 LABOUR Our entire business depends on our team’s work ethic, which is why we do our best to maintain their productivity at its best. To do so, we develop the tools they need in order to facilitate their workload and make their office life as agreeable and easy as possible. In 2017, we sought the help of an external Human Resources consultant in order to help us implementing a new recruitment process which puts transparency at its heart. We guide our potential candidates by going through the contract with them, staying available to deal with any question they may have, we take the time to explain in detail the expectations of their position and we are clear on the employment conditions within our company. For new team members, we have set in place an internal document in which they can find everything they need to know about our work ethics, mission and values as well as a precise presentation of the company and a list of all the ways they can get involved to help us reach our objectives. For the existing team members, we want to do everything that is in our power to develop our employees’ long term goals. We require from all staff members to have regular meetings with their line managers in order to assess their performances, set new objectives but also to give them the chance to report any issue and evaluate their possibilities in terms of career evolution. This policy has been designed in order to grow our team from junior to senior positions within 3 years in the company and has proven itself to be efficient in 2017. To lead our employees in that direction, we give our staff members the right tools and opportunities to do their work well and in a safe environment. To do so, we schedule several meetings every months, including: • Staff meetings: each department presents its workload and progress, while every team member enjoys complimentary snacks and hot/soft drink. • Trainings: we value our product knowledge very much, which is why we often plan presentations on specific subjects (venues, hotels, sustainability, products, fam trips), led by members of the team and destined to the rest of us. Finally, we have worked on adapting our policies to the profile of our team members, counting a majority of women. We want to support them in finding the right balance between personal and professional duties without being deprived of any career opportunities. For example, we have developed a policy in regards to working mothers which guarantees flexible working conditions. As of this year, several of them can now benefit from the advantages of working remotely a few days a week, limited weekly hours and access to senior management positions. In 2017, we have counted 12 staff meetings, 12 interns meetings, 50 management meetings and over 20 product presentations, all of which aiming at giving our teams the relevant information and tools they need to reach their objectives. E-VOYAGES GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 11 ENVIRONMENT Environment is extremely important for us at E-voyages since it has an impact on our office life, our team members, our business and our finances. Throughout 2017, we have worked actively on raising awareness on the subject among our team and peers while implementing a new eco-friendly approach to our ways of working. For example, our office habits have been improved towards a more sustainable policy. We have ruled out every water dispensers in the office and replaced them by a filtering water system. This has proven to increase the quality of the water we consume, to decrease massively our plastic waste and, it has allowed us to reduce our costs. To go further in reducing our waste, we work together on re-using as much material as possible and we reinforced our internal recycling procedures which we shared with our team via specific new tools. For example, we have created an internal document explaining the steps to follow to sort our waste correctly and we hold induction sessions for new starters and refreshers for current members of staff. We have also established contact within our community in order to collaborate on new policies and we have been putting them in place throughout 2017. For example, we have been working with the local council so that our building could benefit from better bins and conducted the change in 2017. We have also partnered with our fellow tenants within our building in order to develop new projects, such as solar panels. Within the office, we have revisited our money spending on photocopies, setting our printers on grey scale for example. We have also been evaluating our providers and office supplies such as printers in order to continue our journey towards a complete eco-friendly office. Throughout the year, these changes in our policies have allowed us to save up to 15%. In line with our intentions, we make our involvement clear to our other suppliers, hoping that they reciprocate them and work with us on achieving our objectives. This has been a great success in 2017 since we have managed to conduct several projects, all in collaboration with key partners. We have been educating our clients on the fragility of some regions of the United Kingdom and Ireland that tend to suffer from tourism, which is the case for the Isle of Skye, for example. As a result, we have decided to focus on other destinations within the country, which has been greatly rewarded since one of our key clients, with our help, has launched new itineraries such as Aberdeen. Developing business in new areas has allowed both us and our partners to create less expensive products and grow the visibility on new destinations. Training our guides and coach operators is also part of our daily attitude. We intend to encourage them to take on more initiatives and adopt a more sustainable and eco-friendly approach. Following our work on raising awareness among our partners, we have taken part in developing a tool destined to our suppliers in order to engage them in more sustainable practices. This has led the way to the creation of our very first green itinerary, which we started selling this year. Finally, we have partnered up with new organisations whose values we share. For example, we chose to support the Discover England Funding (DEF) products created by Visit Britain. Many of those products aim at developing sustainable ways to visit England, such as “The last mile by e-car”. This itinerary will allow visitors to access rural places in an eco-friendly way. E-VOYAGES GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 13 ANTI-CORRUPTION As far as anti-corruption is concerned, the size of our company doesn’t help us in implementing new policies. We have given the matter the same high importance we give all the other areas of our commitment with the United Nations Global Compact. In 2017, we have raised awareness on corruption within both our team and our partners and we intend to continue in that direction. COMMUNICATION In 2017, sustainability and responsible tourism have been at the heart of our communication. Not only are we proud to be a member of the UN Global Compact, we are also passionate about the topic and want to see more people get involved. We have communicated on every step of our progress. We developed many campaigns around sustainability, responsible tourism and the UNGC. We started by sharing the news of becoming a member, taking this opportunity to present the UN Global Compact, its objectives and the goals we set up at E-voyages Group. Later in the year, we informed our clients and partners about our very first “Green Itinerary”, which represents a milestone for us in terms of sustainability: not only because the product is better for the environment, but also because we had the chance to involve more partners and raise awareness among our clients and end-clients. Throughout the year, we have also taken part in many conferences dedicated to sustainability where we met with key speakers talking about responsible tourism, human rights and environmental issues. We learned how to interact with our partners and clients in order to share our objectives, how to communicate openly about our actions, how to improve our offers and about new ways to make our management more sustainable. For each occasion, we have been actively present on our social media so that our database could benefit from our progress and find new inspiration. We also improved our communications tools to make them more sustainable. For example, we have reduced the number of visits considerably and replaced them with videos and webinars. This has proven to be excellent in terms of our objectives but also for our finances. E-VOYAGES GROUP COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 15
