GRAN LIVING ApS This is our Communication on Progress 2018 “Let’s pursue impact as never before”. That is exactly what we are aiming for. And because of that we support the UN We continue our support Global Compact, now for the third year. This is our statement of continued support of the ten principles and the foundation for our support is stronger than ever. 2017 was a year where we took a step towards a more professional and structured approach. For many things in life, your gut feeling and experience can take you far but in our world with large and complex supply chains, a structured approach to supply chain management is indispensable. In this third Communication on Progress, we share our accomplishments in 2017 and the accomplishments we strive to achieve in the year to come. Yours sincerely Per Gran Hartvigsen CEO GRAN LIVING ApS, Denmark, COP for 2018 GRAN LIVING ApS Behind GRAN LIVING ApS is the couple Per and Kathrine Gran Hartvigsen who has successfully run the company since 2004. Ever since its foundation, the company Our story has designed and imported quality home interior for leading chains and has extensive experience with trend spotting, developments of its own designs and production of interior for the home. AYTM The brand AYTM was established by GRAN LIVING ApS in 2015. AYTM designs and sells high-end home interior worldwide. Read more about GRAN LIVING and AYTM at: www.granliving.dk www.aytm.dk HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT GRAN LIVING cares about the GRAN LIVING cares about the safety and well-being of our environment with concern for the employees at all times. GRAN future. We focus on the long-term LIVING will not conduct business consequences of our activities with any supplier engaging in or and strive to prevent, minimize benefiting directly from human and remedy adverse impacts rights abuses. GRAN LIVING our activities place on our earth, Our CSR policy expects all suppliers to support and we expect the same from At GRAN LIVING we acknowledge our and respect the protection of all parties throughout our supply responsibility to contribute to a better internationally declared human chain to secure the best possible world within our scope of influence. Based rights stated in the International conditions for future generations. on our capabilities, we voluntarily take Bill of Human Rights. the initiative to protect the workers and the environment in the areas in which we operate and we continuously seek to improve conditions for the employees and the surroundings. LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION GRAN LIVING supports and acts GRAN LIVING refrains from in compliance with internationally corruption and bribery in any declared labour rights and expects form. We believe in ethical and our business partners to do fair business practises, and expect likewise. We strongly repudiate from both own employees and childand forced labour. We external business partners to acknowledge diversity and the avoid any kind of unethical rights of employees. Therefore, business practises. we will not accept any kind of discrimination or violations of rights. ACTIVITIES INITIATED AND ACHIVED IN 2017 In 2017 we partnered with Green Network. The purpose is to go towards a stronger, professional and more structured approach towards supply chain management. Human rights and labour rights Through Green Network we have access to a measurement system ‘Meassure’, measuring our suppliers based on knowledge, behavior and attitude regarding the four areas stated in UN Global Compact (Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption). Based on the results, we can segment our suppliers leading to optimal allocation of audit resources. In 2017 we conducted the first pilot test with 10 main suppliers. To prepare for this new approach, we took further steps to improve our supply chain management: • Screening of existing suppliers and updating supplier database • Revision and renewal of our supplier Code of Conduct (structured after UN Global Compact) 2017 was also the year that GRAN LIVING/AYTM launched our first GoodWeave certified rugs. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR 2018 Conduct the first CSR measurement with all suppliers. ACTIVITIES INITIATED AND ACHIVED IN 2017 In 2017 we have continued our effort to lower our paper and print consumption. From 2016 to 2017 we have lowered our printing with total 23,22%, (11% increase in staff in 2017). Per employee this means a reduction for 30,89 %. In 2016 we initiated a project aiming at making AYTM packaging sustainable. We will continue the work in 2018 in expect to launch the new packaging in 2019. Environment All electricity used by GRAN LIVING is now green electricity produced by windmills not older than 2 years (KLIMA EL VIND) ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR 2018 Through improved IT and renewed procedures, we plan to make our entire purchase department paperless. In December 2017 we initiated a cooperation with Danish Compliance House through Miljøstyrelsen. Through the project, we investigate our opportunities to certify a chosen range of our home textiles. We will, by written procedures, make sure that all internal office supplies and cleaning articles are environmentally friendly. ACTIVITIES INITIATED AND ACHIVED IN 2017 Collaboration with Green Network (Meassure)* Anti corruption ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR 2018 In 2018, GRAN LIVING will compose a company policy and guideline to the employees to prevent corruption and bribe. This goal was to be achieved in 2017, but has been postponed to 2018. *Through a renewed approach to supply chain management, we measure our supplier’s knowledge, behavior and attitude regarding corruption and bribery, leading us to take the appropriate steps towards dialogue and improvements. Thank you for reading our Communication on Progress 2018 For more info, please contact: Stinna Kjærsgård Kristensen CSR & Quality Manager skk@granliving.dk +45 3693 7837
