SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 OUR PLANET’S NATURAL FILTERS. The forests of our planet sustain nature’s diversity, benefit our climate and support human well-being. Their trees are natural air filters because they clean the air we breathe by absorbing carbon dioxide in the air and many other gases, and by acting as filters that remove particulate matter as small as 1 micron (PM1). Like the trees and plants of our Earth, Camfil has been helping people breathe cleaner air for more than half a century. As a leading manufacturer of premium clean air solutions, we provide commercial and industrial systems for air filtration and air pollution control that benefit human health and the environment. We have chosen to symbolize this on the cover with a photo of the forest outside Pont-Sainte-Maxence in northern France, taken by Camfil employee Thomas Vanderheyden. Contents 4 16 Clean Air’s Mission in a Sustainable Society Power Systems Business Area 18 8 Environmental Impact Camfil’s Organization, Business Concept and Core Values 19 Employees and Social Conditions 10 Filters Business Area 21 Risk Management 14 APC Business Area 23 22 Five-Year Summary UN Global Impact and UN 17 C AM FI L 2 0 1 8 / 3 Clean Air’s Mission in a Sustainable Society The Camfil Group achieved another year of record sales and earnings in 2017 and entered 2018 with a strong order backlog from customers who are increasingly recognizing the benefits of premium clean air solutions for saving energy and delivering the best indoor air. In the interview below, President and CEO Alan O’Connell, and Anders Freyschuss, EVP Global Standardization & Sustainability, talk about Camfil's history of sustainability, energy-saving products and important clean air mission. HOW DOES CAMFIL CONTRIBUTE TO SUSTAINABILITY? Alan O’Connell AOC For more than 50 years, we have delivered daily on our promise to design, manufacture and deliver the best and most sustainable air filtration products in terms of energy usage and eco-friendly materials. Our products help customers lower the operating cost of filtering and cleaning air in commercial and industrial applications and reduce their carbon footprint. Anders Freyschuss AF Camfil has been a sustainable company from day one. We have a strong in-house culture of sustainability born and bred in the Nordic market that is embedded in everything we do globally today. Being sustainable gives us a competitive edge, but to us, it is a natural way of working that directly benefits our customers. We take a holistic approach to sustainable air filtration: from design to delivery and across the product life cycle, we consider the impact of what we do on people, processes and the environment. DESCRIBE YOUR MARKET AOC Our market is steadily growing, and clean indoor air – whether for production, health or safe working conditions – is becoming a desired commodity, considering today’s knowledge of the dangers of indoor/outdoor air pollution and their link to disease and early mortality. This requires the use of filters of increasingly high efficiency to deliver healthy indoor air quality. Alan O’Connell, President and CEO Customers also need best-in-class filtration to protect capitalintensive industrial processes, or to make their buildings more we are proud to enjoy a reputation for energy-saving filters, high energy-efficient. They are therefore paying closer attention to the indoor quality and value for money. filters they choose to maximize their filtration investment. There is AF In many filtration applications, Camfil products are the bencha growing awareness in the world that clean, filtered air improves mark for the industry. Competitors try to replicate us in many ways, worker and equipment productivity, minimizes energy use, and benbut we remain the leader in product and technical innovation and efits human health and the environment. In our industry and market, offer the most sustainable clean air solutions. C A M F I L 2018 / 4 Camfil is also unique in the industry because we design our own production machinery. We can optimize every size of filter for our customers for the highest performance. We also have best-in-class laboratory facilities and test equipment to help customers find the right filters for the greenest clean air solution. AOC Our suppliers and customers demand proof of our sustainAnders Freyschuss, EVP Global Standardization & Sustainability ability and want to see that we are committed strongly to it and DID CAMFIL HELP PIONEER SUSTAINABLE AIR FILTERS? making progress. Following the sustainability route is also good AF We were the first to recognize, embrace and highlight the business sense. importance of sustainable air filtration and Camfil’s historical We can prove that our filters are the most sustainable solution, timeline includes several milestone accomplishments in this area. regardless of the application. We offer flagship energy-saving prodFor example, we were the first filter manufacturer to introduce ucts like Hi-Flo®, Opakfil®/Durafil® and 30/30® for comfort ventiLife-Cycle Costing (LCC) software that allows the optimization of lation, or Gold Cone® and HemiPleat® for air pollution control, and Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) systems for buildCam GT® for turbines to boost output and reduce CO² emissions. ings. This software, in combination with an innovative product line, We try to maximize every filter we make in terms of particle removal has helped us build a very strong market position. efficiency and energy usage. We offer everything from high to Our trailblazing efforts in the 1990s to analyze the life cycle of lower tech products to meet all needs and applications, but even our air filters were also instrumental in guiding our R&D team to our simpler air filters are better than their peer group in terms of develop low-energy products, select eco-friendly material and energy use. assess their environmental impact. In some respects, these initiatives were also market-driven to meet emerging requirements, such HOW DO YOU MAKE BUILDINGS ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY? as incinerable filters to reduce waste in the Nordic market. AF Our filter systems are part of a building’s infrastructure and we We have a long tradition of driving the industry forward. Camfil has are involved all over the world in making new buildings more and been actively involved in the standardization of air filters and we more sustainable in different green building concepts. introduced energy ratings for our filters before Eurovent’s energy Buildings and facilities are always a long-term investment and their classification system was adopted. HVAC systems account for up to 50% of their operating costs, AOC We are also known for the integrity of our products – everyof which 30% is air filtration. With their longer life, lower energy thing we say about our products and their performance pans out in use and higher efficiency, Camfil’s premium air filters can deliver real-life operating conditions. Only in recent years has it been posa direct payoff to our customers, allowing them to find the right sible to measure and prove filter efficiency. Our products always do balance between energy conservation and high indoor air quality. what we say they will do. They clean air with the highest efficiency Keep in mind that energy efficiency is being legislated and required and the lowest amount of energy, and they last longer for reduced in many countries. Today, buildings are “competing” for a green maintenance and disposal costs. They have been developed by the label by increasing their energy efficiency. Just look at the number best clean air experts in the industry, with the finest technology and of energy awards that are being given out. Green building rating R&D resources in the business. systems like LEED – and sustainability assessment methods like AF All in all, customers get a lower total cost of ownership, which BREEAM – empower those who own, commission, deliver, manage is the same as sustainability: energy savings, reduced carbon footor use buildings to achieve their sustainability aspirations. Camfil print, and less waste for a sound and green investment in filtration. is their partner to lower the cost of the HVAC system, the most expensive item in a building’s operating budget. HOW GREEN IS YOUR PRODUCTION? AOC If you want to stay in business today, you must be sustainAF All Camfil factories are ISO 9000 and many are certified to able, that’s the bottom line. You need to be sustainable to attract ISO 14000. We work daily to make our production as sustainable more business. With our industry track record, we know we are as possible by optimizing our processes to produce less waste and doing what is best for our customers and will continue to make emissions and use less energy per manufactured filter. their operations greener as their clean air provider of first choice. C AM FI L 2 0 1 8 / 5 Global Organization HEAD OFFICE P R O D U C T I O N U N I T, I N C L . S A L E S SALES OFFICE AGENT CEO HR & Internal Alan O’Connell Finance Communication Eva Bergenheim Sustainability & Per Carlsson Standards Holmberg Anders Freyschuss Filter Filter Filter Continental Filter Power Systems APC Americas Northern Europe Europe & APAC & ME British Isles Fredrik Westgård Alain Bérard Armando Brunetti Torbjörn Bäck Mark Simmons Suresh Balan Marketing and Product Information Erik Markman Supply Chain – Operations, Sourcing, R&D and Product Management Stefan Larsson Dan Larson C A M F I L 2018 / 6 Mi ssi on Statement Camfil's mission is to provide customers with Indoor Air Quality (IAQ) and clean ­emissions in line with customer needs. This is being achieved with sustainable b ­ est-in-class air filtration products and services, as well as through local presence. G rowt h and prof itabi lity g o als Camfil's goal is to achieve organic growth well above market growth with maintained profitability. Core Values Committed and innovative people in an entrepreneurial environment are Camfil’s keys to s­ uccess. Our core values express the soul of our company and serve as a guiding star for the entire Camfil Group. Constant efforts are made to ensure that all our employees understand and work in line with the following core values: Reliability We are reliable because we know the market, we are honest and truthful. Our people, products and ­processes must always meet, or supersede, agreed results. Commitment We are committed to always striving for the best possible solutions and we are in the forefront of ­technological and environmental developments in our fields of expertise. Customer satisfaction We put our customers first. We focus on identifying customer needs and creating long-lasting customer value. Teamwork Working together makes us stronger and increases employee satisfaction both locally and g ­ lobally. Local presence Local understanding and presence on local markets builds customer relations and ­satisfaction. C AM FI L 2 0 1 8 / 7 Busi ness Area Filters – Sustainable filters that save energy and protect health Camfil air products are used to filter and clean the air in indoor systems and filter housings for high-risk research facilities and environments. Every filter is backed by more than 50 years of biosafety labs. experience – from replacement filters capable of removing submicron particles and gases, to complete air circulation and filtration AIR FILTERS, ENERGY SAVINGS AND CARBON FOOTPRINT systems. Sustainable air filtration solutions provide a concrete answer to Customers can choose from the widest and most advanced range new requirements from authorities for mitigating climate change of air filters in the industry to improve health and performance, proand implementing energy efficiency policies without compromising tect critical manufacturing processes, boost productivity and safeindoor air quality. The result is the right balance between energy guard the environment. Clean air, the filtered end-product, is free of conservation and protecting people’s health and the environment. harmful or damaging pollutants, dust, dirt, allergens, contaminants, Camfil's solution is to make filters with a long lifespan. These prodmolecular gases and, in some cases, even life-threatening radiaucts drastically lower costs by limiting installation expenses and tion, depending on the application reduce energy costs by remaining efficient for a longer time. Using • For “comfort air” in public and commercial buildings, Camfil has fewer filters reduces the consumption of critical raw materials such the most energy-efficient filters for Heating, Ventilation and Air as metals and wood resources for packaging, but it also reduces Conditioning (HVAC) systems. These products, including a range the amount of adhesives, plastics and filter media that are used, of of air purifiers, deliver clean air to protect people by improving which some are petroleum-based. Energy is also naturally saved in Indoor Air Quality (IAQ), protecting the HVAC system from conthe amount of energy used to produce filters. tamination, and helping the owners of buildings to reduce their AIR FILTERS AND HEALTH energy consumption and carbon footprint. Clean air matters for good health and Camfil believes that clean air • In the production world, Camfil’s clean air solutions protect is a human right. We want people to breathe with total confidence advanced and sensitive manufacturing processes by eliminating and we also want them to be more aware of the fine particles in molecular and microbiological contamination that jeopardizes air pollution that constitute an invisible threat and a public health output, product quality or workplace health. In the nuclear power challenge today. industry, particulate filtration, gas-phase filtration and containment are other specialties, as well as advanced biocontainment To meet this objective, we actively take steps to raise awareC A M F I L 2018 / 8 ness about indoor and outdoor pollution through online initiatives efficiency is tested with three different particle sizes and the and other actions such as our global “Take a Breath” campaign, results are related directly to performance against PM1 (≤1µm), European Camfil Roadshow campaign, and most recently, our IAQ PM2.5 (≤2,5µm) and PM10 (≤10µm). Camfil offers many highForum in Sweden. efficiency air filters that are rated for PM1 removal for high IAQ. Clean air is not only crucial to good health but also affects workENERGY EFFICIENCY CLASSIFICATIONS place productivity because of employee absences due to pollutionrelated ailments. Clean air also impacts the rate of classroom In recent years, professional trade organizations are putting attendance, because children with asthma and other respiratory greater emphasis on the energy aspects of air filters. conditions tend to miss more school when air pollution levels are In Europe, the Eurovent Energy Efficiency Classification System for higher. air filters grades products from A+ to E, with A+ standing for the lowest energy consumption and E the highest. With the push to ISO 16890 LEADS THE WAY lower the energy consumption of HVAC systems, a filter’s energy It is consequently encouraging that the introduction of a new class gives customers a clearer understanding of a filter’s annual standard, ISO 16890, marks for the first time in history that the air energy usage, initial efficiency and minimum efficiency. filtration industry has agreed on a global testing and classification Camfil’s labels include the A+ to E energy rating to point out the standard that makes it easier for customers to select the right fildifference between our filters and competitor products. Another ter for the right application. The standard will replace two existing example is in the U.S., where Camfil’s premium filters carry a standards: ASHRAE 52.2, dominant in the U.S., and EN779:2012, 5-Star rating. Our most energy-efficient filters also have names to dominant in Europe (both coexist in Asia and the Middle East. indicate this, such as Hi-Flo ES and Durafil ES2, with ES standing The standard is harmonizing the industry and leading to transparfor energy-saving. ency, equality and opportunities for air filter manufacturers. It is also creating a level playing field because ISO 16890 makes it easier and fairer to compare competing products and will eliminate Please visit www.camfil.com for detailed information about sustainable poor-performing filters to the benefit of customers and end-users. air filtration, energysaving filters for HVAC systems and Camfil’s full range of world-class products and solutions. ISO 16890 is leading to higher indoor air quality because a filter’s C AM FI L 2 0 1 8 / 9 Two best-selling filters that are lean and green Camﬁl continuously invests in R&D because it maximizes value for customers and is a very important factor for the development of sustainable air ﬁltration solutions. Products are developed at six research centers across Europe, the Americas and Asia using state-of-the-art laboratory and testing equipment based on the latest standards. Designing environmental aspects into Camﬁl’s air ﬁlters has been a priority for years. Not only should our ﬁlters be energy-efﬁcient. Product design and process control also integrate eco-efﬁciency considerations, including the preservation of natural and fossil resources, reduction of waste and emissions, pollution risk prevention/reduction, the substitution of hazardous substances and use of recycled materials, and the development of alternative product recycling methods. Improving and “tweaking” products for higher efficiency is part of this innovative process, as exemplified by Hi-Flo, Camfil’s bestselling bag filter for air handling units that comes in several versions, including Hi-Flo, Hi-Flo XL and Hi-Flo ES. Hi-Flo has always been the preferred choice of customers for energy savings. The filter has the lowest initial and average pressure drop to ensure the lowest energy cost in the industry. It is also the longest lasting pocket-style filter on the market, requiring fewer changes and reducing landfill waste. But Camfil never rests on its laurels and the filter has been improved and released in new versions to reach new heights. In 2015, Camfil’s R&D experts developed a new and more efficient fiber mix for the filter media and proprietary stitching technology for the pockets on machines developed by Camfil. C A M F I L 2018 / 10 MAKING A FLAGSHIP PRODUCT EVEN MORE ENERGY-EFFICIENT Based on sales of different filter grades in 2016 and 2017, the new and improved Hi-Flo has reduced the energy consumption of our customers’ HVAC systems by another 19%, compared to the earlier Hi-Flo. Since Camfil sells milllions of units per year, up to 130 MWh in electricity is being saved by our customers around the world. This is equal to eliminating polluting emissions from approximately 30,000 cars if we consider that an average of 450 grams of CO² is typically emitted during the production of one kilowatt hour (kWh) of electricity worldwide. COMPACT FILTER WITH HUGE SAVINGS conditions, the filters have a longer life than competitor filters, Another example of refining products for bigger energy savings is which adds up to less filter disposal. Greenhouse gases emissions Opakfil, marketed as Durafil in the Americas, the most sold comare also reduced due to less filters in transit from factory to end pact filter in the world. This filter delivers high efficiency filtration user. A longer lasting, energy-frugal filter will save users money in at very low energy consumption in a compact format. It is used energy and labor, and positively impact the carbon footprint. in any air conditioning application and for preparatory filtration in cleanrooms. Major revisions to the design, media and configuration have resulted in a new filter concept with the highest particle removal efficiency, longer life and smallest environmental impact. Unique pleating technology, developed in-house, was used to create a new media for all filter grades. Camfil also designed an innovative frame system that is more aerodynamic, letting ventilation air pass more easily through the filter to save energy. Based on sales of different filter grades in 2016 and 2017, the newly designed Opakfil/Durafil has achieved the same additional energy savings for customers as the improved Hi-Flo – 19 % compared with the previous model. Since Camfil sells hundreds of thousands of units per year, up to 70 MWh is being saved by our customers, which is equal to reducing polluting emissions from 15,000 cars. Customers also benefit from product refinements like these in terms of reduced waste and environmental impact. Under normal C AM FI L 2 0 1 8 / 1 1 LCC and other software for POWERFUL MODELING TOOL Camfil’s LCC software is a power modeling tool identifying the energy-saving filtration most effective filter strategy for every operating condition based on the LCC of filters. To minimize energy use and maximize filter life, the program indicates the ideal pressure drop at which filters It is well known in the HVAC industry that the energy consumption should be changed, based on real-life application data. Different of a building’s air conditioning and ventilation system is directly combinations of filter types can be simulated to ensure the most proportional to the average pressure drop over the filters in air sustainable filtration solution for customers. handling units (AHUs). In the average commercial building, up to 50% of the energy bill is for the HVAC system and 30% of that is The energy consumption and environmental impact of filters can be directly related to the air filtration, so it always pays to choose the estimated for different air handling units and outdoor air qualities at best low-energy air filter combination for the right filtration applicavarious running conditions. This enables the user to make the optition. Choosing the right filters for AHUs therefore saves energy for mum selection by comparing systems using single or multistage greener ventilation systems. filtration. The LCC can also indicate the current CO₂ footprint of the filter installation, based on the customer’s local situation. Camfil has been a pioneer and industry leader for than half a century in designing low average pressure drop filters in all filter classes and can demonstrate how better air filters lower Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) for customers and deliver a more sustainable solution. Low-cost filters clog quickly, causing a higher resistance to the airflow, resulting in an energy cost penalty. Camfil air filters capture particles and maintain the proper airflow two to three times longer than low-cost filters and require less frequent filter changes. Fewer filters add up to less labor cost for changeouts and reduced waste, while the biggest savings is lower energy costs for running the air handling system. 1 PA = EUR 1 By selecting filters designed for lower average lifetime resistance, air handling units do not work as hard to pull air through the system. A rule of thumb, for a typical installation running half time over one year, is that one additional Pascal (PA) in pressure drop over a filter adds EUR 1 CFSS PORTFOLIO (around USD 1.25) in extra energy cost. A bad filter construction could add 50 Pascal compared to a “good” construction, even when the same Today, LCC software and other Camfil proprietary software is comfilter class is used. In other words, each poor-performing filter can add bined in the Camfil Filter Solution System (CFSS) portfolio. an average of EUR 50 (USD 62.50) to a building’s annual electric bill. With analysis and optimization tools for a wide range of filter LCC SOFTWARE applications, CFSS caters to all applications in a single package, making it simple to perform IAQ analyses for every type of instalTo facilitate the right choice of filters for a system, Camfil’s R&D lation, from advanced industrial cleanrooms to commercial buildDepartment pioneered the first Life Cycle Costing (LCC) software ings. Regardless if clean air is needed for clean manufacturing in the early 1990s to help air filter users to select the best filtraprocesses, power generation or an office space, the solution is tion solution in terms of indoor air quality (IAQ) and energy perforoften just a few clicks away on a computer screen. mance. This software debut has been gradually followed by the launch of additional innovative computer programs for different THE CFSS PLATFORM ALSO INCLUDES: applications and filters. ·· LCC POWER to evaluate the LCC of air filters in gas turbines and other The LCC computer software has evolved over the years to include turbomachinery. data from hundreds of filters, both Camfil and competitive. The ·· CLEAN to estimate the cleanliness class for cleanrooms or commerlatest version, Camfil LCC Green, considers filter efficiency, filter cial spaces using Camfil filters. life, filter change labor, filter cost, disposal costs and allows for ·· CREO (Clean Room and Energy Optimization) to design cleanrooms and calculate the LCC and cleanliness class for clean process applicavaried inputs for all of these factors plus the largest filter expense tions in industry. – energy usage. ·· HPE (High Performance Filter Analysis) to obtain real efficiencies, The program data is based upon real life data collected at facilities pressure drops and construction data for Camfil’s HEPA and ULPA filters. around the world for real world results, as opposed to theoretical ·· COMFORT IAQ to get information indicating how indoor air quality calculations. There is even input criteria with guidance to input the improves by choosing the right type of air filters. specific air quality parameters for a geographic area base upon ·· CAir for on-site measurements of air quality to select the right Camfil data from cognizant authorities. air cleaner or air purifier for rooms and spaces. C A M F I L 2018 / 12 Curbing the appetite of RIGHT FILTERS SLASH ENERGY +40% In the past few years, Camfil has taken initiatives to reduce the power-hungry data centers energy consumed by these centers by over 40%, while also improving the indoor air conditions to help keep servers operating efficiently. A second benefit to Camfil’s data center solutions A “hyper-scale” data center is the term for the largest data centers is the reduction in waste disposal of air filters by nearly 80%, as constructed by Silicon Valley giants like Google, Facebook, Amazon measured in cubic meters per year. This has been achieved by and Microsoft. These centers usually have a minimum of 5,000 eliminating an entire stage of air filters, the energy they consume servers and there are 390 in the world today, with that number and the waste they create. estimated to increase to 500 going into 2020. In the U.S. alone, the most recent measurements indicate that data centers consumed At one customer’s data center using a two-stage filtration system approximately 70 billion kWh of electricity in 2014, or about 2% of with pre-filters, Camfil’s LCC (Life Cycle Cost) analysis showed a the total energy consumed in the country – the equivalent of power savings of USD 80,000 per year in operating costs with Camfil used by 6.4 million American households. filters, 1.6 million kWh in saved energy, and 261 cubic meters of less landfill waste per year. Camfil’s product solution only needs single-stage filtration with the high-efficiency, energy-saving Hi-Flo ES. The benefit of the Hi-Flo ES over the competitor’s solution is the entire elimination of the prefilters, which consume more than 50% of the data center’s total energy consumption. The Hi-Flo ES, unlike traditional V-Cell and other low-cost filters, operates as two stages of filtration in one package, while also maintaining its rated efficiency. Air filtration is required in these data centers because of the high demand for clean air. If air is not kept at optimum conditions, particulate can collect on PCBs (printed circuit boards) and negatively affect the heat transfer of the heat sinks. When PCBs collect dust and dirt, the circuit boards cannot transfer their heat as efficiently and could cause performance loss and eventually board failure. Smart tech saving packaging and energy Camfil’s constant goal is to produce and distribute air filters in the most sustainable way possible. An example is CamSize, a filter packaging solution that reduces Camfil Germany’s outbound freight volume up to 40%. All outer packaging is cut exactly to the required air filter size, lowering costs for storing many package sizes, which in turn reduces space requirements and simplifies product administration with fewer digital code numbers. With smart packaging, only three shipping pallets are required instead of five for the same volume of filters. The system also eliminates the need for filling material in filter boxes, which adds up to less waste for end-customers to dispose of. The new customized filter boxes, free from any glue, filling material and metal, also has advantages for installers of HEPA filters in terms of quality and easier handling. C AM FI L 2 0 1 8 / 1 3 Busi ness Area Foto by Lena Hjelmenæs, Camfil Denmark Air Pollution Control – dust, mist and fume collectors for cleaner and healthier work environments Operating in North America, Europe and Asia, Camfil APC (Air space of any dust collector available today. Camfil APC's exclusive Pollution Control) is one of the world’s largest manufacturers of HemiPleat® state-of-the-art filter pleating technology holds the dust, mist and fume collection equipment. The business area is pleats of the cartridge open with wide pleat spacing not found in represented on six continents and draws upon over five decades of competitive cartridges, which are packed too tightly to maximize experience and expertise to ensure that customers are kept safe media use. This ensures 100% media use, resulting in longer filter and productive. life and lower pressure drop while improving cleaning efficiency. Many manufacturing processes create some kind of dust, mist or HELPING CUSTOMERS COMPLY fume and these byproducts can be harmful to workers and cause machinery to become less efficient. In the global market, Camfil In every country it operates in, Camfil APC helps customers stay APC’s collection equipment is used in a variety of applications, on top of the very latest regulations and standards for occupational including abrasive blasting, chemical processing, food and beversafety and health and fire protection. Camfil APC also knows about age, laser and plasma cutting, mining, pharmaceutical, thermal recirculating air from dust collectors. Whether dust collectors are spray, welding and machining. Each industry has its own unique set used in a plant to control indoor air quality (IAQ), keep equipment of collection challenges and Camfil APC’s products deliver clean clean, and/or recover high-value process dusts, many plants are air to the workplace for better health and safety and also reduce considering recirculating the air back into the plant downstream of outdoor emission levels to protect the local environment. collectors instead of exhausting it outdoors. When using recirculating dust collection systems, Camfil APC ensures that special safety FLAGSHIP COLLECTORS AND FILTERS and performance concerns are addressed. Camfil APC’s best-known products for dry dust and fume collection TEST FACILITY include the Farr Gold Series® of dust collectors for industry, Farr Gold Series Camtain for pharmaceutical and containment appliCamfil APC has a state-of-the-art dust collection test facility that cations, the compact Quad Pulse Package, and machining mist performs full-scale tests of customer dust. By identifying dust collectors like Oil Expert and EM Profi for oil mist and emulsion/ characteristics properly, Camfil APC can select the right type of coolant separation. collector and filtration media for optimal energy savings and operational efficiency, minimizing maintenance problems and reducing The Farr Gold Series utilizes Gold Cone® cartridge technology emissions while extending filter life. to deliver clean air and long life while utilizing the smallest floor C A M F I L 2018 / 14 Better and more energy-efficient oil-mist collection in China In northern China, Arnold Fasteners (Shenyang) Co., Ltd. operates as a subsidiary of the Arnold Group, a leading producer of innovative fastening technology headquartered in Germany. Serving the Chinese and other Asian markets, the Shenyang facility manufactures fastener products, solutions and systems for the automotive industry and other industries with high quality requirements. The target customer groups are automotive OEMs and their sub-suppliers, truck and heavy off-road machinery, the electronics industry, and communication infrastructure component manufacturers. MIST PROBLEMS FROM PRODUCTION Since the start of operations in 2007, Arnold's China factory had been using electrostatic filters for ten years. These filters required very frequent maintenance and the filtration result gradually worsened to affect working conditions. A more effective filtration system was needed to eliminate oil-mist emissions from about 70 heading machines for cold forging of fasteners in the 2,600 square meter workshop. The main goal was to improve indoor air quality and create a safer and healthier environment for employees. BEFORE AFTER NO MORE MIST WITH OIL EXPERT Seeking a way to improve the work environment, Arnold China was referred to BMW Shenyang, a local manufacturer using Camfil APC products. Camfil APC was contacted, and to meet Arnold China’s requirements, Camfil APC recommended Oil Expert, a highly efficient mist collector utilizing multi-stage filtration and self-cleaning filtration media with a long life. Due to a flexible and modern design, multiple units can be combined for any size application. C AM FI L 2 0 1 8 / 1 5 Busi ness Area Power Systems – protecting turbomachinery equipment The Camfil Power Systems business area specializes in air inlet orities, operating needs and local environmental conditions. The filtration and acoustical systems for turbomachinery, mainly for teams also work closely together with Camfil’s subsidiaries, agents gas turbines, generators, industrial air compressors and diesel and distributors to increase the filtration knowledge of customers engines. The result is more efficient power generation and use of with a view to improving and retrofitting their existing systems, or carbon fuel resources, which contributes to reducing Green House to define the best solution for new equipment investments. Gas (GHG) emissions. FILTRATION BOOSTS EFFICIENCY AND CUTS EMISSIONS Systems are designed to meet the priorities and requirements of Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs), Engineering Turbomachinery technology has evolved tremendously over the last Procurement Construction companies (EPCs), operators and end decades and the use of more innovative technologies and materials users. With Power Systems as their partner, these customers can has boosted the efficiency of this equipment to a much higher level, rest assured that their turbomachinery will operate in the most helping to increase their industrial merit and lower GHG emissions profitable and environmentally friendly way with maximum availas much as possible. ability and reliability. However, these evolutionary improvements have also made turbomachinery more susceptible to fine airborne particulates that SYSTEMS AND SERVICES cause fouling, corrosion and faster degradation of performance. With more than 50 years of experience, Power Systems has more At the same time, stricter emission regulations have changed the than 2,000 installation references worldwide for power generation, particulate distribution dramatically, requiring newer filtration techoil and gas, and industrial air compressor customers. Solutions nologies of increasingly high efficiency. are engineered and manufactured to the highest standards and To ensure optimum system designs, Camfil has a unique R&D centequipped with proprietary Camfil filter products to ensure that er in Sweden with a specially dedicated test-rig for turbomachinery customers operate their assets reliably and efficiently. applications. Here, tests are conducted with the latest technologies In addition to complete air inlet filtration and acoustical systems to develop new filters matching new customer demands. (inlet silencers and noise enclosures), the range includes a variety By leveraging its considerable international resources and expeof options for anti-icing and/or cooling. rience, Power Systems has the knowledge, expertise and R&D These systems are engineered by Power Systems teams in Sweden, facilities to assess, analyze and recommend optimal solutions for Germany, Canada, India and China in line with the customer’s priturbomachinery applications anywhere in the world. C A M F I L 2018 / 16 200 000 POWER OUTPUT 150 000 CAMFIL MV Stabilizing output for lower ORIGINAL MV How Power Systems 100 000 helps customers reduce 0 500 greenhouse gas emissions 1 000 1 500 2 000 2 500 3 000 3 500 their carbon footprint On an offshore platform in Thailand, Power Systems upgraded and retrofitted the air inlet filtration solution of a gas turbine, increasEDUCATING CUSTOMERS ing its efficiency to EPA-class and reducing the initial/average Power Systems’ Test & Learn Centers in pressure drop. Turbine efficiency is now substantially improved, Canada, Sweden, Germany, Malaysia and China resulting in higher and more stable power output and much lower are used to educate and share our expertise with customGHG emissions. ers. With these facilities, Power Systems can bring more Before the upgrade/retrofit, high pressure drop of the original visibility to the actual performance of a specific filtration filter system and fouling of the gas turbine negatively affected system. The centers allow customers to test and compare efficiency by 3.5%, with higher CO² emissions as a result. The new different solutions to better understand the differences and improved Camfil filtration system reduced the additional CO² between poor and optimal filtration. In-house labs have a emissions to an insignificant 0.5%. large variety of testing capabilities for analyzing new and used filters to enhance knowledge about the environmental 20 000 POWER OUTPUT (HP) conditions at the customer’s site. ANALYZING FIELD PERFORMANCE Power Systems has globally deployed several mobile CamLabs to allow customers to compare and analyze filter 15 000 performance on location, under real-life conditions, with the main goal being to reduce their carbon footprint to a minimum by boosting turbine efficiency and output with lower fuel consumption. CAMFIL MV ORIGINAL HV RUNNING HOURS 10 000 0 500 1 000 1 500 2 000 2 500 3 000 3 500 4 000 4 500 Camfil inlet air filtration vs. a competitor solution for an offshore gas turbine, With Power Systems’ solution, the turbine has a more efficient and stable power output that results in lower CO² emissions. Cutting carbon emissions 3,000 tons per year By retrofitting a gas turbine package in Italy in 2017, Power Systems improved the overall performance of the installation by lowering pressure drop and increasing efficiency from F-class filtration to EPA-class filtration. At first start after the retrofit, the customer immediately noticed a higher power output due to a lower initial pressure drop. Pressure drop directly impacts the heat rate of a gas turbine, and by decreasing it with the right filtration, GHG emissions are reduced ON-SITE SERVICES considerably because fuel resources are used more efficiently. To better understand the customer’s local environmental Increasing the efficiency class of the filtration system will make conditions and operations, Power Systems performs a major long-term, greener contribution to lower GHG emissions, air analyses, conducts site surveys and installs IIoT (the as the gas turbine will be able to run at test-cell performance for Industrial Internet of Things) systems on site. With these a much longer time, compared to the original solution. With the services, customers can improve their operational excelupgrade, the reduction in CO² emissions is expected to be in the lence and reduce their impact on climate change. range of 3,000 tons per year. C AM FI L 2 0 1 8 / 1 7 Environmental impact WASTE DESTINATION WASTE  Goal: 2% improvement in WGI* annually TOTAL WASTE TONS * WASTE GENERATION INDEX: WASTE/PRODUCTION COST 2007 2017 2017 7000 25 6000 20 30% 33% 33% 5000 51% 50% 50% 15 4000 3000 10 19% 17% 17% 2000 5 1000 LANDFILL INCINERATION RECYCLING LANDFILL LANDFILL INCINERATION INCINERATION RECYCLING RECYCLING 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The global Camfil Group has been steadily recycling more material and producing less waste in factories. ENERGY USE  Goal: 2% improvement in ECI* annually WATER USE  Goal: 2% improvement in WCI* annually ENERGY CONSUMPTION OF FACTORIES, GWh TOTAL WATER USE m³ * ENERGY CONSUMPTION INDEX = ENERGY USE kWh/PRODUCTION COST * WATER CONSUMPTION INDEX: WATER m³/PRODUCTION COST 70 25 100000 40 90000 35 60 20 80000 30 50 70000 15 60000 25 40 50000 20 30 10 40000 15 20 30000 10 5 20000 10 5 10000 0 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Camfil production units around the world have successfully implemented programs and measures to use less energy and water in filter manufacturing. CAMFIL FILTER SALES PER EUROVENT Eurovent Sales perENERGY energy CLASS class FOR MAJOR for major EUROPEAN European COUNTRIES countries  Goal: to increase A+ and A 3% annually 2015 2016 2017 50% 45% 40% 35% 30% 25% 20% 15% 10% 5% 0% A+ and A B C D E C A M F I L 2018 / 18 Attracting and retaining talent is vital for success Camfil understands the benefits of employing a diverse range of YES 78% talented individuals. As an equal opportunity employer, we take a WOMEN B E N E F I C I A L* 84% positive approach to diversity and use a global recruitment process to select candidates with transparency, fairness and respect. YES 73% MEN Globally, the average age of the workforce is 43 years old and 35% B E N E F I C I A L* 85% of our employees are female. *Of those who answered “Yes, I have had a PA review”. MEN 65% 35% WOMEN In CAMPAIR, we also ask about training. The most recent result, EMPLOYEES AT YEAR-END 5.46 on a 7.0 scale, indicated that employees were positive to the question “Do you get sufficient training to do a good job?”. 4000 Our internal competence development organization, Camfil 3500 Academy, offers internal training programs. Our Newcomers 3000 Course, intended primarily for new sales and marketing staff, is one 2500 of the academy’s most popular training activities. 2000 The course, conducted in Sweden, Camfil’s home base, gives new hires an introduction to Camfil’s culture, values and business con1500 cept. The curriculum covers Camfil’s product portfolio and a basic 1000 introduction to filtration technology, including energy efficiency and 500 life cycle cost calculations for filter applications. 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (GDP) Camfil’s performance management process is also used to identify FIRST IN INDUSTRY WITH GEEIS CERTIFICATION and develop talented employees with high future potential. Camfil promotes equal opportunities and diversity in terms Our Global Development Program (GDP) aims to support employee of recruitment, pay, development and promotion and became development and growth. It is tailor-made for Camfil in cooperation the world’s first air filter manufacturer to be awarded the with the KTH Executive School in Stockholm. Gender Equality European and International Label Standard (GEEIS The selection of all GDP participants is based on their performance Diversity) label. This certificate was awarded in 2017 by Bureau and individual growth potential. This highly appreciated program Veritas to Camfil AB, the Parent Company, and to Camfil Svenska has had participants from 16 different countries to date. Fifty-three AB (Sweden), Camfil SA (Belgium) and Camfil SASU (France). In percent of the participants in the first program have been promoted 2018, the goal is to obtain GEEEIS certification in six other counor given a bigger role in Camfil. The most recent program ended in tries to build further on a culture of equality within the Camfil Group. 2017, but already 25% have been promoted. RETAINING AND DEVELOPING EMPLOYEES Camfil places great value on developing and retaining our employees. Important goals are to constantly improve their skills, competencies and performance, ensuring that employees contribute to the business in a rewarding way. Camfil’s performance management process clarifies for each manager and employee what the requirements and expectations are for their performance. Giving all employees an annual performance appraisal is an important part of this process. In the Group’s bi-annual employee survey, CAMPAIR, we ask our employees not only if they have had a review but also if they found it beneficial: C AM FI L 2 0 1 8 / 1 9 Creating a healthy and safe work environment At Camfil, we have always believed that employee well-being, health In 2017, we had a total of 89 injuries in Camfil, compared to 69 in and safety are part of being a sustainable employer. 2016, an increase of 29% in the incident rate, which is monitored To achieve this goal, Camfil uses a global Operational Scorecard monthly as part of internal action programs to implement safety as a Key Performance Indicator (KPI) to measure the number of improvement measures. The goal for 2018 is to reduce the rate to Occupational Safety and Health (OSHA) injuries that are recordable. 50 injuries or less. NUMBER OF SICK LEAVE DAYS LOST WORK DAYS DUE TO OCCUPATIONAL INJURIES PER 100 WORK DAYS  Goal: 2.5% PER 100 WORK DAYS  Goal: 0.07% Number of Sick leave days per 100 workdays Work lost days due to work related injury per 100 6,00% workdays 0,35% 5,00% 0,30% 4,00% 0,25% 0,20% 3,00% 0,15% 2,00% 0,10% 1,00% 0,05% 0,00% 0,00% 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Group-wide program to promote local sustainability actions A DECADE OF ‘CAIRING’ As a significant global player in the air filtration industry, Camfil has a responsibility to make sustainability an essential ingredient for long-term success. Engaging employees in local sustainability and corporate social responsibility (CSR) actions is a vital part of this. Camfil Cairing This is accomplished with CamfilCairing (abbreviated “Cairing”), an annual Group-wide program that has been run for almost a decade to build a strong in-house culture of sustainability. The program integrates sustainability and good corporate citizenship into our business within all Camfil companies, and across all geographic regions we operate in. A coherent approach is assured through corporate coordination Each year companies hold a CamfilCairing Week that is especially with the CamfilCairing Network. The network’s members, who repdedicated to highlight our continuous sustainability work. For five resent various Camfil subsidiaries, are responsible for cascading days, we carry out different activities and work together as a global and implementing local sustainability policies within daily business company to create a sustainable future for generations to come. activities. This work also serves as a channel for gathering inforActivities range from implementing internal measures to improve mation that Camfil uses in sustainability reporting, and to escalate the greenness and work environment of facilities, to local commurelevant internal sustainability actions. Both CamfilCairing and the nity actions like blood drives and fund raising to combat diseases sustainability network are an effective way for Camfil to embed like cancer and cystic fibrosis. sustainability in everything the Group does. C A M F I L 2018 / 20 Risk management BUSINESS RISKS ECONOMIC RISKS Among other key issues, the internal CamfilCairing Code addresses The market for Camfil’s products is developing favorably due to the management of business risks, which includes managing the increasing recognition and awareness that air filters providing high protection of our employees, customers, property, information and indoor air quality benefit people’s health, productivity and wellthe environment. being in the work environment, and improve production output in Integration of risk management in policies and programs helps sensitive processes. In other industries, Camfil filtration solutions develop awareness and procedures to identify and mitigate: mitigate environmental impact by cleaning emissions. The Group’s energy-saving filtration solutions are also being increasingly ·· Liability risks through laws and regulations compliance. demanded by customers to green their buildings and reduce their ·· Product failure and customer risk through quality management carbon footprint. systems implementation. Geographically, Camfil’s operations are well distributed and there ·· Pollution risk through environmental management systems is less of a risk that the Group’s performance will be affected if implementation. the economy of a country should weaken. A large percentage of ·· Employee safety risk through the implementation and control of the Filters business consists of aftermarket sales, which are less operational safety policies. affected by changes in demand caused by economic fluctuations. ·· Information security risk through IT security policies and recovOperations conducted by the Power Systems and APC business ery planning. areas are more cyclical and project-based and their sales are con·· Business disruption risk through continuity planning developsequently driven more by investments, making them more sensitive ment. to economic changes. ·· Fundamental continuous improvement to ensure sustainable To reduce business risks related to production capabilities, Camfil growth and profitability in the long term. Here, Camfil efforts are manufactures the same air filters in many different plants around to be focused on improving product and service quality perforthe world and has firm policies in place with suppliers and to secure mance and cost control while enhancing employee safety and the provision of key production material like filter media. minimizing environmental impact. FINANCIAL RISKS Because Camfil operates primarily in countries outside Sweden, the Group is exposed to several different financial risks that are managed with policies and procedures on corporate level within the Finance Department of the Parent Company in Stockholm. The department identifies and limits the Group’s financial risks following a finance policy that is approved and updated by the Board annually. Risks are managed by means of derivatives and other financial instruments in accordance with limits set in a finance policy. C AM FI L 2 0 1 8 / 2 1 TRADE COMPLIANCE POLICIES CORPORATE GOVERNANCE It is the global policy of all Camfil business units to fully comply As a Swedish-based corporation headquartered in Stockholm. with, as a minimum, all export control and trade sanctions laws Camfil applies a code of corporate governance based on the and regulations of the European Union (EU) and other such local Swedish model to distribute authority, management and control laws and regulations governing the sale, supply and export of between the shareholders, the Board of Directors, the CEO Camfil products, services and technical data, globally, as may and Group Management in accordance with current legislation, be applicable. To ensure the adequacy and effectiveness of regulations and instructions. Within the governance structure, policies and procedures worldwide, Camfil has a Group Trade the Board of Directors administers the Group’s business, reguCompliance Manager. lations, practices and owner/stakeholder relations. Trade compliance procedures are in place for export licensing, screening of third parties and vessels, U.S. export controls and trade sanctions, product classifications, mandatory contract United Nations sustainable development goals clauses, country-specific requirements, end user certificates The United Nations has 17 goals for sustainable development and red flag situations. and Camfil has identified four that the Group’s clean air solutions contribute to on a global basis: CORPORATE MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE 3 For the best indoor air quality promoting good health As indicated in the organization chart on page six, the Camfil and well-being, Camfil offers high-efficiency air filters to remove harmful particles and contaminants in ventilation air, as Group is managed by Group Management, consisting of the well as air pollution control systems that collect dust, mist and President and CEO and the Executive Vice Presidents for three fumes in industry for safer work environments. primary corporate staff functions: HR & Internal Communica8 We provide optimum working conditions for more than tions, Finance, and Sustainability & Standards. For the Group’s 4,000 employees at 28 manufacturing sites, backed by global operations, there are six principal entities headed by strong human resource management and local employee care and health programs. This global workforce steadily helps us Business Unit Managers for Power Systems and APC, and for to increase our annual sales and earnings to contribute to Filter operations in the Americas, Northern Europe, Contineneconomic growth in 26 countries. tal Europe & British Isles, and Asia-Pacific & the Middle East. 11 Camfil’s air filters and clean air solutions are the most Corporate support functions manage key global processes for energy-efficient on the market and conserve energy to create marketing and product information, supply chain management, more sustainable buildings in cities around the world. sourcing, R&D and product management. 12 The environmental impact of Camfil’s production plants To facilitate the availability of governing documents, managis being continuously reduced each year through in-house improvement measures and green initiatives to conserve eners of business units have access to corporate policies and ergy, water and reduce landfill waste. instruction manuals on Cintra, the Group's intranet. UN Global Compact and respecting human rights Camfil is a member of the UN Global Impact and supports and complies with the Compact’s ten principles regarding human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Camfil also believes that access to clean air is a human right. We respect all internationally proclaimed human rights as reflected in our Code of Conduct and Code of Business Ethics, which are part of our CamfilCairing Code. To raise awareness, the Code is part of the onboarding program for new employees. In the most recent CAMPAIR survey, we asked sales managers, local management teams and purchasing personnel if they were familiar with the CamfilCairing Code, with 86% responding yes. C A M F I L 2018 / 22 F i v e Yea r S u m m a r y – C a m f i l G r o u p 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Income statement Net sales 7 294 6 722 6 250 5 461 4 906 Operating profit 896 775 657 572 516 Profit after financial items 829 725 558 502 443 Tax -258 -205 -189 -148 -110 Profit for the year 572 521 369 354 332 Balance sheet Goodwill and other intangible assets 1 432 1 416 1 260 1 185 917 Property, plant and equipment 980 963 914 947 786 Financial assets 109 128 85 183 102 Inventories 930 1 056 827 1 088 986 Cash and cash equivalents 615 316 453 659 651 Other non-current assets 1 428 1 352 1 228 1 214 1 081 Assets 5 496 5 231 4 767 5 275 4 523 Equity 1 919 1 462 2 162 1 842 1 394 Interest-bearing liabilities 1 934 2 084 1 229 1 895 1 777 Interest-free liabilities 1 643 1 684 1 376 1 539 1 352 Equity and liabilities 5 496 5 231 4 767 5 275 4 523 Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities 849 684 712 601 442 Cash flow from investing activities -281 -262 -190 -356 -174 Cash flow from financing activities -260 -571 -728 -275 -16 Cash flow for the year 308 -149 -206 -30 252 Key ratios Operating margin, EBIT 12.3% 11.5% 10.5% 10.5% 10.5% Profit margin before tax, EBT 11.4% 10.8% 8.9% 9.2% 9.0% Equity ratio 35% 28% 45% 35% 31% Interest-bearing net liabilities 1 275 1 740 760 1 143 1 099 Net debt-equity ratio (gearing ratio) 66% 119% 35% 62% 78% Return on capital employed 29.3% 28.2% 21.4% 22.3% 20.3% Return on equity 33.8% 28.7% 18.4% 21.9% 26.1% Investments 182 163 129 200 175 Employees (average for the year) 4 225 4 076 3 811 3 736 3 507 EBIT margin (operating margin) – Earnings before financial items, appropriations and taxes, as a percentage of sales. EBT margin (profit margin before tax) – Earnings before tax, as a percentage of sales. Equity ratio – Equity as a percentage of total assets. Interest-bearing net debt – Interest-bearing liabilities less cash and cash equivalents and other interest-bearing receivables, such as derivative financial instruments. Debt-equity ratio (gearing ratio) – Interest-bearing net liabilities as a percentage of equity. Capital employed – Total assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities including non-interest-bearing provisions. Average capital employed is calculated as capital employed at January 1 plus capital employed at December 31 divided by two. Return on capital employed – Profit after financial items plus financial expenses as a percentage of average capital employed. Return on equity – Profit after tax as a percentage of average equity. Average equity is calculated as equity at January 1 plus equity at December 31 divided by two. Investments – Investments in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. Camfil Sustainability Report 2017 For more than half a century, Camfil has been helping people breathe cleaner air. As a leading manufacturer of premium clean air solutions, we provide commercial and industrial systems for air filtration and air pollution control that improve worker and equipment productivity, minimize energy use, and benefit human health and the environment. We firmly believe that the best solutions for our customers are the best solutions for our planet, too. That’s why every step of the way – from design to delivery and across the product life cycle – we consider the impact of what we do on people and on the world around us. Through a fresh approach to problemsolving, innovative design, precise process control and a strong customer focus we aim to conserve more, use less and find better ways – so we can all breathe easier. The Camfil Group is headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden, and has 28 manufacturing sites, six R&D centers, local sales offices in 26 countries, and 4,180 employees and growing. We proudly serve and support customers in a wide variety of industries and in communities across the world. To discover how Camfil can help you to protect people, processes and the environment, visit us at www.camfil.com.
