Sustainability Report 2016 SEKEM Sustainability Report 2016 Dear Readers, SEKEM is committed to sustainable development since 1977. This is a continuous development journey without final destination. However, this journey requires to have targets which can be measured and benchmarked in order to keep track of the developments and to always realign the day-to-day operations to the vision and purpose of the initiative. The year 2016 has been difficult for Egypt and SEKEM. Three consecutive devaluations hit the economy hard and increased prices within the local market, also due to increased import costs. SEKEM and its subsidiaries have been impacted by these devaluations as well. Still, SEKEM was able to keep all its initiatives and activities active, including the schools, the program to empower women, or the constant projects in the fields of arts and culture. The Heliopolis University has enrolled more than 1000 students and started to plan its second phase, including the establishment of the faculty of sustainable agriculture and the faculty for physiotherapy. The House of Cultures is another important part of the second phase and shall become a place where cultural exchange shall be fostered through arts, music and events. The past year has been difficult, yet, it has been wonderful as well. We strongly believe in sustainable development and a sustainable future for all of us, but are fully aware of the long way we all still have ahead of us. Still, we are enthusiastic and motivated to move on together with all our partners, friends and networks, who believe in us and who supported us tremendously during the past 40 years. Cairo, 15th of July, 2017 Helmy Abouleish Chief Executive Officer, SEKEM Group 01 SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2016 Securing of animal Efficient usage of welfare, energy natural habitats and and application of wildlife diversity alternative energy Economic Life Societal Life Fair and ethical value Equal opportunity (along creation in harmony with the human rights), respect environment, and societal and human dignity for and cultural development every stakeholder Improving air Biodiversity and quality and avoiding organic seeds of Greenhouse Gas highest quality emissions Enhancing Efficient and and sustaining responsible the fertility of usage of water soil Cultural Life Holistic continuous development of values, knowledge, capacities and consciousness for individual empowerment Our Vision Sustainable development towards a future where every human being can unfold his or her individual potential; where mankind is living together in social forms reflecting human dignity; and where all economic activity is conducted in accordance with ecological and ethical principles. 02 About SEKEM SEKEM is serving the community for 40 years – an enduring journey. It started in 1977 by revitalizing the Egyptian desert and building a sustainable community. With faith in human beings and nature we believe in a sustainable future for all of us and work passionately every day to contribute to this, our common goal. The SEKEM Group of companies is a part of the SEKEM Initiative founded by Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish. It strives for Sustainable Development in four dimensions: Economy, Societal Life, Cultural Life and Ecology. After pioneering Organic and Biodynamic agriculture in Egypt, the SEKEM Group started to enlarge its activities by processing and producing Biodynamic products, textiles and phyto-pharmaceuticals in Egypt, the Arab World and on international markets. With part of their profits the SEKEM companies co-finance the social and cultural activities of the SEKEM Development Foundation, which runs schools, the vocational training center, a medical center and an institution for children with special needs among others. In 2012, the Heliopolis University for Sustainable Development was opened under SEKEMs patronage and combines a holistic approach to teaching, research and practice. It is the first university in the Middle East declaring sustainable development as its overall goal. While being worldwide connected, SEKEM considers the needs of the co-workers, community members and the environment at all times. SEKEM herewith gives more than 20,000 people a life and work perspective. SEKEMs “Economy of Love” fosters fair and ethical trading methods and promotes efficient solutions for our global challenges in regards to environment and society. SEKEMs vision stands for individual human development and sustainable community building. With our ecological, societal, cultural, and economic activities we foster a future in which every human being can unfold his or her individual potentials; a future in which mankind is living together in social forms reflecting human dignity; and in which all economic activity is in line with ecological and ethical principles. For actively combating desertification and soil erosion in Egypt for 40 years, the United Nations to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) awarded SEKEM and its community the “Land for Life Award 2015”. SEKEM has been widely praised as an “Egyptian organic pioneer” and has received the 2003 Right Livelihood Award (“Alternative Nobel Prize”) as a „Business Model for the 21th Century” and an “economy of love”. SEKEMs Commitment to Sustainable Development In December 2015, the United Nations published the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), whereby the sustainable development on the levels of economy, societaland cultural life and ecology should be ensured until 2030. The SEKEM Initiative realized the importance of sustainable development already since 1977 and is working everyday to implement this development by a holistic approach, especially in Egypt. 03 04 The 17 Global Sustainable Development Goals • SEKEM pays its 1,700 employees as well as its contracted farmers fair salaries and updated the minimum salary for all our workers in 2016. • SEKEM offers a solidarity fund to its employees and supports people with low salaries – with a special bonus and a social fund providing financial assistance in family cases of illness, loss of lives, marriages or births. • If SEKEM employees enrol their children in SEKEM School, they can get a reduction of the school fees according to their salaries. • Moreover, SEKEM provides free courses for illiterate employees. • SEKEM produces Organic and healthy food to fight malnutrition. • For all its employees, SEKEM is subsidizing lunch, so that each worker gets at least one warm meal per day. • 80% of SEKEMs reclaimed land produces food and raw materials for the local market. It helps solving the hunger problem, as Egypt remains highly dependent on food imports. • SEKEMs Medical Center provides both services to SEKEM employees, students and surrounding 40,000 community members. • SEKEM provides all employees with a state insurance and if desired, an additional private insurance. • Mobile ambulances in villages as well as medical health awareness sessions at SEKEM raise awareness about hygiene, cleanness and maternity, for instance. • SEKEM supports a government Hepatitis C treatment project. • SEKEMs companies develop healthy foodstuff, phyto-pharmaceuticals as well as relevant health products, early diagnosis for relevant illnesses as well as BioDiagnostic© kits. • SEKEMs agricultural does not create any pollution and herewith fosters healthy lifestyles. • SEKEM follows the UNESCO definition of Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) which is about enabling us to constructively and creatively address present and future global challenges and create more sustainable and resilient societies. • In the SEKEM School, the Vocational Training Center, the Kindergarten and the nursery SEKEM fosters combining traditional educational methods with innovative learning experiences. • Under SEKEMs patronage the Heliopolis University for Sustainable Development was opened and combines a holistic approach to teaching, research and practice. • SEKEM supports inclusive education with its education for children with special needs as well as the community children program. • SEKEM strives for lifelong learning and offers regular trainings for adult education, such as the core program. 05 • SEKEM fosters gender equality in all its activities and developed and applies a Gender Strategy for a balanced society. • SEKEM developed opportunities to empower female employees who have to balance between work and family life: flexible working hours, part time jobs, or working from home during the production peaks, for instance. • Gender balance and equality for SEKEM means to both, strengthen females and males. Therefore, SEKEM offers a period of maternity leave to new mothers, as well as a paternity leave to new fathers. • Additionally, SEKEM provides places for the newborns at SEKEMs Nursery or later at the SEKEM School, when their mother’s return to work. • SEKEM uses water efficiently and in a sustainable way – by cultivating water efficient plants, such as Jojoba. • After treatment SEKEM reuses 100% of wastewater at its farms and applies efficient irrigation forms. • SEKEM farms without the use of any toxic materials. Hence, no pollution leaks into the ground water. • SEKEM uses renewable energies – solar panels, solar water pumps and solar water heaters for the industrial production, for example. • Also the Heliopolis University for Sustainable Development uses solar panels for research and teaching purposes as well as runs an agriculture photovoltaic module for the Aquaponics greenhouse a desalination plant supplies the greenhouse which simultaneously and efficiently produces fish and vegetables at the same time. • SEKEM values Organizational Health and Safety (OHAS) and is accredited in line of OHAS 18001. • With the Vocational Training Center SEKEM gives young people a profound education and fights youth unemployment. • SEKEMs social business model and “Economy of Love” guarantees a fair share for all. • SEKEM strives to increase the living standards of its community members and hence provides a medical insurance, a life insurance as well as a pension insurance for its employees. • SEKEMs companies are part of a closed, circular and sustainable supply chain. Herewith, SEKEM promotes Cradle to Cradle (C2C) as well as a zero waste management. • To foster innovation, SEKEM supports research at the Heliopolis University for Sustainable Development in so far almost 90 ran research projects • The Heliopolis University, as part of SEKEM, has an applied research network and collaborates and researches in various domains, social innovation and education. 06 • SEKEM provides education for all: for children from rural, semi-urban and urban areas; from underprivileged and privileged families; from professional and managerial parents; from technical and skilled laborers; from farmers and unskilled workers; and from native Egyptians and foreigners alike. • With a program SEKEM also fosters, encourages and guides people with special needs to self-reliance, to help them achieve maximum independence and social integration as well as to engage them in the on-going business processes. • SEKEM enrolled refugees at the SEKEM School as well as at the Heliopolis University for Sustainable Development. • SEKEM believes that one of the key solutions for Egypt is to build living communities in the desert, by reclaiming desert land using biodynamic agricultural methods: Once the infrastructure is in place, the land is reclaimed and used for agricultural produce, a tremendous amount of jobs is created, families will have a constant income and hence will be able to serve themselves with health care and send their children to school. • In addition, through the sustainable agricultural methods, the community will sequester carbon dioxide in the soil and trees, which is contributing to prevent climate change and generating additional value for society. In the shadow of the trees, animals will be fed, who contribute with their manure to the very important compost production, which will vitalize the soil. • The Organic produce will be further processed by businesses, who are attracted to build up their factories surrounding the community, providing additional jobs. • SEKEMs production and business activities strive for improving the quality of life: Biodynamic agriculture as well as Biodynamic, Fairtrade and Organic products, textiles and phyto-pharmaceuticals are oriented towards the highest possible ethical, ecological and social standards. • SEKEM monitors and evaluates its material extraction and use with the Sustainability Flower. The flower represents a management, assessment and communication tool symbolizing the concept of sustainable development in its four dimensions: economic life, societal life, cultural life and ecology. • SEKEM together with Heliopolis University for Sustainable Development conducted a comparative true cost accounting study comparing conventional and organic agricultural production systems showing higher added value from sustainable production methods that are part of SEKEMs core business model. • SEKEMs Organic and Biodynamic agriculture makes farmers and land more resilient against natural disasters and hazards. • Under SEKEMs patronage, the Heliopolis University for Sustainable Development and the Academy of Scientific Research and Technology set up a Carbon Footprint Center in 2014. The center is active in carbon assessment and climate change mitigation and adaptation projects such as planting trees for carbon sequestration and wind break systems at SEKEM farms. • For creating fertile soils, three techniques help SEKEM: the application of compost produced at SEKEMs own premises, compost-tea and other organic fertilizers. The rotation of crops. The use of Biodynamic preparations. 07 • The acidification of ocean water is linked to the production of carbon dioxide emissions. Those are also produced through agricultural practices, such as livestock manure management. SEKEMs Biodynamic agriculture reduces and sequesters CO2 emissions as much as possible. • SEKEM recycles 100% of the water, which can be reused and does not drain it into the ocean. • SEKEM successfully fights desertification and land degradation and serves the community. In 2015, SEKEM was even awarded with the “Land for Life Award 2015” by the United Nations Convention on Combating Desertification (UNCCD) for this outstanding commitment. • SEKEM is a co-founding member of World Future Council (WFC), a registered charitable organization which researches, identifies and spreads policy solutions that contribute to Sustainable Development. Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish, the SEKEM Founder, is one of the WFC councilors, and Helmy Abouleish, SEKEMs CEO, a Special Advisor to the WFC. • Furthermore, SEKEM has a no tolerance policy towards bribery and corruption. This policy extends to all the company’s business dealings and transactions in all countries in which it or its subsidiaries and associates operate. • Working with the private sector, United Nations organizations and others, SEKEM fosters and promotes a multi-stakeholder network and partnerships to enhance the global partnership for sustainable development. • In 1996, SEKEM and a group of European trade partners founded the “International Association for Partnership in Ecology and Trade” (IAP) to mobilize and share knowledge, expertise as well as cooperation among farmers, manufactur­ers and distributors from the North and South, for instance. 08 ” Times are changing, the organic sector is expanding and we have to find the right position for SEKEM in this transforming environment by grabbing its potential for the future, which SEKEM absolutely owns.” Elfrieke van Galen, Member of SEKEMs Board of Directors 09 Economy SEKEMs Economic Life The past three as well as the ongoing devaluation of the Egyptian Target 2016 2015 Pound led to a weak overall economic development and resulted in a consumption decline in Egypt. Hence, SEKEM faced challenging times in 1:35 1:31 1:36 2016 and could not achieve all economic targets, like in the former postRate of highest to revolution years. The majority of SEKEMs produced goods, 79 percent, lowest annual were consistently sold in the local market. The initiative kept its strategic full-time salary. focus on financial recovery and debt relief in order to strengthen its resilience. Dealer networks, nationally and internationally, have been extended and new customers were acquired. In addition, SEKEM has begun to strengthen export activities, which helps to counteract the Target 2016 2015 devaluation of the Egyptian Pound (EGP). 10% 10% 10% However, SEKEM could achieve improvements in terms of its economical Share of net dimension. SEKEM increased the minimum basic salary to 1‘300 EGP profit invested and improved the ratio of the highest to the lowest annual full-time into community salary from 1:36 in 2015 to 1:31 in 2016, for instance. Furthermore, due development. to the positive operational performance, SEKEM was able to invest 10 percent of its annual profit into community development. SEKEM raised the sales value of certifiable products, which have a Target 2016 2015 Demeter certificate (from 43 percent in 2015 to 53 percent in 2016) as 50% 53% 43% well as of products with an Organic certificate (from 56 percent in 2015 to Share of sales value 73 percent in 2016). The challenge to successfully certify the remaining of products that 27 percent of possible organic sales is mainly driven by product quality have a Demeter from SEKEMs suppliers that fight with an immense pesticide pollution Certificate via water and air that cause residuals. Another reason is the mandatory transition period for conventional farms that want to become organically certified from which we are committed to take the produce during Target 2016 2015 these three years of transition. Otherwise SEKEM would not be able to convince farmers to enter in an organic production system that usually 100% 73% 56% comes with an initial drop in productivity. Of course, SEKEM is 100% Share of sales value committed not to use any chemical fertilizer or pesticides for its natural of products that raw materials and striving for a fully certified organic product portfolio have an Organic over the coming years. Certificate Together with Heliopolis University’s Carbon Footprint Center SEKEM continued with assessing its product portfolio and increased its share of sales of products with known product carbon footprint from 56 to Target 2016 2015 80 percent. The carbon footprints of SEKEM products are based on 100% 80% 56% categories, such as herbal teas, organic baby garments, organic textile Share of sales value dolls, herbs and spices, juices etc. What is not included yet are product of products that categories such as animal products, seeds etc. Furthermore, all product with known carbon for ATOS Pharma, natural medicines and healthcare products are not footprint. applicable for carbon footprint calculation. 10 Economy SEKEM Consolidated Key Financial Figures SEKEM and its subsidiaries were able to grow despite the challenges given in the environment, and achieved a consolidated growth of 29% in total sales, reaching EGP 375.7 million. The gross profit grew by 25%, reaching EGP 168.8 million. The devaluation of the Egyptian Pound in November 2016 has had a tremendous impact on SEKEMs consolidated earnings before tax and reduced them accordingly, to EGP 0.5m. 400 375.7m 350 300 292.2m 250 200 168.8m 150 134.6m 100 50 0 0.5m -4.1m Total Sales Gross Proﬁt Earnings Before Tax -50 2016 in Million EGP 2015 in Million EGP The share of products exported increased in 2016 to 30% versus 21% in 2015, reaching total consolidated export sales of EGP 87.44 million. Export Export Sales Sales 21% 30% 2016 2015 Local Local Sales Sales 70% 79% 05 11 Economy ISIS Organic ISIS Organic could hold its position as one of the largest Organic food Target 2016 2015 companies in the Middle East in 2016. The company supplies more 96 136 100 than 60,000 customers in 16 different countries and counts more than 500 employees. ISIS Organic introduced new products, such as bottled Total amount of water and green tea, and generated out of them sales of 64 million customer complaints & claims. EGP, which represents 83 percent of the value of all newly introduced SEKEM products sold in 2016. Hence, ISIS Organic was the main driver in boosting SEKEMs share of sales revenues from new products from 12 to 20 percent. Although the financial year 2016 was successful for ISIS Organic – 18% sales growth – the target couldn’t be reached due to Egypt’s economic Target 2016 2015 situation. SEKEMs largest company extended in 2016 it’s export activities 20% 20% 12% and invested in sales and marketing. Moreover, ISIS Organic decreased Share of sales value the number of customer complains by more than 40% and is therefore of new product mainly contributing to the SEKEM Holding reducing the total number of development. customer complains by almost 30% in 2016 (136 complains in 2015 and 96 complains in 2016). Get to know Boshra Elwan, Quality Control Manager at ISIS Organic ATOS Pharma https://goo.gl/YgNiRG Target 2016 2015 100% 100% 100% At the beginning of 2016, ATOS Pharma had been affected by the devaluation of the Egyptian pound as well, especially since most of Share of organic its products are tied to state-regulated prices. Nevertheless, SEKEMs waste recycled company for phytopharmaceuticals was able to generate EGP 49 million sales and a growth of 26%. This is can be ascribed to investments in a more efficient production as well as expanding the sales team. The newly developed and distributed product BioDiagnostics© showed success on the market and contributed to ATOS Pharma’s revenue with EGP 1.46 million. Target 2016 2015 Get to know Zarifa Kamal, Packaging Technician at ATOS Pharma 1.3 1.5 1.6 https://goo.gl/Ug42UX Total weight of waste NatureTex per 1,000 EGP sales in kg. As NatureTex, SEKEMs company for Organic textiles, exports 85% of its product the company can be considered as winner of the Egyptian Pound devaluation. Hence, the company could even exceed its targets for 2016. Besides, NatureTex generated new international customers as well as on the local market and developed innovations like quilted blankets and ball yarn, for instance. Hence, NatureTex raised EGP 4.6 Target 2016 2015 million from new products. 50% 42% 43% Get to know Walaa Mohamed, Quality Specialist at NatureTex Share of non-organic waste recycled. https://goo.gl/BfsNFK 12 Economy Lotus The company Lotus is processing herbs and spices and was able to grow in 2016, although the local sales were impacted negatively by its sister company ISIS Organic, which is supplying Lotus with raw materials. At the same time, the devaluation of the Egyptian pound had a positive impact on the export sales of the company which reached almost 60%. There continued to be a high demand for the new and currently popular products Chia, Quinoa and Jojoba. In 2016, Lotus improved its raw material quality as well as the production process that lead to a higher product purity. This was a major driver for SEKEM improving its ratio of total weight of waste per thousand EGP sales from 2.5 in 2015 to 1.4 in 2016. SEKEMs total amount of waste went up from 688 to 793 tons during the last year with a share of 66% and 69% of organic waste respectively. While SEKEM is recycling all its organic waste, only 42% of the non-organic waste was recycled, which represents a major challenge to be increased. Another huge challenge is the very low amount of recycled packaging material. Investigations showed that only Lotus uses some plastic, paper and carton as recycled input material. For all other companies the price and quality are main reasons to not use recycled packaging materials. Keeping SEKEM Farm a Clean Place Another huge problem of Egypt’s environment is waste management. According to the World Bank, Egypt generated 89.03 million tons of solid waste in 2012. Only 60% is managed by formal and informal waste operations. The rest is just thrown on streets or at illegal dumpsites. Compared with the rest of the country, SEKEM Farm is a very clean place with adequate garbage disposals all around. SEKEM constantly works on its waste management, also in 2016; The total weight of waste per thousand EGP Sales could be reduced from 1.6 to 1.5 kg/1000 EGP. 600,000 kg 500,000 kg 400,000 kg 300,000 kg 200,000 kg 100,000 kg 0 kg Plastic Paper & Carton Glass Organic Hazardous Other Target 28,017 kg 56,733 kg 83,308 kg 517,442 kg 135,433 kg 2016 24,823 kg 44,424 kg 71,110 kg 550,731 kg 101,940 kg 2015 26,218 kg 41,138 kg 63,996 kg 456,928 kg 99,839 kg Get to know Mohamed Abd El Zaher, SEKEM Waste Separation Manager https://goo.gl/GGDVSV 05 13 Economy SEKEM Agriculture Also in 2016, SEKEM Agriculture did not initiate new investments but managed to bear costs independently. There was no further land reclaimed but the already fertile soil was attentively cultivated. All in all, SEKEM Agriculture can look back to a good year 2016, with a growth of 38% compared to the previous year, which can be ascribed to fact that SEKEMs deserts farms (in Minya, Wahat El-Bahareya and Sinai) were able to generate initial yields out of the perennial crops such as dates or olives. Together for Food Security and Value Creation “Our contracted farmers are a fundamental part of SEKEM. Therefore, we should stand together to build a living and learning community, a safe environment for us and the coming generations.” Helmy Abouleish, CEO SEKEM Initiative In the winter season 2015/16 and in the summer season 2016, there were in average 127 contracted suppliers, potentially comprising 461 farmers in 16 governorates and 74% of the suppliers were located in Upper Egypt. Also the number of producers per contracted supplier entity in Upper Egypt continued to be higher than in the Nile Delta. Get to know two of SEKEMs contracted farmers https://goo.gl/daTi7e 14 Economy December 2015 December 2016 Contracted Supplying Contracted Supplying Farmers Farmers Farmers Farmers Region Area Actual Actual Actual Actual Behera 29 67 28 65 Moderit Eltahrer 1 3 0 0 Dakahlia 1 2 1 2 Kafr El Sheekh 1 24 4 32 Nile Delta Sharkia 7 10 6 9 Ismailia 3 6 3 6 Cairo 0 0 0 0 Qaluibia 4 4 4 4 Monofia 4 4 3 3 Giza 9 13 10 15 Fayoum 16 244 16 244 Beni Suef 5 5 5 5 Minia 22 37 27 45 Upper Egypt Asuit 5 7 6 10 Sohag 7 9 7 8 Aswan 5 11 5 11 Luxor 1 1 1 1 New Land Sinai 1 1 1 1 Total 18 121 448 127 461 05 15 Economy The table below shows that the number of contracted supplier entities below 10 feddan is relatively small (6%), whereas the number of suppliers between 25-50 feddan represents the most frequent size range (35%) not to forget that below one contracted supplier a range of small scale farmers can be organized. 2015 2016 Actual Actual 1 -10 Feddan 8 8 10 15 Feddan 20 21 15 25 Feddan 34 31 25 50 Feddan 36 44 50 75 Feddan 11 11 75 100 Feddan 2 2 100 + Feddan 10 10 Supplying Entities 121 127 Note: In Egypt, land holdings are fragmented. The overall average farm size is 2.05 feddan (0.86 ha). About 10% of farm households have more than 4 hectares (Eurostats 2013). SEKEM started to put a special focus on this cooperation in order to strengthen community building and networking between the farmers by additional meetings and trainings. This shall strengthen food security, another challenge that Egypt is confronted with. SEKEMs contracted farmers supplied SEKEM in 2016 with several crops, for instance herbs, spices, seeds, fruits, vegetables or dates. “Farmers, consumers and SEKEM build a ‘community of fate’ – if things are going bad for one, then they are going bad for everyone – and vice versa.” Atia Sobhy, Director of the Egyptian Farmers Development Association (FDA) and Egyptian Bio-Dynamic Association (EBDA) Get to know two of SEKEMs contracted farmers https://goo.gl/daTi7e Inspired by the SEKEMs Impact Evaluation Study on its agricultural partners in 2015 conducted by the Centre for Development Innovation, Wageningen University and financed by Oikocredit, one of SEKEMs shareholders, SEKEM recognises the need for continuously evaluating its impact on its supplying farmers. While an economic impact via job creation and an income premium is evident, social and cultural impact is much more subtle and needs an extra investment into community development as elaborated further below under Cultural Life. A challenge remains the collection and assessment of meaningful indicators that have been developed together with our partners from this projects and Heliopolis University. 16 Economy Great Success at International Fairs SEKEMs crops were also the pathfinder for SEKEM attending the “Biofach”, the leading fair for the Organic sector in Europe. Here, SEKEM could show a great performance together with some partner organizations, such as the Biodynamic certifier Demeter as well as with the Organic companies Davert or Lebensbaum. And it was Lebensbaum who awarded SEKEM as „Supplier of Excellence“. SEKEM and Lebensbaum are cooperating since more than 25 years. SEKEMs company Lotus provides Lebensbaum with biodynamical grown herbs and spices, especially camomile. The accolade shall underline and appreciate excellent performances. “Lotus improved the quality in regards to camomile by comprehensive actions and an intensive commitment of all involved parties. The company is now working at an above average level and can function as a role model for others”, Lebensbaum said. Furthermore the date-hazelnut confectionery of Davert and SEKEM has been selected by Demeter as one of the three best products of the year 2016. 16 producers of Biodynamic products had been nominated for election. The products were initially selected by a jury by considering various aspects of Biodynamic quality: Extraction of raw materials, processing, features such as Biodynamic varieties, animal welfare, social aspects, nutritional benefits and packaging. SEKEM even travelled to Japan to exhibit at the International Food and Beverage Fair Foodex. “Foodex is the perfect gateway to penetrate the Japanese and Far Eastern food market”, says SEKEM Export Manager, Sherif Mazar. “SEKEM successfully generated new leads from Japan, South Korea, Singapore and Iran and strengthened the company’s strong presence in the Japanese dried fruit market.” Among 12 leading Egyptian food companies, SEKEM took the chance to present the new Demeter-certified SEKEM brand. Social Entrepreneurship Besides keeping the daily business sustainable, SEKEM was active in promoting new ways in regards to its so-called “Economy of Love”. Hence, an Entrepreneurship Centre for Social Impact was founded at the Heliopolis University of Sustainable Development. The Social Entrepreneurship Center aims to be the engine for creating sustainable start-ups, which shall create growing financial profits and social impact in both local and global markets. It will provide sector-specific support to the next generation of entrepreneurs in order to receive the needed capabilities, which help them to compete and grow in today’s world. “The role of the private sector is absolutely crucial for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals as it is determining for a transformation of society.” Maximilian Abouleish-Boes, SEKEMs Chief Sustainable Development Officer Entrepreneurship in the age of the agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development has also been discussed in Berlin at an international debate. Among different representatives from politics to economy, SEKEM shared thoughts on challenges, possibilities and limits of non-governmental actors, such as the economy, science and civil society, in the course of the 17 Sustainability Goals of the United Nations (UN). “As the pressures we face get bigger and bigger, businesses from all over the world have to rethink their supply chain, changing towards transparency, fair distribution, fair prices and fair treatment. Otherwise, they will not be able to remain competitive in future.” Helmy Abouleish, CEO SEKEM Initiative 05 17 Economy Trying new Pathways: Crowdfunding In line of rethinking and going new ways, SEKEM started its first crowdfunding campaign in the end of 2015. Within 30 days, raised more than 23,000 USD and thereby 117% of its crowdfunding target. With the funds, the SEKEM Environmental Science Center (SESC) as part of the SEKEM School is able to establish an alternative education lab to experiment with innovative curricula serving holistic education. SEKEM appreciates the SEKEM Friends and supporters who value SEKEMs holistic approach and helped to achieve this success. “We urgently need a transformation of education in Egypt. We need a holistic educational system that encourages environmental and societal action, fosters creative thinking and strengthens the concept of learning outside the classroom”, Soraya Abouleish, SESC campaigner. Shareholder Network SEKEMs network of shareholders remained strong also in 2016. Together with its partners the SEKEM Initiative continued building up further resilience and strengthened a constant sustainable business practice. “SEKEM plays a very special role for the GLS Bank. We are constantly working with SEKEM and went through good and challenging times together.” Marcus Fütterer, Member SEKEM Board of Directors 18 Economy 19 Societal Life SEKEMs Societal Life In March 2017, Egypt’s population reached more than 94 Million. With a population growth rate above 2% the government has difficulties to provide infrastructures that satisfies basic human needs, such as access to adequate education and health services. SEKEM strives to foster a healthy development for Egypt’s people since its establishment in 1977, by supporting its employees in various additional ways or by strengthening an exchange between cultures and knowledge. Starting with the development of communities among SEKEMs contracted farmers via visits of international partners right through to empowering women, SEKEM aims to contribute to the progress of an advanced societal life, also in 2016. “The SEKEM-model is unique and the people who are working in SEKEM seem to be quite happy.“ Julius Georg Luy, German Ambassador in Cairo Different high-profile guests visited SEKEM in 2016 in order to get to know the holistic initiative for sustainable development but also to contribute to a better understanding, in regards to political topics as well as to arts and culture. High-profile Guests The German Ambassador, Julius Georg Luy, and the Head of Development Cooperation at the German Embassy, Sebastian Lesch spent one day at the SEKEM Farm. They are among others responsible for the developmental cooperation with the German Development Cooperation (GIZ) which supports SEKEM in promoting gender equality or in different agricultural projects, for instance. Also the Austrian Ambassador, Dr. Georg Stillfried visited SEKEM on the occasion of the yearly Spring Festival. His colleague, the Austrian Minister of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management, Andrä Rupprechter followed him some weeks later. During a two-day working visit to Cairo, the SEKEM Initiative was presented to Rupprechter as “impressive company model” in the field of sustainable development. Akin to the motivation of the high-profile visits, also SEKEMs partners were driven to visit the initiative. Common Understanding: Partner Visits in 2016 “SEKEM seems like an oasis in the Egyptian political, social and economic reality. It is like a lighthouse of a new time.” Wilfried Steen, Oikocredit-Member SEKEMs longstanding financial supporter, the cooperative society Oikocredit, did the first of a series of planned study tours to Egypt. Nine Oikocredit members out of five countries spent one week in SEKEM in order to get to know the partner more closely, but also to promote the project afterwards in it’s own network. How this is already bearing fruits, showed another Oikocredit activist who had been a guest in SEKEM the year before. Eberhard Proissl, voluntary member of the German Oikocredit Support Association BadenWürttemberg, presented his impressions of the Egyptian initiative at various events in his home country. In this context, he also emphasised on the meaning of the reinvented SEKEM News section and the general public relations work: “I read the SEKEM News with great interest and use the information for lectures and Facebook posts. They give an impressive picture of SEKEMs dynamic development”, Eberhard Proissl says. “I especially like the category ‘People in SEKEM’, which illustrates how the co-workers implement SEKEMs vision in their daily work.” 20 Societal Life Constantly Developing Communication As this redesigned communication approach showed great success, SEKEM continued in 2016 to develop its online appearance by relaunching the SEKEM Website. People can now directly read the SEKEM News connected to SEKEMs different activity fields – exclusively on the main online presence www.sekem.com. Of course also SEKEM co-workers themselves presented current activities on various international events. For instance in Berlin, SEKEM attended the “Conference on the Future of Learning – Global Goals Curriculum”, where the question “how can we integrate the Goals for Sustainable Development into the education curriculums?” was discussed. The 17 Sustainability Goals of the United Nations were then again addressed in Berlin on the event “Sustainable Fair Economic Activity – Entrepreneurship in the Age of the Agenda 2030”. “To reach the goals of social innovation and thereby, serve a particular community’s needs, we have to realize a specific society’s genius by going back to its roots, also enabling it to emerge by addressing its burning issues and drawing on its particular gifts.” Prof. Dr. Ronnie Lessem, TRANS4M Also in 2016, 10 internal and 16 external events and conferences had been an important part in SEKEM to foster a stronger societal development. At the beginning of the year, a Social Innovation Day addressed the needs of the community and society in new, unconventional ways. Additionally, many other topics have been discussed during events in SEKEM, such as alternative energies, education, entrepreneurship or medical topics. 21 Societal Life From a Community of “I’s” to a Community of “We” As different the discussed topics were, as different were the many Target 2016 2015 different great efforts with which the different European SEKEM Friends 26 24 20 Associations supported SEKEM continuously in 2016. For example, the SEKEM Friends Germany organized a very successful SEKEM Day in Number of events Stuttgart under the slogan „creating out of nothingness“. SEKEM Austria on Sustainable contributed to an event on Education for Sustainable Development Development where SEKEM participated. and shows great commitment to supporting refugees in the spirit of the SEKEM vision. The SEKEM Friends Association Netherlands put their focus in 2016 to the Heliopolis University by supporting the Core Program or a cooperation with the Dutch Zyud University. And the Scandinavian SEKEM Friends organized a trip for Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish through Scandinavian countries that included among others a visit at the Biodynamic Association and the Business for Peace Summit in Oslo. Target 2016 2015 300 288 343 Gender Equality Still in Focus Number of “I am not concerned about losing my job when I have a child. SEKEM publications about SEKEM in renowned supports young mothers with different facilities”, says Walaa Mohamed, media channels. co-worker at SEKEMs company NatureTex. The empowerment of women that had been officially formulated in 2015 in SEKEMs Gender Strategy for a Balanced Society, had also been focused in 2016. Several activities in order to raise awareness took place in all SEKEM institutions. Besides the so-called Social Meetings in the companies, there have been trainings with a special emphasis on gender equality for SEKEM co-workers. Target 2016 2015 “I can see how SEKEM believes in empowering women economically and socially to create a secure future, which I really wish my children 13 13 13 to be born in.” Walaa Mohamed, SEKEM Co-Worker Number of active memberships The share of females remained almost the same compared to last year in relevant at 22% with a total of 295 female employees. Due to local traditions of organizations. women staying at home after marriage we are very happy with almost 25% women but we are not satisfied. Atos Pharma has with 49 (34%) and Naturetex with 77 (36%) women among the workforce the highest share of females within SEKEM group of companies. In total 19 women work in managerial positions, which represent a total share of females in managerial positions of 14% a slight improvement compared to last year. Target 2016 2015 As started in 2015, another very successful Girls’ Day had been organized 21% 14% 13% at the SEKEM School in cooperation with the Vocational Training Center. Share of females in As gender equality is not only about empowering women, but in the SEKEMs managerial same time encouraging boys to take over professions that are mainly positions. 22 Societal Life SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2016 Target 2016 2015 carried out by women, in 2016 also male SEKEM students were engaged 25% 22% 23% in the Girls’ Day’s activities. Accordingly, boys made internships in SEKEMs Kindergarten and the School for Children with Special Needs. Share of females in SEKEMs total And later on in 2016, SEKEM School and Heliopolis University integrated workforce. Gender Equality Sessions to their curriculum that shall foster the fact that the topic becomes a natural part in the development of girls and boys in SEKEM as well as in Egypt. Target 2016 2015 7% 9% 5% SEKEMs total Employee Numbers employee turnover End of 2016, all SEKEM companies employed 1,341 people, 61 more than per year. last year. In total, SEKEM has 11 senior managers (no change), 124 middle managers (+4), 475 specialists (+75) and 574 (+137) labourers. SEKEM exercised great effort to reduce its number of daily labors from 410 in Target 2016 2015 2015 to 160 in 2016. Daily workers are not part of the formal workforce 1,386 1,341 1,280 and hence do not get access to the same benefits. An important step is to help daily workers to get legal papers and transition them into a longSEKEMs total number of term relationship with one of SEKEMs subsidiaries. Our aim is to reduce employees. daily workers to zero at least for the industrial operations. 1,500 1,200 900 600 300 0 Target 2016 2015 Senior Managers 11 11 8 Middle Managers 107 121 96 Specialists 450 475 400 Labourers 559 574 437 Daily Workers 100 160 339 23 Societal Life SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2016 24 Societal Life ” “I am convinced that any economic model that thinks it could work without cultural aspects is doing a big mistake. Creativity breeds success. At the same time, arts also bring appreciation and respect.” Hannes Jaenicke, Actor 25 Cultural Life SEKEMs Cultural Life The German actor Hannes Jaenicke quickly unraveled SEKEMs holistic Target 2016 2015 approach to sustainable development, when he visited the initiative in 15,694 24,562 27,909 2016; SEKEMs Cultural Life is a crucial pillar for its entire understanding of sustainable development. That is why both SEKEMs cultural institutions Total training hours and companies hosted various cultural activities for the employees and provided to all SEKEM employees. among SEKEM farmers. Training for Further Development In the end of January snowballs were fluttering in SEKEM. Snowballs in the desert? Yes – within its Farmer-to-Farmer Program, USAID provided a training course to SEKEMs co-workers, who are working in one of the food Target 2016 2015 processing companies. International trainers and an ambitious Egyptian 20 12 19 team were imparting the participants the important topic of food safety. Average training During the training the serious topic was approached through fun and Hours per Employee games. Participants wrote their questions on a white paper, crumpled it and threw it through the room. The ones who caught the “snowball” had to answer the questions. “The participants are full of life and really willing to learn. It’s wonderful to see how they are smiling all the time – that’s the best condition to learn”, says one of the Trainers. In 2016, 15694 Training hours have been provided to all SEKEM employees (36% less than last year). The total decrease is due to fluctuations in the Human Resources and Development team and different priorities. SEKEM at its core is about human development and we are ready to spend more resources into capacity building but we need to develop the right approach. We are convinced that the conventional approach of HR management that was developed in the West does not necessarily cater for our needs and local culture. Also we see that consciousness development and awareness about different human development stages is far too much neglected in the world-view of most HR managers. The development of an own integral human development approach is therefore a big priority for us and our relative emphasis on cultural and arts capacity building will be maintained. Cultural Activities for All SEKEMs contracted farmers, employees and their families also attended the SEKEM festivals, which showed a diverse artistic program on stage of SEKEMs Roman theater. In March, just one day after the 79th birthday of SEKEM founder Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish, SEKEM held its annual Spring Festival. In honour of this occasion, Gamal Mohamed, a young man, who knows SEKEM almost since he was born, congratulated Dr. Ibrahim Abouleish with a self-written poem. Gamal is a wonderful example for 26 Cultural Life Target 2016 2015 individual development, fostered through SEKEMs cultural institutions; 38 38 38 he visited the nursery, the kindergarten and the school, and now he is going to study at the Heliopolis University. Number of babies in SEKEMs Nursery. SEKEM celebrated the second festival in autumn and herewith 39 years of sustainable development. The co-workers of SEKEMs companies performed on stage and presented short skits written by themselves, showing the challenges they face in their daily work life and how they contribute to overcome them. Also, SEKEMs pupils and students enjoyed the festive celebration as well as SEKEMs holistic learning approach in general. Target 2016 2015 47 54 “I am working here for 27 years, and till now I am still learning 52 something new every day.” Gamal El-Sayyed, Director SEKEM School Number of children in SEKEMs The rapidly increasing number of children at SEKEMs nursery shows that Kindergarten. the different offers provided by SEKEM enjoy great popularity. Supported by ambitious friends, SEKEMs childcare institutions are improving their quality of education and children’s development. The Kindergarten was able to reduce the number of children for its two groups. Also the nursery with its three groups and six teachers could improve their quality by reducing slightly the number of babies. There is much more demand Target 2016 2015 from our working mothers and from the surrounding community but 312 303 312 quality must come first. The SEKEM special education program has five groups and 6 teachers, which is a unique set-up in Egypt. Since the end Number of pupils of the year, SEKEM children can enjoy a new playground in the middle of enrolled in SEKEMs School. the nature of the SEKEM Farm, for instance. Also, the SEKEM School continued its universal human development notion in 2016. The operations have been kept stable. Also here the intention is to raise quality not quantity and to diversify the group of children more in terms of living place and socio-economic and cultural background. Besides the weekly school celebrations where pupils Target 2016 2015 present their artistic skills on stage, there have been various additional 229 212 cultural activities throughout the year, which aim to strengthen the Number of SEKEM children’s individual potential. For example, during the long summer School graduates vacations there was a choir offered to SEKEM pupils and staff, different since 1998. educational trips or handicraft courses. Get to know SEKEM teacher Esraa Hegab https://goo.gl/uGUXCu “I appreciate that everything in SEKEM is connected somehow and arts Target 2016 2015 play an essential role.” Hanem Mahmoud, teacher at SEKEM Vocational 34 32 Training Center 36 Number of students The pupils at SEKEMs Vocational Training Center benefit from these in SEKEMs Special cultural learning offers, too. In total the VTC offers 7 vocations with each Education Program. 3 years of curricula including language and maths. The 21 classes are 27 Cultural Life managed by 18 teachers. In general the demand for the dual education Target 2016 2015 system is increasing strongly but SEKEM recognizes the importance 226 203 238 to carefully select the intake of students and a lot of qualification challenges remain. The first female manager of the electric engineering Number of students department, Hanem Mahmoud revealed how she and her students enrolled in SEKEMs performed a play about sustainability and security in regards to Vocational Training Centre. electricity during the school celebration. “I was impressed by the way how SEKEM School is approaching Education for Sustainable Development with its students.” Dr. Azza Khalil, representative of the Cultural and Foreign Relations department from the Egyptian Ministry of Education Furthermore, SEKEMs efforts in spreading a holistic approach to education brought further steps. Within the context of the project Target 2016 2015 Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) in Egyptian public 898 814 schools that started already in 2011, the Heliopolis University organized Number of a five days-workshop for teachers and trainers from the governmental graduates of SEKEMs education sector. According to an agreement between the Heliopolis Vocational Training University’s Center of Excellence and the Egyptian Ministry for Education, Centre since 2000. 150 UNESCO affiliated schools shall integrate ESD within their curricula in the near future. 28 Cultural Life First Graduates of Heliopolis University Target 2016 2015 In 2016, the first students of the Heliopolis University for Sustainable 1,075 806 Development graduated. The Business Department students spent their final semester with analyzing the market for products of SEKEMs Total number company ISIS Organic. The students thought of innovative and practical of students in ideas and solutions to address the current challenges which the Heliopolis University. economic situation in Egypt is facing. All nine students could successfully pass their final graduation exam. “Freedom in learning and being aware of the current challenges has been always the core guideline at SEKEM School and HU.” Afdal Farid, former SEKEM school student and one of the first graduates of Heliopolis University Target 2016 2015 In total, at Heliopolis University 1075 students were registered, an 17 19 16 increase of 269 students or 33 percent. Besides, the Heliopolis University Total number of promoted different cooperation’s with other international universities. funded research The aim was to advance their common vision of holistic interdisciplinary projects running in science that fosters a sustainable future. Among others, several teachers the reporting period. from the Dutch Zuyd University visited the Heliopolis University to give classes and plan a deeper collaboration for the future. Their travel costs were funded by the SEKEM Friends Association Netherlands. Serving the Community by Research Target 2016 2015 As SEKEM believes that there is no progress without a scientific basis, 44,205 40,417 the initiative is committed to research. In 2016 mainly the Heliopolis University has been working on different research project. In total Total Number of Heliopolis University together with SEKEM and other partners were Medical Centre Visits. involved in 19 funded projects 3 more than last year, which shows the particular strength of this innovation ecosystem. One example for its high standard of research are the studies on sustainable medical products such as a device for testing the infection of Helicobacter pylori bacterium, a pregnancy test, a drug screening test or a test device for the diagnosis of Hepatitis C virus conducted by the Biomedical Research Department. According to the latest World Health Organization (WHO) report, Egypt has still one of the highest prevalence of Hepatitis C in the world. “SEKEM has inspired me from the first moment. So beautiful and clean. That alone heals already.“ Alaa Miklid, Doctor at SEKEM Medical Center To combat this disease, SEKEMs Medical Center participated in a very important campaign for whole Egypt in 2016: “Egypt free of Hepatitis C by 2020”. In March the Medical Center was selected to be the focal 29 Cultural Life point of the area for treating Hepatitis C patients coming from the surrounding villages. By the end of the year, more than 1800 patients have been successfully cured and more than 44,000 patient visits have been recorded an increase of almost 10 percent compared to last year. “We want to show that through the synergies of Biodynamic Agriculture and living communities, optimal conditions for the being and development of people are created.” Helmy Abouleish, CEO SEKEM Sustainable Farming Is the Foundation of a Sustainable Society “We, the SEKEM contracted farmers, know already for a long time, for example, which benefits compost has compared to conventional fertilizer. The challenge is to spread this knowledge among more and more people. We have to raise awareness about the fact that healthy, fertile soil is more profitable in the long-run than the fast production for quick money, for instance.” Ahmed Abu Hamed, Contracted Farmer of SEKEM As mentioned under Economic Life SEKEMs farmers are a crucial part of SEKEMs value creation ecosystem and hence have been specially taken care of in 2016. Additionally to the regular meetings and training sessions that take place all over Egypt where the different biodynamic farmers are located, new monthly meetings have been implemented. Within the framework of integrating the contracted farmers more into SEKEMs holistic approach, these meeting shall give the farmers deeper insights to all topics related to their work but also to the development of communities. SEKEM wishes to achieve positive social and cultural impacts for the communities of their farmers including women and youth. Therefore, SEKEM developed a strategy for holistic farmer development and identified specific interventions. 30 Cultural Life Strengthening Education for Adults in Fayoum villages To cope with the challenges identified through the assessment visits and meetings with women, SEKEM opened classes for women nearer to their houses. Female teachers were selected who would be able to continue for long time to start adult education, which is different in goals, content, methodology, teaching and learning skills, as well as monitoring process. Teachers were trained by professional trainer from the Adult Education Association (governmental entity) on different ways to deal with teenagers and adults starting from age 16 +, in addition to other skills like communication. An additional service offered to the target group is to support them in issuing new identification cards so that they can join the final exam. Increasing the Awareness of Farmers towards Animal Health In the context of increasing SEKEM farmers’ awareness on animal health, SEKEM, in cooperation with the Farmers Development Association (FDA), organized three veterinary convoys in Behira in August 2016, under the supervision of Alexandria University’s Veterinary Medicine Faculty. During this program, SEKEM targeted 53 farmers in three villages (Mokhtar, Hager and Kom Aziza) and treated 600 cattle and buffalo, in addition to around 380 sheep. Empowering Women Economically and Raising their Entrepreneurial Skills Women’s economic empowerment is a prerequisite for sustainable development and pro-poor growth. Achieving women’s economic empowerment requires sound public policies, a holistic approach and longterm commitment and gender-specific perspectives must be integrated at the design stage of policy and programming. Financed by the Hand-in-Hand program (initiated by Rapunzel, one of SEKEMs long-term partners) the aim was to develop 50 women in Fayoum by providing them trainings on small food industries production, selling and marketing their products. Enhancing Pre-School Education Public education in Egypt is for free. But this is fool’s gold. It is not uncommon that there are up to 70 students per class. Teachers are underpaid, which forces them to take up a second job and due to the big classes, children have to take extra lessons to pass. The public school buildings and surroundings are often in bad conditions. Proper cleanliness and hygiene is missing. The curricula are often targeting monotonous learning instead of fostering deeper understanding or encouraging independent thinking. To counteract this crisis one cannot start early enough and SEKEM supports nurseries in the farmers’ communities to provide adequate pre-school experience for babies and young kids. The aim is to strengthen their ability to understand, communicate and learn with different intelligences. SEKEM is not intending to open new nurseries but to develop existing pre-school based on the applied practice from SEKEM nursery, kindergarten, and school. Currently, SEKEM is active in this field at 2 nurseries in Kafr El Sheekh governorate. Furthermore, 2 nurseries in Fayoum and Sharkia are under assessment and formal preparation. In Kafr El Sheikh around 120 kids are benefiting from this support; in Fayoum around 70 -100; in Sharkia the number of beneficiaries is still under evaluation. 31 Cultural Life 32 Cultural Life ” “Without intact nature, there is no intact society. Nature is our livelihood.” Dr. Michael Succow, Alternative Nobel Prize Laureate 33 Ecology SEKEMs Ecology A healthy ecology is not only the fundament of SEKEMs activities but Target 2016 2015 of all life. Since 1977, SEKEM reclaimed 1,628 Feddan (approx. 684 1,628 1,628 1,628 hectares) desert land by using Biodynamic agricultural methods. In 2016, this number didn’t change but the initiative could manage to keep Amount in Feddan of desert land its land fertile which is already challenging in a desert country like Egypt. reclaimed. On top of that all the 477 supplying farmers of SEKEM registered under the EBDA operate on 4,441 feddan (approx. 1,866 ha), which means that they maintain a soil fertility-friendly crop rotation over the course of three years. “There is more life in one handful of Biodynamic soil than there are people on this earth.” Johannes Valentien, Agricultural Co-worker in SEKEM Animals as part of the family Next to cultivating land, sustainable ecology means much more. Hence, Target 2016 2015 SEKEM keeps several animals, which are of high importance for a healthy 100% 75% 75% farm circle. In 2016, SEKEM had 22 bulls and 130 dairy cows. This year Share of Animals the fodder for the cows has been changed with less concentrated feed that are kept and much more clover and silage fodder. This reduced the productivity according to of the milk cows from ca. 23 to 20 litres per day but overall made the Demeter Standards. livestock more profitable. SEKEM continued to have laying hens and All three animals increased its number from 17,500 to 19240. The number of sheep was categories (cows/ reduced from 554 to 463 which represents a normal yearly fluctuation. bulls, sheep, bees) Also affected by seasonal fluctuation and natural population decrease are kept according to over winter were the bees that counted 35 hives in the end of 2016 as Demeter standards. opposed to 54 hives the year before. All cows and bulls, sheep, and Chicken are kept bees are kept according to Demeter standard. Only the chicken are kept according to organic standards. according to organic standard. Our intention is to upgrade chicken to Demeter standard as well but this needs investments and management capacity, which does not reflect our priority at the moment. SEKEM Animals Target 2016 2015 Total Number of Bulls 22 29 22 Total Number of Dairy Cows 130 135 130 Total Number of Laying Hens 25,820 19,240 17,500 Total Number of Sheep 600 463 554 Total Number of Bee Hives 25 35 54 Total Number of Pigeos 1,500 1,500 1,550 Endangered Birds 11 11 11 24 34 Ecology The Black Gold of the Farmers Target 2016 2015 Animal manure is used for making compost for the cultivation of land 10 12 13 as a main fertilizer. In 2016, SEKEM produced 2250 tons compared to 1,114 tons last year. But the animal’s dung is not only used for Organic Relative amount compost but also for producing Biodynamic preparations. In 2016, of electricity SEKEM organized the first Day of Biodynamic Preparations which coconsumption per workers, farmers and pupils attended. Biodynamic preparations are thousand EGP Sales (in kwh/1,000 EGP). used to vitalize the soil and strengthen both the growth and quality of the plants. They are one main feature of Biodynamic agriculture and are a basic requirement for the Demeter-certification. Combating Desertification Target 2016 2015 As SEKEM received the Land for Life Award by the United Nations in 2015 for its efforts in combating desertification, the initiative took the 4,184 4,439 3,780 opportunity to raise awareness on the topic by showing how SEKEM is Total amount of committed to create land for living – not only via ecological activities electricity used (in but also by sustainable economical, societal and cultural efforts. In four MWh). comprehensive stories, SEKEM described the challenges that Egypt is facing through the ongoing desertification and how SEKEM approaches them. Start reading on how SEKEM combats desertification https://goo.gl/h8OOsy Target 2016 2015 Active Climate Protection 2,820 3,780 3,238 When protecting Egypt’s ecological system, trees play an essential role. SEKEM cooperates with international companies and organizations Total amount of CO2 for active climate protection. In 2016, for instance, the German pliers Emissions (in tCO2-e). company KNIPEX started to plant 25,700 new trees on one of SEKEMs desert farms. Also the SEKEM Friends Association Austria went into the desert and put seedlings of casuarina trees into the soil, which are known for their fast growth especially in desert climate and bind 3.5 tons of CO2 already within the first 30 years – which means an annual average of 0.12 tons per tree. Also the Carbon Footprint Center (CFC) that was founded by the Target 2016 2015 Heliopolis University, addresses burning issues of the country with several studies. It supports for example other enterprises by analyzing 7 10 11 their environmental performance in regards to greenhouse gas Relative amount emissions, thus assessing its impact on climate change. The CFC was of of emissions per also coordinating the study “The Future of Agriculture in Egypt” which 1,000 EGP sales (in compares the costs of Organic and conventional agriculture by applying kgCO2-e). the “Full Cost Accounting” methodology. The research concludes that 35 Ecology although Organic agriculture has slightly higher direct input costs of Target 2016 2015 production, it enables a reduction of the environmental and health 67 90 87 damage costs, and therefore, results in better cost effectiveness and profitability in the long-term for the society as a whole. The total carbon Total amount of water usage for footprint of SEKEM was 3,017,332 tCO2e as opposed to 3,237,623 t for company & personal last year. use (in ‘000 m3). 1,500,000 1,200,000 900,000 600,000 300,000 0 Waste Employee Commuting Power Generation Electricity Equipment Target 97,342 kgCO2e 608,675 kgCO2e 174,352 kgCO2e 970,337 kgCO2e 969,173 kgCO2e 2016 93,495 kgCO2e 427,788 kgCO2e 92,641 kgCO2e 1,426,400 kgCO2e 977,009 kgCO2e 2015 90,735 kgCO2e 529,024 kgCO2e 79,208 kgCO2e 1,484,868 kgCO2e 988,183 kgCO2e Focus on Alternative Energies Egypt has perfect conditions for solar energies, which help, among Target 2016 2015 others, to reduce the emission of dangerous greenhouse gases. Since 165 239 297 many years SEKEM maintains ongoing small scale renewable energy projects. In 2016, SEKEM went on with implementing several new solar Relative amount of water usage for projects. In October, SEKEM and the Heliopolis University organized a company & personal huge event on the occasion of installing the first solar thermal power use (in liters/1,000 plant of its kind in Egypt, for instance. The solar system is a part of the EGP). European Union funded-project “Small Scale Thermal Solar District Units for Mediterranean Communities” and contributes to a comparative Target 2016 2015 study on the best solar energy techniques for several countries. At the 2,126 2,405 1,524 same time, it shall supply SEKEMs Medical Center with energy and scale down the general electricity consumption. Total amount of water usage for “A well-founded knowledge is important to build a strong and resilient agricultural use (in solar energy sector in Egypt.” Sara Rashad, Co-worker at Heliopolis ‘000 m3). University Together with its Austrian partner company and in cooperation with the Target 2016 2015 Austrian Development Agency (ADA), SEKEM Energy held the conference 100% 100% 100% titled “Paving Ways Together for Solar Thermal Energy in Egypt” in 2016. The participants discussed solar thermal energy projects. Also, Share of water the certified “Train the Trainer Program”, which was offered by SEKEM recycled and reused. 36 Ecology Energy to the Engineering Department staff at Heliopolis University, was presented. One outcome of the conference was the idea of establishing a Solar Thermal Federation Egypt (STFE).Energy to the Engineering Department staff at Heliopolis University, was presented. One outcome of the conference was the idea of establishing a Solar Thermal Federation Egypt (STFE). … But Renewable Energy Consumption Still Remains Marginal Despite its favourable sun radiation Egypt remains a difficult place for renewable energy due to the high energy subsidies. The price of one litre diesel (around 15-20 EUR cents) is still too low to allow for investments into renewable energy sources, such as photovoltaic systems. This is also the main reason why SEKEM in its off-grid location at the desert farms nearby Wahat El Bahreya, Sinai and Minya still relies heavily on diesel generators for power generation for irrigation. But having already 2 solar power systems at the Wahat El Bahareya Farm, SEKEMs management is confident that PV solar pumping is the solution for the future and the remaining challenge for going “green” remains just an adequate financing. In the graph below one can see that most of SEKEMs energy demand is covered by the government grid (77 percent). 5,000,000 4,000,000 3,000,000 2,000,000 1,000,000 0 Target 2016 2015 Clean/Renewable Energies 240,900 kWh 110,940 kWh 77,568 kWh Power Generation 599,507 kWh 810,453 kWh 732,853 kWh Government Grid 3,137,204 kWh 3,088,260 kWh 2,969,737 kWh The New Oil and the Foundation of Life “Water is central to the well-being of people and the planet,” Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations from January 2007 to December 2016 All of SEKEMs agricultural activities would not be possible without water. SEKEM is cautiously analyzing and monitoring its water consumption. By 2025, United Nations projects 2.7 billion people will face severe water shortages. The scarcity of natural water resources is also main ecological problem Egypt and its neighbours are presently facing. Although Egypt is already living in water scarcity, the country will suffer the second most, after Bangladesh, from sea level rising due to its low Nile-Delta region. 37 Ecology 2,500,000 2,000,000 1,500,000 1,000,000 500,000 0 Target 2016 2015 Agricultural Use 2,125,744 m3 2,405,438 m3 1,524,042 m3 Company Use 66,737 m3 89,717 m3 43,055 m3 While some of the SEKEM Farms use Nile water, others use groundwater – according to the area where they are located. In 2016, SEKEM decreased the usage of groundwater for agricultural use by about 16%. SEKEM inspects the well water levels to only withdraw sustainable water amounts, for instance. In general, SEKEM reuses 100% of the water which can be reused. 38 Ecology SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2016 INDICATORS Evaluation of SEKEMs performance in 2016 through the balance score card Target Evaluation In the current review process of the Sustainability ECONOMY SOCIETAL CULTURAL ECOLOGY Life Life Flower, which forms the basis of the assessment framework, some performance aspects have been added or removed based on stakeholder request or 1 0 0 0 decision by management. 1 2 2 0 In the year 2016, we set ourselves 80 targets out of which we achieved 39%. Another 33% of our targets 2 6 3 6 have been almost achieved. 9 7 1 9 9 5 8 9 Not achieved First results Half the way Almost there Achieved 29 ECONOMY Report Indicators 2016 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2016 2015 EvaluaComment tion Economic Value million Due to the rather reluctant market beCreation Total Net Revenue EGP 403,352 375,659 292,200 havior, SEKEM was not able to achieve its anticipated target. Economic Value Gross Profit million 195,991 168,585 134,600 Creation EGP Economic Value EBITDA million 103,452 103,652 71,391 Creation EGP Economic Value Net Profit before million The main reason behind the relatively Creation Tax EGP 37,201 481 -4,152 low net profit is the devaluation of the Egyptian Pound as of Nov. 3, 2016 Economic Value Export Sales % 25 30 21 Creation Economic Value Local Sales % 75 70 79 Creation Economic Value Ratio of highest Main reason was basic salary increase Distribution to lowest annual ratio 1:35 1:31 1:36 from EGP 1100 to EGP 1350 per month full-time salary Economic Value Total amount of million Investments kept to a minimum due to Distribution internal InvestEGP 10 10 36 focus on debt reduction ments Economic Value Majority Share% 61.5 62.8 61.5 Profit share of Abouleish family of 2015 Distribution holder Share remained in the company Share of Net Profit Economic Value invested into Com% 10 10 10 Profit share invested into activities of Distribution munity DevelopSEKEM Development Foundation ment SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2016 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2016 2015 EvaluaComment tion Only organically certifiable prodShare of sales uct portfolio considered, excluding Product Portfolio value of organic % 100 73 56 products like water and pharmaceutiproducts (includcals. Challenge remains in controlling ing Demeter) residuals from environmental pollution around certified farms Share of sales Product Portfolio value of products % 50 53 43 that have a Demeter certificate Share of sales The carbon footprints of SEKEM prodrevenues of products are based on categories, such as Product Portfolio ucts with known % 100 80 56 herbal teas, organic baby garments, product carbon organic textile dolls, herbs and spices, footprint juices etc. Share of total Innovation sales invested into % 0.75 0.6 0.7 company research and development Share of sales Revenues come products introduced revenues from during the last three years, e.g. from Innovation new products and % 20% 20% 12% water, green tea with ginger (ISIS services Organic), new garments (NatureTex), biodiagnostics (ATOS Pharma) Total weight of Mainly caused by organic waste Operations waste tons 821 793 688 increase in Lotus and glass waste increase in ISIS Organic Operations Share of organic % 63 69 66 waste Operations Total weight of kg/EGP 1.3 1.5 1.6 waste per sales 1000 Operations Share of organic % 100 100 100 All organic waste goes to compost waste recycled production Share of non-orOperations ganic waste % 75 42 43 recycled SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2016 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2016 2015 EvaluaComment tion Share of recycled Operations packaging materi% No reliable data available al input Responsibility Total number of to customer and customer comnumber 100 96 136 consumer plains and claims Share of contracted agricultural Partnership lead suppliers % 85 80 81 with membership in the EBDA SEKEM Consolidated Balance Sheet (in ‘000 EGP) 2016 2015 2016 2015 CURRENT ASSETS NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Cash and Bank Balances 13.061 11.245 Term Loans 242.372 124.335 Other Assets 88.779 82.388 Shareholders Current Account 28 28 Trade and Notes Receivables 144.611 105.878 Shareholders Loan 302.088 132.180 Trade Inventories 157.347 134.177 Deferred Tax 9.471 13.371 Biological Assets Inventory 1.884 1.775 Total Non-Current Liabilities 553.960 269.915 Total Current Assets 405.685 335.465 EQUITY CURRENT LIABILITIES Share Capital 204.749 204.749 Trade and Notes Payable 50.579 34.008 Legal Reserve 10.897 9.794 Banks Overdrafts 307.778 214.834 Capital Reserve 48.059 48.059 Provisions 8.093 4.905 Retained Earnings (204.430) 44.532 Other Liabilities 83.106 42.038 Total Equity Attributable to Equity Hold59.275 307.136 Current Portion of Long-Term Loans 112.680 43.250 ers of the Parent Company Current Portion of Shareholder Loans 11.256 8.820 Non-Controlling Interest 4.755 10.931 Total Current Liabilities 573.495 347.857 Total Equity 64.031 318.067 Working Capital (167.810) (12.401) NON-CURRENT ASSETS Fixed Assets and Projects Under Con710.083 524.577 struction Biological Assets 2.495 2.574 Goodwill 53.867 53.867 Investments Available for Sale 19.347 19.347 The figures represent the audited financial figures Advances for Purchase of Fixed Assets 8.000 8.000 as of year end 2016 and 2015 respectively. Total Non-Current Assets 785.801 600.374 * The Profit decreased due to the currency devaluation as of November 3rd, 2016. SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2016 SOCIETAL Life Report Indicators 2016 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2016 2015 EvaluaComment tion Workforce ComNumber of Senior number 12 11 11 position Managers Workforce CompoNumber of Middle number 196 124 120 sition Managers Workforce CompoNumber of Spenumber 450 475 400 sition cialists Workforce CompoNumber of Lanumber 549 574 437 sition borers Workforce CompoNumber of Daily number 100 160 410 The amount of daily workers is mostly sition Workers related to seasonal farming operations Workforce CompoTotal Number of number 1386 1341 1280 sition employees Workforce CompoShare of young sition employees (below % 66 64 66 the age of 36) Share of females Workforce Diverin total work% 25 22 23 sity force (excl. Daily Workers) Workforce DiverShare of females sity in managerial % 20 14 13 positions SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2016 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2016 2015 EvaluaComment tion Workforce DiverShare of emsity ployees with % 5 2 1 disabilities Loyalty and MotiEmployee turn% 5 7 9 vation over Loyalty and MotiTotal number of number 111 62 71 vation part time workers Loyalty and MotiShare of workforce vation that works part % 8 5 6 time Estimated share Loyalty and Motiof non-monetary % 10 9 8 vation benefits of overall salaries Number of events Advocacy for concerning SD Sustainable Develwhere SEKEM number 20 26 24 opment representatives played an active role Advocacy for Number of awards Sustainable Develrelated to sustainnumber 2 opment able development received Number of articles Advocacy for in renowned publiSustainable Develcations on SEKEM number 300 288 343 opment and sustainable development per year Number of active Advocacy for membership in Sustainable Develorganizations relenumber 13 13 13 opment vant for sustainable development Number of emHealth and Safety ployee visits at the number 6705 5663 6606 Medical Center SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2016 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2016 2015 EvaluaComment tion Number of other Health and Safety visits at the Medinumber 39845 38542 33811 cal Center Total Number of Health and Safety Medical Center number 44205 40417 visits Share of employChange of insurance provider made Health and Safety ees with private % 38 26 38 people to chose drop-out. Governmenhealth insurance tal health assurance is mandatory for all employees. Total number of Health and Safety working days lost number 2772 2320 1931 due to sick leave etc. Health and Safety Absentee rate % 1.4 1.8 1.5 Total number Health and Safety of work related number 0 5 1 injuries Health and Safety Number of fatal number 0 0 0 injuries SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2016 CULTURAL Life Report Indicators – 2016 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2016 2015 EvaluaComment tion Training and CaTotal Vocational pacity Building training hours Number 6790 4566 5606 provided Training and CaTotal Soft Skills pacity Building training hours Number 5836 2890 5913 provided Total Quality ManTraining and Caagement Systems Number 3378 1361 4077 pacity Building training hours provided Training and CaTotal Cultural/ pacity Building Arts training hours Number 11825 6797 8894 provided Training and CaTotal Equal Oppacity Building portunity training Number 80 80 72 hours provided Number of stuDecrease related to intended quality Education dents in SEKEM Number 300 303 312 improvements School Number of Decrease related to intended quality Education children in SEKEM Number 45 47 54 improvements Kindergarten Number of stuDecrease related to intended quality Education dents in VocationNumber 200 203 238 improvements al Training Center SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2016 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2016 2015 EvaluaComment tion Number of stuEducation dents in SEKEM Number 35 34 32 Special Education Education Number of babies Number 38 38 38 in SEKEM Nursery Number of stuEducation dents in Heliopolis Number 1000 1075 806 University Total number of Education SEKEM School Number 0 229 212 graduates since 1998 Total number of Education VTC graduates Number 0 898 814 since 2000 Students GraduEducation ated from SEKEMs Number 120 64 78 Vocational Training Center Value share of stuEducation dent scholarships % 20 14 n/a In 2016, 40 student got different at HU from total amount of scholarships tuition fees Total number Education of Community Number 0 1492 1531 School children since 1987 Number of stuEducation dents in profesNumber 10 8 6 sional training for eurythmy Total number of Research and funded research Development projects running Number 17 19 16 in the reporting period SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2016 ECOLOGY Report Indicators – 2016 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2016 2015 EvaluaComment tion Land Use Size of total land feddan 1628 1628 1628 reclaimed Compost Total amount of tons 2323 2250 1114 compost produced Share of seeds Seeds used by SLR from % 85 80 80 own production / savings Number of seed Seeds varieties in own Number 283 330 283 seed bank Share of used Seeds seeds that are % 100 100 100 organic and untreated Animal Husbandry Total number of Number 22 29 22 Bulls Animal Husbandry Total number of Number 130 135 130 Dairy Cows Animal Husbandry Total number of Number 25820 19240 17500 Laying hens Animal Husbandry Total number of Number 600 463 554 Sheep SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2016 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2016 2015 EvaluaComment tion Total number of Animal Husbandry Bees population Number 50 35 54 in hives Animal Husbandry Total number of Number 1500 1500 1550 Pigeons Number of seldom Animal Husbandry birds found space Number 11 11 11 at SEKEM farms Share of animals All three animal categories (cows/bulls, Animal Husbandry that are kept % 100 75 75 sheep, bees) are kept according to Deaccording to Demeter standard. Only chicken are kept meter standards according to organic standard. Total amount Energy of gasoline conLiters 713,113 730,739 699,311 sumption Total amount Energy of gasoline Liters 426,299 426,229 420,827 consumption for equipment Total amount of Energy gasoline consumpLiters 286,814 304,510 278,484 tion for power generation Total electricity Energy consumption MWh 4,184 4,439 3,780 (grid, diesel and renewable) Relative amount of electricity KWh / Energy consumption per 1,000 10 12 13 thousand EGP EGP Sales Emissions Total amount of t Co2e 2,820 3,780 3,238 emissions SEKEM Sustainability Report – 2016 Aspect Indicator Unit Target 2016 2015 EvaluaComment tion Relative amount kg Co2e Emissions of emissions per / 1,000 7 10 11 thousand EGP EGP Sales Total amount of Water water usage for m3 66,737 89,717 86,869 company and personal use Total amount of Water water usage for m3 2,125,744 2,405,438 1,524,042 agricultural use Share of water usWater age for agricultur% 76 81 48 al use from ground water source Relative amount Litre Water of water usage /1,000 165 239 297 for company and EGP personal use Share of water Water recycled and % 100 100 100 reused Amount of signifiWater cant spills in liters Liters 0 0 0 or other impact on water Issuer/Publisher SEKEM Holding for Investment Company S.A.E. Responsible for Content Helmy Abouleish, Chief Executive Officer, SEKEM Group Consultancy Services and Scientific Guidance Sustainable Development Center at the Heliopolis Academy for Sustainable Development; Compliance Manager, SEKEM Group Data collection & evaluation: Maximilian Abouleish-Boes, Chief Sustainable Development Officer, SEKEM Group Concept realization & design: Thomas Abouleish, Chief Relations Officer, SEKEM Group Layout & Web Implementation: Thomas Abouleish, Chief Relations Officer, SEKEM Group Ahmed Atef Megahed, Senior Graphic Designer, SEKEM Group Text & Implementation: Christine Arlt, PR & Communication, SEKEM Group Christina Büns, PR & Communication, SEKEM Group Sherif Abou El Nagar, PR & Communication, SEKEM Group Noha Hussein, PR & Communication, SEKEM Group Printing This report is published digitally and will be printed only on demand in order to save paper. Please consider the environment before printing this report. Publication Date 15st of July, 2017 Contact SEKEM Group 3, Cairo-Belbeis Desert Road, El-Salam City. P.O. Box: 2834 El-Horreya, 11361 Cairo, Egypt Tel.: (+20) 2 265 88 124/5 Fax: (+20) 2 265 88 123 Hotline: 19792 Mail us: cs@sekem.com Visit us: www.sekem.com Join us: www.facebook.com/sekemgroup Follow us: twitter.com/sekemgroup Watch us: www.youtube.com/sekeminitiative Subscribe to our newsletter: www.sekem.com/subscribe ​ The Balance Score Card and Indicator evaluation is available at www.sekem.com
