United Nations Global Compact Report 2018 Communication on Progress (CoP) This is the 1st CoP Report from Accoat A/S and it covers the period from January 1st. 2017 to December 31st. 2017. Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer. September 1st. 2018 To our stakeholders: We are pleased to confirm that Accoat A/S reaffirms its support to the Ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this first annual Communication of Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours Mads Juhl CEO 1 Introduction to Accoat A/S: Accoat applies and develop coatings to industry products and production facilities. This is valid for workpieces of all size from large tank installations to tiny needles. The coatings are made of high-end environmentally friendly synthetic polymers, primarily fluoropolymers, with properties that enhance the application and lifespan of the workpieces. Part of the coatings are developed and tested in our laboratory, so that the properties and durability are well-documented. To meet the need for wear-resistant coatings, Accoat has expanded the assortment to also include armoured coatings. Fluoropolymers are used in many applications, which benefit not only the environment, but also the economy. The main features obtained from fluoropolymer surfaces are non-stick, low friction and/or extremely good corrosion protection also at elevated temperatures. One of the advantages of applying fluoropolymers is for instance to achieve a more cleaning-friendly surface, which again results in the reduction of detergents, water and time all in all this benefit both the environment and the economy. Furthermore the fluoropolymers contribute to prolong the lifespan of the coated workpiece, which gives rise to cost savings. 2 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Policy: It is Accoats policy to respect all internationally recognized human rights standards. We want to make sure that we treat all people equal irrespective of gender, race, skin color, religion or faith, political opinion, sexual orientation, age, handicap or national, social or ethnic origin. Actions: All hiring, remuneration, advancement, training and termination decisions are based on objective factors such as skills, qualifications and required experience. Accoat does not tolerate workplace harassment, hereunder but not limited to words, signs, offensive jokes, e-mail statements, pranks, intimidation, sexual or physical harassment or violence. Accoat makes sure that all employees are paid a fair salary making it possible to withhold a suitable living standard. The minimum payment and benefits are set by the collective agreement between The Confederation of Danish Industry and the main labor organization CO-Metal. This agreement is valid for all employees irrespective of membership of a trade union or not. Accoat strive to maintain a safe workplace. Being a Danish company Accoat follows the laws and regulations for keeping a safe and sound work place. A local employer elected council for occupational health and safety combined with audit from the authorities makes sure that rules and regulations are constantly adhered to. 3 Measurement of Outcomes: In 2017 Accoat had no reports on human rights violations within the company. The present group of employees (Dec 2017): Number 62 Women 25 % Men 75 % Nationalities 7 different Religions 2 Age 18 30 16 % Age 31 50 41 % Age above 50 43 % Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Policy: Accoat will never hire any form of forced labour or child labours. Accoat is against discrimination of any kind. We accept all gender, religion, sexual orientation, ethnic origin and age. It is the best qualified applicant who will get the relevant jobs at Accoat. Accoat is committed the Health, Safety and Security of all personnel and strive for an accident free workplace. 4 Actions: Accoat is a member of The Confederation of Danish Industry (DI) – and must therefore adhere to the labor market agreement between DI and the major labor organization CO-Metal. This agreement secures fair salaries and benefits to all employees irrespective of membership of labor unions or not as everybody is treated on equal terms. There is a total freedom for all employees to join labour unions or not. Measurements of Outcomes: By following the Danish rules and legislation in the field of Occupational Health and Safety, Accoat is Audited and Evaluated on a regular basis by the authorities in order to make sure that all rules and legislation is adhered to. The evaluation can always be seen on the home page of the Danish Authorities. It is the goal always to have a Green Smiley – from the Danish Authorities. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Policy: Accoat strive to protect the environment. Actions: Being a Danish company Accoat follows the laws and regulations for protecting the environment. By having a certified management system on the environment (ISO 5 14000) in place Accoat commit itself to live up to the legal requirements as well as to set goals for constant improving. Measurements of Outcomes: Accoat monitor the progress in energy consumption and waste and there is a constant focus on minimizing both the energy and water consumption and waste. 2015 2016 2017 Electricity 1694 MWT 1665 MWT 1831 MWT consumption/working hour Natural gas 399000 m3 433000 m3 476000 m3 consumption Water consumption 1767 m3 1463 m3 1462 m3 Total waste 88 Tons 80 Tons 77 Tons Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy: Accoat is against all forms for corruption and have a zero tolerance. Actions: Accoat is obliged by legal obligations, including the UK Bribery Act 2010, to work against corruption and facilitation payment. Accoat is a sub-contractor company supplying coating services for other businesses around the world. We are well aware that it in some areas of the business risk of corruption is larger than in others, and we therefore also recognize that we with our zero tolerances policy may be omitted from competition due to this standpoint. 6 Measurements of Outcomes: Accoat will prepare a Code of Conduct for employees and suppliers in order to publish the policy on the Anti-Corruption matters. 7
