Nomura Report 2018 Nomura Holdings, Inc. Integrated Report Introduction About Nomura Strategies for Value Creation Delivering a 01 Better Tomorrow 02 Strengths Supporting Value Creation Corporate Information / Data Mission Contributing to Society | We help to enrich society through our expertise in capital markets Nomura Report 2018 Vision Trusted Partner | As a leading financial institution, we aim to be the most trusted partner for our clients Values Entrepreneurial Leadership | With passion and courage, we continually innovate to meet the needs of our stakeholders Teamwork | To build our values and 'Deliver Together', we promote diversity and collaboration across divisions and regions Integrity | Personal integrity is paramount to us. We act honestly, fairly and openly Introduction About Nomura “Place our clients at the heart of everything we do” Strategies for Value Creation A commitment that remains unchanged since our founding 03 04 Strengths Supporting Value Creation Strengths Supporting Value Creation 45 ESG Initiatives 47 Contributing to Sound and Sustainable Capital Markets 51 Corporate Governance Index About Nomura 57 Outside Directors of Nomura Holdings 01 Introduction 59 Directors, Executive Officers and Senior Managing Directors 04 Index of Nomura Holdings / Outside Directors of Major Subsidiaries 05 Three facts you need to know about Nomura in Japan 07 History of the Nomura Group 61 Dialogue with Stakeholders 09 Nomura Group Value Creation Model 63 Interview with Outside Director: An Investor Asking Questions 11 Commitment to contributing to the creation of from the Viewpoint of Governance Corporate Information / Data an affluent society since our founding 65 Risk Management 71 Compliance 73 Human Resources Strategy Strategies for Value Creation 77 Contributing to Sustainable Communities 13 Message from Group CEO 79 Environmental Initiatives 19 Nomura Group Management Vision Nomura Report 2018 21 Message from CFO 25 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Corporate Information / Data 27 Special Feature : Expanding services tailored to 81 Key Financial Data clients’ life stages 83 Financial review 29 Special Feature : Implementation of Innovation 87 Eleven-Year Consolidated Financial Summary 31 At a Glance 89 ESG Data 33 Business Divisions: Retail Division 93 Independent Assurance / Key Events during the Year 37 Business Divisions: Asset Management Division 95 Global Network / Services for Retail Client 41 Business Divisions: Wholesale Division 97 Corporate Data / Share Information / Stock Price / Credit Rating Three facts you need to know about Nomura One of Nomura’s distinctive Particularly in the U.S., we continue to are likely to increase over time. In an characteristics is that we are a hire talents with high levels of effort to win these cross border financial services group that operates expertise, broad experience and transactions, we will continue to offer About Nomura globally, but is based in Asia, with relations in specific business sectors to our clients a broad range of Japan being its “Mother Market.” to enhance our global capabilities. We products and solutions, including We believe that in the future, we will be believe that business opportunities M&A advisory services and client 3 able to export our successful Twobetween Asia and EMEA/Americas financing & solutions. Pronged Retail-Wholesale business model towards the rest of Asia. Leverage strengths in APAC to provide competitive services to clients Currently, we run wealth management businesses mainly in Hong Kong and Connecting Markets East & West Singapore, and operate Retail businesses in Thailand and Philippines. At the same time, in our Wholesale EMEA Clients Americas Strategies for Value Creation business in EMEA and Americas, we Focus on business Strengthen areas of strength franchise are focused towards areas where we have strength. APAC Three facts you need to know Expand franchise to tap into growth To page 10 about Nomura 05 2 Connecting Markets East & West 06 1 3 Strengths Supporting Value Creation Unique Two-Pronged business model Workforce diversity Style Innovation” initiative, which nursing care for family members to Nomura’s strength is driven by our comprises of a “Work Style Reform” continue to work with peace of Two-Pronged business model program and “Health and mind. which is based on our Retail and Human resources are essential to Productivity Management” Nomura’s Two-Pronged business model Wholesale businesses. Nomura achieving sustainable growth. practices. In addition, we are has a long-established and Currently, approximately 28,000 pursuing an initiative to help female Number of officers and employees distinctive Retail Division in Japan. employees work within the Nomura employees’ career-building and working at business sites in over 30 countries around the world Adding on to this strength, we Group across more than 30 work-life balance to establish a have our Wholesale Division, countries, representing about 90 work environment in which they can Retail Capital markets Wholesale 28,048 which leverages our status as an nationalities around the world. In thrive. In 2016, we adopted a independent securities company. order to provide a broad range of “Nomura's Declaration on Diversity Corporate Information / Data The collaboration of these two products to address our client’s & Inclusion” based on our strong divisions has made our TwoTo page 10 broad investment needs, it’s determination to develop a work (As of March 31, 2018) Pronged business model important that we maintain a environment where diverse successful. We earn high praise diverse talent pool across employees can play an active part Nomura Report 2018 from our corporate clients who percent of listed companies in Retail Division recorded client nationalities, ages and genders on a group-wide basis. In the Nationalities of officers and issue securities, on our ability to Japan. Retail clients also assets of ¥118 trillion at the end of continues to create new values by following year, we adopted a employees of Nomura Group make compelling proposals to the recognize our sales consulting March 2018. Also, we maintained using their various backgrounds. “Nomura's Declaration to Support clients as well as our extensive distribution capabilities. We have been able to forge close business expertise and our ability to offer a diverse range of products deriving from our underwriting activity. our leading position at the top of both Japan ECM and Japan M&A League Tables (Thomson Reuters With the belief that each and every one of our employees should thrive and contribute in the workplace, we Employee Balance Work and Family Care” with the intent to build a work environment that enables Approx. 90 nationalities partnerships with roughly 60 Leveraging these strengths, our April 2017 to March 2018). have launched the “Nomura Work employees who need to provide (As of March 31, 2018) History of the Nomura Group Transformation of business model of Retail Division (Retail Client Assets: (Nikkei Stock Average:yen) Enhancement of corporate governance trillions of yen) 40,000 120 About Nomura Retail Client Assets Nikkei Stock Average Pursue long-term growth by responding to clients’ needs and providing a wide range of 30,000 90 financial services Strategies for Value Creation Since its inception in 1925, the Nomura Group has continually expanded its product and service offerings, developed its global operations and reinforced its corporate governance systems. Our Founder set 10 principles that, even today, lie at the heart of Nomura’s operations. Among these founding principles is a description of Nomura’s raison d’être or mission to “enrich the nation 20,000 60 through the securities business.” We will continue to contribute to economic growth and a more fulfilling society by delivering superior services and solutions to meet all of our clients’ investment needs. 07 08 10,000 30 Strengths Supporting Value Creation Japan’s Introduction of the electronic iDeCo-Expansion “Financial Big Bang” 1996 share certificate system 2009 of eligibility 2017 Games of the XVIII Olympiad in Tokyo 1964 Start of Nippon Collapse of Global 1991 bubble economy 2007 Financial crisis 2014 Individual Savings 1945 End of WWII Account program 0 1925 1930 1935 1940 1945 1950 1955 1960 1965 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2018 92 Years of -1927 Operations centered on underwriting and sale of 1961 First American Depositary Receipts issued by Japanese 1972 Deregulation of foreign investment trust sales in Japan 1994 Global offering conducted by Japan Telecom contributing to public and corporate bonds company (Sony Corporation) 1980 Development and commencement of sales of the Japan Tobacco listed on stock market 1941 Sale of Japan’s first investment trust products 1962 First overseas issuance of convertible bonds by a Japanese Medium-Term Japanese Government Bond Fund the development 2003 Commence of government bond issuance targeting individual investors by 1947 Public offering of 8 power stocks (currently electricity company (Shin Mitsubishi Heavy Industries [currently 1987 Nippon Telegraph and Telephone (NTT) listed on stock Ministry of Finance of capital Mitsubishi Heavy Industries]) Corporate Information / Data stocks) market 2015 Japan Post Group 3 companies listed on stock market markets 1949 Issuance of Japan’s first convertible bonds (I unit 1968 Nippon Gakki (currently Yamaha) conducted public stock Early 1990s Adoption of Open Architecture: offering products Takashimaya convertible bonds) offering by issuing Japan’s first shares at market value managed by a wide range of asset managers 1970 First issuance of samurai bonds by overseas entity (Asian Development Bank) Nomura Report 2018 History of the 1925 The Securities Department of Osaka Nomura Bank 1959 Founded Nomura Securities Investment Trust 1981 Established Nomura Investment Management 2001 Formed a holding company structure: Nomura Holdings listed its shares Nomura Group split off into a separate company, Nomura Securities 1961 Nomura Securities listed its shares on the Tokyo Stock Established Nomura International, a U.K. subsidiary on the New York Stock Exchange 1927 Opened representative office in New York Exchange, Osaka Securities Exchange, and Nagoya Stock 1991 Loss compensation issues 2008 Absorbed the personnel of Lehman Brothers Asia Pacific and its Exchange European and Middle Eastern divisions Reform measure Enforcement and expansion of the internal 1967 Established Nomura International (Hong Kong) management framework 2012 Insider trading issues regarding capital increase 1969 Established Nomura Securities International, a U.S. 1993 Established The Nomura Trust and Banking Review and enhancement of the compliance framework Reform measure subsidiary 1997 Payoff issues To page 71 Reform measures Clarification of order distinction between proprietary 2015 Nomura Founding Principles and Corporate Ethics To page 71 trading and brokerage orders; establishment of the Compliance Hotline To page 71 2016 Entered into a strategic alliance with American Century Investments Nomura Group Value Creation Model Nomura Group Value Creation Model The Nomura Group’s business is executed according to our philosophy of always “placing our clients About Nomura at the heart of everything we do.” We contribute to the economic growth and creation of a prosperous society by providing financial products, services, and solutions that are innovative and competitive, Value creation while also utilizing our high-quality management resources. We strive to raise our economic value by building a sustainable business foundation to support growth in any environment. OUTCOME Strategies for Value Creation Raising social value Contribute to the resolution of social issues Management Social issues resources Our businesses Our strengths and strategy Realize the founder’s mission INPUT Retail Division EMEA Americas to “enrich the nation through the securities business” Provide products and services to individual and corporate Leverage strengths in APAC to deliver competitive services Japan clients through our branches Human throughout Japan to clients in Europe/US and Asia Enhance human capital, intellectual capital and social capital To page 33 Connecting Markets East & West capital by improving Aging population with a low birthrate, financial literacy and 09 10 limits to social security system Asset Management Division supporting innovation Necessity of shift from savings to Providing asset management APAC asset building services globally Intellectual Exports Two-Pronged RetailStrengths Supporting Value Creation Evolution of corporate governance capital To page 37 Wholesale business model Raising economic Japan Wholesale Division value Two-Pronged Retail-Wholesale business model Global Markets Provide a variety of financial Preparing for the future Investment (reinvestment) Returns Profits Create an operating platform Social services, including trading, capable of delivering sales and structuring to our consistent growth in any capital Global institutional investors and environment corporate clients Retail Wholesale Investment Banking FY2019/20 management target Strengths Capital Strengths Prepare for potential geopolitical risks Support our clients by markets EPS of ¥100 underwriting bonds and stocks Consulting expertise Capacity to make proposals (FY2017/18: ¥61.88) Supply risk assets to growth industries Physical and providing M&A and other Diverse product offering Underwriting and sales and countries capabilities advisory services capital Pursue opportunities for corporate growth To page 41 Invest in areas of growth Corporate Information / Data Provide appropriate Promote innovation Improving living Capital gains, dividends and Financing Investment shareholder returns Merchant Banking Division standards interest income Primarily offers equity to clients Nomura’s presence Financial as a solution for business Nomura Report 2018 reorganizations and Percentage of Japanese capital revitalizations, business Number of branches (As of June 30, 2018) Retail client assets Assets under management listed companies that name Nomura as lead / deputy succession and management underwriter buyouts since January 2018. 156 ¥ 117.7 trillion ¥50.0 trillion Approx. 60% Help tackle social issues Reinvestment Commitment to contributing to the creation of an affluent society since our founding Commitment to contributing to the creation of an affluent society since our founding About Nomura Nomura Group’s Management Vision Nomura Group’s Material ESG Issues Since its founding, Nomura Group has contributed to economic growth and creation of social value by supporting the In August 2014, we announced Vision C&C, our We have assessed “the materiality to stakeholders” development of capital markets and promoting the circulation of risk money. management vision towards FY2019/20, with the aim of and “the materiality to Nomura Group” of In recent years, against the backdrop of expanding environmental, social and governance (ESG) investment, financial creating an operating platform capable of delivering environmental and social issues, and we have identified institutions have been required to consider the environment and society even more than before. consistent growth in any market environment. Based on the material issues that are of high importance to both We believe that our provision of financial services that aim to realize a sustainable environment and society will lead us to grow the two main strategic themes of “business model stakeholders and the Group. and at the same time achieve Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), common targets for 2030 in the global community. transformation in Japan” and “improvement in the Initiatives on these ESG issues also contribute to Nomura Group formulated a management vision (“Vision C&C”) in 2014 and has been striving to create a solid operating profitability of our international businesses,” we are achieving SDGs. For Nomura Group, SDGs encourage platform that can deliver consistent growth in any market environment. steadily progressing toward establishing a business us to continue and further enhance our unceasing In addition, as we aim to help solve social issues more broadly, we have identified ESG materiality (priority issues) by capable of generating an EPS of ¥100. Moreover, we will activities since our foundation to “help to enrich society Strategies for Value Creation analyzing issues for our stakeholders and the Group, and prioritizing them by importance. continue to launch initiatives to achieve long-term growth through our expertise in capital markets.” While we Looking to 2020 and beyond, we are committed to sustainable growth and to the building of a sustainable society. beyond 2020. have a role to play in all 17 SDGs, the most relevant To page 19 goals have been identified as follows. Since its founding, Nomura Group has been committed to contributing to the development of society at all times. To page 45 Our Founder’s Principles We believe CSR is an essential part of Nomura Group’s commitment to implementing our Founder’s Principles— principles that have been passed down since Tokushichi Nomura founded the company. Our Founder’s Principles are the cornerstone of our business activities 1. Nomura’s raison d’être very high “Nomura’s mission is to enrich the nation through the securities business. This is something we must absolutely see though.” Stakeholders’ materiality 2. Principle of putting the customer first “We must place our customers’ interests before our own.” 11 12 3. Global ambition “Nomura is destined to become an active player on the international stage.” 10 principles set out by our founder 4. Emphasis on rigorous research and analysis We remain committed to enriching “We have a duty to research scientifically the intrinsic nature of all securities.” Strengths Supporting Value Creation society by delivering superior services 5. Staying one step ahead and solutions to our clients that meet “Always strive to stay one step ahead. Standing still is retrogressive.” Nomura Group’s materiality high very high all their investment needs. This has 6. Entrepreneurial spirit been our unwavering spirit since our “If, as an entrepreneur, you can determine something to a 70% certitude, you must have the courage to take up the challenge even though some uncertainty remains.” Material ESG issues for the Nomura Group founding. It is our social mission and our raison d’être. 7. Human resources “Nomura underscores the fact that the development of human resources, acquisition of Contributing to sound and sustainable capital markets Corporate governance talented personnel and ability to match the right talent with the most appropriate position Offering high-quality financial services P72 Enhancing corporate governance P51 are more formidable assets than sheer capital strength.” Products and services that address environmental and social issues P47 CSR management P45 Customer protection and information security P72 8. Emphasis on team work Improving financial literacy P50 “It is the management’s task to see that Nomura employees take responsibility and pride in their work and to form a unified team under the control of branch office managers.” 9. Business development frame of mind “We must have the courage to boldly follow the path of our convictions.” Contributing to sustainable communities Risk management 10. Customer service mindset Global CSR initiatives P78 Enhancing and strengthening risk management systems P65 Tokushichi Nomura Corporate Information / Data “If you conduct your work in a mechanical manner, believing simply that your role is over Communication with stakeholders P77 Ensuring financial soundness and transparency P66 Founder once the deal is done, there is no use in drawing on the strengths of those around you.” Business resilience P70 Social and environmental risk management P69 Founder’s Principles Strategies Contributing to social issues Nomura’s Two-Pronged business model Nomura Report 2018 Fostering human resources with a respect for diversity Compliance “Nomura’s Fostering human resources P74 Legal compliance and reporting of violations P72 mission is to Diversity and inclusion P75 Ensuring fair financial business practices P72 enrich the Retail Capital markets Wholesale Material ESG Employee-friendly work environments P75 Prevention of bribery P72 nation through issues Respecting human rights P75 Prevention of money laundering P72 the securities business.” To page 10 Message from Group CEO About Nomura Creating a better tomorrow as a trusted partner to our clients Strategies for Value Creation Koji Nagai Group CEO 13 14 Driven by the happiness and Wholesale at age 40. Retail and Wholesale are Asia as our home market Thailand in 1970, is already applying our two-pronged Strengths Supporting Value Creation appreciation of our clients completely different businesses, so at the time, I felt as model to its businesses. BDO Nomura Securities, an if I had been transferred to another company. In our home market of Japan, we have established a online securities company that we established in 2016 I started my career at Takamatsu Branch, where I was However, I came to realize from my experience in both robust platform underpinned by our successful Retailwith BDO (Banco de Oro) Unibank, the largest working in the Retail business with individual investors. Retail and Wholesale that there is a unique connection Wholesale Two-Pronged business model. We believe commercial bank in the Philippines, has gained I was a new university graduate in an unfamiliar between the two businesses at Nomura. In the that this business model can be exported to Asia. Asia 130,000 accounts in a period of a little less than two environment. On my way to visit a client one day, I got financial services industry, wholesale businesses such has a growing economy and is expected to account for years (as of June 2018). BDO Nomura Securities is caught in a sudden downpour. I managed to find as underwriting are generally considered upstream 52% of the world’s GDP in 2050. now the second largest online securities house in the shelter and made my way to the client’s house after and retail operations such as sales are downstream. However, Asia is a diverse region where each country Philippines in terms of the number of securities the rain eased up. But at Nomura, we employ a holistic approach. This is is at a different stage of population growth and accounts. In May 2018, we applied to the China I was soaking wet and muddy. As I hesitated to enter because the principle that the investment chain starts economic development. To establish a viable Retail Securities Regulatory Commission for a license to the house, my client handed me a towel and invited me with individual risk money is deeply ingrained in our business in any country, there needs to be a middle establish a joint-venture securities company to serve in with a warm smile. She thanked me for coming culture. class and per-capita GDP of US$15,000 to wealthy individuals in China. despite the heavy rain and, at the end of my visit, she Issuers are well aware of our distribution capabilities US$20,000. We believe that Asian countries will enter I firmly believe that having a two-pronged model that bought some products and thanked me for the and we have been able to forge close business this zone. We have an advantage in this region and we connects Asia including Japan to Europe and the Corporate Information / Data proposals I had made. partnerships with roughly 60% of listed companies in believe there will be ample opportunities to further Americas will give us a competitive edge that sets us Since then I spent my time making a wide range of Japan, as well as government organizations worldwide, grow our business. apart from our peers. That is the essence of proposals to wealthy individuals and the management and global financial institutions. To successfully export our Two-Pronged business Connecting Markets East & West. of mid-sized companies in the local community. I Corporate clients highly rate our ability to make model to Asia, we will have to make some changes. Structural changes transforming Nomura Report 2018 learned first-hand that individual risk money is the main compelling proposals as well as our extensive Other Asian countries are far ahead of Japan in terms source of the investment chain. These early years are distribution capabilities. Retail clients recognize our of digital transformation and the fusion between the business the driving force behind everything I do today. consulting expertise and diverse product offering. This Internet and the real world. As such, we will have to is why they choose Nomura. It is also why our Retail pursue business opportunities while strategically There are three major structural changes currently Two-Pronged business model and Wholesale businesses have never been separated leveraging our digital platform and consulting services taking place. The first change concerns the possibility and operate in unison. for mass affluent individuals. that we are in a G-Zero era in which no country is willing After working exclusively in Retail, I was transferred to Capital Nomura Securities, which was established in to assume the responsibilities of global leadership. Message from Group CEO Added to this is growing populism where countries are the rules to change, we have to get ahead of the goal. Within the next four years, we plan to reduce to provide opportunities for young people to invest in looking out for their own interests. These trends game and change it ourselves. We have to become fixed costs by 60 billion yen through further stocks and investment trusts. undermine international security and economic the game changer. digitalization and automation, and by driving About Nomura transactions, and the arising frictions lead to geopolitical efficiencies through centralized procurement and Our Asset Management business also invested in 8 risks that cast a dark shadow over financial markets. Aiming for sustainable growth optimization of our global real estate footprint. Group in April 2018. Leveraging 8 Group’s excellent The second change is Japan’s aging population, and mobile application development skills and Nomura’s rapidly declining birthrate. People 75 years old and In August 2014, we announced our long-term Looking 10 to 20 years ahead investment capabilities and extensive product offering, older comprised about 25% of Japan’s total population management vision for 2020. This calls for us to create we intend to provide investment services to clients in in 2015. In 2030, they are expected to account for a robust operating platform capable of delivering As Group CEO, I must work hard to ensure that we the asset building segment. about 30% of the population and maximum 46% of consistent growth under any conditions. We set achieve our 2020 management vision. I also have a financial assets held by individuals in Japan. We are earnings per share (EPS) of ¥100 as one of our key responsibility to look beyond 2020 and create Pursuing digital innovation unable to provide adequate services to these elderly goals for 2020. something that will have an impact over 10 to 20 years clients due to compliance reasons. With more people In order to realize our vision, we are working to address As long as we can swiftly create Strategies for Value Creation expected to live to a hundred, we expect this client two issues: transforming our Retail business model quality products and services for our segment to grow further. Meanwhile, with the aging and improving the profitability of our international clients, I am not concerned whether society and falling birthrate, the working-age operations. Market conditions affect our business we pursue innovation on our own or population has lost confidence in the public pension performance, and we have to be prepared for shifts in through open innovation including system and feels they must secure their own postthe financial market due to geopolitical risks. tie-ups with other companies. In retirement funds. In Retail, our focus is on increasing recurring revenue, 2015, we established a FinTech The third change is the rapid advances in digital and in Asset Management we are working to expand Committee, and a Financial innovation. I find this change the most worrying. The our product offering and distribution channels. In Innovation Office to help further dilemma of innovation is that the champion stands to Wholesale, we continue to reduce our focus on enhance our businesses through lose the most when the rules of the game change. In traditional secondary trading while continuing to provide innovation. I meet with people in the the securities business in Japan, Nomura is that top financing and solutions that meet our clients’ needs. Financial Innovation Office once a player with the most at stake. Rather than waiting for Improving business efficiency is another important month. Each month, they update me about new technologies and 15 innovative ideas on all the 16 technological changes taking place Matrix management structure (After April 1, 2018) in the world. It is a very rewarding and productive meeting that I look Strengths Supporting Value Creation Koji Nagai in the future. forward to every month. Group CEO To address the rapidly aging Japanese society, we Through our Voyager accelerator program in Powai, Shoichi Nagamatsu have assigned specialists called Heartful Partners to India, in addition to our initiatives in Japan, we have Deputy President Retail branches throughout the country to help elderly received innovative proposals from startups around the clients. We are also conducting a joint research project world, including Silicon Valley. In April 2017, we Toshio Morita / Kentaro Okuda with Keio University on financial gerontology, and are established a dedicated innovation subsidiary N-Village in Group Co-COO using the results of our research to provide advice to the heart of Tokyo, where there is a large concentration older clients on how to manage their assets. of digital start-ups. N-Village is charged with new Developing strategies to work with the next generation business development and investing in startups. Asset Merchant Retail Management Wholesale is also critical. Most people open a bank account when While we do not have any plans at present to offer Banking they enter university or start working, but few people virtual currencies, we are researching B2B digital asset open a securities account. Even with the largest custody that uses blockchain technology. Eiichiro Yamaguchi Kunio Watanabe Steven Ashley Masahiko Maekawa number of securities accounts in Japan, we still only I am personally committing to pursue these initiatives Head of Retail Head of Asset Management Head of Wholesale Head of Merchant Banking have about 5,300,000 accounts, and only 3% of to ensure that we can leverage digital innovation in Corporate Information / Data JAPAN Toshio Morita President, Nomura Securities / Yuji Nakata Deputy President, Nomura Securities Japanese people in their thirties and forties own a our business. securities account. Asia ex-Japan Vikas Sharma Head of Asia ex-Japan Contributing to society through our EMEA Jonathan Lewis Head of EMEA To address this, we entered into a business core business Nomura Report 2018 partnership with LINE Corporation. As of March 2018, Americas Kentaro Okuda Head of Americas LINE has 75 million monthly active users in Japan. This In January 2018, we announced our corporate slogan, is equivalent to 60% of Japan’s total population, and Delivering a better tomorrow, which captures the 74% of these users are asset-builders under 50 years essence of the Nomura Group Corporate Philosophy. Satoshi Arai Takumi Kitamura Lewis O’Donald of age. People all over Japan who have no relationship While I feel that Our Founder’s Principles must evolve Chief of Staff and Group Strategy Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Chief Risk Officer (CRO) with Nomura can access our services through the over time, our commitment to enriching the nation LINE platform. We intend to leverage the LINE platform through the securities business and placing clients at Message from Group CEO the heart of everything we do is an indelible part of our August 3 as Nomura Founding Principles and DNA that must never change. Our dedication to Corporate Ethics Day. August 3 is the day in 2012 contributing to society through the capital markets when we received a business improvement order. On remains unchanged. The success of business depends this day each year, all employees watch a video and About Nomura on our responsibility to our clients, shareholders, our reflect on all our past mistakes: the 1991 loss people and society, in other words the S in ESG compensation incident, the corporate racketeer (environment, social and governance). incident in 1997 and the insider trading incident in I believe that by bringing investors and companies 2012. I have visited more than 150 retail branches together the securities business provides companies since becoming Group CEO and spoken to many with the risk money needed for their business young employees who did not know about these operations. And by helping investors manage their incidents. I felt it was important not to forget our past assets it contributes to the development of the mistakes with the passage of time. economy and society. I still sometimes meet young employees who know The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals nothing about the incident in 2012. This is why we Strategies for Value Creation (SDGs) have been attracting considerable attention must continue this initiative. Our employees overseas recently. Our long-term management vision, Vision are especially amazed that we continue talking about C&C, aims to create a solid operating base to achieve these incidents. But I feel that we must never forget sustainable growth by 2020. We believe that this will our past actions. help contribute to SDG’s aim to realize a thriving society. Investors are paying increasing attention to the ESG Developing future leaders initiatives of companies. This year, we established a dedicated ESG Committee that I will head as Chairman Training and developing the next generation of to further promote our ESG activities. managers is a key component in ensuring sustainable growth. We have a unique business Strong corporate governance model. Our headquarters is in Japan and we engage in Retail, Asset Management, Wholesale and Corporate governance is one of our strengths. As a Merchant Banking businesses, and we also have 17 company with three committees, we have clearly extensive global operations. 18 separated the business execution function from the It is difficult to find an individual who has experience in management oversight function. Delegating extensive all areas of our business, and who can handle the From the left authority to executive officers also enables speedy overall management of the company. A company is a Strengths Supporting Value Creation Vikas Sharma Head of Asia ex-Japan Kunio Watanabe Head of Asset Management Masahiko Maekawa Head of Merchant Banking decision-making, and six out of our ten Board directors public entity and, as such, leaders must prioritize the Toshio Morita Group Co-COO Jonathan Lewis Head of EMEA Koji Nagai Group CEO are Outside Directors, ensuring effective oversight of running of the company over personal interests. For Shoichi Nagamatsu Deputy President Kentaro Okuda Group Co-COO Steven Ashley Head of Wholesale Eiichiro Yamaguchi Head of Retail business execution. this reason, the next generation of leaders must make At our monthly Board of Directors’ meetings, our contributing to the firm and society their top priority, Outside Directors ask challenging questions and with the support of a capable team. express various opinions, which I feel add to the It is difficult to develop talent through instruction alone. quality of our corporate governance system. I believe Employees must learn through their own experiences that a system in which Outside Directors can freely over time. For example, we promote top performing express any concerns or opinions they have is critical employees in their mid-thirties to manager, and send why I, as Group CEO, have made raising our EPS a key of outstanding shares in November 2017, we continue to effective corporate governance. future management candidates overseas to help them management goal and have worked to increase our to reduce the number of outstanding shares. While we value the opinions of Outside Directors, develop a global perspective. Transferring employees EPS to double digits. However, Nomura must maintain a robust financial management decisions are not based solely on their to different departments is one way to foster people In Retail, our goal is to increase client assets to ¥150 position that allows it to meet regulatory requirements opinions. As Group CEO, I am ultimately responsible development. Nomura has many capable people and I trillion by 2020. We have so far increased client assets and conduct our businesses globally. At the same for all management decisions. I therefore make the look forward to their growth in the future. from approximately ¥70 trillion in 2012 to ¥120 trillion. time, we need to strike a balance between retained Corporate Information / Data final decision on all matters after carefully considering Asset Management aims to grow assets under earnings and shareholder returns. the different views. I make my decisions fully aware Enhancing shareholder returns management to ¥55 trillion, over ¥50 trillion of which was We have much more work to do. We are focused on that Outside Directors comprise a majority of the achieved in the most recent quarter. In Wholesale, we are implementing our strategy to build an operating platform Board of Directors, and the Board has the authority to As top management, I have been closely watching our working to improve profitability to increase our fee pool that allows us to consistently deliver EPS of ¥100, the Nomura Report 2018 appoint, or dismiss, executive officers, including the share price and I am not at all satisfied with the current market share to 3.4%. Wholesale has also significantly level before the capital increases, in order to reward our Group CEO. level. While we have no control over the share price reduced costs by reviewing its business portfolio. shareholders who have patiently supported. itself, I recognize that our medium to long-term In 2009, we implemented two capital increases which We seek to deliver a better tomorrow as a trusted Learning from our past mistakes performance and valuation can greatly impact it. To significantly increased the number of outstanding partner to our clients, embodying the values of enhance performance over the medium to long term, shares and diluted the value of our shares. Through entrepreneurial leadership, teamwork and integrity, in Never forgetting our past mistakes is critical to we must build a strong operating platform that ensures proactive share buybacks since 2014, and by setting order to fulfill our mission of enriching society. achieving consistent growth. In 2015, we established consistent growth in any market environment. This is cancelation policy of our own shares in excess of 5% Nomura Group Management Vision “Vision C&C” In August 2014, we announced Vision C&C, our management vision towards FY2019/20, The business environment surrounding Nomura is expected to change even more dramatically than in the past and we see this as the perfect “chance” to take decisive action and “change” the way we with the aim of creating an operating platform capable of delivering consistent growth operate. We expressed this as “Vision C&C,” where “C&C” represents a chance to change. About Nomura in any market environment. Based on the two main strategic themes of “business model The letter “C” also demonstrates our willingness to always take on new “challenges” and put our “clients first.” Under this overriding vision, we will focus on achieving our 2020 management targets. transformation in Japan” and “improvement in the profitability of our international businesses,” we are steadily progressing toward establishing a business capable of generating an EPS of ¥100. Moreover, we will continue to launch initiatives to achieve long-term growth beyond 2020 Beyond 2020 “Post Vision C&C” In May 2018, Nomura, LINE Corporation and LINE Financial Corporation signed a joint venture agreement to establish LINE Management target (EPS* ) and its progress 1 Business alliance with Securities Corporation. Through LINE Securities Corporation LINE Corporation platform, we will offer online securities brokerage services, Long-term management vision for 2020 “Vision C&C” Conservative scenario based securities investment consultation and other related services, Strategies for Value Creation which targets the asset-building generation. on KPIs and current market Two Challenges conditions continuing Transforming business model in Japan Offer investment In April 2018, we invested a total of approximately ¥2.7 billion to Improving profitability of international business 100 100 services utilizing 8 Group, which excels in mobile app development. Using iOS 8 Group’s mobile and Android mobile apps, we plan to offer discretionary roboapp development advisory services investing in ETFs and the Funds-i index fund capabilities series managed by Nomura Asset Management Co., Ltd. FY2015/16 management target EPS ¥50 In January 2018, we established the Merchant Banking Division. With an initial investment of up to approximately ¥100 billion, we Launch of Merchant will provide solutions to clients who face increasingly diversified Achieved target 2 years ahead of 65.65 Banking Business and complex issues, primarily using equity capital in projects schedule involving business reorganizations and revitalizations, business 61.88 60.03 succession as well as management buyouts. 55.81 In May 2018, we applied to establish a joint venture securities firm with the China Securities Regulatory Commission. The new company will be initially focus on providing wealth management 19 Full-scale entry into the services to mass affluent individuals in China by leveraging 20 Chinese market Nomura’s experience and knowledge in this area. It will then 35.52 develop its product distribution channels and expand into Wholesale and other business segments. 28.37 Strengths Supporting Value Creation In order to provide more value to our clients and to pursue Implementation of new business opportunities, we will continue to focus more on Innovation innovation, including the use of technologies. 7.86 To page 29 3.14 (yen) FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY2019/20 2020+ 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 (target) Conservative scenario Retail client assets Our Retail Division continues to transform its business model in order to strengthen Key performance indicators (KPIs)*2 to Retail the business by enhancing trust of our clients and improving their satisfaction, and ¥150 trillion (¥117.7 trillion) to become a financial institution to which people turn to. KPIs we target as we head achieve FY2019/20 management target ¥195-205 billion Recurring revenue cost coverage ratio towards FY2019/20 are client assets of ¥150 trillion and a recurring revenue cost To page 33 (¥103.1 billion) coverage ratio of approximately 50%. We are striving to build an earnings structure around 50% (28%) that is resilient to changes in market conditions. Corporate Information / Data The asset management industry is expected to see sustainable expansion. Meanwhile, Three segments income Asset Management Assets under Management 2020 management target we anticipate that competition involving those participating from other sectors outside before income taxes the industry will intensify against a backdrop of changing client investment management EPS ¥100 ¥50-55 billion ¥55 trillion needs and technological innovation with progress of digital innovation. In this environment, To page 37 ¥450-470 billion (¥66.2 billion) (¥50.0 trillion) Asset Management Division is working to broaden our client base and extend investment products through continuous enhancement of our investment expertise, utilization of (EPS ¥61.88) (¥269.9 billion) Nomura Report 2018 technologies and customer-oriented business conduct, aiming to achieve our target KPIs. ( ) is for FY2017/18, or as of March 2018 Wholesale Fee pool market share In Wholesale Division, our initiatives focus on strengthening our business foundation in order to deliver sustainable performance under any market environment. To achieve ¥200-220 billion 3.4% our target KPIs, we will expand the Client Financing & Solutions offerings, strengthen To page 41 (¥100.6 billion) (3.1%) our business in the Americas, and target cross border transactions. *1 Basic net income attributable to Nomura Holdings shareholders per share (EPS) *2 FY2019/20 market assumptions: Nikkei 225 at ¥25,000; USD/JPY rate at ¥115; Effective tax rate for Japanese corporations below 30%; Global fee pool annual growth rate of 1% Message from CFO About Nomura CFO’s key focus areas Support Nomura Group’s sustained Strategies for Value Creation growth from the financial aspects Maintain an appropriate financial base that enables compliance with regulations Provide appropriate shareholder returns 21 22 Strengths Supporting Value Creation Provide the financial and March 2020 and to make preparations with an eye to 2020 and thereafter. I believe that my role as the CFO is Decomposition of factors affecting financial/capital strategies capital support needed to to support the execution of these management execute management strategies from a financial and capital perspective. As a financial institution that operates globally, we are Shareholders strategies and enhance subject to regulations in various aspects including (returns) corporate value capital and liquidity. In addition, our financial base is required to be above certain standards to maintain an appropriate credit rating. In the meantime, we seek to External requirements Corporate Information / Data secure an adequate level of capital by taking into Takumi Kitamura account internal requirements such as what financial Various regulations/ Pursuit of optimal Businesses Chief Financial Officer buffer we are to keep as an ongoing entity, what rating capital (capital allocation) investment buffer we need for growth, and most Nomura Report 2018 important of all, how efficient we must be in using the Nomura Group’s financial/capital Optimization of capital entrusted to us. resource allocation strategies (philosophy) ROE My mission is to maximize returns while efficiently using Financial buffers With the aim of building a sustainable business limited resources, and at the same time to enhance our Investment buffers Improved foundation to support growth in any environment, corporate value through providing appropriate profitability Internal requirements Nomura Group has been working to promote initiatives shareholder returns and maintaining dialogues with for achieving the KPI targets for the fiscal year ending stakeholders including shareholders and investors. Message from CFO to increase TLAC eligible debt*3. However, we have To enhance profitability, cost control is also an important Optimization of resource allocation and Response to various regulations sufficient time before March 2021 and the regulations will factor. In 2016, we undertook a strategic review of the improved profitability Among the various global financial regulations that take effect in a phased manner. Accordingly, we expect Wholesale business in EMEA and the Americas, and Nomura Group is expected to comply with, the capital to be able to satisfy the current requirements by replacing We allocate risk weighted assets, economic capital, fundamentally revamped the portfolio, including a partial requirements imposed by the Basel Committee have a a portion of existing liabilities when they become due with unsecured funds, leverage exposure and other resources exit from low-profit businesses. As a result of these About Nomura direct impact on how we operate our businesses. As we TLAC-eligible instruments. to businesses, regularly monitor profitability relative to the sustained initiatives, the expense ratio (for the three anticipate a minimum consolidated Common Equity Tier1 amount of resources, and periodically review the segments) has been below 80% since the fiscal year (hereinafter, “CET1”) ratio requirement to be resource allocation while engaging in dialogues with ended March 31, 2017. approximately 7.5% from 2019 and thereafter, we aim to businesses. In addition, we make strategic decisions on At the overall group level, we are continuing to reduce maintain a CET1 ratio of 11% or higher, including financial our business portfolio as a whole by considering not only costs, particularly fixed costs. By improving business and investment buffers, over the medium term. profitability, but other factors such as allocation of process efficiency through the use of technologies, In 2022, a major revision will be made to the calculation resources to gain diversification benefits during times of centrally controlling purchases, and reviewing real estate of risk weighted assets, the denominator in the stress. strategies on a global basis, we aim to reduce firm-wide Consolidated Capital Adequacy Ratio*1 calculation of CET1 ratio. In particular, with the When we invest in our future growth, we assess the fixed costs by approximately ¥60 billion over the next four Risk weighted assets introduction of Fundamental Review of the Trading Book (trillions of yen) (%) effectiveness of these investments by analyzing whether years. We also plan to control variable costs to maintain Consolidated Common Equity Tier1 ratio*2 20.0 20.0 Strategies for Value Creation (FRTB) implementation process, the Basel standards for the investment can complement our existing business expense ratio below 75% over a medium term compared 18.2 market risk, which is an aspect of risk weighted assets, 16.5 and whether synergies are expected. We allocate capital to the current level of slightly lower than 80% (for the will be raised significantly. However, as the details of the to investments that are expected to consistently exceed three segments) by continuing to emphasize the concept 15.0 15.0 revised regulation have not been finalized, we are 15.4 capital cost. of “Pay for Performance.” currently not able to precisely estimate the impact, and 11.9 13.2 12.9 therefore we keep a certain buffer relating to our CET1 10.0 10.0 ratio. Considering that businesses are reducing the use Non-interest expenses for the three segments of resources in light of the recent market conditions, the Consolidated Common Equity Tier1 ratio (medium term target) more than 11% level of our CET1 ratio as of March 31, 2018 (16.5% on a 5.0 5.0 Expense ratio 80% 86% 77% 79% < 75% Pay for Performance fully loaded basis) is at a level where we have flexibility compared to our medium term target. Driving efficiency (billions of yen) 1,082.6 1,071.6 (Corporate Operating Model) In April 2018, the Financial Services Agency of Japan 0 0 985.7 Variable 934.5 announced that in addition to G-SIBs*1 in Japan, namely 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 costs Digitalization / Automation (Fiscal years ended March 31) 23 the three mega banks, TLAC*2 requirements will start to Cloud outsourcing 24 *1 Based on Basel apply to Nomura from March 31, 2021. We are required *2 CET1 capital ratio is defined as Tier1 capital minus Additional Tier1 capital Integrated purchasing divided by risk-weighted assets. Global real estate strategy Strengths Supporting Value Creation Fixed Conceptual diagram of After TLAC costs Minimum TLAC requirements and response measures balance sheet (current) regulations are Fixed costs applied to decrease Reduce firm-wide fixed costs by approx. ¥60 bn (until FY2021/22) Other 2015 2016 2017 2018 2020 + liabilities (Fiscal years ended March 31) and investment in growth to be made with internally Minimum level Striking a balance between the pursuit of requirement generated growth capital. Borrowings/senior debt capital efficiency and shareholder returns March March 2021~ 2024~ Borrowings/ Assets senior debt We strive to secure an ROE of 10% or more by (NHI*4) TLAC Clarification of capital policy eligible conducting disciplined financial management while 1 Requirements concerning risk weighted assets debt (NHI*4) satisfying external and internal requirements, including Nov. 2017 Establishment of a policy for the (Regulatory capital + TLAC eligible debt) 16% 18% responding to regulations, resource allocation to holding and retirement of treasury stock Corporate Information / Data Risk weighted assets TLAC businesses, pursuing of capital efficiency, and maintaining financial and investment buffers. Upper limit of treasury stock holdings Regulatory Regulatory Target at around 5% of outstanding shares capital capital At the same time, we are strengthening shareholder 2 Requirements concerning leverage exposure Retirement policy returns. Since the fiscal year ended March 2014, in In principle, retire treasury stock held above Nomura Report 2018 (Regulatory capital + TLAC eligible debt) 6% 6.75% addition to dividend payments, we have aggressively upper limit Leverage exposure We plan to meet current requirements by replacing engaged in share buyback programs. In April 2018, we a portion of existing liabilities of NHI*4 when they become due with TLAC eligible debt. set a new total return ratio target, which includes Apr. 2018 Establishment of total return ratio shareholder returns from share buybacks, at 50% or Total return ratio that includes shareholder returns from share buyback *1 Global systemically important banks designated by the Financial Services Agency of Japan based on the list published by the Financial Stability Board higher to further clarify our corporate stance on more than 50% *2 Abbreviation for Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity. It is a Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity aimed to promote financial stability shareholder returns. We strive to maximize our corporate *3 Liabilities, etc. that satisfy requirements for loss absorbing capacity as defined by the Financial Services Agency of Japan *4 Nomura Holdings, Inc. value by striking a balance between shareholder returns Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Net revenue, non-interest expenses Members of the Board of Directors (June 30, 2018) Percentage of Outside Percentage of (billions of yen) Net revenue Non-interest expenses The Board of Directors comprises a Directors non-Japanese Directors In the fiscal year ended March 31, We place importance on the diversity 2018, we recorded an increase in 2,000 majority of Outside Directors, which 60% of the Board of Directors in order to 20% About Nomura enables it to conduct highly allow business execution to be net revenue, due to strong results 1,814 1,557 1,451 transparent management while supervised from various perspectives by the Retail Division and Asset 1,604 1,500 1,536 1,576 1,403 enabling oversight based on outside and to improve effectiveness. Management Division. An 1,396 1,497 perspectives. The Nomination Number of Directors of various nationalities, Number of nonincrease in the overall expenses Outside Directors Japanese Directors 1,151 1,131 1,257 1,231 Committee has established the genders, and backgrounds utilize was attributable in variable expenses such as “compensation 1,000 1,092 1,046 1,037 1,195 1,080 1,169 Independence Criteria for Outside 6 of 10 their extensive experience in a broad 2 of 10 Directors to ensure that Outside range of fields to make decisions on and benefits” and “commissions 852 787 Directors are sufficiently independent important management matters, and and floor brokerage,” which from the Group. to provide management oversight. resulted in an increase from 500 growth of revenue and transaction 312 volume, and provision of Women in managerial positions allowance for legacy transactions. Number of women in managerial positions (lhs) (%) 0 1,600 Percentage of women in managerial positions (rhs) 20 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1,503 We promote initiatives globally to support women Strategies for Value Creation 1,370 1,405 (Fiscal years ended March 31) in improving their careers, including training 1,200 1,234 15 programs to help managerial candidates design Income (loss) before income taxes, Net income (loss) attributable to their careers, a mentoring program for managers, 1,055 1,031 15 16 15 16 Nomura Holdings shareholders, and effective tax rate a sponsorship program in which executive officers 800 13 13 10 Income (loss) before income taxes support management candidates, along with We recorded income before (billions of yen) Net income (loss) attributable to Nomura Holdings shareholders (%) various other measures. 400 5 income taxes of ¥328.2 billion in 400 Effective tax rate (rhs) 70 fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, 362 347 323 328 which increased slightly from the 0 0 previous year. By region, business 238 214 240 200 225 219 35 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 in Japan increased its income 165 (End of March) 132 before income taxes, but 105 68 93 85 107 Ratio of employees by region overseas business recorded a ¥0.7 29 (%) Japan Europe Americas Asia and Oceania 0 12 0 100 billion loss before income taxes due to a decline in fixed income Nomura Group boasts a network consisting of -65 -68 20 20 23 24 23 24 revenue by a low-volatility in bond 32% business sites in more than 30 countries and 75 market, and provision of allowance -200 regions staffed by employees of approximately 9 9 9 8 8 9 25 for legacy transactions. As a result, 90 different nationalities. To offer clients a broad 14 13 12 12 11 11 26 the effective tax rate rose to 31.7% -708 range of products to address diverse investment 50 -800 -780 needs, it is important that personnel of different and net income attributable to Nomura Holdings shareholders ages, genders and nationalities continue to 57 58 56 56 58 56 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 25 decreased from the previous year. create new value-added utilizing their unique Strengths Supporting Value Creation (Fiscal years ended March 31) backgrounds. These diverse personnel are our greatest asset. 0 ROE and EPS (Diluted net income (loss) attributable to Nomura Holdings shareholders per share) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (End of March) Our 2020 management vision is to (%) ROE Education and training expenses create an organization capable of 10 (millions of yen) 3,000 2,987 consistently delivering EPS of 8.9% 8.6% 8.7% 2,972 2,880 ¥100 under any market We are establishing and enhancing human 2,767 7.9% 2,515 environment, which equates to resources development systems to enable 2,441 2,250 approximately 10% in ROE. EPS employees with diverse backgrounds and values decreased from the previous year 5 4.9% to better display their talents. In addition to to ¥61.88 in the fiscal year ended 4.9% offering equal employment, we provide 1,500 3.7% March 31, 2018. However, our appropriate, performance-based evaluations and long-term management vision 1.4% feedback. Also, we help employees proactively 750 remains unchanged. We will strive 0.6% build their careers by providing fulfilling 0 to work on the two strategic educational and training programs for all challenges of “transforming 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 personnel ranks. 0 (Fiscal years ended March 31) business model in Japan” and 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 “improving profitability of (Fiscal years ended March 31) Corporate Information / Data international business.” (yen) EPS Sustainability bonds 100 (billions of yen) Proceeds (lhs) Bonds issued (rhs) (Bonds) 500 20 20 60.03 65.65 61.88 Nomura offers products that serve as a bridge 499 50 55.81 between investors that seek to contribute to 400 16 35.52 Nomura Report 2018 28.37 society through investment, and projects and 21.59 7.86 financing needs aimed at resolving social and 300 12 0 3.14 environmental issues. Nomura also promotes 9 8 221 initiatives aimed at achieving Sustainable 200 8 -50 -35.57 Development Goals (SDGs). 110 5 100 4 4 54 5 52 59 400 -366.16 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal years ended March 31) (Fiscal years ended March 31) Special Feature Special Feature About Nomura Offering services tailored to 01 02 e e as as C Offering services for people C Expanding services tailored to the anxieties of senior customers building their assets and their families clients’ life stages NISA, accumulated-type NISA and iDeCo are Senior customers face a broad range of anxieties programs for persuading people to build assets by associated with matters not only health, nursing care, means of long-term, diversified and accumulated-type funerals and graves, but also asset succession, investments. As needs of building assets are including those about inheritance, wills and donations. Nomura strives to be a trustworthy partner to its clients and to support each one in the present increasing, the Retail Division is working to increase To address those anxieties, the Retail Division has and future as 100 year lifespans are not uncommon. the number of accounts. expanded its consulting functions for inheritanceand Meanwhile, Retail Division is strengthening services donation-related services, such as testamentary trust, provided on a non-face-to-face basis to satisfy a broad wrap trust, insurance and donations, in partnership Strategies for Value Creation The following figure shows how assets scale in step with various life stages by displaying asset size on the vertical axis and age across the horizontal axis. After employment, asset range of customers, and integrated Nomura Home with Group companies and other parties. It has also sizes increases toward retirement, notwithstanding expenditures for major life event along the Trade and Nomura Net & Call services into Nomura expanded the system of Heartful Partners, who way including a home purchase and school fees for children. The Retail Division is working to Online Service in January 2018. Additionally, the Retail support the anxieties of senior customers and their offer services and build a system that suit customer objectives at different life stages in order Division upgraded the Nomura Goal-Based robo families, to all branches of Nomura Securities in Japan. to help them build assets throughout their lifetime. advisory service to make it easier to use for asset Furthermore, Happy Life Seminars are held for senior building customers with little investment experiences. customers for the group to be a good partner in the Provision of services and development of systems according to life stage and asset scale approach for their various matters they will experience in their old age and to support them enjoy their lives Assets 3 after retirement. e 03 as 2 2018. Through this joint venture, Nomura aims to offer Alliance C 27 28 brokerage and investment consulting services to assetwith LINE Corporation 1 building clients on a non-face-to-face basis, making Nomura Holdings signed a joint venture contract to the most of LINE’s user base of more than 75 million Strengths Supporting Value Creation Personal financial assets establish LINE Securities Corporation with LINE people and the financial business knowledge Corporation and LINE Financial Corporation in May accumulated by the Nomura Group. Age Home loan Children’s Retirement Japan population: 126.7 million*1 school fees 1 2 3 50 years Asset management and older 26.0% Desires to protect assets and pass Customer needs Asset building Preparations for the future them down to the next generation Inheritance, M&A and business succession Securities accounts:*3 LINE Preparations for long life Management of real estate and other assets that are not financial products 24.2 million MAUs in Japan*2 40 to 49 Long-term diversified investment Financial products years old 22.8% Products / services (NISA, accumulated-type NISA and iDeCo) ESOP Financial products Inheritance and insurance Inheritance, M&A and insurance Real estate Nomura Securities*4 75 million 35 to 39 11.4% years old Robo advisory Operating leases 5.32 million Asset builders: *6 DAU/ MAU ratio*5 1.52 30 to 34 10.8% 74% 85% Not on a face-to-face basis On a face-to-face basis years old million 25 to 29 Life Plan Service Department Financial Partner Section 10.0% Corporate Information / Data Wealth Management Department 0.62 years old Defined Contribution Pension Wealth Partner Section million Plan Department Living Partner Section 20 to 24 years old 9.3% (Yuto Retire, Heartful Partner) S&S Department, PB Business Department and Corporate Business Development Department Nomura’s systems / 15 to 19 Trust Bank and Insurance Business Department years old 9.7% platforms Nomura Nomura Securities Nomura Institute of Estate Planning Securities DC ESOP members Case 01 Case 02 Real Estate Business Department plan members Nomura Report 2018 Nomura Babcock & Brown Co., Ltd. Not on a face-to-face basis Nomura Online Services *1 As of November 1, 2017, the Statistics Bureau of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications *2 Monthly active LINE applications users as of March 2018 according to a survey conducted by LINE Corporation *3 Their number as of December 2017 according to data released by the Japan Securities Dealers Association. The number of securities accounts is the sum of such figures at the end of October for companies that close accounts in January, April, July or October and the same figures at the end of November for companies that close accounts in February, May, August or November. *4 Client accounts with balance as of March 2018. *5 The ratio of DAUs (daily active users or users who LINE Securities Corporation Case 03 used LINE services at least once each day) to MAUs (monthly active users) in Japan as of March 2018 *6 The composition of LINE users is based on an Internet survey Macromill, Inc. conducted on a sample population of 2,060 LINE users nationwide aged 15 to 69 in January 2018. Special Feature Special Feature About Nomura Implementation of Innovation Initiatives The long-term management vision for 2020, Vision C&C, refers to creating a robust operating platform Strategies for Value Creation capable of delivering consistent growth in any market environment, aiming to adapt to a highly uncertain environment in which common knowledge and business models may change considerably. We believe that these objectives cannot be fulfilled without innovation. To evolve into an organization that will continue to promote innovation, Nomura Group will work as one and take actions aiming to offer higher quality services and to create businesses that serve as new sources of revenues for the Group. Implemented Under consultation Channel Product or service Infrastructure We will develop new N-Village is a company established in April 2017 as a wholly-owned Smart speaker LINE Securities Corporation subsidiary of Nomura Holdings. Its mission is to create businesses that 8 Securities businesses and promote could become new sources of revenue for Nomura Group over the medium Digital Asset Custody Platform innovation for Nomura’s to long term, without being limited to financial services. Its activities began Adding in earnest in July 2017 when its office was set up with three members. future, without fear of failure Financing scheme for business ventures on value Funds-i These three members are the president, who has helped a number of IT Developing unlisted 29 SNS x AI Business Nomura Goalstocks market by leveraging Shareholders start-ups with their IPOs in Nomura’s Wholesale Division, an IT 30 Confidence Index Based Services Community system infrastructure engineer from Nomura Research Institute (NRI) who loves my daiz™ Algorithm trading hackathons, and me, someone who has been involved in consulting at iPad Remote store Mago Channel Shinjuku Base Continuous (a base for real-digital integrated SAP and debt, equity, and securitization underwriting and development at Strengths Supporting Value Creation Distributed ledger technology innovation marketing measures) R3: a consortium engaging in research, Nomura Securities. To accelerate open innovation, we are joined by development and other activities on blockchain technology for financial Demonstration trial of institutions multiple other people , such as business venture entrepreneurs with a natural language wealth of ideas, on a part-time basis. analysis in investment Internal chat tool Chatbot decisions a tool for Increase in Symphony a cloud-based streamlining Large companies may think of helping start-ups, but truly competent communication internal inquiries operation service business executives and engineers possessing a wealth of ideas are not efficiency Abnormality detection system worried about financing and do not need financial support. They have an Robotic Process Automation (RPA ) Business approach of working together on something interesting that will change the Automation of Intelligence (BI) operations to Making decisions efficiently by world. Our team is working on prototype services in order to create a improve efficiency analyzing internal by using robots data society where anyone can try something. We are tackling goals such as the construction of a credit platform in the peer-to-peer (P2P) capital N-Village market, in the token economy using blockchain technologies, in the sharing ibet (a new platform that link issuers with investors) Destructive innovation CSO economy, and in the digital market. We are based in Shibuya, far away from N-Village My Rate (a credit information platform for peer-to-peer (P2P) transactions) (a subsidiary specializing in developing new Toshinori Sasaki Nihonbashi and Otemachi where the other Nomura Group companies have business and in advancing open innovations) their head offices, in order to ensure that we can carry out our activities in a Corporate Information / Data SoundHound corporate culture that differs from that of the Nomura Group. We can make Research (a voice interaction engine) Quantum computing quick decisions regarding collaborative efforts with start-ups and this will allow for repeated trial and error. We have close communications with Implementation Nomura Group has been taking actions on innovation since the launch of Financial Innovation Nomura Holdings’ Group CEO, Mr. Koji Nagai, and the rest of the of framework Office in December 2015. Including the establishment of a subsidiary engaging exclusively in Nomura Report 2018 management team, and work at the speed of business start-ups in a bid to developing new business and setting up overseas innovation base, these actions are respond to their call to develop the last thing that the competition wants to conducted in collaboration between regions and between divisions under control of the Group CEO. The Group CEO emphasizes the importance of continuing innovation activities across the see developed by Nomura. My personal aspiration is to cut the cost of Group and stress the significance of innovations that involve not only persons within the Group transactions in the capital market to one-hundredth of the current level. but also outside contributors in an effort to advance open innovation. That will not be easy but I will be striving to achieve it. * Software development events involving programmers, graphic designers, user interface designers and others. At a Glance Business segments About Nomura In addition to Retail, Asset Management and Wholesale, we established a new Merchant Banking Division in January 2018. Through our principal investment business, we primarily Retail Division Asset Management Division Wholesale Division provide equity to clients as a solution for business Retail Division provides a broad range of financial Asset Management Division operates globally, with Wholesale Division consists of two businesses: Global reorganizations and revitalizations, business products and ser vices to individual and corporate Nomura Asset Management playing a central role. Markets providing financial products and solutions and clients in Japan through its nationwide network of 156 Investment trusts business offers a wide lineup of secondary market liquidity, and Investment Banking succession and management buyouts. By branches, as well as online platform and call centers. products through a broad range of channels. offering capital raising transactions and advisory services. connecting markets East & West, we provide Wealth Management team, a part of the Retail Division, Investment advisory business provides high-quality It provides diverse services to a broad range of clients services to meet the needs of individuals, Strategies for Value Creation specializes in providing personalized services to highproducts and asset management services to a broad including corporates, government entities and financial institutions, corporates and governments through net-worth individual in Japan and the rest of Asia. spectrum of institutional investors. institutions in Japan and overseas. our four business divisions. Countries possessing the Primary Dealer qualification Retail client assets: Assets under management: World’s major markets Income before income taxes: ¥117.7 trillion Income before income taxes: ¥50.0 trillion Income before income taxes: 15 countries ¥103.1 Number of branches: ¥66.2 Share of ETFs in Japan: ¥100.6 Japan ECM League Table billion billion billion 156 46% 1st / Share 24.2% (As of June 30, 2018) Source: The Investment Trusts (April 2017 ~ March 2018) Association, Japan Source: Thomson Reuters 31 • Individual investors • Underwriting of bonds 32 • Sales of financial and stocks • Regional government products • Individual investors • Financial institutions agencies • Development of • M&A advisory • M&A advisory • Domestic and overseas financial products and pension funds • Institutional investors • Syndication of financial • Regional financial asset management institutions • Real estate (agency • Corporates products Our services) • Governments and central Our • Direct sales of services Our • Corporates banks • Governments and Clients Services • Inheritance and business Clients Services to some investors Clients Services • Proposal for investment Strengths Supporting Value Creation • Educational institutions government entities succession services • Institutional investors, etc. • Provision of liquidity • Other legal entities • High-level execution Overview of Japan Europe Americas Asia and Oceania*2 regions Asia and Oceania Japan 15,819 3,057 2,362 6,810 people people people people One of the Nomura’s strengths is its global Corporate Information / Data business platform. Employee Japan has been the home Europe is the world’s secondAmericas is the largest We define Asia, including base of the Nomura Group largest financial market, after financial market in the world Japan, as our home market. By collaborating closely across businesses and regions, we are able to provide optimal solutions Americas 28,048 for 92 years since it was established in 1925. The Group provides a full the Americas. In this region, the Wholesale Division is focusing on and a key strategic region for Nomura. The Wholesale Division is looking to grow its It is in Asia ex-Japan, where high economic growth is expected. We are well Nomura Report 2018 to meet the needs of our clients. people range of financial services to a broad range of clients through businesses of strength, including Macro (Rates, Foreign market share by allocating management resources poised to capitalize on this growth as our business, led its Retail, Asset Management Exchange), M&A advisory and to areas where we have a by our Wholesale and Asset and Wholesale Divisions. solutions, while also controlling competitive edge. Management Divisions, costs to improve profitability. In addition, the Asset operates in 12 countries and Europe Management Division has regions across the region. been increasing assets under In addition, we also have an management, mainly in highoverseas Retail business. *1 Income before income taxes is for FY2017/18, and the remaining figures are as of March 31, 2018, unless otherwise defined yield bond products. *2 Includes Powai office in India Business Divisions: Retail Division Actions to create Medium-term strategies value About Nomura Market Conditions and KPI Targets for 2020 Asset management needs are growing as interest rates To meet these targets, we executed an organizational remain low. Also, advancement of aging society makes our change in accordance with the clients’ needs in the last client needs more diversified, such as the needs to fiscal year. We are also working to enrich different services prepare for a lifespan of 100 years and for passing down in order to provide comprehensive solutions for clients’ assets to the next generation. Under these conditions, the assets, covering not only asset management but also Retail Division is working to change its business model inheritance, business succession, M&A and real estate. and aspires to expand the business through enhancing The annual customer satisfaction survey was conducted client trust and satisfaction. Our key performance indicator for the year as well. We will introduce a range of Strategies for Value Creation (KPI) targets for FY2019/20 are client assets of ¥150 trillion improvements based on clients’ wishes in a bid to increase and recurring revenue of ¥150 billion. Through these their satisfaction. Retail Division targets, we aim to establish a stable revenue stream that is not susceptible to the market. Retail Division’s KPI targets for achieving the Image of revenue composition Review of It was a slow start to the year as mounting geopolitical risk affected investor sentiment. However, equity markets rose FY2017/18 in the second half of the year, supported by strong Japanese and U.S. economic indices. In line with a turnaround in management vision for FY2019/20 512 500 (billions of yen) Other 22 investor sentiment, stock transactions and investment trust sales increased. For FY2017/18, net revenue was ¥412.9 30 FY2013/14 KPIs for FY2019/20 billion and income before income taxes was ¥103.1 billion, reflecting improvements from prior year. The Retail Division continued to expand its consulting services and pursue its ambition to counsel each client about their Income before ¥195 billion to individual concerns and requirements, with the goal of providing optimal investment solutions. Retail Client Assets grew to income taxes ¥192 billion ¥205 billion near a record high level which reflects our growing client trust. 270 Retail Client Assets ¥91.7 trillion ¥150 trillion Brokerage revenue 417 Consulting related revenue: 33 Approx. 10% 34 Recurring Approx. 50 Strengths Challenges Actions revenue ¥53.9 billion ¥150 billion Recurring revenue: Approx. 30% Largest branch network and client Approaching clients’ core assets, in Training consultants whom clients could Recurring Consulting related 150 Strengths Supporting Value Creation revenue 19 base across Japan’s securities sector addition to investment assets completely trust revenue cost 17% Approx. 50% coverage ratio Recurring revenue 54 Building stable earnings structure by Ability to prepare and deliver best-inRelatively high sensitivity to market increasing recurring revenues FY2013/14 Revenue for FY2019/20 class investment advice fluctuation Enhancing products and services aimed (image) at elderly clients and their younger Building relationships with family family members Sophisticated consulting services Enhancing content targeted at younger members of elderly clients generations (websites, seminars, robo Leverage capabilities across the advisor services, etc.) Constructing a Revenue Structure Not Susceptible to the Market Nomura Group to offer clients Increasing new, younger clients Widening the lineup of products that Measures to Increase Recurring Revenue differentiated services asset building clients can easily invest in Recurring revenue refers to revenue received from Actions for Discretionary Investment Business (billions of yen) ongoing services related to client assets such as Performance 600 investment trust administration fees. The Retail Division Launched the Nomura SMA trust with dividend 2017 withdrawal function will provide investment trust and discretionary 511.9 476.5 investment through consulting services to accumulate 2018 Launched the wrap trust Corporate Information / Data 450 435.6 recurring revenue and consequently establish a 402.0 397.9 412.9 388.3 392.4 374.4 revenue structure that is not susceptible to the market. 350.3 Launched funds for the refund of fixed To increase recurring revenue, we will continue to 300 amounts and times 291.9 broaden the lineup of investment trust products by Nomura Report 2018 adding products in areas where rapid growth is Changed the amount of reduction from 192.0 expected and in growing mediumand long-term asset “¥1 million or more” to “¥10,000 or more” 150 161.8 Net revenue building. For discretionary investment, we will enrich 122.3 113.4 101.2 127.6 74.8 Reduced the minimum contract amount of “SMA Income before 63.1 100.6 103.1 related services. From May 2018 onwards, clients are (Executive Wrap)” from ¥50 million to ¥30 million income taxes 0 able to have a maximum of eight Nomura Fund Wrap 18.2 and Nomura SMA accounts in total in accordance with Launched accounts by purpose 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal years ended March 31) their purpose of using funds. Business Divisions: Retail Division Proposing comprehensive solutions for all Consulting-related revenue refers to revenue from insurance, real estate, M&A, underwriting and assets by counseling clients financial consulting. We provide clients with high For resolving social issues For expanding consulting-related revenue value-added services for all their assets in addition About Nomura to existing services related to securities by taking advantage of the Group function. Launched the Mago In October 2017, we launched the Mago Channel service that provides clients of Nomura Securities with connections to their family members Channel service across generations and distance in collaboration with Chikaku Inc. Mago Portfolio of households that hold Channel, an IoT product of Chikaku, is a communication tool which users assets of ¥100 million or more easily share the daily lives of family members and the growth of children Insurance Real estate and grandchildren by projecting videos and pictures onto a TV screen using 10% 40% a dedicated device and application. The structure of society continues to We create proposals for pension like schemes We provide services tailored to clients’ evolve, driven by fundamental changes such as the aging of the population taking into account client life planning and needs such as inheritance, effective use and inheritance measures by utilizing a gift-related investment together with our partner real and a shift away from multi-generation households to nuclear families. mechanism, which transfers assets to the next estate companies. Both numbers of handling Amidst such changes, we remain committed to supporting our clients in Strategies for Value Creation generation through insurance. cases and the volume of services provided are 2% increasing steadily as we work on expanding achieving their financial goals, as well as seek to develop and introduce new our partners and increasing our recognition. technologies which enrich our clients’ lives, bringing them closer together to both their families and society. Securities Deposits 13% 35% To meet clients’ various investment needs, To meet financing needs, we offer Nomura we offer a wide lineup of products including Web Loan, loans secured by securities, in stocks, bonds, investment trusts and addition to savings deposits, term deposits discretionary investment products. Along with and foreign currency deposits as financial the advancement of an aging population with a assets. low birth rate, concerns about the succession of companies’ own shares are increasing. We make proposals tailored to client needs by counseling them and their family members on Source: Nomura, Statistics of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications various issues. “2014 National Survey of Family Income and Expenditure” 35 36 Left: Receiver box of Mago Actions Tailored to Clients’ Needs Channel Right: Sample image of Mago Strengths Supporting Value Creation Channel Past Actions New Actions Organization and Organizational change: Reorganization tailored to clients’ Financial gerontology To have a comfortable life in retirement and pass assets on to the next HR strategies Abolished regional head system needs generation in the era of the 100-year life, individuals need to actively engage research in the formation and management of financial assets. However, we must Actions from an asset management perspective acknowledge that physical strength and the judgment necessary for asset Trial operation on Saturdays in some towards a long-life aging management fades with aging. Together with Keio University, Nomura Improvement of visit efficiency society branch offices Securities launched a study on how to invest and manage individual Established Heartful Partner, a Established Heartful Partner, a financial assets for longevity. Our proposals help ensure that we are a Sales specialist team for elderly clients specialist team for elderly clients, at financial institution at the forefront of Japan. The study has led to strategies all branches in Japan improvement of our services through Heartful Partner, a specialist team for Research project on financial Shinjuku Base, a new marketing aged clients. gerontology office, commenced activities Corporate Information / Data Provision of products in response Product Enhancement of low risk products to the era of the 100-year life strategies Discretionary investment services Enhancement of discretionary Launched a joint Keio University investment services research on financial Nomura Report 2018 Anshin Furikae gerontology* Comprehensive asset management services to help Service (immediate money transfer at maximum of Expansion of banks where Anshin clients extend asset life while also handling declining strategies ¥300 million per day) Furikae is available cognitive function in aging Web Plus Loan * Financial gerontology is a study of the impact of longevity and aging on economic and financial behaviors. Employees' stock ownership plan (ESOP) Enhancement of online services Mass retail Accumulated-type NISA strategies NISA, iDeCo Tie-up with LINE Corporation Business Divisions: Asset Management Division Actions to create Medium-term strategies value About Nomura Market Conditions and KPI Targets for 2020 The asset management industry is expected to continue Assets under management expanding steadily, bolstered by a combination of (trillions of yen) expansion in global wealth and growth of emerging 60 economies. Along with the changes in clients’ investment 55 needs and heightening interests to investment costs, competition is likely to intensify due to market entry by 50 other industries against a backdrop of the development 45 44 of technology. Strategies for Value Creation In this environment, the Asset Management Division 39 40 steadily takes steps to achieve assets under Asset Management Division management of ¥55 trillion and income before income taxes of ¥50-55 billion, which are KPIs for FY2019/20. In particular, we provide solutions such as collaboration 30 25 28 31 Review of Our Asset Management Division saw net inflows of about ¥3.3 trillion in FY2017/18 due to growth in assets under with ACI, enhancement of alternative asset management FY2017/18 management of investment trusts including ETFs (Exchange Traded Funds) and investment advisory business, and strategy and expanding offering of UCITS funds also through increased sales of UCITS* funds. As a result, total assets under management across the globe at the overseas. 15 year-end grew to a record-high ¥50 trillion. In addition, we take steps to expand our client base For the year, net revenue was ¥127.3 billion, and income before income taxes was ¥66.2 billion. Income reached to its highest level since FY2001/02, reflecting an increase in investment management fees driven by growing assets under through delivering asset management proposals to management as well as gains related to American Century Investments (ACI). attract people without investment experiences, and *Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities (UCITS) promote the development of advanced technology that 0 could strengthen the asset management business. 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 37 KPI 38 (Fiscal years ended March 31) Strengths Challenges Actions Further strengthening product Increase in demand for ETFs and passive investment approaches due to increased awareness of Investment management capabilities Collaboration with ACI, and Strengths Supporting Value Creation development capabilities to address covering the world and sophisticated enhancement of alternative asset investment costs changes in market environment and investment research capabilities management strategy Heightened interest in specialized asset management products and alternative investments, in addition investment needs to traditional equity and bond investments, that allow clients to aim for targeted returns while seeking Delivering asset management proposals portfolio diversification Abilities to offer solutions addressing Expanding our domestic client base to attract investors who have yet to Rapid advances in digital technology, including the use of artificial intelligence (AI) and Big Data diverse investor needs and overseas business footprint experience investment, and expand offerings of UCITS funds overseas Environment surrounding the asset management industry Promoting the development of Utilization of technology to create and Knowledge and talent to lead under advanced technology that could add value to the asset management new industry challenges strengthen the asset management business business Initiatives of Asset Management Division (billions of yen) Business Performance 160 Delivering outstanding performance based on sophisticated investment research capabilities Distribution of solutions with our strengthened cooperation between sales and investment management department to meet client’s needs 127.3 Utilizing in-house products as well as products of external investment managers in alternative Corporate Information / Data 120 investments 99.4 92.4 95.4 Enhancement of ETF product lineup Provision of products through 80 81.1 80.5 Supplying products to iDeCo and collaboration with ACI 66.5 65.8 68.9 accumulated-type NISA, among Expansion of UCITS fund assets Nomura Report 2018 62.1 66.2 51.9 others under management Promoting asset management to Enhancement of proposals to 40 32.1 36.7 42.3 people without investment Japan Overseas overseas institutional investors Net revenue 31.1 27.1 20.0 20.5 21.2 experiences Income before 15.2 income taxes 4.1 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal years ended March 31) Business Divisions: Asset Management Division Utilization of digital technology Rapid advances in digital technology, including the use enhance our asset management business by leveraging Contributing to the society through asset management About Nomura of artificial intelligence (AI) and Big Data, is a major advanced technology. factor influencing the asset management industry to During FY2017/18, we began using AI to analyze data determine competitiveness. Actions to utilize technology such as analysts’ reports, to improve the accuracy of are expected not only to strengthen our investment investment decision making and to increase efficiency in Applying Nomura Asset Management’s corporate Anticipating structural changes in the asset capabilities, but also to improve productivity by pursuing the investment process, as well as to develop new philosophy, “Maximizing Value”, “Advanced management business through the development operational efficiency and generate momentum toward investment strategies and automation techniques to Expertise”, “Confidence and Responsibility”, we of technology, we put effort not only into the creating new business opportunities. enhance operational efficiency. We are also pursuing continuously contribute to the society through development of investment strategies and In the Asset Management Division, “Innovation Lab” was collaboration with partners such as universities, asset management. As a provider of investment products, but also into developing a higher established by gathering talented technology experts to research organizations and FinTech firms to build a trusts, we deliver products and services to meet standard of investment services to clients. the diverse needs of various investors, fitting with Based on these new challenges, we established a their life stage, both in a face-to-face or in a corporate slogan, “Expertise to Exceed” that Strategies for Value Creation non-face-to-face setting. captures the spirit of the corporate philosophy and Also, in addition to providing competitive fits with the culture of the asset management Function of Innovation Lab investment products to institutional investors business. It expresses our determination to Innovation Lab globally, we aim to accomplish a virtuous cycle exceed clients’ expectations by using our within the investment chain to contribute to expertise and foresight to pursue exceptional investors’ asset accumulation, and at the same performance and create cutting-edge solutions. time, to contribute to the continuous growth of True to the spirit of this slogan, our Asset Nomura Asset External companies which we invest in, by fulfilling our Management Division will consistently capture Management parties stewardship responsibilities through constructive changes going forward and take initiatives with dialogue with these companies and by exercising flexibility to exceed clients’ expectations. Elemental proxy voting rights. Fund technology (asset management strategy) Model (signal) • Financial theory • AI fund Research 39 • Factor model • Probability / Statistics 40 Asset • Big data fund institutions management • Financial forecast • Information (University, etc.) Nomura Asset Management’s technology model corporate philosophy • Risk model • Processing of big data Maximizing Value • Market structure • Artificial intelligence Strengths Supporting Value Creation model • Text mining • Macro model • Customer behavior model Advanced Expertise Venture Trading • Screening model • Bankruptcy model Data companies Confidence and Responsibility System Existing numerical data (automation infrastructure) ... • Market data • Robo-advisor • Investment decision • Financial data barometer Marketing • Automatic ordering • Trading timing • Macro data We established a corporate slogan that captures the spirit of the system • Risk management • Trading decision Expanding numerical data corporate philosophy which fits the asset management company. system ... ... • Tick data Data • Fund management • POS data vendors Business system operation • Operational support Unstructured data system • Text data Corporate slogan for Asset Management division • Documentation • Graphics data system • Audio data Corporate Information / Data Nomura Report 2018 technology platform with an eye to the future. product development capabilities with mobile app In addition, while non face-to-face businesses using technology, we aim to build business attracting a wide mobile apps are expanding across various industries, range of investors including people without investment the Asset Management Division started offering Roboexperiences. advisor services where expansion of growth is We will continuously utilize the evolving technology to expected. Combining our investment knowledge and create and add value in asset management business. Business Divisions: Wholesale Division Actions to create Medium-term strategies value About Nomura Market Conditions and KPI Targets for 2020 The operating environment of the Wholesale business has undergone a significant structural shift as evidenced Composition of Advisory 10% 10% by greater regulation of financial institutions, a transition Wholesale fee pool* to passive strategies in the asset management business and growing downward pressure on transaction fees as Financing & 31% 33% Solutions digitalization continues to penetrate the market and we anticipate the market will continue to experience further structural change. Additionally, a shift in the composition * Source: Coalition; Advisory of the Wholesale fee pool has been observed over the Strategies for Value Creation includes M&A, Financing & past two years, with a reduction in the proportion of Solutions includes Traditional Traditional 59% 56% & Non-Traditional Financing, traditional sales and trading revenues and a shift toward Trading Wholesale Division and Asset/Liability Derivative Solutions; Traditional Trading Business non-traditional business as corporations seek financing Business includes Liquidity and solutions and our clients increasingly pursue cross& Market Making & Agency businesses across Fixed border business opportunities. Income and Equities 2016 2017 Review of FY2017/18 commenced slowly as concerns around geopolitical risks weighed down on markets, but the latter half of the FY2017/18 year saw a recovery in equity markets activity as political concerns eased and supportive economic data emerged from Japan and the U.S. The debt markets on the other hand experienced extremely low levels of interest rate volatility and The Wholesale Division is engaged in the execution of as well as undertaking strategic investments within the market participant activity was thin. Within such conditions, while the Wholesale Division recorded revenue increases in numerous initiatives to ensure that we optimally adapt to market. We are also deploying technology initiatives such Equities and Investment Banking, this was offset by a larger decline in Fixed Income, resulting in total revenue declining from the shifting market environment. In order to meet the as leveraging the application of machine learning in our the previous year to ¥715.3 billion. As a result, income before income taxes totaled ¥100.6 billion. evolving needs of our clients, in April 2018, we trading business in order to ensure we remain at the The Wholesale Division continues to pursue improvements in productivity while maintaining strict risk discipline. Division costs (dollar basis) have been reduced 25% compared to FY2011/12 while also delivering greater revenue stability. established the Client Financing & Solutions (CFS) technological frontier and to maintain step with the rapid organization within Wholesale, bringing together critical pace of technological advancement. 41 Global Markets and Investment Banking capabilities At the same time we continue to place great focus on 42 under a unified organizational structure. Additionally, we expense rationalization and risk control and we anticipate Strengths Challenges Actions continue to pursue the expansion of our client base and these and other efforts to contribute to the achievement increase our capture of cross-border opportunity through of the Wholesale Division’s objective to record ¥200-220 Top-in-class industry presence in AsiaContinue to align our portfolio to Strengths Supporting Value Creation Generating higher returns within a efforts such as further establishing our presence in the billion in FY2019/20. Pacific region, particularly in Japan changing market conditions and client tighter regulatory environment needs U.S., the largest market globally from a fee perspective, Robust international platform Relatively high sensitivity to market Further strengthen risk culture and fluctuations discipline Initiatives of Wholesale Division Global client base across more than 30 countries Deliver growth through value-added Enlarge Client Client Financing & Corresponding to changes in market Americas Growth Japan / Asia Connectivity Facilitator of cross-border transactions service to clients and selective Revenues Solutions structure and competitor dynamics P43 worldwide investment in growth areas Cost Optimization Flow Trading Digitization (billions of yen) P43 Business Performance 1,000 789.5 789.9 Cost optimization 750 765.1 720.3 739.3 715.3 Average Costs (billions of USD) 644.9 Optimization & Efficiency Corporate Information / Data 626.1 500 555.0 6.3 5.4 ~5.9 Cost savings from re-prioritization and streamlining of investment spend across IT, operations and infrastructure Net revenue Cost reduction through shorter term optimization Cost-to91% Income (loss) 250 243.5 income ratio 82% 80% Structural cost reduction & Self-funding growth before income 175.2 161.4 111.8 Nomura Report 2018 taxes 71.7 82.2 100.6 Medium term operating model optimization across front and back office 0 -163.6 functions -150.1 4.1 15.4 Further structural simplification -37.7 Re-investment Re-investment in businesses with underlying competitive strengths to -800 -717.3 defend and grow Historical Current 2020+ 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (FY13/14 to 15/16 (FY16/17 and 17/18 Investment to tap client opportunity in areas such as CFS, Advisory and (Fiscal years ended March 31) average) average) Agency Business Divisions: Wholesale Division Initiatives through CFS Contributing to the Smooth Operation of Markets The establishment of the CFS structure has allowed us to Global Markets About Nomura realize the integration of the Wholesales Division’s Sales and Structuring As an active participant in both primary and well as supporting innovation, the creation of jobs financing, structuring & solutions expertise into a single, secondary markets, Nomura’s Wholesale business and economic development. client-focused hub, which seamlessly partners with plays a key role in ensuring the flow of capital and Additionally, we offer a range of innovative various teams across our organization to deploy a Client Financing & liquidity around the globe. Our efforts help products and services which enable our clients to uniform client strategy to deliver value to our clients. This Solutions (CFS) connect businesses seeking funding with investors flexibly meet the variety of challenges posed by centralized structure allows us to concentrate expertise, Cash Solutions seeking investment opportunities, and our the introduction of the Corporate Governance deepen client penetration and enables the deployment of readiness to provide liquidity to investors bolsters Code such as the need to dispose of cross a unified strategy across Wholesale. Critical mass of product specialists in CFS confidence in the markets, contributing to the shareholdings and accessing funding while While the shift in our clients’ needs toward a broader Client Asset product solutions smooth function of the world’s capital markets as minimizing equity dilution. range of financing, capital and hedging solutions is not Liability product solutions Coverage without its challenges, we believe it will also be the key Non-traditional / secured financing Strategies for Value Creation Traditional financing driver of Wholesale fee pool growth. Our organization is well positioned to seize upon this opportunity. Fostering the Development of the Green/ Investment Banking Social Bond Markets Advisory ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) investing continues to gain momentum as the importance of social and environmental issues continue to gain traction around the globe and Wholesale is actively engaged in efforts to contribute to the development of these markets. In Japan the Wholesale Division is actively accumulation of knowledge and the development Leveraging digitalization engaged in the development of the green/social of understanding of the green/social bond market bond markets. In addition to establishing a by market participants through a variety of At Nomura, staying at the forefront of digital innovation is the implementation of technological innovation across dedicated ESG bond team in 2017 to better meet educational initiatives, such as participating in a 43 a key priority for both the Group as well as the Wholesale our platform to support superior price discovery, enhance client needs, we underwrite various green/social dedicated cross-sector green/social bond 44 business. The emergence of new technologies and digital client services, drive greater productivity and efficiency bond issuances such as Japan Railway research group established by Nomura Research assets are bringing fundamental transformation to the and build out our footprint in digital assets. Construction, Transport and Technology Agency Institute, participating as a panelist in the market and Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Through these and other ongoing initiatives, Nomura Green Bonds and JICA (social) bonds, provide “Developments in the Green and Social Bond Strengths Supporting Value Creation Automation offer both revenue and cost opportunities ensures it is well placed to leverage digital innovation in guidance to prospective issuers of green/social Markets” seminar co-hosted by ICMA and the across our business. reinforcing our competitive position and providing bonds and advise them regarding their own such JSDA in November 2017, and most recently, In order to drive initiatives in this area we have recently differentiated services to our clients. issuances. co-hosting a green bond seminar together with established the Wholesale Digital Office, which will lead Furthermore, Wholesale seeks to contribute to the Bloomberg in May 2018. (billions of USD) Global labeled green bond issuance volume Develop AI solutions and advance their Revenue Levers AI Labs practical applications in Wholesale business 200 170.9 Enhance client services through advanced Client Ecosystem analytics 150 Partnerships or investments in relevant Fintech Engagement start-ups across the value chain 100 102.2 Corporate Information / Data Market share gains through enhanced Flow Sales & Trading electronic offerings Digitalization Footprint optimization 50 51.2 Cost Optimization 37.3 Nomura Report 2018 Institutionalize enhanced accuracy and Data Strategy consistency of data Participated as a panelist in the “Developments in the Green and Social Bond Markets” seminar in November, 2017 14.7 6.6 3.8 4.2 0 1.5 0.5 0.8 Reprioritization of Technology Drive lower costs while enhancing 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Focus business product development Source: Bloomberg NEF For information on Nomura’s Green/Social Bond initiatives, to page 47-48 ESG Initiatives About Nomura Strategies for Value Creation The Nomura Group is proactive in its activities related to environmental, social and governance (ESG), seeking to sustain its growth and address social issues, in addition to contributing to the development of securities markets through business activities that fulfill its corporate social responsibility. At the same time, Fundamental Nomura Group is promoting and managing those activities throughout the Group in an appropriate manner approach based on its awareness that initiatives on issues related to ESG contribute to society at large, including its customers, and play an important role in maintaining and enhancing corporate value. The basic policies on ESG are set forth in Our Founder’s Principles established by founder Tokushichi Nomura II, the Code of Ethics of Nomura Group and its Basic Management Policy. ESG Initiatives Code of Ethics of Nomura Group https://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/basic/ethics.html Outline of the ESG Committee ESG execution process Before After Inclusion in ESG indices reorganization reorganization 45 Senior Managing 46 Chairman Directors Group CEO The Nomura Group reorganized the CSR Committee Nomura’s CSR initiatives have been widely recognized Dow Jones Sustainability Indices chaired by an executive officer into the ESG Committee Meeting frequency Once or more Twice or more outside the Company. Nomura Holdings has been Dow Jones & Company and chaired by the Group CEO in FY2018/19, in an attempt to selected for inclusion in a number of SRI indexes, Strengths Supporting Value Creation RobecoSAM have jointly created the deal with issues related to ESG in ways that are more Management Board as the occasion demands. The including the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI world’s first sustainability equity indices. Nomura Holdings is included strategic than before. Nomura Group executives in charge Committee also examines the operations of specific World and DJSI Asia Pacific), the FTSE4Good Index, in the DJSI World as well as the DJSI of businesses and corporate affairs comprise the ESG businesses that contribute to sustainable development STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index RI), FTSE Blossom Asia Pacific. Committee. The Committee is responsible for developing goals (SDGs) set by the United Nations. The now defunct Japan Index (an ESG index for passive investment, FTSE4Good Index business policies on ESG-related risks and opportunities CSR Committee held one meeting in FY2017/18, but adopted by the Government Pension Investment Fund for the entire Nomura Group and approving and deciding Nomura Group requires the ESG Committee to hold two [GPIF]) and MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index FTSE Russell, a subsidiary of the London Stock Exchange, has created on related activities. The activities of the ESG Committee or more meetings each fiscal year in a rule it set to increase (WIN). this socially responsible investment are reported to the Board of Directors and the Executive the frequency of governance. index by selecting excellent companies from around the world. ESG Committee members Framework Chairman Koji Nagai Representative Executive Officer, President and Group CEO Executive Board of Directors Vice Chairman Tetsu Ozaki Vice Chairman Management Board STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index Yuji Nakata Executive Managing Director, Head of Group Entity Structure and Co-CRO STOXX Limited, a wholly-owned Satoshi Arai Chief of Staff and Group Strategy Approve Report subsidiary of Deutsche Börse Group, Chie Toriumi Executive Vice President, NSC, Retail Division Business Strategy and has established this global SRI stock Corporate Information / Data Management ESG Committee index, comprising companies that meet Tomoyuki Teraguchi Head of Group Compliance strict ESG assessment standards. Executive Vice President, NAM, Risk Management, Business & Approve Report Junko Nakagawa Infrastructure, Corporate Planning & Administration, Chief Risk Officer(CRO) Members Takumi Kitamura Executive Managing Director, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Secretariat: MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN) Corporate Citizenship Department Yo Akatsuka Nomura Report 2018 Global Head of Investment Banking U.S.-based MSCI, Inc. has created Yasushi Takayama Chief Legal Officer (CLO) Cooperation this index by selecting companies that Etsuro Miwa Global Head of Human Resources promote and maintain gender Paul Spanswick Deputy Chief of Staff, Group CAO and Operations diversity, based on scoring using data Japan EMEA Americas Asia and disclosed corporate information Kenji Kimura Banking ex-Japan on female employment, disclosed Group Head of Global Corporate Communications, Corporate Citizenship Hajime Ikeda and Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic according to the Act on Promotion of Identification of Material ESG Issues External Assessment Women's Participation and Attending Auditor Takehisa Yanai Audit Mission Director, NSC https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/group/index.html https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/evaluations/ Advancement in the Workplace. Contributing to Sound and Sustainable Capital Markets Green bonds: Japan Railway Construction, Transport and Technology Agency (JRTT) bonds and Nederlandse Waterschapsbank (NWB) bonds The Paris Agreement negotiated at COP21 (The 21st institution in the Netherlands. Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework By supporting the development of green bond markets About Nomura Convention on Climate Change), aims to keep the global that provide private funds to investments for the transition temperature rise this century well below 2 degrees to a low-carbon society, Nomura Group aims to respond Celsius. Green bonds are issued to fund projects aimed to diversified customer needs for financing and fund at connecting issuers’ activities with the 2°C goal and management and to contribute to solving climate change. they are becoming more recognized is not only in the expanding overseas market but also in the Japanese market. In November 2017 and February 2018, Nomura Securities underwrote and sold green bonds issued by Japan Railway Construction, Transport and Technology Agency, as lead manager. The proceeds from the issuance of these bonds will be appropriated to the Strategies for Value Creation construction of new railway lines (Eastern Kanagawa Lines) that are considered effective for reducing carbon dioxide emissions. Moreover, Nomura Group is proactively underwriting and selling green bonds overseas. In November 2017, Nomura International acted as lead manager and underwrote and sold in the euro market euro-denominated green bonds issued by A scene from the seminar “New Tide in Green Bonds” Nederlandse Waterschapsbank (NWB), a public financial jointly held with Bloomberg Finance L.P. in May 2018 Nomura Group believes that the social mission of the financial services sector is to contribute to economic growth and sustainable social development by facilitating the appropriate flow of Fundamental funds in the capital markets through products and services that meet the needs of customers. Provision of research reports approach In addition, to fulfill our responsibility as a company that operates globally, we offer financial 47 services that contribute to addressing climate change and social issues and promote Nomura Institute of Capital Markets Research (NICMR), commentary on the “Sustainable Finance: Commission’s 48 initiatives aimed at achieving sustainable development goals (SDGs). an independent research institute in Nomura Group, aims Action Plan for a Greener and Cleaner Economy” to contribute to the development of financial and capital adopted by the European Commission in March 2018. markets and the financial services sector through Nomura Securities' Fiduciary Service Research Center, Strengths Supporting Value Creation Sustainable finance Contributing to sound and sustainable capital markets research and analysis of markets and systems in Japan and overseas from neutral and objective standpoints, and to disseminate its highly-specialized outputs both which provides asset management consulting services to institutional investors such as corporate pensions and public pensions, also issues reports on the topic of ESG domestically and internationally. NICMR has also been investment both in Japan and overseas. Going forward, bolstering its research on green bonds and ESG bond we will continue to provide information with a spotlight ESG bond initiatives markets. Its report “Initiatives for the Establishment of on ESG as a part of our pension investment ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) initiatives in Capital Markets Department, one of the firm’s Sustainable Finance in Europe,” analyzes and offers a management consulting. corporate management are being scrutinized by underwriting divisions. In February 2018, Nomura Institute institutional investors and have led to a strong tendency of Capital Markets Research established a dedicated Name of Report Media Issuer to view such initiatives as essential to enhancing research group, comprising outside experts, to focus on Potential Use of Green Bonds as a New Financing Nomura Journal of Capital Markets Nomura Institute of Capital corporate value. Investment in equity products that the sustainable development of ESG bond markets. The Source for Local Governments Winter 2017 Markets Research adhere to ESG principles has increased among research group conducts research and studies measures institutional investors as a method for focusing on new for the stable and sustainable development of ESG Overview and Future Challenges of ESG Bond Nomura Journal of Capital Markets Nomura Institute of Capital corporate value, while ESG in fixed income investment is bonds and markets in industry-government-academia Markets Spring 2018 Markets Research Corporate Information / Data still in the development stage. In 2017, Nomura Securities collaborations. We will continue to contribute to the assigned staff specializing in ESG bonds in the Debt development of ESG bond markets. Initiatives for the Establishment of Sustainable Nomura Journal of Capital Markets Nomura Institute of Capital Finance in Europe Spring 2018 Markets Research Social bonds: JICA bonds and BPCE bonds Focal Points of Climate-related Financial Nomura Journal of Capital Markets Nomura Institute of Capital Nomura Report 2018 Disclosures for Institutional Investors Summer 2018 Markets Research Social bonds are instruments issued under a framework underwrote and sold Social Samurai Bonds issued by in which the proceeds are used to solve social issues. In Groupe BPCE, France’s second-largest banking group. Social Bonds Attract Attention for Realizing a Nomura Journal of Capital Markets Nomura Institute of Capital Japan, the Japan International Cooperation Agency The proceeds from the social bonds are planned to be Sustainable Society Summer 2018 Markets Research (JICA) has issued JICA bonds and Nomura Securities used for refinancing loans to customers of the local Fiduciary Management provided support as lead manager. In January 2018, banks in the group, particularly for those in education, Ideas to Formulate ESG Investment Policy Fiduciary Research, June 2018 Department, NSC Nomura Securities acted as lead manager and healthcare and other social activity areas. Contributing to Sound and Sustainable Capital Markets Nomura Asset Management’s initiatives for responsible investment Promoting financial literacy to a wide range of people About Nomura Nomura Asset Management believes that, as an interests of clients, and seek to maximize their interests Increasing financial literacy leads not only to enhanced Nomura Group has been providing financial and investment management company trusted by clients via appropriate execution of voting rights. In particular, asset formation and improved living standards, but also economics education to different generations of people, and society, its mission is to contribute to the being a member of Nomura Group, comprising many contributes to the healthy development of capital markets so as to raise individuals’ knowledge and understanding development of society through the asset management financial institutions active in different business areas, and the proper circulation of capital. of finance and economics. business. In order to achieve this, we are actively Nomura Asset Management is exposed to potential working on stewardship activities such as engagement risks concerning various conflicts of interests within the and proxy voting based on our fiduciary duty as a Group and therefore must make extra efforts to protect Financial and economics education to the next generation responsible investor managing clients’ assets. In the interests of clients. In September 2016, we particular, we emphasize ESG issues as a priority matter established the Conflict of Interest Management Policy Nomura Group has spearheaded efforts to provide elementary, junior, and senior high schools nationwide. Strategies for Value Creation of corporate social responsibility and sustainability, from so as to appropriately manage transactions with financial and economics education to young people in Moreover, we are a special sponsor of the Nikkei Stock the perspective of an investment management potential conflicts of interest. Japan. We began hosting financial courses for League Contest and donate learning materials to schools, company. We engage proactively by understanding how universities in 2001 and our employees in retail branches providing economics and securities education companies we invest in handle ESG issues and work to across Japan serve as lecturers, visiting classes at opportunities to young people. ensure that they tackle such issues appropriately. Concerning conflicts of interests, which we may face in Implementation Year first offered, number of Cumulative record as of status of programs classes, participants, etc. March 31, 2018 the course of investment management, we rigorously Responsible Investment maintain our independence, make sure not to harm the https://global.nomura-am.co.jp/responsibility-investment/ Visiting classes Number of classes 11 Number of classes 1,519 (elementary, junior, senior high 2008 Number of Number of schools, universities, teachers) participants 653 participants 63,164 Responsibility of institutional investors toward achieving SDGs Number of Number of Financial courses for schools 17 schools 1,864 2001 universities Number of Number of The growth of ESG investment is being accompanied by participants 3,000 participants 239,200 Virtuous Cycle targeted by Nomura Asset Management investors’ tendency to more highly evaluate companies Number of Number of 49 Financial courses for the classes 171 classes 8,120 50 aiming to share the United Nations’ Sustainable Achieving general public 2003 Number of Number of Development Goals (SDGs) with society. If institutional common goals participants 11,431 participants 399,755 investors provide capital to such companies, and these Common Number of 623 Number of 27,950 Society teams teams Strengths Supporting Value Creation companies then use the capital for business expansion Companies goals Nikkei Stock League 2000 Building of a Number of Number of Sustainable growth sustainable society participants 2,604 participants 110,708 as well as contribute to achieving SDGs in areas such as SDGs Asset formation the environment, hygiene, and education, this will eventually lead to realization of sustainable corporate Profit growth and the building of a sustainable society. Providing financial knowledge to investors focused on building assets Furthermore, if the outcomes of ESG investment are Investment/Returns Investment/Returns Nomura Group has been holding a wide range of Number of seminars held and number of participants allocated to investors in the form of investment returns, a Dialogue Investment chain Dialogue seminars for new employees of private sector companies, better cycle of a SDGs-related investment chain can be including investment education on employees’ share Public offices Private companies created. Nomura Asset Management is committed to (Number of times) Number of participants (Number of people) ownership plans, defined contribution pension plans, and 1,500 60,000 helping build such an investment chain that creates a Nomura accumulated-type NISA (Nippon Individual Savings 54,862 virtuous cycle through ESG investment. Asset Management 53,205 Accounts), as well as life-planning seminars for these 42,371 same employees. For public sector employees, we 1,200 48,000 45,823 Acceptance situation of stewardship code UK provide financial literacy education, including lifelong living plans, individual-type defined contribution pension Corporate Information / Data 36,077 By April 2017, Nomura Asset Management had signed plans, and accumulated-type NISA. By providing 900 556 36,000 the stewardship codes of six countries and regions. In knowledge about money, which is necessary for a 399 338 the U.K., Nomura Asset Management U.K. is rated in the satisfying life, and teaching the basics of asset 254 16,868 highest tier, Tier1, by the Financial Reporting Council management, we will continue our efforts to “help enrich 600 24,000 Nomura Report 2018 237 (FRC) in its assessment of financial institutions based on society through our expertise in capital markets.” Japan 100 their execution of the U.K. Stewardship Code. 300 12,000 Hong Kong / Taiwan 413 500 626 662 591 687 0 0 Malaysia / Singapore 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Fiscal years ended March 31) Corporate Governance Board of Directors A majority of the Board of Directors are independent six of whom are independent Outside Directors. It is Outside Directors Emphasis on diversity within the Board of Directors to chaired by a Director who does not also serve as an conduct oversight from diverse perspectives Executive Officer. To ensure active deliberations from About Nomura various points of view, it is composed of diverse Nomura Holdings has defined management oversight members in terms of nationality, gender, backgrounds as the primary task of the Board of Directors, and and other factors who have expertise in financial affairs, maximizing corporate value in the medium and longcorporate management and other areas. term as their objective. To achieve a high level of impartiality and transparency in management, the Composition of the Board of Directors (as of July 1, 2018) Board of Directors has formulated the “Basic Management Policy,” in which the Board of Directors Executive officers Company management elects the Group CEO and other Executive Officers in 20% 20% charge of corporate management, while also making Securities industry experts Accountants key decisions on our business execution. 20% 20% Strategies for Value Creation For the purpose of properly performing its oversight Company management, Experts in financecorporate accounting functions, our Board of Directors consists of 10 Directors, related legal systems experts 10% 10% Nomination Committee Our Nomination Committee aims to establish an Directors have concurrent posts that would prevent them appropriate management system throughout Nomura from having enough time to fulfill their duties. However, we Group. It evaluates proposals for the election and dismissal acknowledge that they may have a maximum of three Nomura Holdings recognizes that the enhancement of corporate governance is one of the of Directors to be submitted to the General Meeting of additional posts at other companies. most important issues in terms of achieving management's goal of enhancing corporate value by deepening society's trust in the firm and increasing the satisfaction of stakeholders Shareholders in consideration of their personality, insight, Nomination Committee consists of three Directors who do Fundamental beginning with clients. As a company with Three Board Committees structure, we have values and knowledge and experience in their specialty not also serve as Executive Officers, two of whom are approach separated management oversight from business execution. This separation of duties strengthens the oversight functions and transfers authority regarding business execution from areas. We have established the “Independent Criteria” for independent Outside Directors. 51 the Board of Directors to the Executive Officers in a bid to accelerate the Group’s decisionmaintaining the independence of our Outside Directors 52 making process. Details about the “Independent Criteria” for our Outside Directors from the Group and ensure that none of the Outside https://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/cg/data/criteria.pdf Audit Committee Strengths Supporting Value Creation Corporate Governance The purpose of our Audit Committee is to serve the Nomura Group’s lawful, appropriate and efficient business to grant approval for decisions on compensation and other matters for the Independent Auditor. It works with the Corporate Governance System management. It exercises its statutory authority and deploys Independent Auditor and the internal audit sections to the Independent Auditor and internal organizations to audit ensure proper auditing operations. Outside Directors Inside Directors Outside Experts General Meeting of Shareholders the Directors’ and Executive Officers’ performance of duties Our Audit Committee consists of three Directors who do Election and dismissal in terms of legality, appropriateness and efficiency, and not also serve as Executive Officers. Two of them are Oversight Business execution prepares audit reports. In accordance with the evaluation independent Outside Directors. All its members meet the Board of Directors criteria on independence and expertise, it determines independence standards prescribed in the SarbanesGroup CEO Executive proposals regarding the election, dismissal and nonOxley Act in the U.S. One of them is a financial expert Directors Management Board Oversight reelection of the Independent Auditor and exercises its right under this legislation. Delegation of decisionmaking authority on business Matrix Group Integrated Compensation Committee execution Management Risk Management across Four Committee Corporate Information / Data GCEO Divisions and Our Compensation Committee’s objective is to secure, principle, the committee combines internal analyses Regions Formulation of proposals for Determination of Advisory Board retain and motivate our personnel, which are the with findings from those conducted by an outside Audit election and dismissal compensation Corporate greatest assets of Nomura Group. In order to establish evaluating institution to heighten the degree of Nomination Committee Audit Committee Compensation Committee Determination of our solid position as a financial services group with a objectivity and transparency. By using share-related compensation for Nomura Report 2018 Executive Officers global competitive advantage, the committee and other deferred compensation with predetermined formulates the “Compensation Policy of Nomura periods of restrictions to exercise rights, it seeks Group,” the “Compensation Policy for Directors and alignment with shareholders’ interests and the (Full-time member) Executive Officers of Nomura Holdings, Inc.,” and improvement of long-term incentives. Internal Controls Committee Audit determines the compensation for individual Directors Our Compensation Committee consists of three Internal audit (IA) and Executive Officers in accordance with these Directors who do not also serve as Executive Officers policies. On the basis of the “Pay for performance” and two of them are Independent Outside Directors. Corporate Governance Reinforcing the corporate governance system Support system for Outside Directors and use of knowledge Basic policy for strategic shareholdings Adopted Company with Three Board Committee continue to diversify our Board, and accounted with a structure Establishment of system to support Directors in their duties Continued efforts to establish a system for transparent, majority of outside directors. Nomura Group has ongoing discussions concerning the fair and strong-minded decision-making In 2015, we established “Nomura Holdings Corporate We have an Office of Non-Executive Directors and Audit purpose of strategic shareholdings. About Nomura Governance Guidelines” to provide a mechanism for Committee within the organization to assist the Audit Regarding strategic shareholdings, we consider the risks While adopting a holding company structure and listing toughening our corporate governance. Committee and Directors in performing their respective and costs involved in holding such shares and on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in 2001, we Apart from the Board of Directors, “Outside Directors duties. The office explains agendas in advance of Board perspectives of business strategy, such as opportunities introduced Outside Directors and established three Meetings” were established in which they discuss of Directors meetings for the Outside Directors, and to increase the revenues of our businesses through the discretionary organizations, namely the Compensation matters related to our business and corporate continuously presents our business details, business expansion of transactions or business alliances with us Committee, the Internal Controls Committee and the governance. In addition, we invited Asian experts as plan, financial position, internal audit status and other whose shares are held, and shall hold such shares only if “Advisory Board,” in which outside experts discuss our members of the Advisory Board, which is designed to matters of significance to the governance system. such shareholdings will contribute to maintaining/ Group’s management from various points of view. upgrade our corporate governance, helping us evolve The Outside Directors are entitled to request enhancing the corporate value of the Nomura Group. In 2003, we became a “Company with Committees, into an “Asia’s global investment bank.” explanations, reports or materials from the Executive As a result of the discussion, concerning stocks whose etc.,” which is now referred to as a Company with Three To achieve our continued growth and maximization of Officers and employees whenever they are deemed sale has been determined to be reasonable, we proceed Board Committees. Specifically, the Nomination, corporate value in the medium-to long-term, we are necessary, and to hire outside legal, accounting and with the sale of such stocks while taking into Strategies for Value Creation Compensation and Audit Committees were established stepping up to further reinforce our governance system. other experts at the expense of Nomura Holdings. consideration the impact on the market and other with a view to clarify the separation between oversight In addition, we are taking a variety of measures to enable circumstances. and business execution and improve transparency. the Outside Directors to undertake in-depth deliberations on Above basic policy for strategic shareholdings and other In 2004, the Code of Ethics of Nomura Group was matters related to our business and corporate governance are written in Article 25 and Article 26 of the Nomura established to be observed by every single officer and at the regularly held Outside Directors meetings. Holdings Corporate Governance Guidelines. employee of the Nomura Group. We strive to fulfill our responsibility to shareholders and all other stakeholders. Nomura Holdings Corporate Governance Guidelines Examples of actions https://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/cg/data/cg_guideline.pdf In 2010, two outside directors (one of them is female) The Outside Directors and other Directors participated in a two-day meeting of the Executive Officers and Senior Managing Directors to Corporate Governance Report from abroad joined our Board of Directors, as we https://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/cg/data/cg_report.pdf discuss how Nomura should function in 2020 and beyond. The members of the Audit Committee visited major overseas locations in London, New York, Hong Kong, and the Japan branches of Kyoto and Osaka. They verified the business conditions, management vision, and the understandings of our strategy. The chairman of Outside Directors explained our management of Board of Directors and Audit Committee through the investor briefing session called “Investor Day.” We held a session for an Outside Director to speak to investors. 53 Nomura’s corporate governance initiatives 54 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1 Organizational Company with Three Board Committees Company with Board of Auditors Company with Committees, etc. Company with Committees (renamed after the enforcement of the Companies Act) structure (renamed after the revision of the Companies Act) Strengths Supporting Value Creation 1 2003 12 11 Adopted a Company with Number of Directors 11 11 11 11 11 11 12 12 14 11 11 11 12 11 10 10 (4 auditors) (4 auditors) Committees, etc. structure (now known as a Company with Number of Outside 2 2 4 4 4 4 4 5 6 7 8 7 6 6 7 6 6 6 Directors (2 outside auditors) (2 outside auditors) Three Board Committees) 3 — Ratio of Outside Directors 17% 18% 36% 36% 36% 36% 36% 45% 50% 58% 57% 64% 55% 55% 58% 55% 60% 60% 2 2004 Established the Code of Ratio of nonEthics of Nomura Group to be 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 17% 29% 27% 27% 27% 25% 27% 10% 20% observed by every officer and Japanese Directors employee of Nomura Group Ratio of female — 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 8% 7% 9% 9% 9% 8% 9% 10% 20% Directors 3 2010 Independent Outside Directors Committees under 2003 Nomination Committee accounted for a majority of the control of the Board Board of Directors 2003 Audit Committee of Directors — 2001 Compensation Committee (voluntary) 2003 Compensation Committee 4 2015 Measures in enhancing 2015 Evaluation of the Board of Directors (once a year) Established the Nomura efficiencies of Board of 5 Holdings Corporate 2015 Regular Outside Directors Meetings Directors Governance Guidelines Corporate Information / Data 2016 Office of Non-Executive Directors Office of Auditors 2003 Office of Audit Committee*1 2006 Group Office of Audit Committee and Audit Committee* 2 6 5 Established Other advisory bodies and 2001 Established the Advisory Board as an advisory body to the Executive Management Board 2015 Invited Asian experts to be Advisory Board members “Outside Directors Meetings” committees (a meeting separated from 2001 Established the Management Controls Committee (the Internal Controls Committee) 2008 Internal Controls Committee Board of Directors, where matters such as the strategy of 1998 The whistle-blowing system “Compliance Hotline” Nomura Report 2018 Nomura Group and corporate 2 2004 Established the Code of Ethics of Nomura Group governance are discussed) Rules and guidelines 2013 announced the Independent Criteria for Outside Directors 6 Inviting Asian experts 4 Established the Nomura Holdings Corporate Governance Guidelines 2015 as member of “Advisory Board” ~structure of receiving advices Established August 3 as “Nomura Founding Principles and Corporate Ethics Day” 2015 to become “Asia’s global Toughening of investment bank”~ governance over 2012 Appointed Outside Directors for Nomura Securities with no concurrent posts at Nomura Holdings subsidiaries Appointed Outside Directors for Nomura Asset Management from outside the Group 2015 *1 Organization supporting Audit Committee, and their members for audit execution *2 Organization supporting duties of Directors including members of Audit Committee and Outside Directors Corporate Governance Evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors Compensation for Directors and Executive Officers We have been conducting evaluations on the effectiveness PDCA cycle concerning effectiveness of the Board of As Nomura has adopted the “Company with Three of the Board of Directors since the fiscal year ended March Directors Board Committees” structure, the Compensation Compensation Policy of Nomura Group 2016. Each individual Director assesses the management Committee has established the Compensation Policy of About Nomura Each individual Director selfThe Board of Directors analyzes and To enable us to achieve sustainable growth, realize a of the Board of Directors, including the quantity and quality evaluates their execution of duties evaluates the effectiveness of the Nomura Group and the Compensation Policy for long-term increase in shareholder value, deliver added and the effectiveness of the entire entire Board based on inputs from of information offered and discussions by the Board of Board of Directors each individual Director Directors and Executive Officers. We ensure that the value to our clients, compete in the global market, and Directors. They also share their findings at Board of Nomura Group’s compensation framework aligns with enhance our reputation, our compensation policy is based on the following aims. Directors meetings and learn from the results in order to our business strategy. continue strengthening their oversight function. 1 2 1 Align with Nomura’s values and strategies Giving these situations, the effectiveness of the Board of Directors can be generally evaluated as a well-functioning 2 Reflect group, divisional, and individual performance system. As a Company with Three Board Committees, we make sure to secure the mobility of the execution, and 4 3 Compensation Policy for Directors and 3 Executive Officers Establish appropriate performance measurement either during or outside of Board of Directors meetings, we with a focus on risk The results of the evaluation, The compensation of Directors and Executive Officers are enhancing the chances of utilization of all members’ Discussions based on issues that 4 Strategies for Value Creation including the report on response can be handled by the Executive comprises base salary, yearly cash bonuses and expertise to further sophisticate our deliberating function measures, are discussed at meetings Officers and proposals are submitted long-term incentive plans, and is determined by the Align employee and shareholder interests of the Board of Directors to the Board of Directors of Board of Directors. Compensation Committee based on this policy. A 5 portion of compensation may be deferred or paid in Appropriate compensation structures Evaluation items Response to results the form of equity-linked awards. Equity-linked awards have vesting periods to ensure that the medium-to 6 Constitution and management of the Constitution and management of the Reporting on the state of dialogues with investors, long-term interests of Directors and Executive Officers Ensure robust governance and control processes Board of Directors Nomination, Audit and Compensation analysts and other stakeholders to the Board of Information provision to the Board of Committees Directors as appropriate. are closely aligned with those of shareholders. Directors Monitoring of the state of dialogues Deliberation on matters relating to our business and The Board of Directors’ involvement in with stakeholders corporate governance through Outside Directors’ management goals and strategy Management of Outside Directors Meetings The Board of Directors’ function of Meetings, etc. overseeing management Internal controls system Adoption of Restricted Stock Unit program We are enhancing our internal controls to ensure approach. See page 67-68 for details.) From FY2017/18, we have adopted the Restricted Stock Compensation paid to Directors 55 appropriate corporate behaviors throughout the Group are The status of the implementation of internal audits is Unit (RSU) as a deferred compensation program for and Executive Officers (FY2017/18) 56 made in efforts to attain management transparency, reported to the “Internal Controls Committee” chaired by the Directors, Executive Officers and employees of the firm Position Directors Executive Total ensure efficiency, observe laws and rules, manage risks, Group CEO and attended by members of the Audit and its subsidiaries, in lieu of existing compensation (Outside directors) Officers maintain the reliability of business and financial reports, Committee. Deliberations of the Internal Controls Committee programs such as the issuance of stock acquisition rights. Strengths Supporting Value Creation Number of and encourage appropriate information disclosure. First, are reported to the Board of Directors. The Audit Committee Subject to certain conditions such as voluntary retirement People*1 9 (6) 7 16 we implemented risk controls in sales and trading collaborates directly with the Internal Audit department and etc., Nomura will deliver shares of common stock to RSU Basic businesses, which are then reviewed and monitored by submits reports to the Board of Directors. guarantees one to three years (up to seven years where Compensation*2,3 264 (124) 522 786 risk management teams. They also encourage To strengthen the independence of the Internal Audit required by local regulations) after the RSUs are granted (millions of yen) development of management frameworks. Finally, the department from business execution functions, mainly through disposal of treasury shares. Introduction Bonus 89 (–) 415 504 Internal Audit department, which is independent from implementation plans, their budget formulation and the of RSU awards is intended to integrate the principles of (millions of yen) business execution, conducts their internal audit. (This is election and dismissal of their heads require the consent the Group’s deferred compensation program and to Deferred commonly referred to as the Three Lines of Defense of the Audit Committee. further align the compensation program and the business Compensation*4 84 (–) 511 595 (millions of yen) strategy with the medium-to long-term interests of Structure of Nomura Holdings’ internal controls system shareholders. Total Amount Paid (millions of yen) 437 (124) 1,448 1,885 Election and dismissal Board of Directors Business execution report Nomination *1 The above number includes one Director who retired in June 2017. There were Report Committee 8 Directors and 7 Executive Officers as of March 31, 2018. Compensation to Audit Report Directors who were concurrently serving as Executive Officers is included in that of Audit Committee Executive Officers. Group CEO Corporate Information / Data *2 Basic compensation of ¥786 million includes other compensation (commuter pass Compensation allowance) of ¥1.07 million. Attendance Committee Executive Internal Controls *3 In addition to basic compensation, ¥24 million of corporate housing costs, such as Management Board Committee Assistance to the housing allowance and related tax adjustments, were provided. Audit Committee and Monitoring Report Verification *4 Deferred compensation (such as stock options) granted during and prior to Directors the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, is recognized as expense in the financial Office of Non-Executive statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. Nomura Report 2018 Internal audit Report Directors and Audit *5 Subsidiaries of the Company paid ¥49 million to Outside Directors as compensation Committee etc. for their directorship at those subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended March 31, Departments engaged Departments engaged 2018. Internal Audit (IA) Independent Auditor *6 The Company abolished retirement bonuses to Directors in 2001. in trading and sales in risk management Independent Audit First line of defense Control Second line of defense Third line of defense Note: Internal Controls Committee The Committee deliberates and determines matters regarding the establishment and evaluation of internal controls for the Nomura Compensation for Directors and Executive Officers Group’s business management structure as well as matters regarding the improvement of corporate behavior. Upon the consent of the Audit Committee, the Committee https://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/cg/compensation.html approves the internal audit plan, the budget regarding the internal audit, and elects and dismisses the Head of the Internal Audit Division. The Committee is comprised of Group CEO, person(s) assigned by Group CEO, member(s) of Audit Committee designated by the Audit Committee and Director(s) designated by Board of Directors. Outside Directors of Nomura Holdings Member of the Nomination Committee / Member of the Compensation Committee / Member of the Audit Committee / Certified Public Accountant / Former Honorary Company Fellow of Japan Tobacco Inc. Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission Under the strong determination of Nomura Group’s management team, Nomura Group has established a well-organized corporate governance continuous efforts are being made to prevent past scandals from system overall. In particular, outside directors form majority of the Board of occurring again. This is an on-going process, and I understand that it Directors, and they exchange opinions frankly at Board of Directors is important to keep passing down messages from the management meetings making monthly held Audit Committee meetings very meaningful. About Nomura team to every single staff member to prevent them from being careless. Also I believe that the chairman and the full-time members of the Audit The advantages of Nomura Group lie in the fact that the Founder’s Committee are very vigorous, and the existence of the Office of NonPrinciples are deeply rooted in its management, and that there are Executive Directors and Audit Committee and collaboration with the internal experienced personnel adhere to these principles. In addition to audit sections are functional. On the other hand, to maintain effective Nomura’s solid business footing in its home market, it has investment governance, it is vital to refresh the senses and maintain a degree of tension Hiroshi Kimura capacity for the future and potential for growth overseas. On the other without contenting ourselves with the status quo. Mari Sono Outside Director hand, the challenges it faces are very clear. Nomura must respond Nomura Group has an advantage of having a solid customer, personnel and Outside Director swiftly to the rapid aging of the population in Japan, stabilize the financial base as Japan’s largest securities company. Now, it is growing its Worked for Japan Tobacco Inc. as President, CEO and As a certified public accountant, I am well aware of the Representative Director amongst other roles. In particular, revenue of its overseas business and constantly review and reconsider presence overseas. Under drastically changing economic circumstances, it is significance of appropriate disclosure and accountability I succeeded in two large M&A projects and integrated to stakeholders. I believe ascertaining and evaluating management for advancing globalization. I think that key the cost base. Clearly recognizing these challenges and advantages, I necessary to direct the company soundly, and prevent its past strengths and corporate internal controls are the basic concepts of factors for success are concentration of managerial auditing, and that this principle applies to outside Strategies for Value Creation resources, swift action, and diversity as a source of will contribute to the further development of Nomura Group with the managerial resources from turning into negative legacies. Since Nomura is a directors and members of the Audit Committee as well. competitiveness. I feel that these key factors are consistent between Japan Tobacco and Nomura, even use of the expertise that I have cultivated so far. massive organization, it must make continuous efforts to ensure its corporate though they are in different industries. philosophy and compliance are well communicated and observed by its current staff. To build the foundations for this, I will contribute by using my expertise. Member of the Nomination Committee / Member of the Compensation Committee / Former Executive Chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers, Singapore Director & Chairman of AGC Inc. Nomura Group’s strength lies in the basic principle of putting Nomura Group manages its operations through a matrix of business customers first, which has been passed down from generation to lines and regional operations. Additionally, at top management level, it generation since its foundation. Moreover, its attitude toward also includes the Risk Committee as well as Internal Controls courageously developing new ideas, recognizing the necessity of Committee. This is further by oversight from the Board and its Three reforms and cultivating a strong sales team is impressive. Board Committees. At AGC, the company that I am from, there are shared values of I believe the strength of Nomura Group is in the strong client base in seeking Innovation & Operational Excellence on the basis of Diversity, Japan and a growing base outside Japan. This combination gives it a 57 Environment and Integrity. I have managed the company while competitive edge. On the other hand, Nomura needs to be aware and 58 keeping these values in mind. Nomura Group operates its businesses work on some issues, one of which is digital technology. The speed of around the world under the corporate slogan of Delivering a Better Kazuhiko Ishimura Michael Lim Choo San digital technological development is advancing at a rapid pace and Strengths Supporting Value Creation Tomorrow. I hope that my experience and values will bring a new Outside Director Outside Director Nomura needs to be at the front end of the development such as perspective to Nomura Group, and contribute to Nomura Group by Fintech. As an outside director, I will fully support Nomura, a company I have been Executive Chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers I worked for AGC Inc. as Group CEO after working in the enhancing its business. design and development section for production Singapore, a professional services firm from which I retired that works hard in solving and facing new challenges. after serving more than thirty years. Additionally, I was equipment, production section, and as manager of the Chairman and Board Member for a number of organizations electronics segment. Though the manufacturing and including both Government agencies as well as listed financial institutions sectors are different, I believe there companies. From these experiences, I gained expertise in are commonalities in managing in a way they both operate audit, finance, corporate governance and regulatory globally. compliance in many different industries. Chairman of the Audit Committee / Advisor of the IFRS Foundation Asia-Oceania Office / Former Commissioner and Acting Chairperson of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Former Representative Director and Executive Vice President of Sumitomo Corporation Nomura Group’s corporate governance system is not just a formal system. As one of the largest independent broker dealers in the U.S., Nomura The majority of members in the Board of Directors are Outside Directors has a competitive edge over financial firms operating within a bank who participate in each committee meeting, ensuring effective management. holding company structure. Nomura is able to provide services that Effective management comes from good awareness of the management banks are constrained from offering, as it builds out its investment executives. Never yielding to the business-first stance, Nomura aims to banking business. This will serve the firm well in expanding achieve continuous growth on the basis of the principle of “Putting the opportunities to medium sized company businesses (within market Corporate Information / Data Customer First” as part of the “Founder’s Ten Principles” that were passed capital of $10 billion). Japan’s strengthening economy will attract those down from founder Tokushichi Nomura. The strategies devised by the companies looking for ways to participate in growth opportunities in executives are well communicated to the working-level personnel. I think Asia where Nomura has the ability to play a major role, given the Noriaki Shimazaki that this is why employees in Nomura in both Japan and overseas are company’s position in Japan and the Asian market. Laura Simone Unger Nomura Report 2018 Outside Director so competent and capable of expanding Nomura’s business globally. As an outside director, I understand the global business challenges Outside Director Meanwhile, the hurdles that Nomura must clear to continuously increase its Nomura faces. I will contribute to Nomura by providing insights into I have corporate management experience as After working in the U.S. Securities and Exchange Representative Director and Executive Vice President of corporate value are evident. This includes transforming its business model in U.S. market opportunities, including those resulting from regulatory Commission as a Commissioner and Acting Chairperson, I Sumitomo Corporation. In addition, I have cultivated served as a commentator for business news and as a extensive experience and knowledge of finance and Japan and improving profitability in international regions. I think that we and / or legislative changes. Financial Institution Consultant. These experiences have accounting by holding many different roles, including enabled me to develop my expertise in the financial being a member of the Business Accounting Council of can achieve continuous growth in any environment by tackling these issues. services industry. During that time, I have also served as an the Financial Services Agency and a trustee of the independent director on several public company boards. International Accounting Standards Committee As an Outside Director, I will perform checks and share my perspective on This has provided me with the opportunity to become an Foundation. corporate management developed at Sumitomo Corporation to contribute expert in corporate governance and business strategy. by creating value to Nomura and boosting its competitiveness. Directors, Executive Officers and Senior Managing Directors of Nomura Holdings / Outside Directors of Major Subsidiaries in Japan Directors of Nomura Holdings (As of July 1, 2018) Executive Officers and Senior Managing Directors of Nomura Holdings (As of July 1, 2018) Chairman of the Board of Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Chairman of Nobuyuki Koga Executive Representative Executive Officer, President and Group CEO Koji Nagai Directors the Compensation Committee Officers About Nomura Representative Executive Officer, Deputy President Shoichi Nagamatsu Director Member of the Audit Committee (Full-time member) Hisato Miyashita Vice Chairman Tetsu Ozaki Outside Director Member of the Nomination Committee, Member of the Hiroshi Kimura Executive Managing Director and Group Co-COO Toshio Morita Compensation Committee, Honorary Company Fellow of Japan Tobacco Inc. Executive Managing Director and Group Co-COO, Head of Americas (based in New York) Kentaro Okuda Executive Managing Director, Head of Asset Management Kunio Watanabe Outside Director Member of the Nomination Committee, Member of the Kazuhiko Ishimura Compensation Committee, Director & Chairman of Executive Managing Director, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Takumi Kitamura AGC Inc. Executive Managing Director, Head of Group Entity Structure and Co-CRO Yuji Nakata Outside Director Chairman of the Audit Committee, Advisor of the IFRS Noriaki Shimazaki Foundation Asia-Oceania Office, Former Executive Senior Retail Head of Retail Eiichiro Yamaguchi Vice President of Sumitomo Corporation Managing Strategies for Value Creation Directors Wholesale Head of Wholesale and Global Markets (based in London) Steven Ashley Outside Director Member of the Audit Committee, Certified Public Mari Sono Global Head of Investment Banking Yo Akatsuka Accountant, Former Commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission Co-Head of Global Markets Yutaka Nakajima Outside Director Former Executive Chairman of Michael Lim Choo San Global Markets, Global Head of Equities Norikazu Akedo PricewaterhouseCoopers, Singapore Co-Head of Global Markets, EMEA (based in London) Hideo Kitano Outside Director Former Commissioner and Acting Chairperson of the Laura Simone Unger Head of Global Markets, Asia ex-Japan (based in Singapore) Rig Karkhanis U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Head of Global Markets, Americas (based in New York) Jonathan Raiff Directors who are concurrently serving as Executive Officers Merchant Head of Merchant Banking Masahiko Maekawa Banking Director, Representative Executive Officer, President and Group CEO Koji Nagai Corporate Chief Risk Officer (CRO) (based in London) Lewis O’Donald 59 Director, Representative Executive Officer, Deputy President Shoichi Nagamatsu 60 Chief of Staff and Group Strategy Satoshi Arai Deputy Chief of Staff, Group CAO*1 and Operations Paul Spanswick Chief Information Officer (CIO) Kaoru Numata Strengths Supporting Value Creation Outside Directors of major subsidiaries in Japan Head of Group Compliance Tomoyuki Teraguchi (Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. / Nomura Asset Management Co., Ltd.) Chief Legal Officer (CLO) Yasushi Takayama Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Outside Director Advisor Attorney of TMI Associates, Former Toshiaki Hiwatari Innovations Chuzaburo Yagi Superintending Prosecutor Group Head of Global Corporate Communications, Corporate Citizenship Hajime Ikeda and Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Outside Director Former Chairman of the Board, Kao Corporation Motoki Ozaki Global Head of Human Resources Etsuro Miwa Head of General Services Rikiya Nonomura Nomura Asset Management Co., Ltd. Outside Director Board Chairperson of NPO Triton Arts Network Rikio Nagahama Group Strategy and Executive Office Toru Otsuka Banking Banking Kenji Kimura Outside Director Of-Counsel, Attorney-at-Law, Anderson Môri & Akiko Kimura Tomotsune Americas Executive Chairman, Americas (based in New York) David Findlay Co-Head of Americas (based in New York) Tsutomu Takemura Corporate Information / Data EMEA Executive Chairman, EMEA (based in London) Yasuo Kashiwagi Head of EMEA (based in London) Jonathan Lewis Asia ex-Japan Executive Chairman, Asia ex-Japan; Head of China Committee; Asia Toshiyasu Iiyama Nomura Report 2018 Strategy (based in Hong Kong/Singapore) Head of Asia ex-Japan (based in Singapore/Hong Kong) Vikas Sharma Deputy Head of China Committee Shinichi Mizuno Internal Audit Group Internal Audit Shoji Ogawa *1: Chief Administrative Officer Dialogue with stakeholders Summary of the presentation 1 2 About Nomura Improving the corporate governance system of Nomura Group and the Initiatives of the Audit Committee effectiveness of the Board of Directors To ensure sustainable Independence of the Board of Directors from the growth and to earn the business execution side and the Board’s objectivity as a supervisory organization are ensured Audit policy of Nomura Holdings Audit Committee trust of society, we will Establish good corporate governance to ensure the sustainable growth of the Nomura Group and to earn maintain good corporate A majority of the members of the Board of Directors and the three committees (Nomination, Audit and society’s trust Actively participate in the development and operation of governance Compensation Committees) are Outside Directors the internal controls system, and monitor and verify its Strategies for Value Creation The Board of Directors is structured to emphasize effectiveness diversity and encourage multilateral discussion based Enhance effectiveness and efficiency of audits through on the members’ experience and knowledge in their collaboration with accounting auditors and Internal Audit respective fields Monitor the effectiveness of group strategy by implementing PDCA for group strategy at all levels The effectiveness of the Board of Directors is Audit Committee improved through the implementation of annual Audit interviews are conducted with Group CEO, Group COO, self-evaluations and the PDCA cycle heads of business divisions, regional heads, directors, executive officers, and other members of senior management Financial reports by executive in charge of finance, reports by Internal Controls executive and Internal Audit executive responsible for risk management, compliance, etc. Issues and remedies are identified (case examples) Major audit activities of the full-time Audit Committee member and Audit Mission Director In May 2018, at a presentation held at our Information is provided multilaterally (the Board of Audit interviews: Reporting from discussion with Senior Managing 61 head office in Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Director receives reports on dialogues with stakeholders Directors, Management Directors 62 on a continuous basis and attends meetings of the Overseas on-site audits: Interviews with the management of for analysts and institutional investors, Noriaki Shimazaki Mr. Noriaki Shimazaki, Outside Director business execution side to discuss medium-to longmajor sites and key staff members Domestic on-site audits: Managing Directors of head and branch term management strategies, etc.) offices, staff members in Japan and Chairman of the Audit Committee, Strengths Supporting Value Creation Outside Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee Discussion among the Outside Directors is encouraged Advisor of the IFRS Foundation Asia-Oceania Office made his first appearance explaining the (Meetings of Outside Directors are held on regular Cooperation with auditors Former Executive Vice President of Sumitomo Corporation effectiveness of our corporate governance intervals) Monthly meetings with Internal Audit and Accounting Auditor and current status of the Audit Committee’s Cooperate with Audit Committee members in each region, Audit Committees of subsidiaries, and statutory auditor activities. This was followed by a question and answer session. Reporting to the Board of Directors Audit reports, reporting of the status of the execution of duties, comments on audit findings Questions and answers Sell-side analyst Overseas institutional investor Sell-side analyst Q “What is your evaluation of Nomura Group’s arrangements and the provisions concerning lawsuits “There is a trend in the U.S. toward imposing board term limits. As an Independent Director, what do you “Monitoring the effectiveness of strategies is indicated as the objective of the Audit Committee. If, for example, there is a situation in which key performance indicators (KPIs) set by management and cases of legal disputes with authorities?” think about the idea of term limits for board members?” cannot be achieved, would the Audit Committee present some proposals to the Directors?” & Corporate Information / Data The Audit Committee receives regular reports on the In Japan, the term of office for directors and a We have various KPIs and goals to achieve by 2020. not be the only goal. The primary objective of our A status of the lawsuits from the executive officer in charge of legal affairs. The Committee also receives mandatory retirement age system for executive officers are generally established by companies, The Audit Committee tracks progress at least every quarter and monitors not only the figures indicated in management vision for 2020 (Vision C&C) is to create a robust operating platform capable of delivering reports from the CFO on the amount of estimated often varying by the individual company. The term the financial results but the degree to which our goals consistent growth for the Nomura Group. To achieve Nomura Report 2018 maximum loss for each lawsuit and each case of legal of office for Outside Directors is also determined have been achieved, including the enhancement of the our vision, we are working to address two overarching dispute at the time of each quarterly financial results at Nomura. The renewal of these terms or earnings structure. In addition, we take care not to show issues: transforming our business model in Japan and and confirms that an appropriate allowance is reflected retirement from office for board members is individual numbers out of context. Looking back at improving the profitability of our international operations. in the financial statements. The Committee fully proposed at a general meeting of shareholders Nomura’s scandals in the past, the people working on When our vision is achieved, we will attain an EPS of confirms the appropriateness of the accounting of the every year. I believe that these standards and site focused too heavily on numbers above all else, ¥100. At the recent meeting of the Board of Directors, I provision for allowance concerning lawsuits, etc. and measures are appropriate. which led to improper transactions in some cases. It is strongly reiterated this message to the execution side as descriptions in the notes to financial statements. important to achieve numerical goals but that should the chairman of the Audit Committee. Interview with Outside Director: An Investor Asking Questions from the Viewpoint of Governance too long, making them too close to the management. I into China and launching the Merchant Banking Division. In think a term of six years is appropriate with a system where taking those risks, it is extremely important to consider I will help the Nomura Group a small number of Outside Directors are replaced each year. The Board of Directors began self-assessments in 2016. capital costs as hurdle rates for such investments. I also think Nomura HD is taking credible initiatives in ESG enhance its competitiveness with The Board finished the third self-assessment a short time ago. I believe the PDCA cycle is repeated well, where each (environment, social and governance), which have been attracting interest in recent years. Nonetheless, I feel there my suggestions About Nomura individual director self assesses their respective roles and is still room for improvement from the viewpoints of effectiveness of the Board of Directors, followed by a disclosure and explanations to investors and stakeholders. Directors’ meeting which discusses areas of improvements Those of us acting as Outside Directors are currently Hiroshi Kimura Yuki Kimura the Board of Directors should address. thinking about deepening discussions on ESG initiatives. Outside Director Representative Director, Japan Stewardship Forum Member of the Nomination YK Let me ask you about Nomura HD’s management strategies YK Mr. Kimura, you have deep experience in M&A abroad Committee, Member of the Representative Executive Compensation Committee, Director, Institutional Investors and business challenges. How do you assess Nomura HD’s as well as in running overseas businesses as the former Honorary Company Fellow of Collective Engagement Forum Japan Tobacco Inc. current management policies and strategies as an Outside top executive at Japan Tobacco Inc. (JT). Please share Director? What kind of advice are you providing to Nomura HD? your assessments and advice on Nomura HD’s global HK To put it briefly, I rate Nomura HD’s business strategies strategies based on your own experiences. highly. Japan’s population is aging while the birthrate is falling. HK My experiences at JT will not apply unconditionally to Strategies for Value Creation A declining population has become a reality. Under this the way Nomura HD manages its overseas businesses condition, the Retail Division initiated a major paradigm shift because there are characteristics peculiar to individual in 2012 to change the nature of its businesses. Those business categories. But JT focused on markets where they changes are still in progress, but I think the direction is correct. could gain the largest or the second largest share, and did Unlike manufacturing, Nomura HD’s businesses do not require not move into markets that would not allow it to achieve that huge capital investments in areas outside IT, but relies instead result. I believe for financial institutions, securing revenues Yuki Kimura (hereinafter “YK”) Mr. Kimura, could you HK I think the current composition of the Board of begin by explaining specifically the kinds of activities you Directors is excellent because it assures diversity. The 63 are actually involved in as an Outside Director of Nomura Board consists of 10 members. This is the right size for 64 Holdings, Inc. (hereinafter “Nomura HD”)? active discussions. Six Outside Directors are a majority of Hiroshi Kimura (hereinafter “HK”) Attending the Board of the Board of Directors, including one female and one Directors meetings held once every month is my basic duty non-Japanese citizen. Another female non-Japanese Strengths Supporting Value Creation as an Outside Director. I feel the Board of Directors meeting Outside Director joined the Board at the General of Nomura HD is managed extremely well. I was assigned Shareholders’ Meeting held this June. Non-Japanese as an Outside Director at Nomura HD in June 2015. In my Board members provide valuable perspectives, such as on its human resources and talent. The question we should will be impossible, unless a fair share of the market is first year, I attended Audit Committee meetings held once how Nomura HD is viewed worldwide and how regulatory ask is whether the mindsets of employees agree with captured. I believe it is essential for Nomura HD to determine every month as a member of the committee. Since 2016, I authorities are acting overseas. Their perspectives are business strategies. Whilst changes take place each year, the markets where it can compete successfully. have been acting as a member of the Nomination and helping Nomura’s management decisions a great deal. continuous initiatives are necessary for establishing such a Regulations are another point the tobacco and financial Compensation Committees. However, I am still able to Speaking of information provision, the secretariat explains mindset. For that reason, Nomura HD has designated August industry have in common. The viewpoint of shaping the attend the Audit Committee meetings as an observer. The agenda to Outside Directors before Board of Directors 3rd to observe “Nomura Founding Principles and Corporate future together with the authorities by valuing dialogue Audit Committee interviews different members each month, meetings, in addition to reporting business conditions every Ethics Day” to reflect on its corporate culture and to prevent with them, ascertaining global trends in regulations and rotating between the Group CEO, the Group COO and the month. The CFO also explains quarterly results to Outside memories of past scandals from fading away. All Nomura making the first move is important in such industries. I heads of each division. Audit Committee meetings are very Directors individually before Board of Directors meetings. HD directors and employees, including myself, watch a think Nomura HD understands this point well and is good opportunities to get to know the senior management, Outside Directors also receive abundant externallyvideo and sign an attestation on this day. It’s a recurring working with the authorities appropriately. so I try to attend them whenever possible. The Nomination published references about Nomura HD, including reports process. I think repeating the same thing is essential. and Compensation Committees meetings are held before by sell-side analysts. I think how external parties view In the meantime, Nomura HD cannot allocate resources to YK Japan’s Corporate Governance Code attaches Corporate Information / Data the Board of Directors meetings whenever necessary. At Nomura HD is useful for Outside Directors to assess its all regions of the world. Nomura HD, based in Asia, is importance to dialogues with shareholders. Outside Nomura HD, members are the same for Nomination and business administration appropriately. strategically solidifying its foothold by pursuing synergies Directors are expected to have dialogues with shareholders, Compensation Committees. I think it is rational to have the Besides Board of Directors meetings, all Outside Directors from an alliance with American Century Investments in the too. Please share your opinions about the current state of same members because assessment and compensation of of Nomura HD, including foreign citizens, meet several U.S., the largest market in the world. Nomura HD also Nomura HD’s dialogues and direction going forward. Nomura Report 2018 senior management are inseparable. times each year where their consolidated opinions are given reviewed overseas businesses’ cost-intensive tendencies. HK The Board of Directors is receiving feedback from to top management. Ensuring responsible and sustainable profits overseas will investors following the announcements of financial results YK Please share your specific assessments of the In certain instances, such as a violation of our professional be the key to achieving the EPS target. Geopolitical risks and IR briefings. The feedback explains areas of investor structure and administration of the current Board of code of conduct or investments needed on a long-term were observed in the most recent quarter, but I would like concerns and clearly sets out their critical opinions which Directors. In addition, please tell us how the Board of basis, Outside Directors need to provide advice if they may Nomura HD to promptly link those initiatives to growth. enable Nomura HD’s management to deal with them Directors’ self-assessment is done each year about its affect revenues negatively in the short-run. They cannot fully Nomura HD must keep defining markets where it should properly. There is no reason for Outside Directors to recoil effectiveness reflected in the administration of the Board of grasp management’s vision if their tenure is too short. compete and allocate resources to them. I think Nomura from dialogues with investors if investors ask for them. Directors and management of Nomura HD. However, I don’t think it is good for their tenure to become HD is taking the necessary risks, such as making inroads Indeed, these discussions have added value. Risk Management Key risk types Retail Asset Management Wholesale Corporate Other subsidiaries About Nomura Market Risk Credit Risk Operational Risk Model Risk Liquidity Risk Compliance Risk Unavoidable risks Risks taken by Nomura Group differ by divisions or Risk of suffering losses due to internal businesses. We have established a risk management Strategies for Value Creation administrative processes, people, or systems Operational risk framework based on risk profiles. being either inappropriate or not functioning properly. Nomura Group has adopted a multi-faceted risk evaluation process to avoid risks that may be damaging to our Risk of loss arising from model errors, incorrect or inappropriate model application reputation. Risk management oversight is carried out by the Model risk with regard to valuation models and risk committees comprising members of senior management. models. The Global Integrated Risk Management Committee Risk of losses arising from a potential lack of (GIRMC) and the Global Risk Management Committee access to funds or higher cost of funding than Liquidity risk normal levels due to deterioration in Nomura’s (GRMC), for example, deliberate and decide on risk creditworthiness or deterioration in market management issues material to the firm. conditions. Risks that must not be taken Selective risk taking Nomura Group has established processes to accurately identify risks arising from all Risk of loss in the value of financial assets and Risk that can lead to administrative Fundamental punishment, economic losses, and approach types of operations and trading, and is working to bolster risk evaluation and the risk liabilities, as a result of market move in risk 65 management framework. Market risk factors including interest rates, foreign reputational damage when Nomura 66 exchange, and price of securities. executives or employees violate laws and Compliance risk regulations. Compliance risk also includes risk Risk of suffering losses when a borrower is of losses caused by violating Nomura Group’s Credit risk unable to make payment and fail to meet a Code of Ethics and other internal policies and Strengths Supporting Value Creation contractual obligation. guidelines, including harassment. Risk Management Risk culture Risk management policy Fostering a sound risk culture is essential for Nomura Our business activities are exposed to various risks Group to maintain its social credibility and sustain its including market risk, credit risk, operational risk and Implemented frameworks to evaluate and control the possibility of risks arising from business activities. At Nomura Group, all employees, liquidity risk. Properly managing these risks is one of Risk management the firm’s operations and transactions. irrespective of their function or geographic location, management’s top priorities. approach at Quantifying risks as much as possible. Nomura Group Taking a prudent approach to risks which are outside the area of experience and must understand their specific responsibilities related to It is important for us to maintain capital adequacy and knowledge, and those that are difficult to control by hedging or other mitigating actions. risk management, and actively work to manage risks. achieve business plans under any type of economic environment, to protect our clients, and to comply with laws and regulations. Setting risk appetite and guidelines for: Nomura Group has defined the types and maximum Corporate Information / Data levels of risk that the firm is willing to take, as to comply with capital regulations imposed on Market risk and to manage market risk and credit risk within documented in the Risk Appetite Statement. Capital adequacy financial institutions and to maintain a strong credit risk wholesale businesses. Our Risk Appetite Statement and risk appetite are and balance sheet financial base in continuing to conduct measures businesses under various economic approved by the Executive Management Board, and the conditions. Nomura Report 2018 risk is monitored daily against a set of risk appetite. If by to understand and mitigate the impact and Operational risk likelihood of operational risk events assumed any chance risk amount exceed risk appetite, the senior in the course of conducting business. management consults with stakeholders and takes actions to solve such excess. to maintain sufficient liquidity to survive a Liquidity risk severe liquidity situation and to comply with to promote proper understanding and regulatory requirements. compliance with the letter and spirit of all Compliance risk applicable laws, rules and regulations and avoid misconduct. Risk Management Establish and promote the risk management framework; Review from an monitor and challenge the first line of defense independent position The three lines of defense in risk About Nomura management Nomura Group has adopted the following layered structure on the grounds that all employees are accountable for proactively managing risk. 1 Departments engaged in trading and sales 2 Departments engaged in risk management 3 Internal Audit First line of defense Second line of defense Third line of defense As the first line of defense, departments engaged in Departments engaged in risk management establish Internal Audit reviews and provides consulting from Strategies for Value Creation sales and trading manage the risks associated with frameworks to manage each type of risk, and support an independent, objective position, with the aim of their own business activities. risk management measures taken by the First Line of adding value by improving the organization’s For example, trading departments do business within Defense, such as sales and trading departments. operations and frameworks, including risk predetermined risk limits, and proactively identify and Second line of defense independently monitor risks, management. address any issues they find. and keep trading and sales departments in check as needed. Chief Risk Officer Message 67 68 In Nomura we have a significant into the divisions and sub-divisions mean how we see and experience important for all of us. Lastly we reliance on strengthening risk of the firm in accordance with its people in Nomura reacting and work hard at giving a clear ‘tone management. What do we mean by business plans. What we mean by interacting with each other over risk from the top’ showing that our senior Strengths Supporting Value Creation this in practice? First to define our risk here can be many things – but outcomes. We want our risk culture managers live and breathe the goals in risk management for risk management tries to use to be strong and control focused highest standards of conduct and Nomura: it is to make sure Nomura measures – think a ruler to tell which and to permeate the organization ethics every day. By continuing to is resilient to market shocks and risk is larger than another – which organically, and to influence our emphasize our culture and our unexpected threats and that we distil many risks into one number. people when they must take conduct in the markets and to our have hence have enough capital to The actual methodology used in this decisions which affect the firm. It is customers we believe we will continuously run our business. It is measurement has a degree of difficult to measure, and it is hard to continue to build a firm with the also to make sure the returns we complexity and can be technical, but change, but we try to develop ours highest standards in the make on this capital – our it is important for all our employees through training, through incentives, marketplace, to the benefit of our shareholders capital – are to be aware of the risks they take on through mentoring and good clients and our stakeholders. appropriate and in alignment with for Nomura in the course of practice and through leadership. our strategic goals. business. This is one of the most Our culture is built from our The terminology of Risk can be important tenets of risk management Corporate philosophy and the values intimidating. But at its core it is at Nomura – that we are all risk we espouse: Entrepreneurial Corporate Information / Data simple. At Nomura,– the executives managers, and we have leadership, teamwork and integrity. and the board as the firm’s responsibility for the actions we take We try to continuously remind our Risk Culture In Nomura representatives – defines a risk capacity: the maximum amount of when we expose – knowingly or unknowingly – Nomura to risk. employees both of their legal requirements as well as their Nomura Report 2018 risk the firm would want to take. This idea that we are all risk obligations to the firm through Then it sets a risk appetite: the managers is an intrinsic part of our training; we also hold “Nomura Lewis O’Donald amount of risk the firm wants to use risk culture. Culture can be a hard Founding Principles and Corporate Chief Risk Officer (CRO) (based in London) – of its capacity – in pursuit of its idea to encompass, so what do I Ethics Day” each year where we strategies. This appetite is allocated mean by Nomura’s risk culture: I re-inforce our message and why it is Risk Management Stress testing Cyber security measures Nomura Group conducts stress testing to address risks on our business and financial soundness should those that may spread globally, and to identify risks that are adverse events occur. These scenarios may include Nomura Group has for some time been undertaking security measures to protect systems against difficult to recognize with statistical methods alone, as severe deterioration in the economic environment, cyber-attacks. However, in light of the increasingly serious cyber security threats throughout the About Nomura well as to prepare for unprecedented risk events. geopolitical conflicts and natural disasters. world, we recognize that our current countermeasures may not be sufficient in the future. Stress testing uses stress scenarios to assess the impact In order to ensure that clients’ information and assets are securely protected from these increasingly challenging cyber security threats, and to enable clients to conduct transactions with peace of mind, Nomura Group is working to strengthen its cyber security platform, using the Examples of stress scenarios Comprehensive Guidelines for Supervision of Financial Instruments Business Operators, etc of the Financial Services Agency, the Cybersecurity Management Guidelines of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry based on ISO27001 and ISO27002 as a reference. Assessment of the Assessment of capital impact on Nomura’s Cyber security system adequacy under the earnings of extreme scenario that a serious economic conditions that Nomura Group, as a whole, has established a global organizational structure to deal with incidents economic situation that could occur in the future occurred in the past stemming from cyber-attacks and to minimize potential damage. The Nomura Group Computer Strategies for Value Creation (Example: Economic happens again Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT), formed within Nomura Holdings, has spearheaded the collapse in a particular (Example: Financial crisis) country or region) formation of a CSIRT in Nomura Securities and other Group companies, and governs the CSIRT in each Group company. Each CSIRT works to protect its company’s operational and information assets, as well as systems, promoting cyber security measures from four factors: organizational management, system security measures, human-level response, and coordination with outside Assessment of the Assessment of the organizations. impact on Nomura’s impact on Nomura’s portfolio of political earnings of a large-scale Executive Management Board Board of Directors events in Japan or natural disaster overseas (Example: earthquake Organizational structure Crisis Management Committee The Manager of the CIO Office, Nomura (Example: UK referendum directly under the Tokyo Holdings is in charge. Office of Crisis Management on leaving EU) metropolitan area) The organization comprises of the Committee CSIRT representative of each Group Person in charge of company and is set up within the CIO information security Office (Crisis Management Division) of 69 Nomura Holdings. Reporting, checking of management instruction 70 Nomura Group CSIRT NHI Manager of the CIO Office Communication Outside relevant parties Strengths Supporting Value Creation and response to Secretariat outside parties Regulatory agencies NHI Group Strategy and Executive Office Police NHI Group Compliance Dept. Chief Risk Officer Message Media, etc. NHI Group Corporate Communications Dept. NHI General Services Dept. NHI CIO Office (Crisis Management Division) Risk is a possibility of suffering Cooperation and unexpected losses caused by any information sharing Provision of CSIRT Representative of CSIRT Representatives of number of reasons. Then what is JPCERT/CC information Nomura Securities Nomura Group companies vulnerability, risk management? In short, I think Yuji Nakata Securities CEPTOAR attacks, etc. Financials ISAC the risk management is an approach Executive Managing Director Security experts CSIRT of Nomura Securities CSIRT of Nomura Group companies of how to reduce this uncertainty. Head of Group Entity Structure and Co-CRO In many financial institutions Organization We continuously strive to enhance our cyber security platform at “normal times” by taking including Nomura, risk management management measures such as participating in drills to protect against cyber-attacks, by having the starts with understanding the risks effectiveness of our measures evaluated by outside cyber security experts, and by by quantifying them. Needless to knowing the status of measures taken by outside vendors. In the case of an incident such as dangerous, vulnerability information or detection of a cyber-attack, the CSIRT leads say, no one can predict the future, the efforts to analyze the cause, minimize damage, and quickly restore systems. Corporate Information / Data so the banks collect data from past events, and use some statistical System security We adopt a multi-layered defense system, which includes multiple detection and measures defense mechanisms against unauthorized access and malicious programs such as techniques to estimate what to So, what can be done to reduce the hard we try to predict, unexpected computer viruses. We review these countermeasures as appropriate to deal with expect in the future. As history unexpected? Let inspirations and things will happen. In financial new threats. Nomura Report 2018 repeats itself, looking back on the imaginations run at every possible institutions we prepare for the worst, Human-level Based on the Nomura Group Information Security Policy, relevant seminars and training past may have positive implication direction and get prepared. That is or turning unexpected into expected, response programs are regularly provided to all executives and employees in order to raise their for future prediction. That said the basics of risk management. At by maintaining adequate capital awareness and knowledge. nothing can be estimated with 100% the same time, prepare for the worst levels. Cooperation Nomura Group has established information collection and sharing systems related to accuracy. on the premise that no matter how with outside cyber-attackers and attack methods, through information sharing organizations such as organizations Financials ISAC Japan and Nippon CSIRT Association, as well as FS-ISAC (U.S.) and other overseas organizations. Compliance Legal compliance measures Offering high-quality financial services Maintenance of compliance framework and Nomura Securities seeks to enhance the quality of enhancement of management systems financial products and services offered to customers Compliance Hotline through the following initiatives under the Guidelines for About Nomura Carrying out compliance training Supervision of Financial Instruments Business Operators, etc. In all Group companies and departments, Nomura Group complies with applicable laws and regulations and endeavors to prevent the occurrence of activities that may be construed as illegal by establishing effective Nomura Securities’ Primary Initiatives control measures. In the event that such issues arise, Appointing officers to oversee internal controls, they are reported in full to management-level officers compliance, etc., and developing systems to without delay, and organizations and systems are ensure compliance and appropriate operations structured to respond appropriately. Thoroughly screening account openings and Nomura employees who have become aware of potential Strategies for Value Creation conducting proper examinations when underwriting legal or regulatory violations are able to report securities their concerns to persons designated by Nomura Holdings, including Outside Attorneys, through the Compliance Hotline (informants have the option of remaining anonymous). In 2017/18, there were 31 calls received via the Compliance Hotline, and in all cases the status of related matters was confirmed and appropriate measures were taken. Nomura Securities conducts comprehensive compliance Compliance is a top management priority for Nomura Group, and the Code of Ethics of training for all Executive Officers and employees on Nomura Group defines our fundamental policy on compliance. The management and topics such as the prevention of money laundering and Nomura Securities’ Compliance Framework Fundamental employees of the Group pledge to abide by the rules stated in this code once each year. Also, approach insider trading, firewall regulations, and guidelines for https://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/compliance/index.html we have established “Nomura Founding Principles and Corporate Ethics Day” as a day for 71 management and employees annually to reaffirm our corporate culture and corporate ethics, managing customer information. 72 underpinned by Our Founder’s Principles. Ensuring fair financial business practices Customer protection and information security Strengths Supporting Value Creation Compliance Prohibition of transactions with anti-social forces Prevention of money laundering Proper segregation of customer assets Effective protection of clients’ personal information and other information assets of the Group Prevention of bribery Management for conflicts of interest and prevention Compliance framework of insider trading In accord with applicable laws and regulations, including the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and the We have appointed a Group Compliance Head to Nomura Holdings Nomura Group works to eliminate transactions with Personal Information Protection Act, Nomura Group oversee compliance for the Group as a whole along with Executive Management Board Board of Directors anti-social forces and prevent money laundering. Moreover works to properly protect customers’ assets and a Group Compliance Department that provides support. in order to supervise and manage the group-wide control information. Nomura Securities properly segregates the In addition, Compliance Officers have been assigned to framework for anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist assets of its customers from the assets of Nomura each Group company to strengthen our internal controls Audit Committee financing (AML/CTF), Nomura Group has established the Securities itself. The Nomura Group Information Security in response to global business development, and to Anti-Money Laundering Department in April 2018. Policy provides the basic principles for appropriately develop and maintain the respective compliance Group Compliance Head Nomura will continue to enhance the measures for AML/ protecting information assets. structures of each Group company, including overseas CTF and develop the effective control framework. Customer-related personal information is handled in line Corporate Information / Data offices. Group Compliance Department Nomura Group has also established guidelines related to with rigorous standards set out in the Nomura Group In addition to Group-wide initiatives, Nomura Securities giving gifts to and entertaining public officials and privatePrivacy Policy and other information securityrelated has established a Compliance Program as a detailed sector groups, and disseminates the guidelines throughout rules, and is handled in full compliance with the Personal action plan, and put into place a compliance framework Direction Report the Company and works to ensure fair business practices Information Protection Act and other related laws and Nomura Report 2018 based on this program. Nomura Group companies to prevent bribery. We consolidate information in the Group regulations. Compliance Department to manage conflicts of interest For further information, please refer to our website. Compliance Officers and insider information with a global perspective. Direction Report For further information, please refer to our website. Departments Fair Financial Business Practices Nomura Group Privacy Policy https://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/compliance/index.html https://www.nomuraholdings.com/policy/privacy.html Human Resources Strategy Recruitment and hiring Recognizing that people are our greatest asset, since General Career Type C employees are specialists who our founding we have placed particular emphasis on pursue advanced expertise as required in their particular recruitment. In our constant efforts to secure the most business area. We have also adopted a personnel About Nomura talented people, we continue to follow a policy of management approach that ensures that people are recruiting people regardless of nationality, gender, and placed in positions they are best suited for and that each other attributes. In FY2015/16 we introduced a “career employee can display their capabilities to the fullest. An support system” for new graduate hires in Japan, and example of this is our system under which employees we have broadened contact points with students by can transfer from General Career Type A to Type B expanding our internship program and other measures. employees, Type A employees can switch to Type C Overseas, we have also begun hiring new graduates by employees, and Type C employees and employees introducing an internship program. located in overseas offices can apply for other positions In recent years, we have also been actively hiring midusing an internal job posting program. career professionals capable of contributing immediately, and about 1,000 people in Japan and 1,500 people Number of new hires Strategies for Value Creation overseas each year have been joining Nomura through Financial advisors (new graduates) this route. In addition, we have been rehiring employees who previously left Nomura, with the expectation they will 1% General Career Type General Career A employees hit the ground running. A system of job classification Type C employees (new graduates) (new graduates) based on the core work responsibilities of Nomura 6% 36% consists of General Career Type A employees, Type B General Career and Type C. General Career Type A employees and Type Type B employees (new graduates) Mid-career hires B differ only in that the latter are not subject to relocation. The aim with both is for employees to develop careers as 28% 29% Individuals of more than 90 nationalities are currently employed in Nomura Group. This diverse group of people represents our greatest asset. Nomura Group provides equal opportunities, generalists based on a broad range of experience. (Japan: Nomura Holdings, Nomura Securities FY2017/18) builds a healthy work environment and, under the Code of Ethics of Nomura Group, forbids Fundamental approach discrimination based on nationality, ethnic origin, race, gender, age, religion, beliefs, social standing, gender preference, gender identity, disability or any other attribution, so that each Personnel development and every employee can be active and successful in utilizing her or his capabilities and 73 personal strengths. 74 In developing and growing our business globally, we believe external training and correspondence courses helpful in that improving our personnel system is important in order enhancing business and management skills, including to ensure that personnel with diverse career backgrounds language courses. Furthermore, in order to develop Strengths Supporting Value Creation Human Resources Strategy and values can demonstrate their talents. Accordingly, we provide diverse education and training programs to help employees at all levels develop their careers. personnel capable of playing an active role globally, we have established study-abroad programs and overseas training programs that employees themselves determine In Nomura Securities, each division appoints instructors to where they go and what topics they study. serve for one year to guide and train new hires and help Human resources framework them develop into talented and independent-minded Amount invested in employees employees. In the Retail Division, a (management-level) Global framework employee is appointed as a mentor to work with the Education and training expenses 2,987 instructor in nurturing sales staff. In order to make Nomura Group employs a pool of professional personnel Ratio of employees by region personnel development more visible on a global basis, 2,987million yen around the world who are capable of providing financial Nomura has established and utilizes a framework that Japan 2,093 (FY2017/18) (%) services that meet the diverse needs of clients, and 100 compiles the necessary actions and skills to improve whose career paths within the Group and values are 6 performance and achieve targets to clearly indicate the 6 Europe 228 unique. Particularly upon taking on employees from 80 24 Asia-Pacific skills to be developed by employees and their evaluators 2,033 million yen Corporate Information / Data 11 Americas 435 Lehman Brothers in 2008, we adopted a globally through dialogues. With regard to Type C employees, who (FY2011/12) Asia-Pacific 230 integrated approach to human resource management. 9 Americas are highly skilled in a specific area, we have put in place a We strive to manage our personnel in a flexible and 60 11 Europe system that allows employees hired in Japan and those In-house training suitable manner so that each and every one of our hired overseas to take courses with identical content. Nomura Report 2018 employees can thrive as they contribute their skills to 40 In addition to training programs for new hires, our core the workplace. 77 programs in Japan include group training programs 56 Japan based on years of service and job position, elective group 20 Cumulative total of participants: Cumulative total of hours: training programs tailored to staff in the Wholesale and Corporate divisions, and on-the-job training. To support 227,824 employees 530,869 hours 0 self-driven skills development, we have also established a (FY2017/18) (FY2017/18) 2008 2018 (End of March) self-study support system that includes a wide range of *Subtotals may not add up to totals due to rounding. Human Resources Strategy Proper evaluation and compensation To properly evaluate performance and further the development of personnel, the Group adopts an integrated personnel evaluation process and all employees in principle participate in this process. Employees set their goals at the beginning of each year, and these goals About Nomura are aligned with the Group’s strategy as well as competency and behavioral requirements. Employees then meet with their supervisors in the middle and at the end of the year to have frank discussions regarding goal attainment. This approach enables the Group to evaluate its personnel fairly and identify development opportunities suited to their capabilities and competencies. For personnel chosen from among those in managerial-level positions, depending on the business unit the Group also provides 360-degree evaluation based on feedback from their supervisors, fellow employees, and persons under their supervision. Every employee is provided, in principle once a year, with an opportunity to be interviewed by the Human Resources Department and directly communicate their thoughts about their career. The Group has established its Compensation Policy for Group management and employees. This policy aims to promote the sustainable growth of the Group and continue increasing its Strategies for Value Creation global competitiveness and shareholder value over the long term. It also has the objective of contributing to the value-added the Group can offer its customers and realizing continued improvement in the Group’s evaluation among its clients through securing, retaining, motivating, and nurturing outstanding employees. Nomura Group’s Basic Compensation Policy https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/employee/capability.html Work Style Innovation Promoting Work Style Reform and Health & Diversity and Inclusion Supporting women’s careers LGBT inclusion Productivity Management Nomura Group believes that by having employees with Nomura Securities has set a quantitative target of 550 At Nomura Securities, we have implemented measures 75 In July 2016, Nomura Group adopted the NOMURA diverse backgrounds and values respect one another female managers by 2020. In March 2016, an action plan to support lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender 76 Health & Productivity Declaration Statement as part of and work together, the organization is better able to was announced to help women thrive in the company. The (LGBT) and other sexual-minority employees through the Group’s efforts led by the Group Chief Health Officer provide high value-added services and satisfy a wide action plan outlines initiatives to achieve quantitative targets, training for all employees, activities to increase the (CHO) to maintain and improve the health of employees. variety of customer needs. We have established the including support for female employees’ career-building and number of allies, and by introducing a partnership Strengths Supporting Value Creation In addition, Nomura has launched the “Nomura Work Nomura Group Diversity and Inclusion Committee, support for balancing their careers with life events, among system. In recognition of these efforts, we were given Style Innovation” initiative, which comprises “Work Style chaired by the Vice Chairman of Nomura Holdings, Inc.. other measures to establish an employment environment in the highest Gold grade in the Pride Index, Japan’s first Reform” and “Health & Productivity Management,” and The committee is made up of division representatives which female employees can thrive. evaluation of the LGBT-friendliness of work has been developing an environment since 2017 that who regularly discuss the promotion of diversity and Nomura promotes initiatives to support women in environments run by Work with Pride, a private group, enables diverse employees to demonstrate their talents inclusion. Nomura adopted the “Declaration on Diversity improving their careers. These initiatives include a for two consecutive years in 2016 and 2017. and play active roles. Under this policy, Nomura has & Inclusion” in 2016 based on the strong desire to form a mentoring program for managers, a sponsorship introduced a work-from-home system and a system that working environment that utilizes diverse human program in which executive officers support management enables leave to be taken flexibly on an hourly basis, resources throughout the entire Group, as well as the candidates, training programs for career design for Our People established new leaves for medical check-ups and follow“NOMURA's Declaration to Support Employees Balance management candidates, and social events with senior https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/employee/index.html up examinations, and enhanced the self-improvement Work and Family Care” in 2017 to create a workplace employees who become role models for young support system. Nomura has further promoted these where employees who have to take care of a family employees. Moreover, we provide training on diversity External evaluations initiatives by establishing a new internal website for member are able to continue working. Based on this management, including promoting women’s participation posting information, distributing letters to all employees policy, Nomura provides information to raise employee in the workplace, to managers (including men), as we are from the Vice Chairman of Nomura Holdings, Inc. who awareness and offers services to support balance the striving to foster a climate where female employees can Corporate Information / Data serves as CHO, and appointing people in charge of work and family care. play a more active role. promoting initiatives in each division. Nomura has three autonomously and globally run In EMEA, Nomura is working on a range of initiatives to improve employee networks* to provide a range of information the gender balance. We issued a gender pay gap report in Jun. 2007 ~ Kurumin (Nomura Securities) and hold events related to diversity in the workplace. the U.K., and became a signatory of the “Women in Finance Certification of Osaka City “Female employees Dec. 2015 ~ Nomura Report 2018 These networks also provide opportunities for interaction Charter” spearheaded by the U.K. government, whereby we leading company” (Nomura Securities) both internally and externally. set a target to increase our senior women by 50% by 2021. Jun. 2016 ERUBOSHI (Nomura Trust and Banking) In June 2016, Nomura Trust and Banking received the Oct. 2016 ~ Tomonin (Nomura Securities) * “Women in Nomura (WIN),” which focuses on women’s career advancement “Life & Family Network (L&F),” which is concerned with work-life management highest certification (three stars) (ERUBOSHI certification) Oct. 2016 ~ Pride Index, Gold grade (Nomura Securities) “Multi-Culture Value (MCV),” which promotes understanding of diverse value systems and multicultural values including LGBTA and the disabled of the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare under the AllAboutCareers School Leaver Awards May. 2017 (Nomura International plc) Act on Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement in the Workplace. Dec. 2017 TechWomen 50 (Nomura International plc) Contributing to Sustainable Communities Global partnership with communities In the regions around the world where Nomura Group NGOs and other entities. These activities are focused conducts business, we share the basic CSR theme of on nurturing future generations. “For Future Generations” and carry out activities in line About Nomura External Assessment with regional needs while forming partnerships with http://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/society/contribution/index.html TOPIC “Proudly supporting Japan every step of the way.” 1 Contributing to Japan’s economic growth through supporting the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games Strategies for Value Creation As an official Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games Gold Partner in the Securities category, Nomura We are working to help find solutions to social and environmental issues by communicating Holdings is committed to the success of the Tokyo 2020 Games and to the promotion of initiatives extending with a wide range of stakeholders, from customers to shareholders, local communities, and Fundamental employees on a continual basis. beyond the Games. approach Based on Our Founder’s Principles that have been inherited since the foundation of the Nomura Group’s financial and economics education programs have been approved as official programs of the 77 Company, the Nomura Group Corporate Philosophy states that “We help to enrich society 78 through our expertise in capital markets” as our social mission. Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games. We have prepared educational materials centered on the themes of finance and economics, as well as the Tokyo 2020 Games, and we send Nomura Group employees to serve as visiting lecturers at schools. We hope to help children better understand the world and economy so as to support the Tokyo 2020 Games from a broader perspective. Contributing to Strengths Supporting Value Creation Sustainable Communities TOPIC 2 Ball for All Communication with stakeholders Bringing Japan’s volleyball community together Nomura Group participates in initiatives in Japan and overseas that aim to contribute to society and the environment to fulfill its corporate social responsibility as a corporate citizen. Through dialogue and collaboration with stakeholders, we carefully examine the activities and information disclosure we undertake that are related to the economy, society, and environmental issues. We also review these activities and Communication with Stakeholders https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/stakeholder/communication/ Corporate Information / Data information disclosure, and report to the ESG Committee Participation in Initiatives for Sustainability when needed. https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/stakeholder/initiatives.html Themes Initiatives Outline Nomura Group is supporting the Japan Para-Volleyball Association as a special top partner to encourage Nomura Report 2018 Human rights, labor, environment, anti-corruption United Nations (UN) Global Compact Participation in Global Compact Network Japan general understanding of para-sports and their athletes. The association is working to popularize sitting ESG UN Principles for Responsible Investment Participation in the Japan network volleyball. Nomura’s directors and employees are participating in sitting volleyball events and assisting with Participation in working group on asset management, official games. In April 2018, when we began supporting the All Japan Women’s Volleyball Team, the “Ball for All” ESG Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century securities, and investment banking businesses project was launched to add fulfillment to society by promoting diversity through volleyball, a sport in which a ball ESG Climate Bonds Initiative Participation as a partner in activities to promote green bonds is passed among people with different personal backgrounds. Environment CDP Promotion, as a signatory, of the climate change and water programs We are committed to supporting not only official games and athletes but also everyone involved as they assume Environment Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Expressed our support their personal challenges. Environmental Initiatives Nomura Group environmental targets (Japan) In Japan, the Group is working to conserve resources and energy as it seeks to attain its target to reduce CO2 emissions per square meter in FY2030/31 by 20% or more from FY2009/10. About Nomura Nomura Group environmental objectives and progress (Japan) FY2017/18 targets Assessments FY2018/19 targets Reduce domestic Nomura Group CO2 Reduce domestic Nomura Group CO2 emissions per square meter of floor space emissions per square meter of floor Reduction: 23.0% by 20% or more from FY2009/10*1 space by 20% or more from FY2009/10 Reduction of Reduce the CO2 emissions per mileage Reduce the CO2 emissions per mileage greenhouse gas driven of leased vehicles of Nomura driven of leased vehicles of Nomura Reduction: 1.7% emissions Securities from the previous year Securities from the previous year Reduce the waste emissions volume at Reduce the waste emissions volume at principal offices from FY2013/14 Reduction: 6.6% principal offices from FY2013/14 Effective use of Have green products account for 85% of Have green products account for 85% Strategies for Value Creation resources supplies request system items Purchase ratio: 88.05% of supplies request system items Reduce use of copy paper (as measured Reduce use of copy paper (as by the annual volume purchased) from the measured by the annual volume Reduction: 0.5% Reduction of paper previous year purchased) from the previous year usage Encourage electronic document delivery Encourage electronic document Accounts accepting electronic document service*2 delivery service delivery: 2.76 million Contribution to environment Underwriting and sales of green bonds and social bonds Increase the number of financial Increase the number of financial products Establishment of a dedicated ESG bond team products and services that help resolve Nomura Group, recognizing its responsibilities as a corporate group that operates globally, is through Nomura’s and services that help resolve social issues Launch of a research group to study the sustainable social issues committed to helping address climate change issues through its business activities. At the same main businesses development of the ESG bond market time, we are working to reduce the environmental impact of our own business activities themselves. The Code of Ethics of Nomura Group states, “Nomura Group is committed to acting in an Note: For further information on environmental objectives, please visit: https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/environment/management Fundamental environmentally responsible manner and should therefore approach environmental issues *1: Emission factors for electricity consumption have been changed since FY2017 from emission factors as of FY2009 to annual emission factors by respective power companies. approach *2: In addition to the number of accounts registering e-mail statements service, the number of accounts registering online statements service has been included in the data since FY2017. positively”. In addition, based on international movements like the sustainable development goals (SDGs) and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, and having recognizing the impact of climate change issues FY2018/19 targets 79 on our businesses, we are working on a global basis to find solutions to this challenge. Furthermore, Number of financial 80 we have pledged our support for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). CO 2 emissions CO 2 emissions Waste emissions Green office supplies Volume of copy Electronic products and services per mileage driven volume purchase ratio paper usage document exchange that help resolve social issues Strengths Supporting Value Creation Environmental Initiatives CO2 Reduction Year-on-year Year-on-year -20% Compared 85% Promotion Expansion reduction reduction with FY2013/14 Environmental management Efforts to address climate change In 2009, Nomura Group created both its Environmental Nomura Group environmental management framework Nomura Group is making efforts to improve disclosure of environmental information globally. In addition, we are Statement and Environmental Policy based on the Code working to lighten the impact of our activities on the environment through the purchase of green power. of Ethics of Nomura Group. Centered on the Executive Management Board Board of Directors Environmental Activities Working Group, the Group is Greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1, 2) Per-employee greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1, 2) Green power purchasing volume proactively working to reduce the environmental impact Approve Report (t-CO2) (t-CO2) (MWh) Japan and main Europe offices of its business activities. 100,000 8 40,000 ESG Committee Corporate Information / Data In Japan, we have established an environmental management system (EMS) and are implementing Approve Report 75,000 6 30,000 comprehensive environmental preservation activities to The Head of Environmental Affairs Asia Asia-Pacific Europe deal with environmental risks and issues. 50,000 Americas 4 20,000 Approve Report Europe Asia-Pacific Nomura Report 2018 Europe Our offices around the world are also implementing Japan environmental initiatives. For example, our London 25,000 2 10,000 Environmental Activities Americas Japan Americas headquarters building obtained ISO 14001 certification Working Group Cooperation in 2007 following an audit performed by a local 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 accreditation body and has maintained its certification (Fiscal years ended March 31) (Fiscal years ended March 31) (Fiscal years ended March 31) to the present. In addition, its energy management Nomura Group companies Nomura Securities head * For detailed environmental information please refer to Our Environment on page 92. office/branch offices system received ISO 50001 certification in 2015. Our Environment https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/environment/index.html Key Financial Data Key Financial Data (billions of yen) (billions of yen) About Nomura P/L FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 Funding and liquidity March 31, 2013 March 31, 2014 March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Net revenue 1,813.6 1,557.1 1,604.2 1,395.7 1,403.2 1,497.0 Liquidity portfolio* 5,883.5 6,127.2 6,064.0 5,947.1 4,970.3 4,628.4 Income before income taxes 237.7 361.6 346.8 165.2 322.8 328.2 Short-term unsecured debt 2,293.3 2,969.3 2,557.0 3,303.8 1,883.0 2,107.0 Net income* 107.2 213.6 224.8 131.6 239.6 219.3 Long-term unsecured debt 6,457.3 6,218.6 6,509.4 6,593.6 5,918.9 5,218.9 * Net income attributable to Nomura Holdings shareholders * Definition differs from financial disclosures reflecting Liquidity Management’s view. Cash and cash deposits portion of liquidity portfolio excludes funds on deposit at exchanges and segregated client funds. (billions of yen) Segment information FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 (yen) Net revenue Retail 397.9 511.9 476.5 435.6 374.4 412.9 Per share data FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 Asset Management 68.9 80.5 92.4 95.4 99.4 127.3 Basic net income attributable to Nomura Strategies for Value Creation 29.04 57.57 61.66 36.53 67.29 63.13 Holdings shareholders per share (EPS) Wholesale 644.9 765.1 789.9 720.3 739.3 715.3 Diluted net income attributable to Nomura 28.37 55.81 60.03 35.52 65.65 61.88 Subtotal 1,111.7 1,357.5 1,358.7 1,251.3 1,213.1 1,255.6 Holdings shareholders per share (EPS) Other 664.2 188.8 220.8 165.1 183.5 239.5 Nomura Holdings shareholders’ equity per 618.27 676.15 752.40 748.32 790.70 810.31 share (BPS) Unrealized gain (loss) on investments in equity securities 37.7 10.7 24.7 (20.7) 6.6 1.9 Dividends per share (DPS) 8.0 17.0 19.0 13.0 20.0 20.0 held for operating purposes Dividend payout ratio 27.5% 29.5% 30.8% 35.6% 29.7% 31.7% Net revenue 1,813.6 1,557.1 1,604.2 1,395.7 1,403.2 1,497.0 Income (loss) Retail 100.6 192.0 161.8 127.6 74.8 103.1 before income taxes Asset Management 21.2 27.1 32.1 36.7 42.3 66.2 Consolidated capital adequacy, etc.*1 March 31, 2013 March 31, 2014 March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Wholesale 71.7 111.8 82.2 15.4 161.4 100.6 (billions of yen) Subtotal 193.5 330.9 276.1 179.7 278.6 269.9 Tier1 capital 2,092.9 2,314.2 2,459.2 2,577.5 2,689.8 2,666.4 81 Other 6.6 20.0 46.0 6.1 37.6 56.4 Tier2 capital 359.2 401.5 361.2 323.1 109.6 66.1 82 Unrealized gain (loss) on Total capital 2,452.1 2,715.7 2,820.4 2,900.6 2,799.4 2,732.5 investments in equity securities 37.7 10.7 24.7 (20.7) 6.6 1.9 held for operating purposes RWA 17,546.7 17,425.9 18,929.2 15,970.5 13,977.9 15,122.3 Strengths Supporting Value Creation Income before income taxes 237.7 361.6 346.8 165.2 322.8 328.2 Tier1 capital ratio 11.9% 13.2% 12.9% 16.1% 19.2% 17.6% 2 CET1 capital ratio* 11.9% 13.2% 12.9% 15.4% 18.2% 16.5% (billions of yen) Consolidated capital adequacy ratio 13.9% 15.5% 14.8% 18.1% 20.0% 18.1% Geographic information* FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 Consolidated leverage ratio* 3 — — 3.82% 4.28% 4.63% 4.74% Income (loss) Japan 317.2 386.3 363.2 244.8 234.7 328.8 (trillions of yen) before income taxes by region Americas 25.7 29.5 (27.6) (32.0) 50.0 (8.8) HQLA* 4 — — — 6.2 4.5 4.0 Europe (93.1) (48.9) (23.5) (67.4) 14.4 (14.7) LCR* 4 — — — 175.8% 180.0% 153.6% Asia and Oceania (12.1) (5.2) 34.6 19.8 23.7 22.8 *1 Based on Basel III *2 CET1 capital ratio is defined as Tier1 capital minus minority interests divided by risk-weighted assets. Subtotal (79.4) (24.7) (16.4) (79.6) 88.1 (0.7) *3 Tier1 capital divided by exposure (sum of on-balance sheet exposures and off-balance sheet items). *4 Monthly average of 4Q. Consolidated 237.7 361.6 346.8 165.2 322.8 328.2 * Region information is based on US GAAP. Revenues and expenses are allocated based on the country of domicile of the legal entity providing the service. This information is not used for business management purposes. Number of shares outstanding, share price, etc. March 31, 2013 March 31, 2014 March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 Number of shares outstanding (thousands) 3,822,563 3,822,563 3,822,563 3,822,563 3,822,563 3,643,563 Corporate Information / Data ROE FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 Share price (fiscal year-end) (yen) 577 662 706.2 502.9 691.9 615.3 ROE 4.9% 8.9% 8.6% 4.9% 8.7% 7.9% Market capitalization (trillions of yen)* 2.2 2.5 2.7 1.9 2.6 2.2 PBR (times)* 0.93 0.98 0.94 0.67 0.88 0.76 (billions of yen) Nomura Report 2018 B/S FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 PER (times)* 19.87 11.50 11.45 13.77 10.28 9.75 * Figures based on the fiscal year-end share price. Total assets 37,942.4 43,520.3 41,783.2 41,090.2 42,852.1 40,343.9 Total Nomura Holdings shareholders’ equity 2,294.4 2,513.7 2,707.8 2,700.2 2,789.9 2,749.3 Gross leverage (times) 16.5 17.3 15.4 15.2 15.4 14.7 Net leverage* (times) 10.4 10.4 9.3 9.6 8.6 8.8 * Total assets minus securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities borrowed, divided by Nomura Holdings shareholders’ equity. Financial Review Financial review and analysis of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 growth in Europe, and the ECB (European Central Bank) ¥328.2 billion, and net income attributable to Nomura Business environment Summary of consolidated results shows conservative stance on immediate interest-rate hike. Holdings shareholders was ¥219.3 billion. EPS for the About Nomura During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the global Net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 was current fiscal year (Diluted net income attributable to economy continued to recover steadily, regardless of In Asia, the growth of the Chinese economy accelerated ¥1,497 billion, up 6.7% from the previous fiscal year, and Nomura Holdings shareholders per share) was ¥61.88. developed or emerging countries. The economic recovery thanks to a recovery in real estate market conditions and non-interest expenses was ¥1,168.8 billion, up 8.2% from continued over the long term and inflation rates were also the expansion in infrastructure investment through a the previous fiscal year. Income before income taxes was kept low in general, due to the deep economic trough public-private partnership system. In Indonesia, the caused by the financial crisis in 2008. In the meantime, business environment has improved continuously as a (billions of yen) FY2016/17 FY2017/18 Year-on-year Comments major central banks have gradually begun tightening their result of deregulation. Even in the Philippines, solid Revenue Commission 327.1 373.3 14.1% Brokerage commissions and commissions for policies, while maintaining the accommodative financial economic growth is expected to continue, supported by distribution of investment trusts increased due environment as a whole. robust domestic demand. to the increase in sales in stock and investment trusts. The Japanese economy also showed solid expansion. In the U.S., under the steady expansion of domestic and Exports remained robust due to the expansion of the global Fees from investment banking 92.6 9.8% Revenue from solutions businesses Strategies for Value Creation 101.7 foreign economic situations, the FRB (Federal Reserve economy, and capital investment increased in Japan as a accompanying M&A and finance increased. Board) continued raising interest rates on a modest upward result of the growing demand in domestic labor-saving and Asset management and portfolio 216.5 245.6 13.5% Asset management fees increased due to the trend. Although the stock market also continued to rise construction. In the first half of the fiscal year ended March service fees increase in assets under management by inflows into funds of ETFs and discretionary until January 2018, followed by the steady progress of the 31, 2018, the upper price of Japanese stocks was investment products. domestic and foreign economies and the reduction of uncertain due to geopolitical risks, but as corporate corporate taxes, it dropped sharply after the long-term earnings came close to record levels and a decrease in Net gain (loss) on trading 475.6 442.9 -6.9% Net gain on trading decreased mainly due to the decrease in sales of Fixed Income interest rate increased in February 2018, and thereafter the domestic political risks, Japanese stocks rose strongly from business and losses related to securities high volatility environment has continued from anxiety over October 2017. The momentum of the rise in stock price collateralized loan projects. trade policy. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose by continued even after the New Year, and on January 23, Gain (loss) on private equity 16.6% from $20,663 at the end of March 2017, to $24,103 at 2018, Nikkei Stock Average closed above ¥24,000 for the 1.4 -0.9 investments the end of March 2018. The yield on 10-year U.S. Treasury first time in about 26 years. Since February, investor’s risk ! ! Interest and dividends 441.0 585.7 32.8% securities increased by 0.35 % from 2.39% at the end of avoidance sentiment has strengthened due to anxiety over 83 March 2017 to 2.74% at the end of March 2018. accelerating interest-rate hikes in the U.S. and rising Gain (loss) on investments in 7.7 2.7 -65.2% Unrealized gains (losses) and trading gains 84 concerns of trade friction between the U.S and China, as equity securities (losses) on stocks held for operating purposes decreased. In Europe, the real GDP growth rate was 2.4%, which was the world's major stock markets has entered an adjustment the highest since 2007, as export growth was accelerated phase, which narrowed the level of rise in Japanese stocks. Other 153.6 221.2 44.0% Other income increased due to the gains Strengths Supporting Value Creation arising from substantial liquidation of overseas due to the firm growth of Chinese and the U.S. economies On the other hand, the yield of Japanese government subsidiaries and the gains from the sale of our and also to the robust capital investments. In October 2017, bonds has been kept in a narrow range by the Bank of controlling financial interest in Asahi Fire and tightening of monetary easing was announced, reducing Japan’s yield curve control policy, and in the fiscal year Marine Insurance Co., Ltd. monthly asset purchases from January 2018, under the ended March 2018, the yield of newly issued 10-year Total revenue 1,715.5 1,972.2 15.0% quantitative monetary easing policy. However, the underlying government bonds stayed in sidelines within the range of inflationary pressure has not increased due to sluggish wage minus 0.009% and 0.104% (closing price). ! ! Interest expenses 312.3 475.2 52.1% Real GDP in the U.S., Europe, Emerging, Trends in JGB 10 Year / Yen Dollar Exchange / Nikkei Stock Net revenue 1,403.2 1,497.0 6.7% developing Asia, Japan in the past 5 years *1 Average in the past 5 years *2 Non-interest expenses 1,080.4 1,168.8 8.2% Non-interest expenses increased due to the (%) increase in personnel expenses related to 8 deferred compensation and the allowance for 10-year government bond yield (Japan) over ¥30 billion for the legacy transactions in 6.9 6.8 6.8 the U.S. 6.5 6.5 Nikkei Stock Average 6 Emerging, developing Asia Income (loss) before income taxes 322.8 328.2 1.7% Corporate Information / Data ¥21,454 4 0.551% U.S. Net income (loss) attributable to Nomura 2.9 239.6 219.3 -8.5% 2.5 1.8 2.4 Holdings shareholders 2 2 2.1 2.2 ¥12,398 1.3 Yen Dollar Exchange Nomura Report 2018 1.8 1.7 1.4 1 ¥106 0 Japan 1.6 ! As net interest income, which is interest income and dividends minus interest expenses, depends on the level and composition of total assets and 0.4 liabilities, including trading assets, repurchase agreement and reverse repurchase agreement transactions, as well as the term structure and -0.3 Europe ¥94 0.049% volatility of interest rates, it is one of the integral parts of trading activities. -2 In the fiscal year ended March 2018, while interest and dividends including dividends from American Century Investments increased, interest 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Mar. 2013 Mar. 2014 Mar. 2015 Mar. 2016 Mar. 2017 Mar. 2018 expenses also increased, leading to a year-on-year decrease in net interest income. *1 Sources: U.S. from U.S. Department of Commerce, Europe from Eurostat, Emerging, developing Asia from IMF, Japan from Cabinet Office, Government of Japan *2 Sources: Bloomberg Financial Review revenue to decrease significantly. Equity earned The second reason is that CET1 capital, a numerator, has Divisional performance Consolidated capital adequacy ratio substantial revenue due to rise in stock markets decreased due to a decline in foreign currency translation About Nomura Retail Division worldwide. In addition, Investment banking advanced CET1 capital ratio on a consolidated basis at the end of adjustment as a result of the appreciation of the yen and There were an increase in transactions of stocks and global collaboration, and by working on many crossMarch 2018 was 16.5%, down from 18.2% at the end of the effect of the end of transitional measures under Basel investment trusts due to the improvements of customer’s border deals, sales increased, resulting in an increase in March 2017. There are two reasons behind this. One is regulations. investment-mind followed by the improvements in the revenue. that the risk-off environment continued and the riskIn addition, we have targeted the CET1 capital ratio on a market environment, net revenue for the fiscal year ended Non-interest expenses other than interest expenses weighted assets at the end of March 2017 was ¥14 consolidated basis in the medium term as 11% or more, March 31, 2018 was ¥412.9 billion, up 10% from the increased by 6% due to the increase in commissions trillion, which was extremely low. In the current fiscal year, and we have maintained a sufficient level of capital. previous fiscal year. paid as the volume of equity business transactions we also controlled the risks, but compared to the end of Retail Division has been working to transform its business increased, and also to the deferred compensation March 2017, risks have increased mainly of market risks. model as it aims to grow the business by enhancing client granted on the basis of the previous fiscal year's trust and satisfaction and becoming a financial institution performance as a result of the strong performance. people turn to. As a result for these efforts, investment Consequently, income before income taxes was ¥100.6 Strategies for Value Creation trusts and discretionary investment balance increased, billion, down 38% from the previous fiscal year. Consolidated capital adequacy ratio and recurring revenue, which is a stable income, expanded (billions of yen) FY2016/17 FY2017/18 Year-on-year to ¥90 billion (annualized amount of the fourth quarter). Capital CET1 capital 2,549 2,500 -49 Income before income taxes was ¥103.1 billion, up 38% Income before income taxes by segment from the previous fiscal year. Tier1 capital 2,690 2,666 -23 Wholesale Asset Management Division Asset Management Total capital 2,799 2,733 -67 (billions of yen) Retail Net revenue from Asset Management Division was ¥127.3 300 Risk-weighted Credit risk-weighted assets 7,763 7,736 -26 billion, up 28% from the previous fiscal year, and income 278.6 269.9 assets before income taxes was ¥66.2 billion, a record-high Value obtained by dividing market risk equivalent 3,505 4,748 1,244 profit since the fiscal year ended March 2002. assets by 8% In the current fiscal year, there was a cash inflow of 100.6 85 approximately ¥3.3 trillion, mainly from ETFs, 200 Value obtained by dividing the operational risk 2,711 2,638 -73 86 161.4 equivalent assets by 8% discretionary investment trusts and domestic investment advisory business. As a result, assets under Total risk-weighted assets 13,978 15,122 1,144 management at the end of March 2018 totaled ¥50 Consolidated CET1 capital ratio 18.2% 16.5% -1.7% Strengths Supporting Value Creation 66.2 trillion. In addition, income from American Century capital adequacy Investments boosted revenue in the current fiscal year. 100 ratio Tier1 capital ratio 19.2% 17.6% -1.6% 42.3 Consolidated capital adequacy ratio 20.0% 18.1% -1.9% Wholesale Division Net revenue from Wholesale Division was ¥715.3 billion, 103.1 74.8 down 3% from the previous fiscal year since the bond market volatility was weak and the activities of market 0 participants have become slow, leading the fixed income FY2016/17 FY2017/18 Annual dividend per share Shareholder returns We believe that basic returns to shareholders will be (yen) International income (loss) before income taxes by region implemented through sustained improvements in 20 20 20 International Businesses 19 shareholder value and dividends. Regarding dividends, International businesses recorded loss before income (billions of yen) we will make consolidated payout ratio of 30% as one of 17 Asia and Oceania Europe Americas taxes of ¥0.7 billion for the fiscal year ended March 31, 100 the important indicators based on consolidated 15 Corporate Information / Data 88.1 2018, a decrease from ¥88.1 billion of income before performance every half year. Dividends in each year will 13 income taxes in the previous fiscal year. This is explained 75 23.7 be decided by comprehensively taking into account the by the provision of allowance for over ¥30 billion for trends of domestic and overseas regulatory 10 50 14.4 legacy transactions in the U.S. and recording of an environments, including Basel regulations, and our Nomura Report 2018 unrealized loss of approximately ¥14 billion in margin loan consolidated results. As a general rule, dividends will be transaction in EMEA. 25 paid twice a year (Date of record: September 30, March 5 50.0 31). 22.8 0 The firm seeks to deliver to shareholders a total payout -8.8 ratio of 50% or more, inclusive of shareholder returns -0.7 0 -25 -14.7 delivered through buy-back of shares. FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 Eleven-Year Consolidated Financial Summary Eleven-Year Consolidated Financial Summary (US GAAP) For the fiscal years beginning April 1 and ending March 31 of the following year Note: This financial summary is prepared solely for convenience. Readers are recommended to refer to Form 20-F. (millions of yen) FY2007/08 FY2008/09 FY2009/10 FY2010/11 FY2011/12 FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 About Nomura Operating results Revenue: Commission 404,659 306,803 395,083 405,463 347,135 358,210 473,121 453,401 431,959 327,129 373,313 Fees from investment banking 85,096 54,953 121,254 107,005 59,638 62,353 91,301 95,083 118,333 92,580 101,663 Asset management and portfolio service fees 189,712 140,166 132,249 143,939 144,251 141,888 168,683 203,387 229,006 216,479 245,616 Net gain (loss) on trading 61,720 (128,339) 417,424 336,503 272,557 367,979 476,356 531,337 354,031 475,587 442,885 Gain (loss) on private equity investments 76,505 (54,791) 11,906 19,292 25,098 8,053 11,392 5,502 13,761 1,371 (869) Interest and dividends 796,540 331,356 235,310 346,103 435,890 394,007 416,350 436,766 440,050 441,036 585,675 Gain (loss) on investments in equity securities (48,695) (25,500) 6,042 (16,677) 4,005 38,686 15,156 29,410 (20,504) 7,708 2,683 Other 28,185 39,863 37,483 43,864 563,186 708,767 179,485 175,702 156,460 153,626 221,192 Total revenue 1,593,722 664,511 1,356,751 1,385,492 1,851,760 2,079,943 1,831,844 1,930,588 1,723,096 1,715,516 1,972,158 Strategies for Value Creation Interest expense 806,465 351,884 205,929 254,794 315,901 266,312 274,774 326,412 327,415 312,319 475,189 Net revenue 787,257 312,627 1,150,822 1,130,698 1,535,859 1,813,631 1,557,070 1,604,176 1,395,681 1,403,197 1,496,969 Non-interest Compensation and benefits 366,805 491,555 526,238 518,993 534,648 547,591 570,058 596,593 574,191 496,385 530,641 expenses: Commissions and floor brokerage 90,192 73,681 86,129 92,088 93,500 91,388 111,849 129,977 123,881 94,495 99,868 Information processing and communications 135,004 154,980 175,575 182,918 177,148 179,904 192,168 192,300 189,910 175,280 184,781 Occupancy and related depreciation 64,841 78,480 87,806 87,843 100,891 91,545 80,142 76,112 78,411 69,836 67,895 Business development expenses 38,135 31,638 27,333 30,153 48,488 49,010 38,485 35,230 35,892 35,111 36,762 Other 157,190 262,558 142,494 125,448 496,227 616,463 202,754 227,205 228,238 209,295 248,864 Total non-interest expenses 852,167 1,092,892 1,045,575 1,037,443 1,450,902 1,575,901 1,195,456 1,257,417 1,230,523 1,080,402 1,168,811 Income (loss) before income taxes (64,910) (780,265) 105,247 93,255 84,957 237,730 361,614 346,759 165,158 322,795 328,158 Income tax expense (benefit) 3,259 (70,854) 37,161 61,330 58,903 132,039 145,165 120,780 22,596 80,229 103,866 Net income (loss) (68,169) (709,411) 68,086 31,925 26,054 105,691 216,449 225,979 142,562 242,566 224,292 Less: Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (322) (1,219) 288 3,264 14,471 (1,543) 2,858 1,194 11,012 2,949 4,949 87 Net income (loss) attributable to NHI shareholders (67,847) (708,192) 67,798 28,661 11,583 107,234 213,591 224,785 131,550 239,617 219,343 88 Balance sheets (Period end)*1 Cash and cash deposits 1,434,067 1,422,709 1,352,244 2,150,453 1,953,677 1,652,752 2,189,310 2,096,596 3,898,843 2,972,088 2,959,046 Strengths Supporting Value Creation Loans and receivables 1,187,600 1,643,007 2,071,714 2,227,822 2,211,423 2,629,875 2,570,678 2,948,424 2,969,578 3,097,428 3,875,199 Collateralized agreements 10,391,367 8,412,618 12,467,213 15,156,318 13,742,646 14,115,257 17,347,001 16,719,520 15,077,660 18,729,825 16,237,743 Trading assets and private equity investments 10,278,188 11,672,612 14,700,282 15,241,931 14,123,594 17,124,349 18,714,314 17,308,848 16,410,002 15,192,364 14,980,156 Other assets 1,944,832 1,686,902 1,638,975 1,916,466 3,665,972 2,420,206 2,699,011 2,709,848 2,734,084 2,860,373 2,291,803 Total assets 25,236,054 24,837,848 32,230,428 36,692,990 35,697,312 37,942,439 43,520,314 41,783,236 41,090,167 42,852,078 40,343,947 Short-term borrowings 1,426,266 1,183,374 1,301,664 1,167,077 1,185,613 738,445 602,131 662,256 662,902 543,049 743,497 Payables and deposits 950,381 1,242,318 1,528,419 2,103,608 2,437,370 2,413,801 2,836,873 3,398,600 4,249,118 3,708,435 3,567,655 Collateralized financing 10,540,731 10,157,954 11,216,481 13,686,438 12,519,274 15,409,383 17,111,999 15,379,803 16,605,591 19,061,091 16,696,994 Trading liabilities 4,469,942 4,752,054 8,356,806 8,688,998 7,495,177 8,491,296 11,047,285 10,044,236 7,499,335 8,191,794 8,202,936 Other liabilities 623,206 467,574 494,983 552,316 1,165,901 978,163 1,141,750 1,217,099 1,200,647 1,308,510 950,534 Long-term borrowings 5,224,426 5,483,028 7,199,061 8,402,917 8,504,840 7,592,368 8,227,063 8,336,296 8,129,559 7,195,408 7,382,507 Total liabilities 23,234,952 23,286,302 30,097,414 34,601,354 33,308,175 35,623,456 40,967,101 39,038,290 38,347,152 40,008,287 37,544,123 Total NHI shareholders’ equity 1,988,124 1,539,396 2,126,929 2,082,754 2,107,241 2,294,371 2,513,680 2,707,774 2,700,239 2,789,916 2,749,320 Noncontrolling interests 12,978 12,150 6,085 8,882 281,896 24,612 39,533 37,172 42,776 53,875 50,504 Corporate Information / Data Total equity 2,001,102 1,551,546 2,133,014 2,091,636 2,389,137 2,318,983 2,553,213 2,744,946 2,743,015 2,843,791 2,799,824 Total liabilities and equity 25,236,054 24,837,848 32,230,428 36,692,990 35,697,312 37,942,439 43,520,314 41,783,236 41,090,167 42,852,078 40,343,947 Cash flows Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (647,906) (712,629) (1,500,770) (235,090) 290,863 549,501 457,426 (77,028) 1,238,372 1,305,025 (445,696) Nomura Report 2018 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (102,019) (98,905) (269,643) (423,214) 9,942 (160,486) (103,195) 12,337 (23,711) (118,051) (56,172) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 942,879 999,760 2,176,530 1,284,243 (844,311) (701,623) 289,385 (178,206) 986,387 (2,130,644) (373,168) Effect of initial adoption of investment company accounting on cash and cash equivalents (38,427) — — — — — — — — — — Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (57,319) (81,896) 964 (26,246) (6,314) 47,175 41,089 68,513 (40,195) 4,249 (53,501) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 97,208 106,330 407,081 599,693 (549,820) (265,433) 684,705 (174,384) 2,160,853 (939,421) (182,201) *1 Figures for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2008 and 2009 have been restated to reflect the application of new guidelines on accounting for and disclosure of non-controlling equity positions that are referred to in Position Paper No. 810, entitled “Consolidated Financial Statements.” ESG Data Environment, social and governance (ESG) Data ESG Data Data for FY2017/18 items marked with have undergone assurance verification by a third party. https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/data/index.html Corporate governance Contributing to Sustainable Communities Members of the Board Unit June 30, 2013 June 30, 2014 June 30, 2015 June 30, 2016 June 30, 2017 June 30, 2018 Community contribution expenditures Unit FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 About Nomura Board of Directors No. of people 11 11 12 11 10 10 Total Millions of yen 1,348 1,323 1,457 1,325 1,704 1,224 Outside Directors No. of people 6 6 7 6 6 6 Education Millions of yen 556 604 530 562 451 407 Ratio (%) 55 55 58 55 60 60 Arts, culture, and sports Millions of yen 81 66 333 102 567 157 Non-Japanese Directors No. of people 3 3 3 3 1 2 Science and academic achievement Millions of yen 129 117 114 120 116 109 Ratio (%) 27 27 25 27 10 20 Community contribution Millions of yen 199 190 161 162 189 261 Female Directors No. of people 1 1 1 1 1 2 Welfare and health Millions of yen 79 39 85 79 53 33 Ratio (%) 9 9 8 9 10 20 Environment Millions of yen 47 84 34 29 71 59 Human rights and labor Millions of yen 4 20 19 39 12 6 Officers (Executive Officers and Senior Managing Directors) Unit April 1, 2013 April 1, 2014 April 1, 2015 April 1, 2016 April 1, 2017 April 1, 2018 Disaster relief Millions of yen 88 78 68 56 61 9 Men No. of people 23 27 26 27 33 34 Other Millions of yen 171 129 113 176 184 185 Women No. of people 2 2 2 2 1 1 Strategies for Value Creation Participants and materials in financial Ratio of women % 8 6 7 7 3 3 and economics education Unit FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 Visiting classes (elementary, junior, No. of schools 31 56 265 304 346 442 Board of Directors meetings Unit FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 senior high schools, universities, teachers) Since 2008 No. of participants 1,865 2,825 9,836 9,637 15,317 19,377 No. of times held No. of times 11 10 10 10 11 10 Financial courses for universities No. of schools 114 112 108 106 104 106 Average attendance rate % 97 98 99 100 99 100 Since 2001 No. of participants 11,000 11,000 11,000 11,000 11,200 11,000 Average term of office Year 2.1 3.1 3.8 3.2 3.3 2.7 Financial courses for the general No. of courses 444 531 566 412 304 270 public Since 2003 No. of participants 21,696 23,897 24,712 14,958 10,926 8,105 Contributing to Sound and Sustainable Capital Markets No. of teams 1,287 1,484 1,361 1,429 1,618 1,832 Nikkei Stock League Caseload at Customer Help Desk Since 2000 No. of members 5,120 5,699 5,167 5,587 6,462 7,180 Department (Nomura Securities) Unit FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 Number of educational materials No. of schools 783 442 527 440 434 470 Total No. of cases 5,693 7,010*1 5,540 5,767 6,003 7,054 supplied* No. of copies 34,748 26,801 39,550 27,305 30,167 37,163 Complaints No. of cases 3,409 4,023*2 2,537 2,771 2,531 2,479 * The numbers of educational materials Nomura Holdings donated and sent to elementary and junior high schools were totaled. Inquiries No. of cases 2,119 2,730 2,766 2,749 3,267 4,147*3 89 90 Opinions and requests No. of cases 23 55 81 128 98 270 Developing human resources who respect diversity Other No. of cases 142 202 156 119 107 158 Education and training expenses Unit FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 *1 The increase in the number of consultations in FY2013/14 is due to an increase in the number of consultations about telephone line congestion. *2 Of this total, 69 complaints were related to the management of customer information. Total Millions of yen 2,441 2,515 2,972 2,880 2,767 2,987 Strengths Supporting Value Creation *3 The increase in the number of inquiries in FY2017/18 is due to system changes. Japan Millions of yen 1,907 1,978 2,076 2,020 2,094 2,093 Results of customer satisfaction surveys at branch offices (Nomura Securities) Unit December 2013 August 2014 January 2015 February 2016 February 2017 November 2017 Europe Millions of yen 108 81 115 225 161 228 Americas Millions of yen 233 262 573 426 299 435 Extremely satisfied/satisfied % 81.6 81.4 80.9 82.1 83.7 85.5 Asia-Pacific Millions of yen 193 194 208 209 213 230 Neither satisfied nor dissatisfied % 15.7 16.3 16.3 15.1 14.3 13.0 Extremely dissatisfied/dissatisfied % 2.7 2.2 2.8 2.8 2.0 1.5 Participation in education and training* Unit FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 Sustainability bonds* Unit FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 Total Aggregate no. of hours 254,117 406,602 507,639 499,386 501,377 530,869 Bonds issued Number 9 8 5 4 5 20 Aggregate no. of participants 22,048 89,657 132,672 211,014 195,819 277,824 Proceeds Millions of yen 53,619 498,768 110,331 52,133 59,226 220,997 Japan Aggregate no. of hours 208,087 284,920 333,305 307,295 303,854 298,571 * ESG bonds in which Nomura Securities is involved Aggregate no. of participants 12,081 12,325 14,398 16,294 15,581 14,896 Europe Aggregate no. of hours 1,732 26,117 48,434 47,709 33,638 49,288 Aggregate no. of participants 647 21,822 41,654 62,077 44,325 70,240 Americas Aggregate no. of hours 7,204 7,811 15,439 17,589 15,848 23,139 Corporate Information / Data Aggregate no. of participants 1,794 5,598 12,255 25,122 19,816 38,169 Asia-Pacific Aggregate no. of hours 37,094 87,754 110,461 126,793 148,037 159,871 Aggregate no. of participants 7,526 49,912 64,365 107,521 116,097 154,519 * Figures for Europe, the Americas and Asia-Pacific do not cover certain subsidiaries and the like because attended educations and trainings the Wholesale Division manages through an in-house training system are totaled. Nomura Report 2018 Total hours for educations and trainings attended in FY2015/16 and FY2016/17 (hr.), which are stated in the total column and the Europe column, are revised as follows based on a close examination of data for prior fiscal years. Total education and training hours in the total column: revised from 589,242 to 499,386 and from 562,289 to 501,377. Total education and training hours in the Europe column: revised from 137,565 to 47,709 and from 94,550 to 33,638. ESG Data ESG Data Data for FY2017/18 items marked with have undergone assurance verification by a third party. https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/data/index.html Developing human resources who respect diversity Our environment Composition of employees*1 Unit FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 GHG emissions Unit FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 About Nomura Total No. of employees 26,242 26,019 28,672 28,865 28,186 28,048 Scope 1: Direct Japan t-CO2 2,247 2,207 2,107 1,986 2,005 1,968 emissions*1 Ratio of male employees (%) 62 62 62 62 61 61 Europe t-CO2 1,318 1,131 797 752 772 784 Ratio of female employees (%) 38 38 38 38 39 39 Americas t-CO2 0 46 69 72 72 73 Japan No. of employees 15,004 15,062 15,973 16,083 16,227 15,819 Asia-Pacific t-CO2 76 143 143 169 173 167 Ratio of male employees (%) 57 56 58 58 58 57 Scope 2: Indirect Japan t-CO2 38,988 42,300 40,965 39,065 36,783 35,302 emissions*1 Ratio of female employees (%) 43 44 42 42 42 43 Europe t-CO2 16,842 17,334 14,164 12,822 11,786 10,031 Europe No. of employees 3,618 3,461 3,485 3,424 3,026 3,057 Americas t-CO2 6,278 5,015 6,406 6,966 6,168 5,510 Ratio of male employees (%) 70 71 71 71 70 70 Asia-Pacific t-CO2 24,323 21,601 22,007 21,892 20,942 19,800 Ratio of female employees (%) 30 29 29 29 30 30 Scope 1, 2: Emissions Japan t-CO2 2.8 3.0 2.9 2.7 2.5 2.4 per employee*1 Americas No. of employees 2,271 2,281 2,449 2,503 2,314 2,362 Europe t-CO2 6.2 6.0 4.6 4.3 4.2 3.6 Ratio of male employees (%) 74 74 74 74 74 74 Americas t-CO2 2.8 2.2 2.6 2.8 2.7 2.4 Strategies for Value Creation Ratio of female employees (%) 26 26 26 26 26 26 Asia-Pacific t-CO2 5.4 4.9 4.3 4.2 4.2 3.8 Asia-Pacific No. of employees 5,349 5,215 6,765 6,855 6,619 6,810 Scope 3: Emissions Japan t-CO2 17,919 18,729 20,823 22,013 22,936 24,554 from employee travel*2 Ratio of male employees (%) 65 64 61 61 59 60 (Air, rail, and automobile Europe t-CO2 9,728 9,253 8,127 7,651 7,023 7,929 Ratio of female employees (%) 35 36 39 39 41 40 travel) Americas t-CO2 5,124 5,561 4,349 4,966 4,343 5,547 Asia-Pacific t-CO2*3 11,057 9,552 10,575 11,587 11,041 12,196 Number of new hires*2 Unit FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 Total No. of employees 2,554 2,920 2,934 2,868 2,763 2,901 Energy consumption Unit FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 Ratio of male employees (%) 67 65 57 61 Direct energy Japan MWh 11,948 11,729 11,229 10,573 10,654 10,402 consumption Ratio of female employees (%) 33 35 43 39 Europe MWh 7,025 6,210 4,438 4,201 4,329 4,374 (Natural gas, etc.) Japan No. of employees 1,027 1,029 845 932 1,107 1,008 Americas MWh 0 225 340 355 359 360 Ratio of male employees (%) 43 49 57 58 53 54 Asia-Pacific MWh 800 608 611 732 743 720 Ratio of female employees (%) 57 51 43 42 47 46 Indirect energy Japan MWh 74,293 74,117 72,780 70,520 68,372 67,360 consumption Europe No. of employees 307 503 510 405 283 376 Europe MWh 38,679 41,164 30,836 30,133 30,713 30,135 91 (Purchased electric 92 Ratio of male employees (%) 76 71 67 69 power) Americas MWh 16,104 15,896 22,148 21,882 20,236 18,883 Ratio of female employees (%) 24 29 33 31 Asia-Pacific MWh 28,012 26,942 27,862 26,720 25,577 24,200 Americas No. of employees 361 418 510 424 318 355 Including, Green power purchased*4 MWh 6,329 6,317 32,626 34,652 35,033 34,193 Strengths Supporting Value Creation Ratio of male employees (%) 75 74 71 74 (Purchased cooling and Japan MWh 17,523 15,258 12,400 11,971 12,320 11,680 heating power) Ratio of female employees (%) 25 26 29 26 Europe MWh 0 0 0 0 0 0 Asia-Pacific No. of employees 859 970 1,069 1,107 1,055 1,162 Americas MWh 7,924 2,220 238 140 198 254 Ratio of male employees (%) 67 64 54 60 Asia-Pacific MWh 1,907 1,731 1,694 1,617 1,723 1,824 Ratio of female employees (%) 33 36 46 40 Environmental resource efficiency Unit FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 Composition of managers*3 Unit FY2012/13 FY2013/14 FY2014/15 FY2015/16 FY2016/17 FY2017/18 Water consumption Japan Thousand m 3 178 177 171 170 168 161 Total No. of employees 8,079 7,944 8,329 8,535 9,110 9,174 Europe Thousand m3 124 124 97 115 107 111 Ratio of male employees (%) 87 87 85 84 85 84 Americas Thousand m 3 4 13 26 30 29 30 Ratio of female employees (%) 13 13 15 16 15 16 Asia-Pacific Thousand m3 45 45 48 36 35 53 Japan No. of employees 3,768 3,698 3,673 3,615 4,672 4,493 Copy paper consumption*5 ton 759 746 1,041 1,083 1,018 1,002 Ratio of male employees (%) 94 94 94 93 92 91 Amount of waste generated*6 ton 1,904 2,659 2,281 2,540 2,658 2,403 Ratio of female employees (%) 6 6 6 7 8 9 Scopes 1, 2 and 3 are classified in accordance with classifications established in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol; http://www.ghgprotocol.org). Europe No. of employees 1,872 1,797 1,790 1,838 1,559 1,624 The scopes of the tallies in respective regions are as follows. Data for all bases are totaled for air travel in Scope 3. Japan: Group companies located in Japan (https://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/group/index.html) 83 84 83 82 81 81 Europe: offices located in London, Paris, Frankfurt, Zurich, Madrid, Milan, Luxemburg and Cape Town Corporate Information / Data Ratio of male employees (%) Americas: offices located in New York and bases that belong to Instinet Ratio of female employees (%) 17 16 17 18 19 19 Asia-Pacific: offices located in Hong Kong, Singapore, India, Dalian and Bangkok Americas No. of employees 1,250 1,262 1,343 1,399 1,279 1,366 *1 The Bangkok office was added to emissions in Asia-Pacific in FY2014/15. The Cape Town office was added to emissions in Europe in FY2017/18. *2 Emissions quotas for air and long-distance rail travel in Japan and overseas purchased from designated agents are totaled. Data for regularly-used vehicles are also totaled for Japan, Ratio of male employees (%) 81 81 81 80 80 80 Europe and Asia-Pacific offices in India, Hong Kong and Bangkok. *3 The guaranteed scope for Asia-Pacific was 11,002 t-CO2 recorded in FY2017/18 (equivalent to the total for offices in Hong Kong, Singapore, India and Bangkok). Ratio of female employees (%) 19 19 19 20 20 20 *4 Figures for Japan, and the Frankfurt and Zurich offices in Europe were totaled in FY2012/13. Figures for the Milan office in Europe were added to the scope of the totaling in FY2013/14. Nomura Report 2018 Figures for the London office in Europe were added to the scope of the totaling in FY2014/15. Figures for the Luxemburg office and the Paris office in Europe were added to the scope of Asia-Pacific No. of employees 1,189 1,187 1,523 1,683 1,600 1,691 the totaling in FY2015/16. *5 Figures for Nomura Securities in Japan, which purchased paper from designated agents, and figures for the London office in Europe and the India and Hong Kong offices in Asia-Pacific Ratio of male employees (%) 76 76 71 71 70 70 were totaled in FY2012/13 and FY2013/14. Figures for the Bangkok office in Asia-Pacific were added to the scope of the totaling in FY2014/15. Nomura Securities expanded the scope of Ratio of female employees (%) 24 24 29 29 30 30 its tally from A4-size paper to all types of coping paper in the same fiscal year. *6 Figures for offices in Tokyo (the Nihonbashi Head Office Building and the Dai-ni Edobashi Building), the Osaka Branch, the Nagoya Branch, the London office, the Paris office, the *1 Employee composition: The Nomura Group is the scope of the totaling (on a consolidated basis). Data for FY2013/14 and prior fiscal years do not cover certain subsidiaries. Frankfurt office, the Zurich office and the India office were totaled in FY2012/13. Figures for another office in Tokyo (the Urbannet Otemachi Building), the Kyoto Branch, the Okayama *2 New hire composition: The Nomura Group is the scope of the totaling (on a consolidated basis). Data for FY2015/16 and prior fiscal years for Japan cover Nomura Holdings and Nomura Branch and the Hong Kong office were added to the scope of the totaling in FY2013/14. Figures for the Luxemburg office were added to the scope of the totaling in FY2014/15. Figures for Securities. Data for FY2015/16 and prior fiscal years for Asia-Pacific cover consolidated subsidiaries with certain exceptions, such as Capital Nomura Securities Public Company Limited one additional office in Tokyo (the Nomura Asset Management Head Office Building) were added to the scope of the totaling in FY2015/16. and Nomura Asset Management Taiwan Ltd which were added to the scope of consolidation in FY2014/15. *3 Management composition: The Nomura Group is the scope of the totaling (on a consolidated basis). Data for FY2015/16 and prior fiscal years do not cover certain subsidiaries in Japan. Refer to standards for calculation (https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/data/index.html). Independent Assurance / Key Events during the Year 2017 Apr. Management topics Established N-Village, a subsidiary to promote new business development and open innovation Management topics Established Policy on Customer-Oriented Business Conduct About Nomura Management topics Launched VOYAGER: Nomura FinTech Partnership program in India May Assessments Translation Selected as Competitive IT Strategy Company 2017 by Ministry of The following is an English translation of an independent assurance report prepared in Japanese and is for information Economy, Trade and Industry, and Tokyo Stock Exchange and reference purposes only. In the event of a discrepancy between the Japanese and English versions, the Japanese version will prevail. June Management topics Independent Assurance Report Established new company in Germany to minimize the impact for June 29, 2018 clients from the UK’s exit from the EU and to continue providing financial services as before, and began applying for a formal application TO: for a license in Germany Mr. Koji Nagai Group CEO July ESG Strategies for Value Creation Nomura Holdings, Inc. Kenji Sawami Selected as a component of the FTSE Blossom Japan Index Engagement Partner Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC Tokyo, Japan Sept. ESG Selected as a component of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index We, Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC, have been commissioned by Nomura Holdings, Inc. (hereafter the “Company”) and (DJSI World Index) and the DJSI Asia Pacific Index, global stock indices has carried out a limited assurance engagement on the Key Sustainability Performance Indicators (hereafter the that measure socially responsible investment Indicators ) of the Company and its major subsidiaries for the year ended March 31, 2018㻌 as included in “ESG Data ” (hereafter the “Report”). The scope of our assurance procedures was limited to the Indicators marked with the symbol Management topics Key Events “ ” in the Report. Established innovation office in San Francisco to further enhance 1． The Company's Responsibilities promotion and support of financial innovation and new business The Company is responsible for preparing the Indicators in accordance with the Company’s own criteria, that it determined with consideration of Japanese environmental regulations and other regulations as presented in “Citizenship－ESG Data－Standards for Calculation” (http://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/data/). Oct. Financials Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are estimated using emissions factors, which are subject to scientific and estimation uncertainties given different instruments for measuring GHG emissions may vary in characteristics, in terms of functions and assumed parameters.㻌 during the Year Completed share buyback program (100 million shares; about ¥62.3 billion) Management topics 2． Our Independence and Quality Control Adopted “Nomura’s Declaration to Support Employees Balance Work We have met the independence requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the and Family Care” The Nomura Group is facing dramatic 93 International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants in January 2017, which is based on the fundamental structural changes such as low fertility 94 principles of integrity, objectiveness, professional competence and due care, confidentiality, and professional Nov. Assessments behavior. rates and the aging population in In addition, we maintain a comprehensive quality control system, including documented policies and procedures Awarded “IT Management Prize” by Japan Institute of Information for compliance with ethical rules, professional standards, and applicable laws and regulations in accordance with Japan, and increasing digital Technology the International Standard on Quality Control 1 issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards innovation. Looking 10 or 20 years Financials Strengths Supporting Value Creation Board in April 2009. 3． Our responsibilities ahead, we accelerated initiatives to Established Policy for Cancellation of Treasury Shares Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Indicators included in the Report based on further strengthen the Nomura Group’s Management topics the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. business foundations, including We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Decided to establish Merchant Banking Division for overseeing Engagements: Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (“ISAE launching the principal investment Nomura's principal investment business 3000”) (Revised), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board㻌 in December 2013, business, starting to examine a Practical Guidelines for the Assurance of Sustainability Information, revised in December 2014 by the Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information and, with respect of GHG emissions, business alliance with LINE Dec. ESG Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements (“ISAE 3410”), issued by the International Auditing Corporation which has a strong Selected as a component of the MSCI Japan Empowering and Assurance Standards Board in June 2012. Women Index (WIN) The procedures, which we have performed according to our professional judgment, include inquiries, document asset-building user base, and investing inspection, analytical procedures, reconciliation between source documents and Indicators in the Report, as well in the 8 Group which is skilled in as the following: 2018 Jan. Management topics • Making inquiries regarding the Company’s own criteria that it determined with consideration of Japanese mobile app development. Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. declared itself a “100-year life environmental regulations㻌and other regulations, and evaluating the appropriateness thereof; We are also actively involved in ESG partner” that aims to provide optimal financial services to solve • Inspecting relevant documents with regard to the design of the Company’s internal controls related to the customers’ problems in Japan’s longevity society Indicators, and inquiring of personnel responsible thereof at the Company and major subsidiary’s 2 sites (Environmental, Social, and visited; Governance) activities. The Nomura Financials • Performing analytical procedures concerning the Indicators at the Company and major subsidiary’s 2 sites Group has been included in various Completed share buyback program (70 million shares; about ¥46.7 billion) visited; • Testing, on a sample basis, underlying source information and conducting relevant re-calculations at the ESG indices, and the Nomura Institute Feb. Corporate Information / Data Company and major subsidiary’s 2 sites visited. Services of Capital Markets Research also The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement are more limited in nature, timing and extent than Launched online account opening service using “Japanese Public Key a reasonable assurance engagement. established a dedicated research Infrastructure” As a result, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is lower than would have been group to focus on the sustainable obtained if we had performed a reasonable assurance engagement. ESG 4． Conclusion development of the ESG bond market. The Nomura Institute of Capital Markets Research established a Based on the procedures performed and evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to dedicated research group to focus on the sustainable development of Nomura Report 2018 believe that the Indicators included in the Report have not been measured and reported in accordance with the the ESG bond market Company’s own criteria that it determined with consideration of Japanese environmental regulations and other regulations. Mar. Management topics Concluded basic agreement to start examining financial business alliance with LINE Corporation Management topics Nomura Asset Management agreed to acquire shares of 8 Securities and 8 Limited through a third-party allotment Global Network / Services for Retail Client Global Network (As of June 30, 2018) Services for Retail Clients The Nomura Group, as Asia’s global investment bank, has a global network spanning more than 30 countries and regions. About Nomura Europe, the Middle East and Africa London Subsidiary* Milan Branch Amsterdam Subsidiary Luxembourg Subsidiary Vienna Representative office Istanbul Representative office Helsinki Stockholm Branch Qatar Branch Stockholm Zurich Subsidiary Branch* Dubai Branch Luxembourg Amsterdam Paris Subsidiary Branch* Bahrain Subsidiary London Frankfurt Frankfurt Subsidiary Branch* Riyadh Subsidiary Paris Vienna Istanbul Helsinki Branch South Africa Branch Zurich Milan Madrid Branch Consulting Services Call Center Online Services Madrid Provide tailored consulting services to Provide a wide range of services to Provide access to information and Strategies for Value Creation Bahrain Dubai Riyadh each client through Nomura’s head office clients who have existing accounts at convenient tools through a broad range Qatar and nationwide network of 156 branch Nomura, as well as new potential clients of devices. Clients with accounts in offices Nomura can execute various transactions through their individual web interface Client Nomura’s call center and internet service was awarded a ‘five Website exclusive for each subscriber of star’ rating by the Help Desk Institute for four consecutive individual-type defined contribution pension years for its defined contribution pension plan services plan (iDeCo) Real estate Asset Management Transaction orders Japan / Asia ex-Japan Insurance Loan Website exclusive for each subscriber of Market outlook and investment consulting employee stock ownership plan (reservation required) Head offices, branches and offices 156 Estate planning, Bestowing Individual-type defined contribution pension Hong Kong Subsidiary* Branch Business succession gifts / Testamentary trust plan (iDeCo) information and services Cape Town Beijing Representative office Beijing Seoul Administrative functions, including new account Shanghai Representative office Mumbai opening services Japan Shanghai Taipei Branch 95 Seoul Subsidiary Representative office Hong Kong 96 Mumbai Subsidiary Hanoi Taipei Hanoi Nomura Securities: 156 branches in Japan Representative office Bangkok Jakarta Subsidiary Philippines (As of June 30, 2018) Strengths Supporting Value Creation Kuala Lumpur Subsidiary Kuala Lumpur Philippines Subsidiary Singapore Hokkaido Bangkok Subsidiary 4 branches, 1 office Jakarta Hokuriku Singapore Subsidiary* Sydney Subsidiary* 4 branches Melbourne Representative office Tohoku Chubu Sydney 8 branches, 1 office 16 branches Melbourne Kinki 27 branches Kanto 1 private banking office 35 branches Americas Toronto Chugoku Tokyo metropolitan area San Francisco Boston New York Subsidiary* Branch* Chicago New York 8 branches, 1 office 1 Head office, 33 branches Corporate Information / Data Washington, D.C. Branch 1 private banking office Los Angeles St. Louis Washington, D.C. Boston Branch* Manhattan Beach Bermuda Chicago Branch* Shikoku Branches operating after 5 p.m. / Saturday and Sunday Manhattan Beach Branch 4 branches Keio Shinjuku Branch Machida Branch (Wednesday) San Francisco Branch* Branches operating Saturday Branches operating after 5 p.m. and Sunday after 5 p.m. Los Angeles Nomura Report 2018 Branch* Kyushu St. Louis Branch* Fuchu Branch Funabashi Branch Gifu Branch 10 branches Toronto Subsidiary* Hirakata Branch Hiratsuka Branch Hiroshima Branch Colombia Representative office Kichijoji Branch Matsudo Branch Matsuyama Branch Colombia São Paulo Representative office Third Saturday Bermuda Subsidiary Okinawa São Paulo *Includes subsidiaries and branches of Instinet 1 branch Corporate Data / Share Information / Stock Price / Credit Rating Corporate Data Total Shareholder Return (TSR)* 1 TSR (annual average) About Nomura Company name Nomura Holdings, Inc. Holding Period*2 1 year 3 year 5 year 2.5 Date of incorporation December 25, 1925 Nomura Holdings -8.20% -1.66% 4.14% Nomura Holdings TOPIX 15.92% 5.82% 12.91% Head office 1-9-1, Nihonbashi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8645, Japan TOPIX 2.0 Paid-in capital ¥594,493 million Group employees 28,048 1.5 Common stock issued 3,643,562,601 shares 1.0 Number of shareholders 373,524 (Unit shareholders: 352,148) The common shares of Nomura Holdings, Inc. are listed on the Tokyo, 0.5 Nagoya, and Singapore stock exchanges. The shares are also listed on Listing the NYSE in the form of American Depositary Shares (ADSs) evidenced Relative value of stock price with dividends reinvested, assuming Strategies for Value Creation by American Depositary Receipts (ADRs). Each ADS represents one the closing price of stock on March 29, 2013 was set at 1. 0 share of common stock. Mar. 2013 Mar. 2014 Mar. 2015 Mar. 2016 Mar. 2017 Mar. 2018 Securities code 8604 (Tokyo Stock Exchange), NMR (New York Stock Exchange) *1 TSR: Total shareholder return, combining capital gains and dividend. Dividend is to be reinvested. Source: Nomura, based on Bloomberg *2 Holding period until March 31, 2018 Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Corporate Agency Transfer agent and registrar Department Depositary for American Depositary Receipts (ADRs) The Bank of New York Mellon Credit Rating (As of June 30, 2018) Date of record for dividend payments September 30, March 31 Nomura Securities Nomura Holdings Long-term Short-term Long-term Short-term R&I A+ a-1 A+ a-1 Share Information (As of March 31, 2018) JCR AAAAMajor shareholders (Top 10)* 1 Number of Ownership Moody’s A3 P-2 Baa1 shares owned 97 (%)*2 98 Name of shareholder (thousands)*2 Standard & Poor’s A A-1 AA-2 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 168,204 5.0% Fitch Ratings AF1 AF1 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 158,790 4.7% Strengths Supporting Value Creation State Street Bank West Client-Treaty 505234 65,993 1.9% Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 5) 64,838 1.9% Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 1) 48,118 1.4% Basic Information in the Report Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 2) 47,496 1.4% Period covered April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018 (Some content may be outside this time frame) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 7) 45,040 1.3% Reporting cycle Once a year Northern Trust Co. (AVFC) Re Silchester International Investors International Value Equity Trust 44,183 1.3% Previous August 2017 JP Morgan Chase Bank 385151 44,129 1.3% Current August 2018 Entities covered Nomura Holdings, Inc. and its major subsidiaries and affiliates Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account 9) 43,253 1.3% https://www.nomuraholdings.com/company/group/ *1 The Company has 250,285 thousand shares of treasury stock as of March 31, 2018 which is not included in the major shareholders list above. Numerical data are presented alongside information on the scope of companies *2 Figures for number of shares owned are rounded down to the nearest thousand and figures for percentage of shares owned are calculated excluding treasury stock. covered Reference guidelines • GRI Standards (2016) Component ratio of shareholders Individuals and others Financial institutions This report contains information regarding the standard disclosure items Corporate Information / Data (including treasury stock) (including Financial instruments firms) (unit share base) contained in the GRI Standards (2016). Please access the following URL on 34.0% 26.2% our corporate website for our GRI Standards (2016) Index. https://www.nomuraholdings.com/csr/gri/index.html • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2012 Version) of Japan’s Ministry of the Environment Nomura Report 2018 • Charter of Corporate Behavior of Keidanren Other legal entities 3.8% Nomura Holdings, Inc. Foreign legal entities Investor Relations Corporate Citizenship Department 36.1% INQUIRIES Urbannet Otemachi Building, 2-2-2, Otemachi Nomura Building, 2-1-1, Otemachi, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8170, Japan Tokyo 100-8130, Japan Tel: +81 (3) 5255-1000 (Main switchboard) Tel: +81 (3) 5255-1000 (Main switchboard) e-mail: csr@jp.nomura.com
