[sustainability report] 2016 1 — We talked to Syrian immigrants who came to our country, fleeing from war. We came to know them more closely while recycling papers together. We talked about life memories centered around humans and what the wars left behind. Many of our perceptions are common such as the warmth of human connection and that love begins with language. — GÜLSÜM ÖZKOCA BORUSAN MAKİNA VE GÜÇ SİSTEMLERİ #TheEarthIsOurHome 2 3 [dünya] dünya means “world” in English noun 1. The earth and seas we live above, earth’s surface. 2. One of 6500 words that we use in common with Syrians. — We have discovered the magic of the words together with Syrians! — #TheEarthIsOurHome 4 5 — When we came together with Syrian friends to pulp paper, first we kneaded on the same pot the paper on which we wrote our names. It was not yours or mine, but “ours”. — — We learnt that paper is “the dough of civilizations”. The way to understand each other is through art, language and producing and sharing together. — 6 7 #TheEarthIsOurHome 8 9 12 > The Scope of Our Report 14 20 > Message from Group CEO > Borusan Facts and Figures [merhaba] 22 > Borusan Holding and Group Companies * 24 > Strategy and Management merhaba means “hello” in English 26 Corporate Governance 28 Ethics Management noun 1. The expression for salutation. 32 Ethics Management of Suppliers 2. One of 6500 words that we use in 34 Our Sustainability Journey common with Syrians. 36 Sustainability Management 40 Material Sustainability Topics 42 UN Sustainable Development Goals 40 Communication with our Stakeholders 48 > Economic Performance 50 Investments 52 Industrial Investments With our sustainability reports at 60 Renewable Energy Generation Investments Borusan Group; 66 > Social Performance we present our management approach 68 Employment and Training 78 Employee Rights regarding economic, social and 79 Occupational Health and Safety environmental impacts resulting from our 94 Corporate Responsibility 110 > Environmental Performance products, services, and activities to all 114 Energy Management and Combatting Climate Change our stakeholders, especially Borusan staff 118 Waste Management 120 Water Management and our customers. 122 > Appendices 122 Memberships 125 Awards 127 Performance Indicators 138 GRI Content Index 10 11 [the scope of our report ] THE PRINCIPLES Unless otherwise stated, the data in this report cover OF OUR REPORT Borusan Group’s ongoing activities in four major areas of activity and six major industries during January 1st This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. December 31st 2016. Although the priorities of these www.globalreporting.org industries are diverging from each other, we identified In the process of identifying our strategic sustainability aspects, their mutual material topics through the workshop and we considered the GRI principles of materiality, stakeholder the strategy survey we held. In the report, we included inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness besides the performance data and good practices regarding the UN Global Compact principles that we signed in 2003. www.globalcompact.org mutual topic of the companies that constitute 95% of total Borusan Group revenues. These companies are: OUR Borusan Mannesmann, Borçelik-Kerim Çelik, Borusan NEXT REPORT Otomotiv and Automotive Group companies, Supsan, Borusan Lojistik, Borusan EnBW Enerji and Borusan We plan to publish our next report that will reflect our sustainability performance in 2017, in the second half of 2018. Makina and Güç Sistemleri. We included Kerim Çelik Previous Borusan Group Sustainability Reports are present at our data along with Borçelik data. Borusan Manheim’s corporate web site. performance is outside the boundaries of this report. www.borusan.com (GRI 102-46) 12 13 Dear Stakeholders, As Borusan Holding, we continue to share We are aware that our business decisions our sustainability performance with our have social and environmental impacts stakeholders through our reports since and pay special attention to the risks asso[message from 2009. We are glad to share with you our ciated with global warming. Therefore, we seventh sustainability report that we preconduct studies to reduce the impacts of pared based on the new GRI Reporting our operations on climate change. In this group CEO] Standards. regard, we try to develop more energy efficient processes in operations, save natural Today, with over 8,000 employees in 3 conresources, and offer products that continents and 10 countries, we aim to sustain sume less energy. our business with a transparent and accountable management approach, respect We continue to strive towards the goals in people and environment. our strategic plans with the essential aids of our main three main enablers; innovation, Our consolidated group revenue in 2016 digitalization and R&D initiatives. Our innowas USD 4.3 billion, and operational profvation journey gained pace with the maturit was USD 394 million. We continued to ing startup companies and new products — Today, engage in many efficiency and saving oriand services added in our portfolio. ented innovative projects and investments with over 8,000 employees in 3 in our companies. We aimed to manage Thanks to our investments to these five these efforts with a wide sustainability perstart-up companies which amount to c. continents and 10 countries, we aim to spective considering their economic, soUSD 20 million every year, they grew their sustain our business with a transparent cial, environmental and corporate impacts. volumes significantly in 2016. 6 new prodIn 2016, the Group’s investments amountucts in the flat steel sector created USD 10 and accountable management approach, ed to USD 204 million which was mainly million in returns in their first year. Despite accounted by the investments we made in difficult market conditions, we will continrespect people and environment. — our energy business. ue our investments in innovation and we AGAH UĞUR GROUP CEO 14 15 [MESSAGE FROM GROUP CEO] plan on launching at least two new startpanies in acquiring technology throughout with programs we organized under BoruIn this context, in 2016 we maintained the up companies and three new products 2016. To reach our goal of establishing R&D san Academy, to develop and improve support of Borusan Kocabıyık Foundation over the next year. In 2016, we prepared centers in Borusan companies, in 2015 we each level of employees. We continuously to education institutions; gathered thoua digital transition strategy and roadmap applied to found the Borusan Lojistik R&D improve our occupational health and safety sands of music lovers with many promfor the Group, reviewing the experience Center and, with Ministry of Science, Inperformance with regard to our priority to inent musicians from Turkey and from we offer our customers, the productivity dustry and Technology approval, the cencreate safer and healthier workplaces for around the world via Borusan Sanat, preof our internal processes, newly developter became operational in April 2016. We our employees, customers and suppliers; sented original examples of modern art to ing technological solutions, and business have made TÜBİTAK TEYDEB applications and our zero-accident objective. art lovers through Borusan Contemporary models. We will further expand our compafor 10 of the 17 R&D projects we launched and worked for a more equal and fair comnies’ competitive power by executing this in 2016, and the two projects with completWe continue our projects that will contribmunity through our women empowerment roadmap. ed assessments have become eligible for ute to the global sustainable development practices. In the reporting period, we alloTÜBİTAK funding. We have completed pregoals of United Nations. Detailed inforcated USD 11 millions funds to community In accordance with the Group’s strategic liminary studies and formed time, resource mation regarding these projects is given projects. goals, Borusan R&D, founded to develop and project plans for the 37 projects we throughout the report. We give back to innovative, high added-value, competitive have planned for 2017. community through our activities regarding We hereby thank all our stakeholders, priproducts and processes that enable our education, arts and culture, environment, marily to our employees, for their efforts companies to attain the required compeWe continued the training activities to suphuman rights and empowering women during our sustainability journey of creattency and proficiency, supported our comport career development of our employees along with our volunteer staff. ing value. 16 17 — You need to blend and acquaint yourself with different cultures in order to overcome prejudices. What can better achieve this than a learning experience which involves sharing and collective production? — RASİM RASİMOĞLU BORUSAN MANNESMANN #TheEarthIsOurHome 18 19 [Borusan facts and figures] Corporate Profile Sustainability Profile Operations in 3 Continents 70+ Years Industry and Service Experience 10 Countries 16 Companies 4 Industries ECONOMIC 6 Business Lines USD 4.3 Billion USD 394 Million Consolidated Revenues Operational Profit USD 5 Million 4 R&D Centers R&D Investments (Targeted Establishments by 2017) Corporate Profile Sustainability Profile 8,000 %12 Executive Level Women Managers Ratio %81,5 Ratio of Factory Employees Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreement 599 3,772 Hours SOCIAL Time Spent for Volunteer Volunteer Employees Projects TRY 5.5 Million 2,800 Women Loan Amount Provided Number of Entrepreneurs Provided by Branches with Microloan Support Corporate Profile Sustainability Profile 388.6 MW 666 Thousand Tons Renewable Energy CO2 Emission Reduction Installed Capacity ENVIRONMENTAL 1,638 People Participants of 4,023 Hours Environmental Trainings Environmental Trainings 12,332 Trees Number of Trees Saved 25 Thousand People/Year with Green Port Oxygen Need Equivalance 20 21 [Borusan Holding and group — At Borusan, we achieve companies] sustainable growth by means of our strong corporate business culture. — Borusan Holding and Borusan Danışmanlık ve Ortak Hizmetler Company oversee the central management of our group together. STEEL DISTRIBUTORSHIP Borusan Holding assumes responsibility of increasing the value created to STEEL MACHINERY shareholders and other stakeholders through the leading, supportive, and Borusan Mannesmann Boru Yatırım Holding AND POWER SYSTEMS controlling role it plays as the strategic leader of group companies. Holding Borusan Mannesmann Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri fulfils the critical responsibilities such as; deploying “innovative competition” BM Vobarno Borusan Makina Kazakistan understanding throughout the organization and value chain, managing reBorusan Mühendislik Borusan İstikbal Ticaret AUTOMOTIVE lations with partners and other stakeholders, efficient use of resources, and defining sustainability strategy. Borusan Otomotiv FLAT STEEL Borusan Oto Borçelik Borusan Otomotiv Premium Kiralama Borusan Danışmanlık ve Ortak Hizmetler is in charge of providing the exKerim Çelik Supsan pertise necessary for our group to reach its strategic targets and support Manheim Türkiye business outcomes, and managing the processes regarding optimum cost/ maximum efficiency. The company also oversees major initiatives such as; LOGISTICS ENERGY Lean 6 Sigma, Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility projects Borusan Lojistik Borusan EnBW Enerji across the group. Borusan Logistics International 22 23 [strategy and — Borusan Holding’s management] management approach is based on communicating effectively and transparently with all our internal and external stakeholders. — We determine the long-term strategies of Borusan Holding group companies in the framework of a five-year perspective and four major concepts. These are; Profit Growth, Strategic Market Positioning, New Products & Services and Business Excellence. Borusan Holding’s management approach is based on communicating effectively and transparently with all our internal and external stakeholders. We take into consideration both industry and stakeholder priorities in defining our sustainability priorities. While realizing our strategic plans, we prioritize our social, environmental and economic aspects, create continuous and ever-increasing value for our stakeholders. Our vision for 2024 is “Borusan to grow, achieve high profits, dominate its markets, consist of innovative companies, have a culture that nurtures the best skills, and is successful and responsible.” In every step, we take with this vision, we continue monitoring our sustainability impacts. 24 25 [STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT] CORPORATE GOVERNANCE — We conduct all operations at Borusan Group companies according to transparency, fairness, responsibility and accountability principles of corporate governance. — Borusan Holding that plays a central role and Executive Board is positioned under the Board does not participate in management of group of Directors in the organizational structure, and companies, along with Borusan Yatırım which acts as the management platform that oversees participates in companies with minority shares the achievement of group strategic objectives. and functions as a portfolio company, comprise Executive Board members lead specific industhe Corporate Parent. Holding corporate govertry and business line related studies by taking nance structure is based on effective commupart in the management boards of group comnication and audit mechanisms that establish panies as chairman or member. control over the entire group. Holding Financial Control, Internal Audit, Finance Borusan Holding Board of Directors, the suand Investor Relations departments cooperate preme decision-making organ of the group, with Corporate Risk Management Department undertakes the general responsibility of group in implementing risk processes. Internal Audit activities towards shareholders and other stakeDepartment inspects group companies’ proholders. The Board determines the group obcesses and offers them improvement suggesjectives and develops strategy to achieve these tions by identifying the risk areas. The inspecobjectives and thereby works for sustainable tions conducted by Internal Audit department development of group companies. includes social topics such as ethics, employee rights, and OHS, in addition to environmental Borusan Holding Board of Directors, with a baltopics. In 2016, 44% of group companies’ deanced structure of both executive and non-expartments were inspected by Holding Internal ecutive members, is comprised of seven memAudit Department on social and environmental bers, including two independent ones. Holding topics. STRUCTURE OF BOARD WOMEN MEMBERS 29% OF DIRECTORS FOREIGN MEMBERS 29% 2015-2016 MEMBERS 50 YEARS AND ABOVE 100% 26 27 [STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT] ETHICS MANAGEMENT — Our business ethics approach based on honesty and accountability creates the basis for all stakeholder relations of The booklet “Handbook for Borusan EmployThe Ethics Board may be reached 24/7 by Borusan Group. We lead the ees: Business Principles, Business Ethics and phone or e-mail. The processes of investigatHuman Resources Practices”, composed by ing the notices received from group compaBorusan Group Ethics Board, which defines in nies are conducted by Borusan Holding Audit way in the industries we operate detail the business principles concerning topics such as human rights, environment and public activities, the outline for the implementation of Director and Borusan Holding Legal Director; notices conveyed to the Ethics Board by Borusan Group employees or third parties are unregarding ethics, fair competition ethical rules and the rules of conduct regarding stakeholder relations, which all employees are disclosed. The examination and investigation works are conducted by independent experts and fight against corruption, and obliged to act accordingly, can be reached on in secrecy. our corporate website. Every year, we provide trainings to all the make maximum effort to raise Besides the responsibility of our employees to comply with the ethics rules, they are expectwhite-collar employees working at group companies, about ethics and risks associated with community awareness in these ed to guide relations amongst employees and corruption, which is an ethics subtopic. In the stakeholders according to these principles. reporting period, 170 hours of ethics training The responsibilities of investigating notices was provided. Borusan Holding is among the issues. — received through the Borusan Group Ethical Rules Consultation and Information Line, where complaints regarding violations of ethical rules founding members of the Ethics and Reputation Society (TEID), which was established with the aim of enhancing business ethics awareare also conveyed, and developing solutions in ness in Turkey and raising awareness about relation to these notices belong to the Ethics this issue both in the business world and the Board that works under Borusan Holding Inc. community. Chairman of the Board of Directors. 28 29 — I have seen that Syrian painters, sociologists, translators, pharmacists, actor/actresses and their educated young people are glimmers of hope for the future of the world. — ÖZGÜL DEMİR BORUSAN LOJİSTİK #TheEarthIsOurHome 30 31 [STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT] ETHICS MANAGEMENT OF SUPPLIERS — Borusan Group companies don’t do business with clients and suppliers who disregard business ethics and break the laws. In 2015, we prepared Borusan Group Supplier Working Conditions Protocol to be signed by subcontractors and suppliers, according to the objectives set by Audit and Purchasing departments. More than 150 contracted suppliers signed the protocol. In 2016, there was no unethical action, legal noncompliance or corruption case identified throughout the Group or in business partners and suppliers to our knowledge. — 32 33 [STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT] Our Sustainability JOURNEY Signed UN Global Signed Turkey Signed Energy Signed UN Established Compact Quality Association’s Efficiency in Buildings Women’s Equal Borusan ‘Management is Manifesto of World Empowerment Platform. Women’s Right’ Business Council Principles Manifesto of Sustainable Development. 2006 2009 2011 2013 2015 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 Signed UN Fight Became the first Won the 1st Place Against Climate Turkish company to Award from League Change 2 ̊C join in UN Women’s of Amerikan Memorandum as Empowerment Communication Prepared our First one of the 3 Turkish Signed Ethics in Principles Professionals with our Sustainability Report companies Business Manifesto Leadership Group sustainability report. 34 35 [STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT] SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT — As Borusan Group, Borusan Holding CEO is the primary supervisor of Borusan Group’s Holding HR, Corporate Communications and OHS Group; environwe define our social and economic, social and environmental sustainability performance. We mental sustainability performance by Environmental Management ensure our economic sustainabilUnits and Lean 6 Sigma office. We environmental impacts created ity performance through practices led by Holding CEO and group conduct our corporate social responsibility practices by Holding by our economic activities as companies’ general managers; social sustainability performance by Corporate Communications and Borusan Kocabıyık Foundation. our responsibilities. We act with the consciousness that the SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT AT BORUSAN business strategies we develop and the decisions we take ECONOMIC Holding Executive Board General Managers of Group today will shape the future, and Companies we conduct our operations SOCIAL Borusan Kocabıyık Foundation with the objective to create Holding Human Resources Holding Corporate Communications value for our stakeholders. — Operational Health and Safety Group ENVIRONMENTAL Group Companies Environmental Management Units Lean 6 Sigma Office 36 37 — It has been an incredible source of happiness for me to blend with our brothers and sisters from the neighboring country, helping their youth feel themselves as part of our society, embracing each other and to be able to say that you are welcome here. —CİHANGİR GÜLEN BORUSAN LOJİSTİK #TheEarthIsOurHome 38 39 [STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT] SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS In order to maximize focus on material the participation of members of the BoruOur top management also added Indusvant sections of our report, and data on aspects, we held the sustainability stratsan Danışmanlık Board who are the gentry, Innovation and Infrastructure, Gender our group companies’ performance in egy workshop by gathering 25 represeneral mangers of our group companies, Equality, Quality Education and Clean Wathose areas are covered extensively in the tatives from eight group companies’ opwe held a strategy survey to prioritize our ter and Sanitation topics among our strareport. erational health and safety, environment sustainability topics. tegic topics. We updated Borusan Holding and quality departments mainly. Through Materiality Matrix according to the results The main objective of creating such a analyses and intensive discussions, we Additionally, our employees and group of the questionnaires. matrix was to clearly identify aspects imreviewed our material aspects in economcompanies’ customers participated in the portant to both our company and our key ic, social and environmental perspectives strategy questionnaires we organized. The upper right-hand part of the graph disstakeholders, and to develop our plans and separately and prioritized them for each Through these survey we have gathered plays aspects that are of high importance set our targets around these aspects. In company. their feedback regarding the topics they for both our stakeholders and our group, the coming terms, we intend to exchange expect Borusan Group to focus on. All and influence our company’s performance ideas with more of our stakeholders, and We identified mutual topics for all our priority topics were the same for both of directly and significantly. These aspects to further develop the aspects and related companies. In the reporting period, with our stakeholders. constitute the main headings of the reletargets we will focus on. (GRI 102-46) Borusan Holding Materiality Matrix Employees’ Customers’ HIGH Priorities Priorities (Assessments and Decisions on Borusan Holding) • Decent Work Decent Work Decent Work • Economic Growth Influence on Stakeholders’ • Industry, Innovation Economic Growth Economic Growth and Infrastructure • Quality Education • Gender Equality Partnerships for The Goals Partnerships for The Goals • Affordable and Clean Energy & Climate Action Affordable and Clean Energy Affordable and Clean Energy • Clean Water and Sanitation and Climate Action and Climate Action Life Below Water and Life on Land Life Below Water and Life on Land • Life Below Water & Life on Land LOW Significance of Impacts for Borusan Holding (GRI 102-44) (Reputation, Regulatory, Financial, Operational) (GRI 102-47) 40 41 [STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT] UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS We support UN Sustainable Development Goals! Although we focus on 8 of the global goals regarding top management and key stakeholder priorities, we run projects that support all 17 of the Sustainable Development Goals. SDG UN 2030 SUSTAINABLE PROJECTS AND SDG UN 2030 SUSTAINABLE PROJECTS AND DEVELOPMENT GOALS IMPLEMENTATIONS DEVELOPMENT GOALS IMPLEMENTATIONS SDG 1: No Poverty Micro Finance Branches SDG 10: Reduced Inequalities Equal Borusan Platform My Mom’s Job is My Future Project My Mom’s Job is My Future Project Let’s Code, Girls! Project SDG 2: Zero Hunger Micro Finance Branches SDG 11: Sustainable cities and Borusan EnBW Enerji Local Community communities Engagements SDG 3: Good Health and Well-Being OHS Implementations Borusan Lojistik Green Harbor Avita Employee Support Program LÖSEV Stand SDG 12: Responsible Consumption Efficiency in Production Projects (Lean 6 Sigma) SDG 4: Quality Education Borusan Kocabıyık Foundation and Production WPP Logistics Borusan Academy Let’s Code, Girls! Project SDG 13: Climate Action WPP Investments Vocational High School Coaches Natural Gas and Electricity Consumption Reduction Projects SDG 5: Gender Equality My Mom’s Job is My Future Project Afforestation Projects Let’s Code, Girls! Project SDG 14: Life Below Water Waste Reduction and Disposal Projects SDG 6: Clean Water and Sanitation Waste Water Reduction and Disposal Projects SDG 15: Life on Land Waste Reduction and Disposal Projects SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy WPP Investments Afforestation Projects LED Investments SDG 8: Decent Work and Occupational Health and Safety Implementations SDG 16: Peace, Justice and Strong Business Ethics with Suppliers Economic Growth Vocational High School Coaches Institutions CSR Projects New Generation Talent Development Program SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Efficiency in Production Projects (Lean 6 Sigma) SDG 17: Partnerships for The Goals UNWEP’s, UNGC and TBCSD Memberships Infrastructure Borusan Lojistik Green Harbor 42 43 [STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT] STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATION PLATFORMS UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATION TOOL / FREQUENCY GROUP COMMUNICATION WITH Borusan Employees CEO and General Manager Memorandums (frequency varies according to topics of communication); Borusan Day (yearly); Annual Report (yearly); OUR STAKEHOLDERS Sustainability Report (yearly); Employee Loyalty Research (yearly); Internal Communication Meetings (at least yearly in group companies); Performance Evaluation Meetings (yearly); Internal Information Notices (instant); Ocean We define our stakeholders as persons holders that had intensive economic, Volunteers Platform (all year long); Recreation Clubs (all year long); Ethics and organizations that are influenced social, and environmental interactions Rules; Employee Trainings and Borusan Academy Faculty Programs (all year long); The Borusan Employees and Yammer Intranet Platforms (all year by our activities, and at the same with our companies and prepared the long); B’Alem Human Resources Portal and Applications (all year long). time, who could have an impact on stakeholder maps for each. Customers Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Customer Satisfaction our group’s efforts to achieve its busiResearch (at least yearly in Group companies); Meetings and Interviews; ness targets. In order to plan a more As a result of these studies, it was reInternet based Applications; Ethics Rules, Corporate Website (all year long). intensive communication scheme with vealed that the primary key stakeholdBusiness Partners Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Corporate Website; Meetings and Interviews (all year long). our key stakeholders for the coming ers identified at the workshop and the Public Institutions Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Audits (instant / periterms, we reviewed all key stakeholdones identified by Holding Corporate odical); Joint Projects; Corporate Website; Meetings and Interviews (all year ers of each company in the group in Communications were coherent. The long). the previous reporting period. communication platforms we employ Press Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Annual Public Disfor these stakeholders, along with their closure Meeting; Project Specific Press Meetings; Interviews; Press Tours (instant); Corporate Website, Social Media ((all year long). During the sustainability strategy content and communication frequenBanks Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Meetings and Interworkshop, we held last year with the cy, are given in the table; Stakeholder views (all year long). representatives of each group comCommunication Platforms. Suppliers Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Corporate Website; pany, we prioritized the key stake(GRI 102-42) Meetings and Interviews; Supplier Evaluation Surveys (all year long). Local Administrations Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Corporate Website; Meetings and Interviews; Joint Projects (all year long). Business World Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Corporate Website; BORUSAN EMPLOYEES BORUSAN Meetings and Interviews, Social Media (all year long). CUSTOMERS HOLDİNG Nongovernmental Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Corporate Website; Organizations (NGOs) Meetings and Interviews; Joint Projects; Donations and; Memberships (conBUSINESS PARTNERS tinuous); Social Media (all year long). PUBLIC Social Media Users Instant Agenda Messages Shared on Corporate and Brand Accounts SUPPLIERS PRESS LOCAL BANKS Capital Markets Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Periodic reports (on ADMINISTRATIONS Borusan Yatırım’s website) BUSINESS WORLD Universities and Human Resources, Career Days Participations; Sabancı University and NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (NGOS) Academicians Borusan Academy Program Collaboration; Joint Program with Boğaziçi UniSOCIAL MEDIA USERS versity and Borusan Internal Financial Affairs, Social Media CAPITAL MARKETS Other persons and Annual Report (yearly); Sustainability Report (yearly); Corporate Website; UNIVERSITIES institutions that may News and Information Flow through Media Tools; Communication through (ACADEMICIANS) have interest in BoruCorporate Social Media Accounts OTHER PERSONS AND INSTITUTIONS THAT san (Students, PotenMAY HAVE INTEREST IN BORUSAN tial Employees, Trade Associations, etc.) (GRI 102-40) (GRI 102-43) 44 45 — Paper is made up of pulp kneaded from affection, peace, fondness and love. — MUSA BAYKAL BORUSAN EnBW ENERJİ #TheEarthIsOurHome 46 47 While planning the group strategies; we oversee trends suchas national and global variables, developing technology, diminishing natural resources, client expectations, and changes in regulations. In our long-term objectives,we mainly focus on increasing the group companies’ market shares in their business lines and their sustainable growth. We target continuity of profits and overall excellence through lean and efficient processes in Borusan Group that always works for the better. In order to reach excellence in process management, we apply 6 Sigma Management Method across our group since 2002. This year, for our growth and efficiency, we invested about USD 204 million. [economic performance] 48 49 [ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE] INVESTMENTS In 2016, we continued to grow our profits in all business lines we operate. Our total revenues exceeded USD 4.3 billion. We also continued our investments to end the year with USD 394 million total investment amount where our main focus was on sustainable energy. We accomplished many investment projects at all our companies with the objective to develop innovative products and services that are efficiency and business excellence oriented. We manage all our investments with the aim of creating sustainable benefits and evaluate according to their economic, social, environmental and corporate results. 50 51 [ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE] COMPANY INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE BUDGET Borusan Paint shop and Meeting the quality € 236,000 Endüstriyel Sandblasting Cabin standards prevalent in Sistemleri international, oil and gas Gebze Campus projects Targeted Economic: Decreasing additional project costs by reducing client INDUSTRIAL Gains complaints Social: Running a production in compliance with occupational health INVESTMENTS and safety standards Corporate: Increasing client satisfaction through quality controls COMPANY INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE BUDGET COMPANY INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE BUDGET Borçelik Improving Increasing CGL3 automotive Automotive production rate from 3.5% to Borusan Oto Renovation projects commenced Serving customers Feasibility Capability of 20%; realizing CGL3 automotive due to the restructuring need in in accordance with analyses CGL3 Continuous industry technical efficiency rate the Licenced Seller and Licenced their expectations by of the Galvanizing Line above 95% Service networks by the addition reaching the target work of Jaguar brand to the portfolio audience of the brands, that will Targeted Economic: Gaining USD 1.7 million annual yield (after tax) in 2015; and to comply with making accurate brand continue Gains Corporate: Increasing satisfaction rate of automotive customers the retail standards in Ankara, communication and until İstanbul, Adana, Tekirdağ defined enriching customer 2020 is COMPANY INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE BUDGET and imposed by our producers experience by available. BMW AG and JLR Limited enhancing the sales and Borusan Powertest Dyno New test equipment requirement $ 334,000 after sales services Makina ve Güç Equipment due to wearing off of the current Sistemleri unit Targeted Economic: Reducing general costs Gebze Campus Gains Social: Enhancing employee and client satisfaction Environmental: Using the area efficiently, achieving energy efficiency, Targeted Economic: We completed motor tests following the motor revisions of assessing lifetimes and environmental footprints of buildings Gains approximately 400 heavy construction machines that work at the 3rd Corporate: Increasing client satisfaction and corroborating brand and airport site. Company cost will decrease since malfunction and service company image frequency will reduce due to revisions. Social: We contributed 80% to customer’s efficiency. COMPANY INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE BUDGET Corporate: We invested in an area that will create value for clients by increasing quality. Borusan Oto Project identification Enhancing customer experience, works commenced making internal processes COMPANY INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE BUDGET within the scope of faster, reaching customers from digital transformation diversified channels Borusan TBN (Total Base Conducting these tests every $ 20,500 which will last till Makina ve Güç Number) and TAN 1,000 hours to fulfil our oil 2020 Sistemleri (Total Acid Number) changing commitment periods Gebze Campus analysis equipment towards our clients Targeted Economic: Keeping up with the pace of change resulted from Gains digitalization, increasing online sales and work efficiency Social: Enhancing employee and client satisfaction Targeted Economic: Increasing oil sales Corporate: Corroborating brand and company image and prevailing in Gains Corporate: Increasing client satisfaction competition 52 53 [ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE] COMPANY INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE BUDGET Borusan Roll-Form Ensuring customer loyalty by $ ~3,500,000 Mannesmann Profiles meeting customer demands as a local provider in a niche market INDUSTRIAL Bursa Gemlik Production Line where the tubes are currently INVESTMENTS Investment imported Targeted Economic: With the investment to produce high value-added tubes, COMPANY INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE BUDGET Gains our company will localize the imported tube supply and therefore will contribute both to company profitability and country economy. Borusan Oto İstanbul Samandıra Presenting our clients with Social: This investment with which we aim to serve the present Licenced Seller and environmental friendly premises and potential clients in automotive, agricultural machinery and Licenced Service equipped with superior technology construction industries, will impact our internal stakeholders and Investment and up-to-date retail standards company positively. Corporate: Although not operational yet, the undertaken investments Targeted Economic: Reducing general costs and increasing sales enhance our clients’ loyalty and trust in our company. Gains Social: Enhancing employee and client satisfaction Environmental: Obtaining LEED Gold Certificate given to green buildings by utilizing eco-friendly equipment in mechanical COMPANY INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE BUDGET ventilation system, taking measures for saving water and managing waste. Supsan Reducing Operational Meeting OEM customer TRY Corporate: Corroborating brand and company image Supply Consumption and demands and improving 39,600 Developing Consumable cost to get more projects Materials Usage System COMPANY INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE BUDGET Results Economic: Costs have improved by 19%. Borusan New Heat Increasing capacity to meet Heat Treatment and Gains Social: Employee motivation increased due to grinding wheel and Mannesmann Treatment Furnace the demand as a result of Furnace: collet replacement frequency. The project team was rewarded as a Investment for the new $ 3,245,000 result of successful completion of the project. İstanbul Automotive automotive projects and Drawn Tube Environmental: Less energy, consumables, stones, clips, carton box Halkalı Segment and maintain the Production Line: and cooling oil were used. Production Drawn Tube leading position in the $ 4,295,000 Corporate: Cost improvement was accomplished and targeted sales Plant Production Line & domestic market; maintain Bursa Plant projects were obtained. Bursa Plant a more active position in the Investment: ~ $ Investment global markets 750.000 COMPANY INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE BUDGET Targeted Economic: This project where high value-added tubes are used in the Gains automotive segment will significantly Supsan Improving efficiency Reducing energy consumption add to company profit. of production lines per unit valve by increasing Social: We believe that approximately 55 domestic and 30 global efficiency important clients will be positively impacted by this investment in Results Economic: Costs have improved by 27%. addition to many small clients. and Gains Social: Existing machinery have sped up and stoppage durations has Corporate: These investments are crucial for us in maintaining our reduced. Hence, employee satisfaction raised. The project team was leading position and our market share in domestic market. The major rewarded as a result of successful completion of the project. reason for the Bursa Plant investment is to make space for Halkalı Environmental: Less energy, consumables and cooling oil were used. Plant’s new investments. In addition, we will meet client demands with Electric consumption which was 1.14 kWh/unit in 2015 dropped to 1 more flexibility by being closer to clients with our new plant in Bursa kWh/unit in 2016. which is the heart of the automotive industry. Corporate: Cost improvement was accomplished and targeted sales projects were obtained. 54 55 — We either get superficial impressions from our daily encounters with Syrian refugees or learn about them from the media stories. However, one of the best ways to get to know someone is to do things together, creating our common stories by talking to and communicating with each other. — MERVE ERGÜN ARSLAN BORUSAN MANNESMANN #TheEarthIsOurHome 56 57 [ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE] INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENTS Borusan Lojistik Port Site Expansion Investment We carried out port site expansion work to lion. With this investment which also be create a safer storage area for the clients effective in growing our market share, we in terms of occupational safety and client increased the number of Ro-Ro lines to 5 property in addition to fulfilling the necesby adding another one in October 2016. sity to increase the vehicle site capacity at Borusan Port due to growing vehicle inBorusan Port that focuses on preserving dustry. natural resources and being sustainable in all its operations and offered services was Vehicle capacity at the port increased by entitled to obtain ‘Green Port’ certificate Borusan Lojistik 40% as a result of the project which we upon document and site controls conductWPP* Logistics built closed, backfill storage on 28,5 thoued by Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs sand m2 area with a budget of USD 3 miland Communication in 2016. (*WIND POWER PLANTS) Wind power has become one of the most to reasons such as opening new roads. crucial channels to reach clean energy. We focused on heavy freight investments We accomplished 10 sets of turbines to solve energy sector issues by develtransportation in 2016 for Fuat WPP. We oping beneficial and distinctive solutions. carried 30 rotor blades from 300 meters of We commissioned our rotor blade adaptor sea level to 1,100 meters. We eliminated project, which makes a huge difference in approximately 10,000 trucks load of excatransportation of Wind Power Plants, as a vation thanks to this technology. In addifirst in Turkey with a USD 2 million investtion, we preserved ecological balance by ment. We expanded our heavy vehicle pool preventing more than 100 thousand m3 soil and increased our service capacity by inloss. vesting in new 8 and 10 axle trailers, 6x4 tow trucks and rotor blade adaptor. Our first-year target is to carry 40 WPP turbines of our 7 turbine producers. Also, Through blade adaptor technology, we can we aim to carry 300 units of rotor blades carry rotor blades with a 50 degrees anand towers each annually in the WPP exgle from the ground, turning them 110 deport market originated by the increase in grees right or left. Hence, we reduce cost of the number of local producers in parallel to building roads and minimize idle time due sectoral development. 58 59 [ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE] Renewable Energy Generation Investments The total installed capacity of Borusan EnBW Enerji where the portfolio is totally based on renewable energy resources, reached 388.6 MW by the end of 2016. During 2016, Fuat WPP, Mut WPP, Koru WPP and Harmanlık WPP completed ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 procedures and obtained their certifications. Bandırma Wind Power Plant (89.7 MW) Yedigöl-Aksu Hydroelectric Power Plant (50.3 MW) Balabanlı Wind Power Plant (50.6 MW) Koru Wind Power Plant (52.8 MW) Borusan EnBW Enerji Mut Wind Power Plant (52.8 MW) 2016 Renewable Energy Generation Investments Harmanlık Wind Power Plant (52.8 MW) INVESTMENT TIMING INSTALLED BUDGET Fuatres Wind Power Plant (19.8) CAPACITY Dayıcık Solar Power Plant (6.6 MWp) Dayıcık SPP (Solar Start: March 15, 2016 6,6 MWp $ 9 Million Fuatres Wind Power Plant 2nd Phase (13.2 MW) Power Plant) Commissioning of plants: Mut / Mersin July 27, 2016 Preliminary During the construction stage; all demands, complaints, suggestions GAINS TARGETED WITH work done and questions are received from the stakeholders such as local THESE INVESTMENTS ARE TO before the community, local authorities and government authorities within investment: the scope of the Grievance system which functions as the Project/ Plant Communication Mechanism. Upon the demands received, we > Increase diversity of energy resources in Borusan EnBW Enerji portfolio and contribsupported Dayıcık Village Primary School and students in various ways. ute to the creation of a balanced portfolio, INVESTMENT TIMING INSTALLED BUDGET CAPACITY > Contribute in the environmental conservation by investing in solar and wind power Fuatres WPP (Wind Power Investment decision: July 2013 13,2 MWm that produce zero carbon and no waste, Plant) 2nd Phase Commissioning of plantsı: Kemalpaşa / İzmir November 6, 2016 > Contribute directly to Turkey’s 2023 policy to meet 30% of country’s energy need Preliminary Necessary legal permit procedures for the realization of investment from renewable resources, and increase wind power installed capacity to 10,000 MW work done were followed by Gold Standard Carbon Certification procedure in 2019 and 20,000 MW in 2023, before the conducted along with Environmental and Social Impact Assessment investment: procedure. The public announcement meeting and the survey and focus group works conducted afterwards were carried out in line with > Contribute in decreasing Turkey’s foreign trade deficit by reducing energy import international norms. By operationalizing Fuatres, the power of 30,000 through the use of domestic, renewable resources. homes will be met from renewable resources annually. 60 61 [ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE] Borusan Makina R&D and INNOVATION ve Güç Sistemleri As we continued our investments into innovation and digitalisation on one side in 2016, on the other side we made our companies adopt the Lean philosophy on a wider scale. Lean Service We had started the Lean Service Project in Borusan Makine ve Güç Sistemleri service organizations These works resulted in cost reduction and new product development in Supsan, while we have in order to serve our customers faster and more efficiently. reduced the waste drastically with the improvements made under Lean Service Project implemented in Borusan Makine ve Güç Sistemleri. Thanks to this project, we have managed to get our technicians to know the Lean 6 Sigma equipment closely, and place the waste hunt right in the center of their workflow. Thanks to the initiative which was realized through the training programs and workshops with the participation of Gebze Campus CRC (Component Revision Centre) and Service Teams, new rooms for improvement were spotted, Supsan 27 being in CRC, and 26 in Diyarbakır. When we looked at these rooms for improvement, they varied Leadership in Grassroots Project from environmental and structural problems that may concern the administrative department to the lack of tools-equipment, from irregularities in the exchange processes with the spare parts division to In Supsan, in order to focus on the career development of the factory workers, the “Leadthe violations that concern the health and safety in the workplace. ership in Grassroots” concept was implemented. Through this process, we helped factory workers adopt Lean philosophy better, and integrate it into their daily lives. Under the direction As the feedbacks were mostly focused on the wastes under the topics of action, stand-by and erof the team leaders, many 10-step Kaizen and Before-After Kaizen projects were implementrors, we have noticed that there were actions available among them that were easy to implement yet ed, and major improvements were achieved in small steps. would make an impact. A list of actions such as the elimination of oil accumulation in the workshop, prevention of air leakages in the compressors, and rearrangement of the materials that take up space Thus, the efficiency values increased continuously, making the production costs globally comunnecessarily within the workshop have been introduced in stages, and more are being introduced. petitive. Our employees’ loyalty has increased and they started to come up with innovative ideas all the time to take the company even further. Production cost excluding the raw mateOur greatest gain here is that our technicians in aforementioned locations embraced the progress rials was brought down from 1.49 €/valve in 2014 to 0.99 €/valve by the end of 2016. culture, and had their motivations increased thanks to an environment where their ideas taken into account and they can have their voices heard in different departments within the company. Supsan Product Development Laboratory In 2016, we have targeted to increase our spare parts market share drastically in a short period by the introduction of 60 new products into our product range within 3 years, through the transformation project we have developed under innovation works. The main theme of the aforementioned project was to introduce new products to the market with Supsan quality. At the beginning of the project, a Product Development test and control laboratory was designed aimed at the new product ranges. The equipment acquisition was realized within that scope, and a state-of-the-art laboratory was born. Through this lab, 6 projects and 17 new product ranges were commissioned in 2016. A strong infrastructure was also established for the new products planned for introduction in the upcoming years. 62 63 — For the first time, I have listened firsthand what Syrian refugees go through, the attitude of Turkish people towards them and what refugees feel in the face of those attitudes. We can understand each other only by spending time together, familiarizing ourselves with each other’s culture and exploring the common ground. — İLKE ENGİN BORUSAN DANIŞMANLIK #TheEarthIsOurHome 64 65 [social performance] — Our employees are our most crucial assets at Borusan Group. In order to improve employee experience, loyalty and thereby increase personal and corporate performance, we measure our employees’ satisfaction We oversee employee and human every year, and work together to provide them with healthy, safe and fair work places. rights in all our operations, We constantly invigorate our teams with talents and provide the necessary training and working environment by Borusan Academy’s leadership, for the encourage equal opportunity professional and personal of our current employees. and raise awareness among We initiated many good practices to retain our talents for long tenures. Besides these practices initiated within the Holding, other projects specific to employees regarding all kinds of companies are detailed in this section. discrimination. — 66 67 [SOCIAL PERFORMANCE] At all Borusan Group locations, we have At Borusan Group companies, nursing rooms available for working mothtotal number of employees ers. We provide special discounts for EMPLOYMENT and TRAINING those women-men employees who own increased by 7.5% in 2016. 0-6 years of age children at specific dayWomen employee ratio cares, preschools and development proincreased by half point and grams. All white-collar employees of our group are covered by health insurance became 16.5%. that involves both inpatient and outpatient treatment. WOMEN Besides providing yearly check-up and %16,5 health insurance in various contents according to management level; we also of— Maximizing the competence, fer Employee Pension Plan for employees who are over 35 years of age with more than 3-year seniority that would help them motivation and performance of its manage their retirement. In this context, we deduct employees’ salaries and add employees and thereby supporting a company share to invest in their plans. Employees who complete 5 years at them to create a competitive edge Borusan Group can redeem their savings. MEN %83,5 At Borusan Group companies, total numin their industries constitutes ber of employees increased by 7.5% in 2016. Women employee ratio increased the basis for the human resource by half point and became 16.5%. We provided more than 118 thousand hours of PROFESSIONAL practices of Borusan Group training to our employees in 2016 in both professional and personal development DEVELOPMENT %49 contexts. LEADERSHIP companies. It’s fundamental for At Borusan Group we especially aim to %6 the sustainability of our group retain our specialist employees who take critical tasks and technical roles. In 2016, we started a project to describe Borusan’s to attract talents and retain them technical specialist career development model and the complementary technical/ by constantly supporting their occupational skill sets. In the coming periods, we plan to review the critical techniOCCUPATIONAL HEALTH PERSONAL developments. — cal specialist roles biannually and take the necessary actions. AND SAFETY %25 DEVELOPMENT %20 68 69 [SOCIAL PERFORMANCE] EMPLOYMENT and TRAINING Avita Career Management Process Employee Support Program In Borusan Group, we follow through career management process with regard to We initiated Avita Employee Support Program in order to BORUSAN HOLDING creating the required leadership pool internally by identifying potential from perforsupport our employees outside their work life and thereby EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION mance and offering employees with development opportunities. Our objective with create a better employee experience at our group compaAPPROACH career management is to make career plans that will provide occupational and pernies. sonal development in line with group and company strategies by evaluating contriThe program which reaches approximately 3,000 employ> Borusan Academy Training and butions of Borusan Group employees to their companies and jobs. Each year, 4,500 ees, involves consultancy and information services where Development Programs office employees are included in this process. We intend to move maximum 10-15% our employees and their family members who live together of our white-collar employees with high potential and performance to 3P pool (Group can benefit 7/24 on any topic that may cause stress on the > Competence Assessment System > Performance Management Practices of Employees with High Potential and Performance). person or need further inquiry. Psychological and medical consultancy, financial and legal information, back-waist> Career Planning neck pains and office ergonomics, healthy diet, new born > Private Pension Scheme care, social life and similar topics are included in the service. > Annual Satisfaction Survey Recommendation Systems Borçelik Gemlik In the next term, after making some communication adjustments, we intend to deploy this practice that we implement Effective Internal Communication Factory Employment > Borusan Social Clubs to create happier Borusan employees, increase loyalty thereby increase personal and corporate performance. > Borusan Arts Activities Project Human Resources Department initiated a Project in March 2016 at Borusan Gemlik Campus in order to solve the skilled blue-collar employment issue which Performance Management Practices is one of the major issues of HR today and enhance the candidate pool. We oversee Performance Management Processes via online platform to measure employee performance throughout the year, and prepare and implement their development Online application screens are placed at the security plans according to the results of these measures. Our objectives of this process that conentrances, content of factory employee recruitment sists of 3 stages which are target setting, interim and annual evaluations, are to measure exams is revised and prepared online and collective performance accurately to identify good performance; conduct analyses and assessexam days are organized in cooperation with İŞKUR ments that would form a basis for within Project scope. 4,043 personal development plans, train4,100 ings, wages, rewarding and career RESULTS AND GAINS 2,914 planning; create mutual target ownIn addition to diminishing economic losses due to 3,075 2,818 ership and as a result, increase perchallenges in finding the right candidates, process time sonal and corporate performance. losses of HR employees and costs of consultants, 2,050 and candidate assessment and recruitment processes During the reportingperiod in our are cut short. Number of candidates who apply at Group, we gavefeedback to 86% the doors increased. 3,000 graduate candidates are 1,025 of our employees working at the 515 reached through vocational high school visits. Borçelik 324 300 offices and 20% of our employees employer brand is corroborated at vocational high 0 working at the factories, on their schools. For monitoring and continuity of the process, 2014 2015 2016 an employee in charge of factory employee recruitment performances. process is employed at Gemlik Campus. Employees at Employees at the Factories the Offices 70 71 [SOCIAL PERFORMANCE] EMPLOYMENT and TRAINING 360° Competency Assessment Process We intend to objectively assess the traits mance. Approximately 4,500 white-colthat help an employee fulfil and exceed lar employees are subject to this process the necessities of her duties, authority, every year. responsibilities and targets, and to identify and develop improvement areas withCompetency result is an effective feedin a specific term through Competency back tool to utilize in education and trainAssessment. ing, performance evaluation and career management. In 2016, we decided to We anticipate that the employee is evalurenovate this process in line with our perated by various parties such as her team, formance management perspective to Borusan superiors, peer stakeholders and that she improve our development areas. We will receives an objective feedback through share the new process and system with New Generation Talent Development Program a multidimensional picture of her perforour employees in 2017. We execute New Generation Talent (NGT) proTARGETED GAINS gram in Borusan Group for the purpose of recruiting new graduates with high potential to be future ECONOMIC managers, who are suitable for group companies’ We aspire to reduce our costs and Borusan needs and developing them to be the future leadwin time for our group in the long run by recruiting the talents whom ers. Leadership Development we believe would be beneficial Program (BOLD) We participated in career days, published adverts managers in the future and promoting them instead of looking for the right on social media, held case studies and made oneThe purpose of the BOLD Program which has been on since 2011 candidates at the market. to-one interviews with university students. NGTs across all locations of Borusan Group is to improve the climate of the go through numerical, verbal, foreign language SOCIAL organization through supporting our executive management team and tests, video interview and face-to-face interview We corroborate our brand power thus, to increase the business performance of our leaders. stages before recruitment. For those NGTs who by social events we organize for successfully complete these stages, we provide increasing the recognition and The program that involved the participation of our 109 managers in monthly structured mentorship support for 1 year awareness of Borusan Group brand. 2016 included group coaching sessions in addition to 360 degrees inbesides an 18-months development program. By ventory, preparation of inventory reports and giving one-to-one feedmeans of mentorship program, our new NGTs CORPORATE back on results, coaching on action plan preparation, holding workquickly adapt Borusan culture and benefit from Through adoption of talent and shops and trainings. We monitor improvement through BOLD scores the experiences of Borusan leaders. Company leaders of the future contexts orientation programs follow introductory meetby all employees, we intend to obtained from inventory exercise results. ings. We intend to ensure that no NGT leaves develop a mutual new generation Borusan Group except for private reasons. consciousness. 72 73 [SOCIAL PERFORMANCE] EMPLOYMENT and TRAINING Borusan Academy Borusan Lojistik Faculty and Proficiency Programs Program of Creating a Feed Back Culture (+Value Project–Phase II) There are faculty and proficiency programs Group are the target group of the Sales Facunder the roof of Borusan Academy. We ulty. In addition to these, we aim to develop After Borusan Lojistik acquired Balnak while the managers joined the Culture have been running the Leadership Faculty black belt managers in Lean 6 Sigma Faculty Lojistik company, in order to merge of Feedback Creation Program. Waresince 2007 and the Sales Faculty since 2008 Black Belt Development Program which was both companies’ employees as one house Operations Leaders who manwith Sabancı Edu Partnership, the Financial revised in 2016 and adopted as the preferred team and to establish the collective age the blue-collar employees on the Affairs Proficiency Program since 2014 and business methodology in Borusan. The Black corporate culture that will carry our sites also participated. 105 Managers Purchasing Proficiency Program since 2016 Belt Development Program, which solely company to sustainable successful fucompleted 9 trainings and 9 follow up with Boğaziçi University Partnership. teaches Lean 6 Sigma Methodology, aims to ture, we initiated +Value Project at the work. We also organized 6 trainings develop skills such as change management, end of 2014. Human Resources Defor 120 employees among managers The target group of Leadership Faculty is conflict management, facilitation, gaining the partment and Executive Management and leaders. The aim of these trainthe future leaders of Borusan Group, and cooperation of others, and creating a positive sponsored the study that covered apings was to create leaders who comall newly recruited sales teams at Borusan perception. proximately 1,285 employees at Borumunicate with its team who are in the san Lojistik offices. process of continues development by motivating, questioning and listening To facilitate different corporate cultures to them, and also celebrating their and employee profiles to work togethsuccesses. In-House Trainer er, we introduced workshops, class Development Program trainings and survey with a budget of We plan to continue all practices initiTRY 780 thousand. In 2016, we supated via this project including new sugAcross Borusan Group, all trainings are outsourced, with the exception of Lean 6 Sigported this work with video messages, gestion system, performance culture, ma and the product trainings. We also specify individuals with skills to teach and translearning by experience, case studies recognition and rewarding practices, fer their own knowledge accumulation and expertise to others as ‘Internal Trainers’ in and monitoring, and top management open communication platforms, using Borusan Group, and develop their trainer skills and enable them to transfer what they review and decision meetings. “we” language, celebrating achievehave to offer to other fellow Borusan members. To date, 102 white and blue-collar emments and dissemination of feedback ployees applied to this program. All our office staff joined +Value Project culture, in the following years as well. TARGETED GAINS RESULTS AND GAINS ECONOMIC Reducing training budget by replacing outsourced training courses with in-house training courses given by internal trainers. ECONOMIC We started experincing the positive impacts of open communication SOCIAL Creating a cultural environment where people share their knowledge and and instant feed backs of employees and managers on various platforms, on our expertise within Borusan Group and learn from one another. business results CORPORATE Benefiting from our expert employees’ potentials at maximum level, SOCIAL We were able to increase employee loyalty and motivation and maintain increasing motivation and the sense of ownership, creating a learning organisation, all employees from different units to work for mutual goals. We also contributed maintaining enriched business, and meeting expectations of the participants at the to our managers’ competence in team management, leadership, feed back and highest level. performance communication. 74 75 — No matter what language you speak and which culture you are a part of, the first step of connection is to smile… — ÇİĞDEM TELLİOĞLU BORUSAN MAKİNA VE GÜÇ SİSTEMLERİ #TheEarthIsOurHome 76 77 [SOCIAL PERFORMANCE] EMPLOYEE RIGHTS At Borusan Group compa16.5%. The ratio of women exnies, we promise fair, safe and ecutives to all executives was healthy work environment for 12%. our employees and we guarantee that they practice all labor At Borusan Group, we believe and human rights in line with that social and personal welfare laws and regulations. Business reside in unconditional equalEthics Rules policy guides our ity of women-men. Human regroup regarding human and sources policies based on opemployee rights. portunity and social gender equality constitute the basis for According to our business ethour human resources practices, ics rules and company policies, while works aiming at raising child labor and forced labor are awareness among stakeholders strictly prohibited at group comand the society are conducted. panies. To date, no incidents regarding violation of the freedom For this purpose, we estabOCCUPATIONAL HEALTH of association and union rights have occurred and none of our lished the social equality platform named “Equal Borusan”. AND SAFETY operations carry an obvious risk In the scope of this employeeAt all Borusan Group companies, providing can convey their suggestions, complaints in this manner at group compainitiative platform, we transform a safer, healthier work environment for emand expectations regarding health and safenies. As of 2016 end, 81.5% of our language, perspective and ployees, clients and suppliers is our business ty. Suggestions from committees are one of our blue-collar employees are the way we do business into an priority. In 2016, we continued risk analythe main enablers for the constant developcovered by a collective bargainequal structure. We aim to creses, performance measurements, trainings, ment of OHS performance. ing agreement. This ratio is %28 ate awareness in mind set via practices and infrastructure improvements for all employees. (GRI 102-41) this transformation. Our objecin accordance with our zero-occupational In 2015, we intended to establish “Borusan tive is to form a happy and sucaccident target. We provided 85,420 hours OHS Group” in order to develop OHS culDue to the nature of industries cessful future where no social of OHS trainings to 7,460 people, including ture among group companies and provide we operate in, Borusan Group perception or role, especially contractor employees. a platform where companies share their excompanies are preferred mostgender, will prohibit equality. periences and learn from each other. OHS ly by male employees and thus, Details about this platform are At all Borusan Group companies, we have trainings include 6% of all trainings across the ratio of women employees located in the Women EmpowOccupational Health and Safety (OHS) Comgroup companies. In the reporting period, to all office employees was erment section of our report. mittees that represent entire workforce. OHS we provided around 29 thousand hours Committees act as an internal communicaOHS training to 8,500 people including subtion mechanism where group employees contractor employees. 78 79 [SOCIAL PERFORMANCE] OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Our Companies and Locations OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH With OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health AND SAFETY and Safety Management System PRACTICES > Borçelik > Borusan Oto / Otomotiv — During the reporting period, we continued > Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri to develop projects regarding occupational > Borusan Mannesmann health and safety at most of our companies. — > Kerim Çelik > Borusan EnBW Enerji Bandırma WPP Borçelik > Borusan EnBW Enerji Fuatres WPP OHS Simulation Centre > Borusan EnBW Enerji Mut WPP In order to offer legally compulsory occustations, their design and production folpational health and safety trainings in a thelow-ups, and scripting the scenarios of the > Borusan EnBW Enerji Koru WPP oretical class environment, and help partrainings to be given. We aim to have around ticipants turn their unsafe actions into safe 1,000 stakeholders a year from Borçelik em> Borusan EnBW Enerji Harmanlık WPP ones, our Management Systems departployees and visitors benefit from this project > Borusan Lojistik ment founded the OHS Simulation Centre and measure their performance with a final in May 2016 with a budget of USD 50 thoutest and pass it with at least 70 points. The > Supsan sand. applied trainings that we have included in the training program along with the legally > Borusan Holding During the realisation of the project, there compulsory trainings will take place every have been many works such as compariyear at the OHS Simulation Centre with the 400 son visits, brainstorming to define simulation participation of all of our employees. 358 Number of Established OHS Committees 300 259 Number of Employee 200 Representatives in Established OHS Committees 100 68 65 71 57 Total Number of Members in Established 0 OHS Committees 2015 2016 80 81 [SOCIAL PERFORMANCE] OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Borusan EnBW Enerji Working Safely Under Winter Conditions Program For the winter conditions out in the RES and ods with heavy snow were deliberately chosen HES fields go highly adverse and risky, in orto make sure that the trainings were realistic. der for field teams to work safely, and develop So even though this made the trainings more their skills in being able to make appropriate difficult, it also made them more effective. decisions to evacuate at the right time and manage the process effectively in emergency In the upcoming periods, we aim to give the situations, and equip themselves with the necsame training in new businesses and investessary knowledge and experience for survival ment projects, and not only for the winter in case of being stranded, we have provided conditions, but also on how to act in cases of about 80 employees with two-day theory and terrorist attacks or natural disasters like earthapplication trainings in cooperation with AKUT quakes, and on precautions that can be taken and Securitas. Trainings took place in 2016 out in the field thanks to the connection estabwith a budget of TRY 30 thousand. The perilished with AKUT, from the year 2017 on. Borusan EnBW Enerji Safe Driving Program Specific for Company Teams Because of the challenging road conditions Instead of having an intensive course in one in RES and HES fields where the employgo, the HSE (Health Safety Environment) Deees need to travel very frequently, we aimed partment designed a safe driving program to inform all employees who drive vehicles that aimed to keep the level of consciousabout safe driving techniques and help them ness high by spreading the training over a develop correct actions in order to prevent period of time, and chose a number of comaccidents. With a budget around TRY 40 panies that could offer relevant solutions to thousand, we had specialist safe driving different teams. The program that was put training companies give our 86 employees together both allowed participants to expedefensive and off-road driving courses in a rience the process on location by practice in one-day, two phases courses in April 2015 the field, and develop their driving skills for and 2016. all urban and country conditions. RESULTS AND GAINS All Borusan EnBW Enerji drivers developed their skills to be able to act more professionally and take decisions that will not pose harm to themselves or to those around them. We aim to continue this program with different trainings for certain other RESULTS AND GAINS groups. Our field teams developed their skills to be able to act more professionally in harsh winter conditions and take decisions that will not pose harm to themselves or to those around them. 82 83 [SOCIAL PERFORMANCE] OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY BorusanEnBW Enerji Safety in One Minute Sharings In all RES and HES operations under any job safely, and what they can do Borusan EnBW Enerji, Safely One to work safely without causing other Minute Shares took place among colleagues or the environment any the activities under the leadership of harm. Every email body contains the HSE Department and the Operations phrase, ‘Even a minute that you will to raise the OHS and environmental spare for safety is so valuable for us.’ awareness that lasted for a year from The facility technicians who take part Borusan EnBW Enerji March 2016 on. in this project prepare these shares Safe Living Training with support from HSE Department, Safety in One Minute Sharing is the and publish on Monday, Wednesday (OHS and Environmental Awareness Training) first email the employees see when and Friday every week. Its purpose they open their mailboxes in the is to make facility teams do research Our technicians at Borusan EnBW Enerji Yedigöl Aksu RESULTS AND GAINS morning three days a week. This email on the safe work topic, thereby indigHydroelecetric Plant built over Aksu River spotted local children posing dangerous actions around the plant. Target audience is reached contains an informative letter with imenizing the process and making the Therefore, we initiated an education campaign led by by completion of the project. ages explaining the precautions to do learned information permanent. the plant and head office HSE Departments to increase Children were raised awareness awareness of children at İspir district schools and preon dangers they may encounter venting potential threats around the plants. at home, school, park, on the road and even at an energy RESULTS AND GAINS Following the legal permits obtained from National Edplant, and the protection ucation Provincial Directorate, İspir District Governormethods from these dangers. ship and İspir Municipality, we contacted ÇEVKO (EnThe Facility Technician who undertook the leadership of the project vironment Protection Association) for the videos in the received the Borusan EnBW Enerji Distinguished OHS Application of In 2017, the aim is to repeat education material and CME (Chamber of Mechanical The Year Award. the project at İspir village Engineers) for the booklets they prepared. By organizroads during spring when ing OHS and Environment Awareness Trainings with tailored content for different children age groups, local the snow melts. On the other In 2017, we aim to turn this practice into safety calendar and publish hand, the training is planned conditions and safe living topics were pointed out. it monthly to the entire company, and commence every meeting with to be deployed to other seven a safety note special to that date along with the Safety Calendar. It is 1,501 students from all İspir District primary and middle Borusan EnBW Enerji plants also in the plans in the upcoming years to have a printed version of schools were reached in 5-7 May 2016 with the contriin Tekirdağ, Çanakkale, Bursa, butions of 8 volunteers from which three of them were Balıkesir, İzmir, Mersin and this calendar given to everyone at the beginning of each year. full-time Borusan volunteers. Gaziantep. 84 85 [SOCIAL PERFORMANCE] OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Borusan Lojistik OHS Academy In Borusan Lojistik Şekerpınarı warehouse, we shared RESULTS AND GAINS recorded unsafe actions and near miss situation videos with all warehouse employees during all shift trainings ECONOMIC Job efficiency to reduce accidents originated from unsafe actions. increased due to reduction in occupational accidents. SOCIAL Occupational safety awareness increased. 80% increase was recorded in the number of feedbacks from the staff. Near miss reporting numbers increased by 70%. CORPORATE Employees motivation to work with safer attitudes increased. Supsan Supsan Automated Fire Supsan Indoor Ventilation System Investment Extinguishing System Investment We installed Indoor Ventilation We installed Automated Fire Extinguishing System in merchandise storage System with a TRY 40 thouTARGETED GAINS to intervene effectively in case of fire. We completed the sprinkling system sand budget in order to reduce ECONOMIC To increase employee efficiency. investment installed on 1,150 m2 land with a budget of TRY 60 thousand. the temperature in the factory SOCIAL To improve workplace conditions during summer and improve regarding OHS. TARGETED GAINS indoor air quality. All internal ENVIRONMENTAL To blow out air through stakeholders will be positivefiltration. ECONOMIC To reduce potential fire risk and corresponding economic loss risk ly impacted by the investment CORPORATE To increase employee SOCIAL To ensure safety and security of staff and plant in case of a potential fire. which is completed by estabsatisfaction by improving indoors and air ENVIRONMENTAL To minimize environmental risks in case of a potential fire. lishing two air sucking and one quality. CORPORATE To improve corporate risk assessment result. air blowing lines in the factory. 86 87 [SOCIAL PERFORMANCE] OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Borusan crucial tips to prevent accidents and do emphasized the most essential risks and Mannesmann Boru Gemlik workplace improvement studies. We esintended to raise awareness of employOccupational Health and Safety tablished an infrastructure in company ees. By using employee pictures in the portal for OHS notices and we continue posters and brochures, we enhanced Cultural Development Program our works for employees to send notifithe impact of our work. cations through MES. According to International Labor Orof accomplishing zero accident target > Crane Control Program and Team ganisation ILO data, 88% of occuand encouraging employees to work in pational accidents are caused by danline with occupational health and safety > Reward Punishment System The Establishment We established a safe gerous actions. At BMB Gemlik ERW and environment protection principals; objective of the practice is to define rework system to prevent employees from (longitudinally welded pipe production), we initiated a program that will increase warding and punishment practices reoccupational accidents caused during Gemlik SP (spiral pipe) and Halkalı the OHS cultural level of employees for garding OHS and environment protecworking with cranes. According to sysplants dangerous action based acciidentifying and communicating dangertion in Borusan Mannesmann Boru. The tem, all crane operators check their dents occurred as 86% in 2014 and ous situations, and taking precautions intention is not to punish the employee cranes before each shift and for effec80% in 2015 that entailed the oversight to fix/prevent these situations. After the but rather encourage her for safe betiveness reasons they record it in control of a cultural development program to launch of the program, the accident haviour. 756 employees are rewarded in form. We also check cranes everyday by lead employees to safe actions and rate due to dangerous actions dropped avoid these accidents. For the purpose by 13 points to 73%. 2016 who deserved “Zero Accident Boa team of professional experts for technus” personally and as a department. nical controls. The Practices Within The Program Scope Are > OHS Forum Theatre Dramatization > Danger Hunt Competition Mission or forum theatre technique is an imImpossible! The purpose of the game is > Safety Walks Sistemi Safety Walks accidents that happened in 2015 and pactful method for 75% of employees to contribute to the development of OHS System involves all plant managers to the probability that they might get hurt through learning by experience. By this culture and get the support of employees lead OHS observations according to a in one of them. Accident pictures and technique, information is internalised by in our battle against accidents. In Boruplan in a predetermined area for 45 minshort briefs about how the accident has experiencing it and therefore will be resan Mannesmann where we began our utes simultaneously and as a group and happened are included on the accident called longer. In 2016, 3 forums for facjourney with the slogan ‘Everyone Will Be record all dangerous situations and acvisual boards. tory employees and 1 forum for office an Occupational Safety Expert One Day’, tions they identify. 60 Safety Walks are employees are organized. We decided to we defined the target for the employees conducted at ERW and SP plants since > Dangerous Situation, Dangerous organize one more forum for those who to work against occupational accidents the beginning of 2016. Action and Near Miss Notification couldn’t previously participate due to exas achievable likewise professionals in System The purpose of the notification cuses. charge of occupational safety. In the > Accident Visual Boards We presystem is to ensure that all near miss competition held, teams of six people pared accident visual boards and put incidents, dangerous situations and ac> BMB 10 Golden Rules Guide We competed against each other and by rethem in several spots at the plant in tions are communicated and to encourcompiled BMB 10 Golden Rules Guide warding each of them, we secured that order to constantly remind employees age everyone to do so. The reports of by defining the most important safety this awareness raising competition is and ensure that they do not forget the these incidents and actions are the most rules at BMB plants regarding OHS. We promoted. 88 89 [SOCIAL PERFORMANCE] VİNÇTE USTAYIM, Borusan Mannesmann Boru Halkalı KURALLARA UYARIM! 1 Sıkışma EzilmeOccupational Safety Information Module Kesilme risklerine karşı dikkatliyim, sarmakapmakesilme riski olan Implementation for Factory Employees alanlara müdahale etmiyorum. 2 Vinçle yük taşımalarda yük altına girmiyorum, 3 Makinenin enerjisini kesmeden 4 İşe başlamadan önce mutlaka riskleri yük altından makineye değerlendiriyorum geçmiyorum. müdahale ve kendimi etmiyorum. tehlikeye atacak hareketlerde bulunmuyorum. 5 Görevimin dışında işleri 6 Her kullanımdan önce makine, 7 Çalışma alanımda bulunan araçların Vi̇nç kontrol li̇stemi̇ yapmıyorum, ekipman, (forklift, vinç, bilmediğim sapan ve el traktör, dorse, makineleri ve aletimi kontrol aktarma arabası, dolduruyorum, ekipmanları ediyorum. kamyon vb.) kullanmıyorum. hareketlerine uygunsuzluk dikkat ediyorum. gördüğümde vi̇nci̇mi̇ 8 Kişisel 9 Çalışma sahamı 10 Emniyet çalıştırmıyorum. Koruyucularımı temiz, tertipli ve kurallarına çalışma sürem düzenli tutuyorum. ve çalışma boyunca düzenli Temiz ve tertipli talimatlarına kullanıyorum. sahanın güvenli uyuyorum, çalışma saha olduğunu arkadaşlarımın biliyorum. güvenliğini gözetiyorum. İş Sağlığı ve Güvenliği’ni bilirim diyorsan, sürpriz hediyelere hazır ol! Borusan Mannesmann Boru Halkalı Operating My Crane Safely Campaign 15 Haziran 15 Temmuz tarihleri arasında, 1 ay boyunca her gün, bilgisayarını açtığın zaman İş Güvenliği Modülü Ekranında göreceğin sorulara en çok doğru yanıt veren 10 kişiden biri ol, sürpriz hediyeler kazan. In 2016, we added Occupational Safety Sistem nasıl çalışıyor? Module to MES Operator program which is 1Herhangi bir Mes ekranından iş güvenliği butonuna basılır. Kullanıcı adı ve şifre girilerek seç butonuna basılır. At Borusan Mannesmann Boru Halkalı formation about cranes that each operamandatory for starting work and continuing 2Mes Ekranında bulunan raporlar menüsünün altındaki uygulamalardan İş Güvenliği seçilir, kullanıcı adı ve şifre Factory, steel roll plate raw materials, semi tor should know. production. Each time operators start their products and produced pipes are carried girilerek seç butonuna basılır. 3Makinada vardiyayı başlatan operatör için sorular otomatik gelecektir. shifts, a question regarding occupational 4İş Güvenliği sorusu ekrana gelir, cevaplardan seçim yapılır ve kayıt tuşuna basılır. by ceiling cranes. A need to improve opAfter the basic training about safe crane safety appears on the screen and before reNOT: Her vardiya başlangıcında 1 adet ve erators’ competency levels for preventing operation, we asked employees about the plying the question no information about protoplamda 30 adet soru değerlendirilmeye alınacaktır. duction can be retrieved. Hence, we make danger posed by operator faults emerged most essential principal/rule that needs sure the employee starts his shift considering because there are 56 cranes that carry attention in their opinions. We came up a topic about occupational safety. very heavy and long loads intensively. with 10 Golden Rules to be followed. Then we shot a video with some employees Through reports obtained from the module, In this scope, we went through a list of about these 10 Golden Rules and shared we can monitor which employee answered all previous accidents, near miss inciit with all the employees at the plant. We which questions right or the rate of accurate share with each other during the day and dents and identified unsafe actions and also prepared Operating My Crane Safereplies given to any question. Thus, we can even search on internet. In the first month of reviewed the root causes. Then, we prely Manual bearing the same content and identify the level of knowledge and education the initial stage of the practice, we organized need as a group or of each employee. pared a visual presentation utilising exdistributed to employees. We intent to rean encouraging competition that measured the personal accomplishment performance. perienced crane operators regarding the duce lost days and accidents by preventThis practice enables employees to ask We rewarded the first 10 people who gave principles to pay attention while operating ing near miss situations and dangerous questions to one another, get an opinion and maximum correct answers with presents. a crane and also, included all technical inactions during crane operations. 90 91 — We might think that Syrian people living in our country are so different from us culturally and linguistically. However, we have so much in common… We can make life better and more meaningful by working together on common goals. — LEVENT ŞİMŞİR BORUSAN EnBW ENERJİ #TheEarthIsOurHome 92 93 [SOCIAL PERFORMANCE] BORUSAN KOCABIYIK FOUNDATION Borusan Kocabıyık Foundation is the umbrella CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY organization for Borusan Holding’s social responsibility activities in three areas and, in particular, it deploys resources when state provision is insufficient. In 2016, it set aside USD11 million for this purpose. As a leading contributor to society, Borusan Holding’s social responsibility activities. conducts its corporate social responsibility activities in three areas: education, culture Borusan Kocabıyık Foundation, founded in and arts, and the women empowerment. 1992, ensures the effectiveness and susta— Having worked his whole life The principles and values of the late Asım inability of these activities. Borusan KocabıKocabıyık, Borusan Founder and Honorary yık Foundation is the umbrella organization Chairman, are the backbone of the Group’s for Borusan Holding’s social responsibility to repay the debt of gratitude identity as a responsible company. Having worked his whole life to repay the debt of activities in three areas and, in particular, it deploys resources when state provision is he owes to this country, the late gratitude he owes to this country, the late insufficient. In 2016, it set aside USD11 milliAsım Kocabıyık’s approach of “returning on for this purpose. In addition, the Borusan what he got from the society to it with social Ocean Volunteers Platform, an initiative of Asım Kocabıyık’s approach of project is adopted by each and every Borusan employee and it in here in the corporate Borusan employees established in 2008, is an important and unique social responsibility “returning what he got from the culture. Today, this is the maxim of Borusan project. society to it with social project is adopted by each and every Borusan employee and it in here in the corporate culture. Today, this is the maxim of Borusan Holding’s social responsibility activities. — 94 95 [SOCIAL PERFORMANCE] CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Borusan Kocabıyık Vakfı Educational Activities Borusan Kocabıyık Foundation has a try. Borusan Kocabıyık Foundation also long-standing commitment to education, disbursed 133 scholarships to students which Asım Kocabıyık believed was crustudying in Turkey and abroad in 2016. cial for determining Turkey’s future. BoruScholarships for classical music educasan Kocabıyık Foundation has built many tion are pivotal, with 26 students having schools: Borusan Otomotiv Zehra Nurhan benefited to date, and four current recipKocabıyık Primary School, Gemlik Borusan ients. BKF also contributes to improving Women Primary School, Borusan Asım Kocabıyık Turkey’s educational sector by supporting Industrial Vocational High School, Kocaeli platforms such as the Education Reform Empowerment University Asım Kocabıyık Vocational ColInitiative. lege. The Foundation has also provided Borusan believes that women have the sexual discrimination and in providing major support to other projects, such as Borusan Kocabıyık Foundation also coorsame social and economic rights as men. equal opportunity for the professional dethe restoration of Istanbul University’s Facdinates Ertuğ and Kocabıyık Publications, Women comprise only seven million in velopment for all employees. ulty of Economics Library. In some cases, which publishes books of exquisite quality Turkey’s 37 million working population BKF directly supports the schools it has and content that focus primarily on the Otand one in five Turkish women lives in As in Turkey overall, the number of female built while, in others, it does so indirecttoman, Byzantine, Roman and Hellenistic poverty. According to the World Economemployees at Borusan working in techly through agreements with local governeras. The publication of these books, which ic Forum’s Gender Equality Index, women nology, engineering and management is ments to meet the schools’ needs. Its accontain scholarly articles and stunning tivities include donating books to schools photographs, is a joint project of Ahmet hold only 12% of administrative positions low and there are hurdles to hiring womand, in 2016, it donated 7,575 books to Kocabıyık, Chairman of Borusan Holding, in Turkey. en for factory employee positions. Boruthe libraries of 41 schools across the counand architect-photographer Ahmet Ertuğ. san established its “Equal Borusan Social In response, Borusan supports its womEquality” platform to tackle these issues. en employees as a matter of company policy, promoting gender equality, and it Moreover, Borusan has signed many releprovides infrastructure and financial supvant protocols and commitments, the first port to enable women in other sectors and foremost being the UN Women’s Emof society to participate in professional powerment Principles. life. Borusan develops its projects in the belief that the women empowerment in Borusan was elected and invited to be economic and social life is a prerequisite a member of the UN Women’s Empowof a sound economy, a more equal soerment Principles Leadership Group in ciety, development, sustainability, human 2015, becoming the first and only Turkish rights, and a rising quality of life. company to achieve this status. Through its work on women’s empowerment, it Borusan’s human resources policies have has become a leader of the cause, not made significant headway in eliminating only in Turkey, but the world. 96 97 [SOCIAL PERFORMANCE] CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY I Have a Goddaughter in Anatolia, She Will Be a Teacher! As Borusan Lojistik, we decided to give scholarships to 20 girls who receive education outside İstanbul for helping women to have occupations and strengthening their positions in society by supporting their education. We donated TRY 19 thousand to Association for Supporting Contemporary Life (ÇYDD). We intend to meet the educational needs of 10 girls who receive education in Anatolia through ÇYDD every year. Equal Borusan Social Equality Platform Operational since November 2015, tain full support of all management the Equal Borusan Platform raises levels; challenge, impact and develthe awareness of Borusan employop company and HR policies; play ees to the subject of gender equalan active role in commissioning naity. It aims to instill male and female tional and international treaties and equality in a range of areas, from principles; develop suggestions to human rights policies to commuchange discriminatory statement, nication, in employees’ minds and practice and actions. My Mom’s Job is not only on paper. The purpose of the platform is to build a happy and The platform is nonhierarchical, My Future Project successful future where gender has company management supAmong Borusan’s most important womment in companies in 10 organized indusroles and perceptions do not import and is open to everyone. It en’s empowerment projects is My Mom’s trial zones in 10 provinces of Turkey and pede equality and diversity. functions to bring about concrete Job is My Future. Research shows that provide their children with modern educachange in four working groups: rechildcare provision is crucial for improving tion. “Equal Borusan Equal Society’ platsearch, education, human resourcthe employment of women in Turkey. form priorities are; working to maines and communication. In 2016, My Mom’s Job is My Future won This long-term Project, launched in coopa social responsibility award in the Golden eration with the Ministry of Family and SoCompass Public Relations Awards, sponcial Policies and the Ministry of Science, sored by the Turkish Public Relations AssoIndustry and Technology, addresses this ciation and the United Nations named it an issue by building early childcare and edexemplary project. By the end of 2016, the ucation centers, called Borusan Joy Facproject had opened Borusan Joy Factories tories, for children aged between 0 and 6. in Adıyaman, Afyonkarahisar, Malatya and These centers facilitate women’s employBalıkesir. 98 99 [SOCIAL PERFORMANCE] CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Borusan Holding Micro Finance Branches In 2009, we opened our first Micro Finance Branch in Afyonkarahisar, the birth place of our founder and honorary president Asım Kocabıyık, in order to realize our goal to support women entrepreneurs. The second Micro Finance Branch is opened in 2013 in Bursa, Gemlik where Borusan Holding owns a large industrial campus including a port. To date, we provided TRY 5.5 million loans to women entrepreneurs through both Micro Finance branches to support them for establishing and developing their own businesses. In 2016, number of women entrepreneurs who received micro finance loans reached 2,800. Let’s Code, Girls! Project Borusan launched the Let’s Code, Girls! projof electronics, gaming, animation and story ect to enable girls to develop computer skills programming, and simple robot design using compatible with the 21st century information basic electronic modules and 3-D printing intechnology era and to take steps towards a tegration. The girls came up with interesting future of equality. and creative projects as a result of their training. A Corporate Volunteering Initiative: The project, conducted in March 2016 at the Borusan Gemlik campus, targeted plant emThe project was extended to include the chilThe Borusan Ocean Volunteers Platform ployees’ girls aged between 7 and 14. In the dren of employees at the Borusan plants in first phase, the project taught 60 girls how Sefaköy and Halkalı and an additional 90 girls to code with classes in the fundamentals aged between 7 and 14 received computer Founded in 2008, the Borusan Ocean Group companies and their employees programming training at these campuses. Volunteers Platform enables Borusan unceasingly work towards repaying their employees to direct their knowledge and “debt of gratitude to the country.” Borusan collaborated with the UK-based KızCode (GirlCode), which demonstrated its skills into social responsibility projects in success by winning the best social responthe fields of education, culture and arts, Borusan Ocean Volunteers Platform ofsibility initiative award from the Ministry of the environment, and human rights. ten collaborates with NGOs on projects, the Interior and the Universities Association including blood donations, book donain 2015. The Let’s Code, Girls! project won the International Corporate Social ResponsiIn 2016, the platform conducted 3,772 tion drives, shore and sea cleaning, book bility award as part of the International Young hours of volunteer activities with the parreading for the blind, mentoring, and Entrepreneurs and Leaders platform’s 2nd ticipation of 599 volunteers. Borusan school friending programs. International Corporate Social Responsibility (ICSR) Awards. 100 101 [SOCIAL PERFORMANCE] CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri Borusan Vocational High School Coaches Otomotiv Group Vocational High School Coaching Program is a ine ve Güç Sistemleri Ocean Volunteers and We are Against corporate social responsibility practice led by Private Sector Volunteers Association initiated performed volunteering activities with a budget of TRY 1,550 in excess of the 50-hour target. Ignorance! Target is RESULTS AND GAINS for the volunteer coaches chosen among emThey met and had coaching activities with 45 2,000 Books! ECONOMICAL We built a 2,000-book ployees to serve for 2 years. students which included students from Mimar Sinan Industrial Vocational High School’s MaThe survey we conducted among Borusan library together with its equipment The purpose of the program is to create lasting chinery Plant & Equipment Department. Otomotiv Group employees brought out a inventory for just TRY 5,000 from collaborations between companies and vocademand from Ocean Volunteers to focus on tional high schools, allow relationships that beIn the meetings that took place in three week company budget. producing projects for children. This led us to gin with coaching practices to turn into opporintervals, studies were done with students on SOCIAL We built a library comprising a decision to start a library project. As a first tunities like internship or employment provided topics such as Safely Toward the Target, Time step, we spotted a school without a library modern and up-to-date books where to students, and supporting other investments Management, Continuous Learning and Develthat might be done in vocational high schools in opment, and Responsible Citizenship. Expeand made a shortage and requirements list approximately 750 students who study in the long term. riences were transferred, and guest speakers for it. We started the process of supplying the Istanbul Küçükçekmece İnönü Secondary shared their success stories. We are aiming to equipment such as the bookshelves, desks, School can benefit from. In 2016, nine of our employees actively worked continue this program until 2018. chairs, maps, computers etc to be placed in project under the leadership of Borusan Makthe library. ENVIRONMENTAL The library also contained books with content to feed In addition to our 30 employees who are acenvironmental awareness. tive supporters, a number of our external CORPORATE Thanks to this campaign, stakeholders also volunteered to support the project: U-Medya Film Productions, Roka a sense of volunteering for a common Davet, Meta İnşaat, Boogy Event, Smartis and cause developed among the employees Akmanlar Grup also donated books. of Borusan Otomotiv Group. The Ocean Volunteers have further plans to realise We aspired to spread this book donation another library project in a different campaign operation to all Borusan Otomotiv branches nationwide. To achieve that, we school in 2017 gathered the list of books suitable for curriculum in a link with the help of a mobile web page designed by a partnership of hepsiburada.com and made it possible for everyone to be able to donate books online. RESULTS AND GAINS In the short film prepared for the book donaECONOMICAL We believe that this program will help grow business people who will add value tion campaign awareness, we placed “I Am to the country’s economy in the long run. Against Ignorance! Target is 2,000 Books!” SOCIAL We supported the vocational high school students in their attendance to their schools, messages from various levels of employees their success stories, profession gaining, and professional and personal developments by in Borusan Otomotive. At the same time the introducing them to people who could be role models to them. film was webcast in Facebook as advertised CORPORATE Another new and effective practice has been initiated in Borusan Group which content, which enabled non-Borusan Otomostands out with the importance it gives to contribution to community tiv people donate books as well. 102 103 [SOCIAL PERFORMANCE] CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Gemlik Means Mini Projects for Special Children Borusan for Us Borusan has been investing and working in Gemlik for 40 years. From one of its most important production sites, it has invested in social, cultural and educational projects for Borusan Lojistik the town of Gemlik. As part of this, it established a tradition of providing a public evening ITO/Joyful Hands Garden meal during Ramadan at the Gemlik Dock Square, which was attended by thousands. Borusan again held the Gemlik Olive Festival in a celebration of one of the town’s most In order to help mentally and physically handicapped children get the precious products. rehabilitation they need through engagement with nature, and increase their life quality however marginal it may be, we have organised seed balls, garden planting, wish tree decoration, fence and ground painting activities in Istanbul Chamber of Commerce İTO ‘s Special Education Practice Centre in Pendik. For this project through which we have accessed to 225 kids, we dedicated a TRY 5,000 budget. Our co-operating project partner Çekül provided the materials and practical guidance for the activities. We are aiming to realise further projects as per the needs of the children there at the Rehabilitation Centre. Borusan Our Ocean Volunteers at Borusan Makine ve Güç In conjunction with the Sistemleri Adana Branch stepped forward and put Makina up a booth in their office to create awareness for Gemlik Municipality and the Cinematic Culture ve Güç leukemia disease and raise money for Lösev (The and Art Association, Children with Leukemia Foundation), and informed Sistemleri their fellow colleagues of Lösev’s mission and Borusan organized the Borusan Gemlik activities. The TRY 1,600 raised through the toy sales Children’s Festival, made at the booth on behalf of Lösev was handed LÖSEV where children and their over to the foundation officials. We intend to put up families enjoyed the Booth the Lösev booth every year. nostalgia of an outdoor cinema. 104 105 [SOCIAL PERFORMANCE] CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CULTURE AND Borusan Istanbul Philharmonic Orchestra ARTS ACTIVITIES For 20 years, Borusan Sanat has endeavored to foster love for the arts and music in the Turkey. Now, it has established itself as an influential institution making its mark on classical music in Turkey. At the core of Borusan Sanat’s activities is the Borusan Istanbul Philharmonic Orchestra (BIPO), which comprises some of Turkey’s best classical musicians and has set its sights on becoming one of Europe’s leading symphony orchestras. Borusan Sanat is also the operating body for the Borusan Quartet, the Borusan Children’s Choir, the Borusan Music House, and Borusan Klasik, an Internet-based classical music radio station. BIPO reaches nearly 25 thousand concert-goers a year through monthly concerts and, under its artistic director and principal conductor, Sascha Goetzel, it completed a busy 2016 program. Details of these events and concerts take place in our web site. Borusan Contemporary Borusan transformed Yusuf Ziya Pasha Mansion, in Istanbul’s Rumelihisarı neighborhood, into a contemporary art museum, the Borusan Contemporary, in commemoration of the mansion’s centenary. Also known as the Perili Köşk (The Haunted Mansion), the building is Borusan Holding’s headquarters on weekdays and, on the weekends, it hosts public exhibitions for art aficionados’ delectation. Borusan Contemporary held five exhibitions in 2016. Details of these exhibitions take place in our web site. In 2016, the workshops that accompany Borusan Contemporary exhibitions ran throughout the year, offering art activities to children and adults. 106 107 — We met with a youth laden with science and art contrary to the stereotypical figures that comes to our minds when we think of Syrian immigrants living amongst us. Uncovering the rich vocabulary common in both our languages was like discovering the intersection of separate clusters. — MESUDE TAPKAN BORUSAN MAKİNA VE GÜÇ SİSTEMLERİ #TheEarthIsOurHome 108 109 [environmental performance] — At Borusan Group companies which are leaders in different industries, we aim to develop efficient products and services that respect environment and deliver the highest benefits for users and we engage in various environmental practices that help reduce natural resource and energy consumption, waste production, and carbon footprint. According to the environmental sustainability strategy determined by our Holding, we implement practices across the entire group which will alter the risks associated with climate change into opportunities and apply a proactive approach to reduce environmental impacts of operations. We support activities and trainings that increase the environmental awareness in the community and among employees in order to deploy environmental consciousness in our organization and the value chain. — 110 111 [ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE] Borusan EnBW Enerji Ornithological Observation Studies during Construction and Operation Stage During the construction and operation stage of TARGETED GAINS Balabanlı, Koru, Fuatres and Kartaldağı Wind Power Plants, Investments and Operations DeENVIRONMENTAL Sustain wildlife, partments initiated ornithological observations primarily birds, in the region. for 2 years to minimize environmental impacts, observe wildlife around the plants and maintain SOCIAL Contribute to the preservation sustainability. of national values by complying with environmental and social procedure Studies were carried out during Spring and Fall and conserving the environment. with a USD 50 thousand budget. Ornithological observations were conducted and reported in CORPORATE Continue with the cooperation with Akdeniz University. The turbines observation in the following years sometimes are stopped when necessary by the if required by experts and official direction of experts in order to eliminate negative institutions. Borçelik impacts on birds. One Sapling for One Coil Project For each coil produced at Borçelik, a sapling is TARGETED GAINS Borusan Lojistik grown. These saplings are grown in a facility built on Target of 1 Million Trees a 2,000 m2 site within the factory premises. General Directorate of Forestry data show that 2,350,000 ECONOMIC Supporting villagers to gain income through stone pines in trees burned each year in the last decade across As Borusan Lojistik, with the objecRESULTS AND GAINS the long run. 97,000 hectares of forest area. Therefore in 2016, tive of carbon footprint reduction Borçelik Corporate Communication Department works in the scope of our combat SOCIAL Encouraging tree planting, SOCIAL took voluntary action in cooperation with Greenagainst climate change policy, we Toplum için daha yeşil bir çevre ve daha house and Plant Growing Club to plant trees. enjoying nature and enhancing social aimed to plant 1 million trees. Since temiz bir hava yaratılmasına katkı sağladık. responsibility consciousness 2011, for the project that is carried We intend to create forest areas by growing 200 out with a budget of TRY 6.5 milENVIRONMENTAL thousand saplings each year for 5 years with a ENVIRONMENTAL Building forests lion in İzmir Ödemiş, and the objecWe helped restructuring and preservation budget of TRY 100 thousand and 1 million trees in by forestation of appropriate lands, tive to eliminate the environmental of İzmir-Ödemiş habitat. total. The grown saplings are gifted to schools, unipreserving nature damage caused by the industry, versities, public institutions, municipalities, clients Çekül oversees plotting, plantCORPORATE and factory employees for planting. The saplings ing trees and maintenance works. We corroborated the perception of ‘Green CORPORATE Corroborating the not distributed during the year are donated to ReWe completed the planting of 590 Player of the Grey Industry’ and ecoeco-friendly company image of gional Directorate of Forestry with the provision to thousand trees by the end of 2016. friendly company. Borçelik plant. 112 113 [ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE] ENERGY MANAGEMENT Borçelik Project to Reduce Energy Consumption AND COMBATTING CLIMATE CHANGE A new system was launched with a budget of USD 25 thousand in 2016 to reduce production cost via monitoring and reducing energy consumption in RCM –reversible cold mill lines. Hence, cost reduction and energy consumption reduction in un/planned stoppage of the RCM lines that consist of 44.5% of the total installed capacity are targeted. RESULTS AND GAINS While saving USD 130 thousand annually, approximately 715 tons CO2 emissions — Every year at Borusan Group are prevented. In addition, production and maintenance software is produced for monitoring energy consumption model in the scope of the project, which supports companies, we develop innovative our strategy to reduce costs by maintaining energy efficiency. solutions to cater for the purpose of using energy efficiently, reducing green house Borçelik gas emissions and fighting against climate LED Lighting Automation change. With our renewable energy In 2016, LED fitting transition is done with a budgeneration investments which play an get of USD 44 thousand to utilize daylight in lightimportant role in reducing risks of climate ing and prevent fittings to change, we prevented about 666 thousand be on while the daylight is adequate at 3 halls of tons of CO2 emissions in 2016. — Borçelik production line, and to comply fully with TS EN 12464. RESULTS AND GAINS We intend to reduce our group’s carbon footprint constantly through The return on investment duration was 9.6 energy and emission management practices we initiate. We define months. Work conditions improved due to strategies that turn environmental risks into opportunities at group compliance with TS EN companies, and achieve solid results such as energy saving, material 12464. Energy saving of 45,700 kWh/month for and natural resource efficiency by means of our good practices. the 3 lines is achieved. 114 115 [ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE] ENERGY MANAGEMENT AND COMBATTING CLIMATE CHANGE Borusan EnBW Enerji Good Energy Trainings for Future Generations Borçelik In order to increase the level of Reducing Natural Gas consciousness about wind power Consumption at Regeneration Plant at the two premises of Borusan EnBW Enerji, Renewable Energy Since failures and unplanned stoppages at hydrochloric acid regeneration plant Resources and Energy Efficiency increase natural gas consumption, for Tips training is provided to primary reducing it and stabilizing production, an and vocational school students in improvement project has done in 2016 2016 May by our six employees. with a budget of USD 10 thousand. During the project operational practic30 students from Murat Hasan es and maintenance rules are reviewed. Orhan Primary School near Alarm limits are determined for critical Balabanlı WPP and Çanakkale parameters. Automation system is built RESULTS AND GAINS to save process data continuously. We Vocational School near Koru WPP Knowledge and interest levels of the target set our target for the natural gas concompleted their trainings with a audience increased. We plan to give these sumption which is 120 sm3/m3 HCI to be visit to Wind Power Plant after trainings regularly every year and train 400 new 108 sm3/m3 HCl. receiving 1-hour theory training. students in 2017. RESULTS AND GAINS By decreasing natural gas consumption and reducing equipment cost saved us Borusan Lojistik USD 200 thousand in annual terms. HCI regeneration capacity is increased to reduce HCI disposal and consumption amounts. Also, 1,372 kCO2/year emission is LED Conversion of the Lighting Systems prevented. in Port Area and The Cranes In order to reduce the illuminaTARGETED GAINS Borusan Lojistik tion costs and improve on the legally mandatory illumination ECONOMICAL We switched to a higher efficiency, longer We set our targets with ‘The Green levels in Borusan Port thanks to life illumination type which will save 1.5 million kWh energy Player of the Grey Industry’ motto! the energy savings up to 80%, we started the LED Conversion every year. (This new system has up to 20 years of operational life, with first 5 years under manufacturer’s warranty.) Project, the first phase of which ENVIRONMENTAL We contributed to Green Port works. In order to reduce carbon emissions, we initiated a program with our supwas completed in 2012-2013 We adopted systems that are more environmentally conpliers named ‘Quick Card’. We make 24 million litres of petrol sales with this period. With the initial budget of scious, less energy consuming, producing less harmful card each year. This number shows us that half of our suppliers quit using USD 288 thousand, we had our waste, and lasting longer in operational life. With this sysnumber 10 lubricant as petrol and instead began using diesel. suppliers carry out field tests tem, 665 tons less CO2 emission will occur compared to and measurements, and made the old system. custom LED fittings. We dediCORPORATE It is an example application for offering cost RESULTS AND GAINS cated a budget of TRY 1.3 miladvantages, helping build a better working environment We prevent 33,294 tons of CO2 emission yearly by this incentive. and increasing employee satisfaction, and serving our lion for the continuation of the conversion in 2016. green port targets. 116 117 [ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE] Borusan EnBW Enerji WASTE MANAGEMENT Construction Phase Waste Management — As Borusan Group which involves the leading companies of steel, dealership, logistics and energy industries, we act with the responsibility to protect the environment where we work and live in. — We intend to minimize the negative environmental impacts of our companies’ operational processes from product and service design and production to delivery and marketing phases. We extend the scope of practices that involve processes such as reduction of natural resource usage including water consumption and prevention of waste at its source. Borçelik Improving Process of Degreasing from Waste Oil Water For minimizing environmental impacts against leakage and eruption risks, necesand effectively monitoring environmental sary equipment is supplied, and on-going A need for an improvement in the degreasing process processes during Kartaldağı Wind Power matters are conveyed to operation team to of the contaminated waste water arose due to the inPlant construction that was started in June ensure the process is seamlessly carried creases in the waste oil water ratio and the cost of the 2016, work led by Investments and HSE out in the future. Besides, waste during the chemicals in the treatment unit. Emulsion process was (Health, Safety, Environment) Departments construction stage to be disposed without revised through a Project by Auxiliary Units with a 3,500 has commenced. harming the environment, hazardous waste TL investment. The inputs were standardised through to be carried away from the site by regismeasurable data, thereby maintaining the same quality Within the framework of Kartaldağı WPP tered companies, and recyclable waste of emulsion in each operation. This increased the emulproject, for preserving soil and natural reto be handed to licenced companies are sion volume, and reduced monthly emulsion numbers. sources; intervention plans are made managed. RESULTS AND GAINS RESULTS AND GAINS The employee motivation increased thanks to the reduction of the workload. The efficiency Besides creating awareness of environmental protection both in the investment team and in waste oil increased, the use of chemicals decreased. The cost of chemicals is reduced by the teams of contractors and subcontractors, contribution is achieved in compliance with about 40%. The return of the 5 months following the Project was USD 2,800. environmental procedures and preserving national values. 118 119 [ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE] Borçelik Waste Water Disposal Efficiency Project WATER MANAGEMENT The Auxiliary Units had a new pool built in December 2016 with a USD 40 thousand investment as the waste disposal costs increased due to an increase in discharge water parameters in Borçelik treatment facility (namely chemical oxygen demand and iron). This prevented the additional cost induced by the rinsing waters sent from the CGL1 — At Borusan Group companies, Continuous Galvanizing Line for disposal, while making the iron dust settle within the sedimentation pool. we develop innovative solutions RESULTS AND GAINS Flow rate control of the waste water coming for the objective of using water from the production lines was achieved. The discharged water legal parameter performance efficiently, reducing water was improved. Disposal costs were reduced to about TRY 10 thousand per month. consumption through reusing the Borçelik water treated for our production Reverse Osmosis Waste Water Recovery Project processes and discharching waste water without creating any Industrial water recovery was targeted from the RESULTS AND GAINS waste water of the existing reverse osmosis water > We have managed to regain water at the demineralisation unit by reducing water consumpflow rate of 13 m3/h from a new RO system threats to the environment. — tion to protect the underground water resources. During this USD 50 thousand project that lasted which uses waste water at the flow rate of 25 m3/h. from August 2016 until the end of the same year, > We have increased the quality of waste water flow rate measurements and analyses unprocessed water by transferring the end were carried out, and the infrastructure works for product water to the unprocessed water the waste water recovery unit were completed. pools. > Thanks to the rise in the quality of the In Borçelik, we have finished the installation of a At Supsan, with a project to reduce water consumption in 2015, we water that enters the system, the acid and new RO system for the reuse of the waste water reduced our 12 thousand tons of watwer usage to 11.5 thousand tons in that is ejected from the reverse osmosis system caustic consumption has been reduced by that filters the well water. With this plant, we target20%. 2016. With another project to treat spiral waste water at BMB, we could > In 2016 in 10 months alone, we ed to regain 40% of the RO waste water with a flow discharge the waste water to BUSKİ waste water treatment facility. rate of 25 cubic meters per hour, which comes out have managed to reduce our water of an RO system where the water consumption is consumption by 108,291 cubic meters, 90 cubic meters per hour. which amounts to 17% of saving in water. 120 121 [appendices] MEMBERSHIPS INSTITUTION COMPANY NAME INSTITUTION COMPANY NAME ADR-Türk Borusan Oto İstanbul Chamber of Certified Public Borçelik Accountants (ISMMMO) Anel Doğa Borusan Oto Materials Handling, Storage & Industrial Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri ALICE (Alliance for Logistics Innovation Borusan Lojistik Equipment Association (İSDER) Through Collaboration in Europe) Turkish Business Council of Sustainable Borusan Holding, Borçelik, Borusan Heavy Logistics Association (AND) Borusan Lojistik Development (SKD) Lojistik Construction Machinery Manufacturers Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri White Goods Supplier Association Borçelik and Distributors Association (İMDER) (BEYSAD) Boiler and Pressure Vessel Manufacturers Borusan Mannesmann Bursa Industry and Business Association Borçelik Association (BUSİAD) Corporate Communication Professionals Borusan Holding Bursa Chamber of Commerce and Industry Borçelik Association Turkish Steel Pipe Manufacturers Borusan Mannesmann Corporate Risk Management Association Borusan Danışmanlık Association (ÇEBİD) Chamber of Mechanical Engineers Borçelik Steel Exporters’ Association (ÇİB) Borusan Mannesmann Automotive Distributers’ Association Borusan Otomotiv Turkish Green Building Council (ÇEDBİK) Borusan Mannesmann Authorized Automotive Dealers Borusan Oto Railway Transport Association Borusan Lojistik Association OYDER Turkish Marine Environment Protection Borusan Holding Private Sector Volunteers’ Association Borusan Holding Association (TURMEPA) Turkish Personnel Management Borçelik, Borusan Otomotiv Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEİK) Borusan Holding, Borusan Mannesmann, Association Borçelik Pet-Der Borusan Otomotiv Education Reform Initiative Platform Borusan Kocabıyık Vakfı SAHA Association for Supporting Borusan Holding Electricity Producers Association Borusan EnBW Enerji Contemporary Life Energy Commerce Association Borusan EnBW Enerji Association of Automotive Parts and Borçelik Gemlik Chamber of Commerce and Industry Borçelik Components Manufacturers (TAYSAD) Global Relations Forum Association Borusan Holding Supply Chain Management Association Borusan Holding Economic Development Foundation Borusan Holding TEMA Foundation Borusan Holding İstanbul Minerals and Metals Exporters’ Borusan Mannesmann, Borçelik All Auto Leasing Institutions Association Borusan Otomotiv Premium Kiralama Associations (İMMİB) (TOKKDER) Istanbul Chamber of Industry Borusan Oto, Borçelik Tümaküder Borusan Otomotiv 122 123 INSTITUTION COMPANY NAME AWARDS Turkish Tunneling Society Borusan Mannesmann AWARD AWARD AWARDED AWARDED Turkish Industrialists and Businessmen’s Borusan Holding, Borusan EnBW Enerji NAME INSTITUTION COMPANY PROJECT NAME Association Turkish Constructional Steel Association Borusan Mannesmann CORPORATE (TUCSA) Competency in KALDER 25. Borusan Holding Uludağ University Turkish Ethics and Reputation Society Borusan Danışmanlık, Borusan Otomotiv Excellence Quality Congress Gemlik Asım Turkish Internal Auditing Institute Borusan Holding, Borusan Lojistik Kocabıyık Association Vocational School Turkish Exporters Assembly (TİM) Borusan Mannesmann Best in Class B2B The Interactive Borusan Holding Borusan Holding Media Awards™ Web Site Turkish Personnel Management Borusan Holding Association Best Service Siemens Supply Borusan Lojistik Institutionalism, Producer Supplier Chain Management Productivity, Turkish Quality Association (KALDER) Borusan Holding, Borçelik, Borusan Solution Orientation Lojistik Business Models Koç Group Borusan Lojistik Arçelik Outdoor Turkish Corporate Governance Association Borusan Holding, Borusan EnBW Enerji that Make a Delivery Innovation Port Operators Association of Turkey Borusan Lojistik Difference Project Turkish Employers’ Association of Metal Borçelik Best Pipe Producer American Metal Borusan Production, Industries Market (AMM) Mannesmann Operational Excellence, The Union of Chambers and Commodity Borusan Mannesmann New Product Exchanges of Turkey (TOBB) Development, Traceability, The Union of Chambers and Commodity Borusan EnBW Enerji Productivity and Exchanges of Turkey Energy Assembly Occupational Safety Turkish Wind Energy Association Borusan EnBW Enerji, Borusan Lojistik Innovation KoçGroup Company Borusan Lojistik Zer Arçelik Third Sector Foundation of Turkey Borusan Kocabıyık Vakfı Zer A.Ş. Outdoor Delivery Project English Chamber of Commerce in Turkey Borusan Holding Association SOCIAL Association of International Forwarding Borusan Lojistik and Logistics Service Providers (UTİKAD) 2nd International International Young Borusan Holding Let’s Code Girls! Corporate Social Entrpreneurs and Project International Investors Association Borçelik Responsibility (CSR) Leaders (JCI) (YASED) Award platform UN Global Compact Turkey Network Borusan Holding Most Successful Borusan Holding Borusan Lojistik ITO Joyful Hands Volunteer Project Project UN Women Empowerment Principles Borusan Holding (WEPs) Golden Glove Award MESS Kerim Çelik OHS Practices Turkish Constructional Steel Association Borçelik Success in HR PERYÖN Borçelik Hobby Clubs (TUCSA) Projects that Make a Difference YenidenBiz Borusan Holding 124 125 AWARDS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Economic Value BTSO Borçelik Metal Industry Economic Performance Indicators Contributors Award Winner Economic Value BTSO Borçelik Export Category Contributors Award Economic Value Created Power Contrinutors Manisa Organized Kerim Çelik Success and Distributed Currency 2014 2015 2016 Award Industrial Zone Economic Value TRY 1,000 9,836,953,587 11,911,210,090 12,969,243,457 2015 Stars of Steel Steel Exporters’ Borçelik 2015 cold/lined flat Generated (Net Exporters Association steel export winner Revenues) Company of the Borusan Holding Borçelik Success Economic Value Distributed to Stakeholders Year Most Profitable Capital Borusan Lojistik First among the Operating TRY 1,000 8,793,473,523 10,687,844,442 11,407,462,651 Company of the 500 companies that expenses Year increase profitability the most Benefit to TRY 1,000 540,435,473 559,554,054 699,278,938 Business Partner MNG Kargo Borusan Lojistik Consistent employees Quality Support in International Air Benefit to TRY 1,000 85,187,634 114,664,763 152,535,734 Freight providers of Gold Kargo Qatar Airways Borusan Lojistik Air Freight capital 2016 Caterpillar Caterpillar Borusan Makina ve Customer ACAM CX Awards Güç Sistemleri Experience in Turkey Benefit to TRY 1,000 120,214,369 146,856,678 165,948,620 government 2016 Product Caterpillar Borusan Makina ve First among all CAT Support ESC Sales Güç Sistemleri representatives in Incentive sales number and Benefit to TRY 1,000 17,055,489 33,320,067 24,889,601 volume in 2016 community Excellence in Sales BMW AG Borusan Otomotiv Best Dealer in 2016 Conquest & Loyalty Financial Assistance Received From Government Sales and ODD Borusan Otomotiv New BMW 7 Series Communication Closed Room Event Tax reliefs/ TRY 1,000 129,233 151,451 277,287 Awards 2016 – First in PR Event credits Gladiators Activity A.C.E Awards sikayetvar.com BMW Borusan Automotive Upscale Incentives TRY 1,000 415,589 443,796 7,960,843 Otomotiv Segment category winner with BMW Financial TRY 1,000 36,147,198 83,291,039 15,934,863 A.L.F.A Awards Marketing Türkiye MINI Borusan Automotive Industry incentives Otomotiv Winner with MINI 126 127 [PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ] ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ENERGY and ENERGY and SUPSAN BORÇELİK & KERİM ÇELİK BOURSAN LOJİSTİK BORUSAN OTOMOTİV EMISSIONS EMISSIONS NonNonrenewable renewable Direct Energy Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Direct Energy Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Fuel Oil Litre 7,191 7,701 7,375 48,151 45,162 33,862 Fuel Oil Litre 92,565 69,970 46,490 227,445 252,514 342,908 Diesel Oil Litre 17,394 17,200 15,264 68,836 88,741 185,726 Diesel Oil Litre 6,664,371 7,575,449 6,291,160 136,032 148,012 374,834 Natural Gas Sm 3 297,650 320,559 342,354 43,583,747 47,086,054 50,256,097 Natural Gas Sm3 121,834 82,825 85,971 593,107 608,804 1,152,992 NonNonrenewable Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 renewable Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Indirect Indirect Energy Energy Electricity kWh 6,034,522 7,677,718 9,863,440 165,680,279 45,162 33,862 Electricity kWh 9,180,961 13,084,539 14,183,318 13,309,928 14,009,621 11,798,258 Greenhouse Greenhouse Gas Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Gas Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Emissions Emissions Direct CO2 t CO2 e 803 783 954 80,113 87,996 92,291 Direct CO2 t CO2 e 18,676 25,238 18,239 NA NA 4,367 Emissions Emissions Indirect CO2 t CO2 e 2,739 3,485 5,428 76,165 77,545 80,355 Indirect CO2 t CO2 e 4,742 6,638 6,271 NA NA 4,943 Emissions Emissions ENERGY and BORUSAN MAKİNA ENERGY and BORUSAN MANNESMANN BORUSAN MANNESMANN BORUSAN EnBW ENERJİ EMISSIONS VE GÜÇ SİSTEMLERİ EMISSIONS HALKALI GEMLİK NonNonrenewable renewable Direct Energy Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Direct Energy Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Fuel Oil Litre NA NA NA NA 26,127 19,900 Fuel Oil Litre NA NA NA 0 0 0 Diesel Oil Litre NA 88,148 58,662 NA 87,373 78,620 Diesel Oil Litre 42,289 40,234 41,329 137,327 147,507 105,582 Natural Gas Sm 3 NA 67,493 148,100 NA 5,386 5,608 Natural Gas Sm 3 4,165,863 4,407,344 4,636,225 4,414,248 3,887,425 4,082,145 NonNonrenewable Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 renewable Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Indirect Indirect Energy Energy Electricity kWh NA 2,304,774 2,455,546 NA 1,237,653 1,589,725 Electricity kWh 18,549,744 NA 18,324,494 73,528,718 78,879,337 79,516,731 Greenhouse Greenhouse Gas Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Gas Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Emissions Emissions Direct CO2 t CO2 e NA 614 287 NA 303.3 266.2 Direct CO2 t CO2 e 8,176 8,637 9,088 8,884 7,895 8,159 Emissions Emissions Indirect CO2 t CO2 e NA 991 1,129.5 NA 612.6 786.9 Indirect CO2 t CO2 e 11,445 11,944 11,306 36,397 39,045 39,361 Emissions Emissions NA: Data Not Available NA: Data Not Available 128 129 [PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ] ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS BORUSAN MANNESMANN BORUSAN MANNESMANN ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS TOTAL WASTE HALKALI GEMLİK By Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Hazardous TON 2,431 3,610 2,948 643 629 582 Waste TOTAL WASTE SUPSAN BORÇELİK & KERİM ÇELİK NonTON 1,578 16,754 25,535 607 616 636 Hazardous Waste By Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Total Waste TON 4,010 20,364 28,482 1,250 1,245 1,218 By Disposal Hazardous TON 415,922 237,990 393,860 1,111 1,921 2,926 Method Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Waste NonTON 19,966 10,032 19,130 64,930 70,647 86,000 Energy ReTON 0 0 0 0 0 0 Hazardous covery Waste Recovery TON 2,985 20,120 28,460 676 662 616 Total Waste TON 435,888 248,022 412,990 66,041 72,568 88,926 Dump Site TON 1,024 243 21.23 0 0 602 By Disposal Incineration TON 0.37 1 0.62 0 0.039 0 Method Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Other DisposTON 0 0 0 574 583 0 Energy ReTon 9,250 41,240 NA 281 106 313 al Method covery Total DisTON 4,010 20,364 28,482 1,250 1,245 1,218 Recovery Ton 398,272 170,764 412,975 64,686 72,255 88,253 posed Waste Dump Site Ton 0 0 0 1,075 208 360 TOTAL WASTE BORUSAN EnBW ENERJİ BORUSAN OTOMOTİV Incineration Ton 0 0 0 0 0 Other DisposTon 28,366 36,018 15 0 0.025 By Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 al Method Hazardous Effluents Waste Waste NA 45,693 49,966 Total DisTon 435,888 248,022 412,990 66,042 72,568 88,926 Waste (antifreeze Grease: Grease: 16.33 posed Waste water): 9,760 2.21 T T lt Waste BatWaste BatContamteries: 121 teries: 106 BORUSAN MAKİNA inated pieces pieces TOTAL WASTE BORUSAN LOJİSTİK VE GÜÇ SİSTEMLERİ waste (used Waste AcWaste Acfabrics, etc.): cumulators: cumulators: 245 kg 100 pieces 350 pieces By Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 ContamContaminated inated waste (used Hazardous TON NA 239,950 182,472 22,861 17,476 11,619 waste (used fabrics, etc.): Waste fabrics, etc.): 8.45 T 3.32 T Waste filter: NonTON NA NA 244,503 269,835 123,415 120,538 Waste filter: 0.42 T Hazardous 0.31 T Waste NonTON Waste PaPaper, Paper, plastic, NA NA 3,439 Total Waste TON NA 239,950 426,975 292,696 140,891 132,157 Hazardous per: 0.14 T plastic, metal, glass: By Disposal Waste Waste Plasmetal, 2.75 T Method Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 tic: 0.09 T glass: 2.87 Domestic Waste Metal: T Domestic Waste: 6.47 T Energy ReTON NA 13,695 0 0 0 0 9,500 T Waste: 1.04 Electronic covery Domestic T waste: 0.04 T Waste: 0.78 Electronic Recovery TON NA 0 416,753 269,835 123,415 120,538 T waste: 0.02 Dump Site TON NA 161,325 0 22,861 17,476 11,619 T Incineration TON NA 0 10,222 0 0 0 By Disposal Method Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Other DisposTON NA 64,930 0 0 0 0 al Method Recovery TON 9.74 2.88 28.239 NA NA 0 Total DisTON NA 239,950 426,975 292,696 140,891 132,157 Other DisposTON 780 kg 1.04 6.47 NA 45,693 53,405 posed Waste al Method * NA: Data Not Available 130 131 [PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ] SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS WORKFORCE TOTAL WORKFORCE TOTAL By Age Group Unit 2014 2015 2016 By Category Unit 2014 2015 2016 18 30 Years Women 204 229 472 Office Women Person 946 1,047 1,154 Ratio 3.30 3.43 6.57 Office Men Person 2,845 3,272 3,585 Men 726 861 1,823 Ratio 11.73 12.90 25.39 Factory Women Person 16 20 26 31 40 Years Women 544 588 559 Factory Men Person 2,382 2,338 2,415 Ratio 8.79 8.81 7.79 Men 2,500 2,660 2,594 By Contract Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 Ratio 40.39 39.84 36.13 Permanent Women Person 960 1,054 1,159 By Age Group Unit 2014 2015 2016 41 50 Years Women 195 226 138 Permanent Men Person 5,198 5,416 5,813 Ratio 3.15 3.38 1.92 Temporary Women Person 2 13 21 Men 1,627 1,669 1,400 Ratio 26.29 25.00 19.50 Temporary Men Person 29 194 187 41 50 Years Women 15 21 11 Ratio 0.24 0.31 0.15 By Gender Unit 2014 2015 2016 Men 331 380 164 Men Person 5,227 5,610 6,000 Ratio 5.35 5.69 2.28 Men Ratio 84.46 84.02 83.57 60 + Years Women 4 4 0 Ratio 0.06 0.06 0,00 Women Person 962 1,067 1,180 Men 43 39 19 Ratio 0.69 0.58 0.26 Women Ratio 15.54 15.98 16.43 TOTAL Kişi 6,189 6,677 7,180 132 133 [PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ] SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS WORKFORCE TOTAL TRAINING ALL TRAININGS INVESTMENTS By Management Level Unit 2014 2015 2016 By Employee Category Unit 2015 2016 Senior Women 8 7 6 Senior Managers Man*Hour 552 1,005 Ratio 0.13 0.10 0.08 Senior Managers Person 20 45 Men 44 46 44 Mid-level Managers Man*Hour 12,379 6,560 Ratio 0.71 0.69 0.61 Mid-level Women 64 67 73 Mid-level Managers Person 11 192 Ratio 1.03 1.00 1.02 Other Employees Man*Hour 90,110 122,539 Men 205 226 220 Other Employees Person 2,189 5,085 Ratio 3.31 3.38 3.06 Other Women 890 1,054 1,101 By Employment Type Unit 2015 2016 Ratio 14.38 15.79 15.33 Factory Man*Hour 40,660 47,208 Men 4,978 5,277 5,736 Factory Person 1,593 1,628 Ratio 80.43 79.03 79.89 Office Man*Hour 108,278 56,412 TOTAL Person 6,189 6,677 7,180 Office Person 2,623 2,183 Other Unit 2014 2015 2016 Foreign Women 0 0 1 Contractor Employees Man*Hour 9,942 26,483 Ratio 0.00 0.00 0.01 Contractor Employees Person 1,454 1,511 Men 9 9 9 By Gender Unit 2015 2016 Ratio 0.15 0.13 0.13 Men Man*Hour 124,473 108,944 Disabled Women 23 28 28 Men Person 4,683 4,534 Ratio 0.37 0.42 0.39 Women Man*Hour 34,405 21,159 Men 110 112 119 Ratio 1.78 1.68 1.66 Women Person 985 788 134 135 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY OCCUPATIONAL BORUSAN MANNESMANN BORÇELİK KERİM ÇELİK OTO/OTOMOTİV HEALTH AND SAFETY Accidents Group Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Accident FreCompany Ratio 28.82 16.80 14.53 13.30 11.90 11.65 18.32 51.70 25.67 0.00 4.60 2.58 quency Rate Subcontractor Ratio 41.96 23.59 17.33 15.20 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Fatality Company Number/Year 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Subcontractor Number/Year 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Lost Days Group Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Lost days Company Ratio 0.63 0.74 3.61 0.15 0.09 0.19 0.37 0.49 0.67 0.00 0.12 0.04 ratio due to occupational accidents Subcontractor Ratio 0.91 1.04 10.59 0.05 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 OCCUPATIONAL BORUSAN EnBW ENERJİ BMGS & BESYS BORUSAN LOJİSTİK SUPSAN HEALTH AND SAFETY Accidents Group Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Accident FreCompany Ratio 0.00 0.00 0.07 0.00 9.00 0.97 6.40 0.73 1.10 15.70 8.15 18.10 quency Rate Subcontractor Ratio 10.49 1.39 6.90 0.00 0.00 0.00 13.63 11.89 11.42 0.00 0.00 0.00 Fatality Company Number/Year 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Subcontractor Number/Year 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Lost Days Group Unit 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Lost days Company Ratio 0.00 0.00 18.8 0.00 6.23 0.07 0.523 0.052 0.132 0.024 0.024 0.021 ratio due to occupational accidents Subcontractor Ratio 48.96 27.82 81.20 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.999 1.020 0.819 0.00 0.00 0.00 > BMGS: Borusan Makina ve Güç Sistemleri & BESYS: > Only for Oto/Otomotive and Borçelik/Kerim Çelik, first-aid level accidents are Borusan Endüstriyel Sistemler included in accident frequency rate. > Accident Frequency Rate = Number of Accidents X 1,000,000 / Total Work Hours > For all compnaies except BMGS & BESYS lost days are recorded starting from the > For all compnaies except Borusan Lojistik, fatalities are included in accident day right after the accident. frequency rate. > No occupational diseases are encountered in any of our companies in this report. 136 137 GRI CONTENT INDEX LOCATION OF LOCATION OF GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 DISCLOSURE GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 DISCLOSURE Organizational Profile Page / Explanation Governance Page / Explanation 102-1 Name of the organization 143 102-18 Governance structure 26 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 20-23 Stakeholder Engagement Page / Explanation 102-3 Location of headquarters 143 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 44-45 102-4 Location of operations 143 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 78 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 44 102-5 Ownership and legal form 12 / Corporation 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 45 102-6 Markets served 21-22 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 40 102-7 Scale of the organization 21-22 Reporting Practice Page / Explanation 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 132-134 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 22-23 102-9 Supply chain 33 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 12 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 33 102-47 List of material topics 40-41 102-11 Precautionary principle 110 102-48 Restatements of information Continues projects 102-12 External initiatives 13 / UNGC 102-49 Changes in reporting No changes 102-13 Membership of associations 122-123 102-50 Reporting period 12 Strategy Page / Explanation 102-51 Date of most recent report 2015 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 14-16 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 40-41 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 143 Ethics and Integrity Page / Explanation 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 13 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 25 102-55 GRI Content index 138 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 28-29 102-56 External verification None 138 139 GRI 200-300-400 LOCATION OF TOPIC SPECIFIC STANDARDS 2016 DISCLOSURE GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 200 ECONOMIC STANDARDS SERIES Page GRI 201 Economic Performance, 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 127 201-1 Financial assistance received from government 127 GRI 103 BOUNDARIES & MANAGEMENT LOCATION OF APPROACHES OF MATERIAL TOPICS 2016 DISCLOSURE GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS SERIES Page GRI 100 103-1 Explanation of the material topics Page 41 GRI 302 Energy, 2016 and their boundaries 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 128-129 GRI 305 Emissions, 2016 103-2 The management approach Pages are and its components listed below. 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 128-129 GRI 306 Effluents and Waste, 2016 GRI 200 GRI 200 ECONOMIC STANDARDS SERIES Page 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 130-131 GRI 201 Economic Performance, 2016 48-51 GRI 400 SOCIAL STANDARDS SERIES Page GRI 401 Employment, 2016 GRI 300 GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL STANDARDS SERIES Page 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 69 provided to part-time employees GRI 302 Energy, 2016 114-117 GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety, 2016 GRI 305 Emissions, 2016 114-117 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management– 80 worker health and safety committees GRI 306 Effluents and Waste, 2016 118-120 403-2 Types and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 136-137 days, and absenteeism, fatalities GRI 400 GRI 400 SOCIAL STANDARDS SERIES Page GRI 404 Training and Education, 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 135 GRI 401 Employment, 2016 68-75 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 69, 72-74 assistance programs GRI 403 Occupational Health and Safety, 2016 79-91 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 70 and career development reviews GRI 404 Training and Education, 2016 69 GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment, 2016 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or 78 GRI 412 Human Rights Assessment, 2016 78 procedures 140 141 UN Global Compact [contacts] Principles BORUSAN HOLDİNG A.Ş. Borusan Holding is a member of Global Compact. UN Global Compact is an Rumelihisarı, Baltalimanı Hisar Caddesi No.5 34470 Sarıyer / İ̇stanbul innovative social responsibility approach that suggests universal principles to T. +90 212 393 52 00 competitive business world for establishing a mutual sustainability culture. Its F. +90 212 393 00 01 vision is ‘Sustainable and Comprehensive Global Economy’. Participating in Global Compact is completely voluntary. For more information and comments on the report: Those enterprises that participate in the compact increase their profits in the Ayşe Yeşer BALMUMCU midterm while in the short term; they enjoy the prestige and pride of having fulfilled ybalmumcu@borusan.com their social responsibilities consciously. Sustainability and Reporting Consultant Human Rights SERCOM Consutling Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Elif Özkul Gökmen proclaimed human rights. elif@sercomconsulting.com Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human T. +90 533 648 07 40 rights abuses. Design Labour Fabl Principle 3: İş dünyası, çalışanların sendikalaşma ve toplu müzakere özgürlüğünü bilgi@fabl.com.tr desteklemelidir. T. +90 216 345 89 90 Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. DISCLAIMER Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of The information and analyses contained in the BORUSAN HOLDING sustainability employment and occupation. report (hereinafter “report”) have been compiled from resources and information deemed as accurate and reliable within the timeframe the report was prepared Environment for informative purposes only, and not to be used as a basis for any investment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental decision. challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. The company, its managers, employees, and other persons and organizations Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of who contributed to the drafting of this report cannot be held responsible for the environmentally friendly technologies. damages that may arise from the use of the information contained herein. Anti-Corruption All rights of this report belong to BORUSAN HOLDING. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our report is prepared in the digital environment and is not published. 142 143 borusan.com 144
