September 2018 COP UN Global Compact Communication of Progress 1st year United Nations Global Compact Summary / Introduction Hydro signed up to be a participant of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) on the 22nd September 2017. This Communication on Progress (COP) is for the period between September 2017 – September 2018. Statement of Continued Support 20th September 2018 To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Hydro Industries Limited supports the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. With this communication, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. Sincerely yours, Wayne Preece Chief Executive Officer Copyright © Hydro Industries Ltd. 2018. All rights reserved. Page 1 of 4 September 2018 COP UN Global Compact Description of Actions Human Rights Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 – make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 – the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 – the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 – the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 – undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Hydro has strict policies and procedures intended to address and incorporate the 10 principles of the UNGC, as outlined above. Hydro’s goal is to promote a model that upholds all internationally proclaimed human rights to all organisations we interact with, from stakeholders through to suppliers. We ensure all workers on all our sites are provided with safe, suitable and sanitary working facilities. Hydro believes that its employees are its most valuable resource, and therefore are committed to providing a work environment that motivates and encourages development and initiative to enable us to attract and retain the very best people. Hydro’s policies and procedures are intended to create a work environment where all employees are treated fairly, equitably and free from harassment and discrimination. Environmental principles are at the core of all Hydro’s work. Hydro’s unique water treatment technology is environmentally friendly; through reducing the need for chemicals in water treatment, decreasing the discharge of contaminated water into waterways, and increasing water reuse. In every proposal Hydro highlights/provides options to promote greater environmental responsibility. Copyright © Hydro Industries Ltd. 2018. All rights reserved. Page 2 of 4 September 2018 COP UN Global Compact Practical Actions 1. Wales Collaboration between Swansea University, Dawnus and Hydro to work in collaboration and share expertise to provide overseas aid through UN projects and UK DFID programmes. 2. Installed and commissioned a small-scale drinking water treatment works at an agricultural workers camp in Egypt, drawing surface water from the Nile and treating it to WHO standards. This improved labour conditions for the agricultural workers as it provided a sustainable source of water. The environmental impact of the camp was reduced, since prior to this plant being installed the site was dependent on single use plastic bottled water for drinking and cooking. 3. Installed and commissioned a waste water treatment system in a manufacturing plant in Wales, helping the company met its environmental targets and ensuring safe discharge. This includes recycling up to 70% of wastewater back into the manufacturing process. 4. Collaboration with philanthropists in USA to provide humanitarian aid in the form of drinking water treatment to remove chemical contamination. 5. Commissioned an industrial waste water treatment plant in the UAE which reduces, recycles and reuses the waste produced by local factories and businesses. The plant can take a variety of wastewater qualities and produces irrigation quality water for reuse in the region, this is essential in this water scare region. Copyright © Hydro Industries Ltd. 2018. All rights reserved. Page 3 of 4 September 2018 COP UN Global Compact Measurement of Outcomes To measure Hydro’s outcomes and the impact of any changes in policies put in place, a baseline measurement of Hydro’s existing work had to be undertaken. This was undertaken by reviewing Hydro’s existing work against the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This will be shared via Hydro’s website http://www.hydro-industries.co.uk/. Project KPI’s this year Below is data that Hydro collates on the total volumes of water treated by all Hydro’s ongoing projects. Hydro’s targets for second year of UNGC participation The first year of Hydro’s participation in the UNGC has primarily been about understanding the UNGC and what Hydro is already doing to help achieve the SDGs and Paris Agreement. During the second year of Hydro’s participation in the UNGC, Hydro aims to: 1. Improve recording and reporting of Hydro’s progress on SDGs; 2. Increase data collection from active projects; 3. Further integrate and act upon the 10 principles of the UNGC; 4. Advocate for our partners and suppliers to participate Copyright © Hydro Industries Ltd. 2018. All rights reserved. Page 4 of 4
