Qalaa Holdings Communication on Progress for 2017 January – December 2017 This Cop is available to all our stakeholders on our website: qalaaholdings.com Statement of Continued Support by the Chairman and Founder of Qalaa Holdings To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Qalaa Holdings reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Ahmed Heikal, Chairman and Founder, Qalaa Holdings qalaaholdings.com • 2 Introduction At Qalaa Holdings, we are very proud of the progress we have made • Quality Education (SDG 4) by way of the Qalaa Holdings Financial on all fronts in 2017. Whether it’s the steady construction progress that Services Center, scholarships offered through subsidiaries and we are making on our almost USD 4 billion refinery (Egyptian Refining corporate foundations, skill development programs, financial aid to Company), which will curb Egypt’s present-day diesel imports by c. 50%, underprivileged students, and other programs. the growth experienced by our energy distribution subsidiary TAQA • Affordable and Clean Energy (SDG 7) by way of investments in Arabia and solid waste management company Tawazon, or our focus cleaner fuel and actively working to lower harmful emissions. on increasing export capacity at ASCOM Carbonate and Chemicals • Decent Work and Economic Growth (SDG 8) by way of Manufacturing and GlassRock Insulation, we have managed to devotion to the health, safety, and welfare of employees and job circumvent the adverse short-term effects of devaluation, hyperinflation, creation through our investments. and rising interest rates. Another hallmark of our investment portfolio • Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure (SDG 9) by way of is that from day one we have pursued responsible investments that considerable investments in renewable energy. produce profits for shareholders and positive outcomes for communities, • Responsible Consumption and Protection (SDG 12) by way of whether through job creation and knowledge transfer or the provision of compliance, productive energy, and waste management policies. products and services that are crucial to the economic wellbeing of the • Partnerships for the Goals (SDG 17) by way of aligning developing economies in which we invest. investments with Egypt’s economic goals and engaging in partnerships to promote the goals. In addition to giving equal weight to profit and impact in our own investments, we actively encourage other private sector companies This year’s COP, in addition to providing information and KPIs based on in Egypt to take similar steps. We have taken concrete steps to lead UNGC requirements, highlights how our investments and ESG programs by example by adopting the United Nations Sustainable Development directly link to the SDGs. We hope the clear, concrete progress that has Goals (SDGs) in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and been made by Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiaries is the starting point Anti-Corruption. We have been working diligently to align our core of a journey where public and private interests can converge to create a business portfolio and ESG practices with the SDGs, their indicators, stable, prosperous society and inclusive economies. and key goals and priorities, with a focus on: Examples of aligning our portfolio with the SDGs. The Egyptian Refining Company Tawazon, our subsidiary for (ERC), our USD 3.7 billion second-stage investment in the solid waste oil refinery in Greater Cairo, will be filling management industry, has the supply gap for high-value Euro V diesel been providing biomass and (the cleanest fuel of its type in the world). ERC’s feedstock is fuel oil, which RDF as alternative fuels to heavy energy consumers such as cement is currently consumed as fuel. The refining process to produce lighter factories for the past five years. Year-to-date 2017, the company proproducts such as diesel removes sulfur. ERC will thus prevent the release vided 52,917 tons of RDF and 195,163 tons of biomass. of 93,000 tons of sulfur currently emitted, which represents a reduction of 186,000 tons in annual SO2 emissions. This equates to a 29.1% reduction in the total amount of SO2 currently emitted in Egypt from the burning of sulfur-containing fuels such as fuel oil and diesel. We invested in Nile Logistics in 2006 to capitalize on the potential of fuelefficient, environmentally friendly river transportation. One river barge has the TAQA Arabia, our energy subsidiary, has same capacity as 20-40 truckloads but requires a fraction of the fuel and also recently taken solid steps to invest money to operate. Nile Logistics operates three subsidiaries that offer in alternative energy, including wind and stevedoring and river transportation services in Egypt and South Sudan. solar power projects, to help meet Egypt’s In Egypt, Nile Logistics’ subsidiaries operate a stevedoring on anchor growing energy needs after the government announced the introduction service in various Egyptian ports as well as a container feeder service of new feed-in tariffs for renewable energy. The company is finalizing a USD across the Suez Canal. Nile Logistics has a strong fleet that allows it to 150 million investment in two solar farms, each with 50 MW of capacity. transport cargo along the Nile River. qalaaholdings.com • 3 Description of Actions Human Rights strategies, and eventually reach higher motivation and retention At Qalaa Holdings, we have pioneered a commitment to a minimum levels among our talented employees. The Talent Management living wage for all our employees, and one that goes beyond local Platform covers four main areas: 1) maintaining an active database regulatory frameworks. We continue to be committed to ensuring for key talents across the group, 2) setting and monitoring periodical our workers receive dignified wages and our zero-tolerance policies management targets and objectives, 3) processing the performance for child and forced labor. We provide our employees with life and appraisal cycle, and 4) managing the exit process for talented health insurance, maternity leave, and disability/inability coverage. employees should they seek to leave the organization. One hundred percent of women who were on maternity leave to date returned to work in the company. To ensure our workforce’s To ensure continuous growth and development, we have developed health and safety, we share circulars and awareness emails about comprehensive and world-class training schemes that are specific any emerging serious diseases when they occur. to our industry’s needs and priorities. All fresh graduates joining Qalaa Holdings are required to complete a training course at Labor Qalaa Holdings Financial Service Center (QHFSC). Founded by Qalaa Qalaa Holdings is an equal opportunity employer, which means Holdings in 2006, QHFSC is the first institution in the MENA region individuals are hired, trained, promoted, and transferred in all job that helps students develop financial skills. A total of 2,738 students classifications regardless of their race, religion, sex, nationality, have graduated to date. Moreover, close to 100% of our workforce age, and family/social status. Our Employment Guide provides participates in regular performance and career development reviews. guidelines for the board and general employment policies. In cases where company policies or guidelines contradict those of national Environment labor laws in any country/region where Qalaa Holdings operates, Established as a model for doing business in a strictly compliant manner, precedence is given to the application of local law. while focusing on sectors that in principle can represent an environmental hazard, Qalaa Holdings identified environmental compliance as one of Qalaa Holdings’ policies and procedures might subject the its core imperatives since inception. Qalaa Holdings’ Environmental violator to various forms of reprimands. With regards to data on our Compliance Strategy is based on the strict compliance of all our subsidiaries workforce, Qalaa Holdings has 83 full-time employees, with the to all the national environmental laws and regulations featured in each of following gender breakdown: approximately 79 percent of full-time the countries we operate. In addition, Qalaa Holdings’ Environmental employees are male, with the remaining 21 percent being female. Compliance Strategy ensures the adoption of various global guidelines, It is notable that 41 percent of full-time female employees are in management systems and standards at both the holding and subsidiaries middle management, 18 percent are in senior management, and levels when relevant. As a member of the UNGC, we are committed none are at entry level. In terms of age group breakdown, the largest to incorporating the principles and systems into the company’s proportion of staff are between the ages of 31 and 40 (41 percent), environmental strategy. This includes our focus on: with approximately 12 percent between the ages of 25 and 30, 31 percent between the ages of 41 and 50, and 15 percent between the 1. Adopting a preventive approach in our investment strategy by ages of 51 and 60. In terms of staff turnover, 11 employees left the ensuring a very thorough study for our environmental impact company in 2017 in contrast to 3 new hires. prior to initiating any investment on the ground; 2. Focusing on the efficient use of resources across all sectors to Qalaa Holdings has implemented its own Talent Management minimize waste and the depletion of natural resources; System using SAP Success Factors, which went live in 4Q2017. The 3. Moving our industries, as well as our communities, toward the system is part of our digital transformation into an informationuse of cleaner energy in an economically viable manner; centric, target-driven culture at both Qalaa Holdings and our 4. Introducing sustainable transport services to minimize platform companies. It helps us achieve enhanced target-setting and carbon footprints for both our industries as well as for the progress review techniques, support and encourage efficient reward communities we operate in; qalaaholdings.com • 4 5. Adhering to and investing in the latest technology for waste as alternative fuels to heavy energy consumers such as cement management as a key solution for both global resources and factories as well as exporting agri-pellets for residential and the energy dilemma; industrial heating. 6. Improving the environmental performance of our business through the research and development of new Our energy subsidiary TAQA Arabia has also invested in several technologies, preventing and reducing our emissions, and alternative energy projects, including wind and solar power projects minimizing our waste; to help meet Egypt’s growing energy needs after the government 7. Investing in compliance with health, safety, and environmental announced the introduction of new feed-in tariffs for renewable measures; and energy. The company is finalizing a USD 150 million investment in 8. Reporting on performance on at least an annual basis and two solar farms, each with 50 MW of capacity. ensuring that any violation is immediately discussed at the board level for each of the subsidiary companies and among Qalaa Our subsidiary GlassRock Insulation produces mineral wools Holdings’ board if the violation is not resolved immediately. used for insulation in a variety of products, with a total production capacity of 30,000 metric tons of rockwool and 20,000 metric tons In this regard, being a member of the UNGC entails selecting of glasswool per annum as of 2017. Rockwool is a key component and applying performance metrics, including metrics commonly of greener buildings with lower environmental footprints. Buildings used to assess performance in our core industries. Our adherence account for some 40% of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions with this membership opens a channel to ensure international due to the energy they consume. Insulation materials produced by standards are applied throughout our subsidiaries. In addition, GlassRock Insulation are also the best way to reduce the impact Qalaa Holdings works closely with our Developmental Funding of CO2 emissions. Institution (DFI) partners to enhance the company’s compliance and reporting frameworks. This includes, among others, the Nile Logistics capitalizes on the potential of fuel-efficient, adherence to IFC’s performance standards on environmental environmentally friendly river transportation. Nubareya, our river and social performance. A significant number of our subsidiaries port in Alexandria, is a fully owned, 70,000 m2 plot located 3km report their environmental performance quarterly to our DFI south of Alexandria Port and is connected with the berthing areas partners to ensure transparency and ongoing dialog as we work of the port via Nubareya Canal. As it stands today, the services we toward improved environmental performance. use Nubareya and our barges for in Alexandria are mainly logistics related, such as stevedoring and storing. Egyptian Refining Company (ERC), our almost USD 4 billion second-stage oil refinery in the Greater Cairo Area, will be filling Anti-corruption the supply gap for high-value Euro V diesel (the cleanest fuel of Qalaa Holdings’ governance structure has evolved significantly its type in the world). ERC’s feedstock is fuel oil, which is currently over the past 12 years as the company transitioned from a twoconsumed as fuel. The refining process to produce lighter products founder startup to Africa’s leading private equity firm with such as diesel removes sulfur from the fuel oil. ERC will thus prevent 19 platform companies and finally to its current structure as the release of 93,000 tons of sulfur that are currently being emitted an investment holding company with a narrower focus and a into the air and accordingly represents a reduction of 186,000 tons smaller portfolio of strategic subsidiaries. Throughout Qalaa in annual SO2 emissions. This equates to a 29.1% reduction in the Holdings’ 12-year journey, maintaining good governance has total amount of SO2 currently emitted in Egypt from the burning been critical in seeing us through the volatility of our markets of sulfur-containing fuels such as fuel oil and diesel. and helping us build sustainable businesses in multiple countries throughout the region. We pride ourselves on a long-standing Tawazon, our subsidiary for investment in the solid waste tradition of having a board of directors dominated by a majority management industry, has been providing biomass and RDF of non-executives. qalaaholdings.com • 5 In 2017, Qalaa Holdings joined the Integrity Network Initiative (INI). that management needs to support and grow the business. New Started in 2012 by the Egyptian Junior Business Association, the INI policy documents were developed in parallel with the refinement seeks to engage the Egyptian business community in a collective of existing charters such as the Audit Committee and compensation effort to fight corruption and create an efficient and enabling business committee. Developed policies that are now being implemented environment. Meanwhile, the company also continued along its path include the risk assessment framework, in addition to the anti-fraud and to strengthen the governance function to support sustainable growth, insider trading policies. In addition, audit committees modeled on the enhance risk management, and maximize efficiency at Qalaa Holdings Qalaa Holdings Audit Committee Charter have been established for and across all subsidiary companies. This determined approach to all major subsidiary companies. Qalaa Holdings’ Internal Audit team governance has progressively regulated a wide range of practices at represents a key element in its corporate governance framework, Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiary companies, ranging from a riskwith a mission to add value and improve Qalaa Holdings’ overall assessment framework, anti-fraud, and financial reporting policies to operations by providing relevant, timely, independent, and objective the manner in which management interacts with shareholders, and the assurance and advisory activities. The Internal Audit team assists the creation of shareholder value across our subsidiaries. Institutionalizing organization in accomplishing its objectives by using a systematic the corporate governance processes is an ongoing, long-term objective and disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness across all our platform companies. Equally important are the principles of of risk management, control, and governance process, which provides fairness, openness, and transparency, which we have worked diligently Qalaa Holdings’ stakeholders with reasonable assurance over the to instill as part of our corporate culture. An interdisciplinary approach group’s operations and strengthens the firm’s ability to maximize to governance incorporates Qalaa Holdings’ management, industry stakeholder value. Qalaa Holdings’ Internal Audit function is an platform teams, and the senior management of subsidiary companies independent function with functional reporting lines to the Audit by way of formal quarterly meetings through the management boards. Committee and administrative reporting lines to the Chairman and These management boards also convene on an as-needed basis. This Chief Executive Officer. quarterly cycle of meetings and reviews, culminating in the meeting of Qalaa Holdings’ Audit Committee and Board of Directors, ensures a With a zero-tolerance approach to fraud, the Internal Audit function rigorous process of participation by a wide cross section of executives has implemented an Anti-Fraud Policy to promote consistent corporate from Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiary companies. Qalaa Holdings integrity, honesty, and ethical behavior within Qalaa Holdings and engages the services of only the most reputable audit firms for both its subsidiaries. This approach helps protect the organization’s assets, ongoing statutory audits and due diligence for all subsidiaries. Strict reputation, and employees. The Anti-Fraud Policy was reinforced internal controls and reporting standards are a cornerstone of the by setting up an anonymous whistle-blowing channel to receive governance principles at Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiaries. Financial information from inside and outside the company on the Qalaa and operational reports are transparent to all parties with a vested Holdings website. Qalaa Holdings believes in continuously interest — from management and board members to shareholders. promoting and empowering the company’s control environment. Accordingly, the Internal Audit function has developed a Risk Qalaa Holdings believes high-quality governance is a fundamental Assessment Framework to be followed throughout the organization. enabler of superior corporate performance. The components of Risk Assessment contributes to the effective and efficient demonstrable effective governance reduce risk, identify internal and external threats, achievement of objectives and the improvement of performance on and assist in capturing profitable business opportunities. Qalaa multiple fronts. Qalaa Holdings’ Internal Audit strives to ensure Holdings’ governance principles align the interests of management, the presence of the Internal Audit function across all platforms, in its shareholders, the board of directors, and subsidiaries, facilitating wellcapacity to oversee, monitor and guide, advise, and administer its informed decisions. Qalaa Holdings has completed a process of platform. In addition, our Management Committee is a monthly forum institutionalization that began in 2013 at both the Qalaa Holdings that engages a wider management team of Qalaa Holdings to review and subsidiary levels. The comprehensive program included the market developments and progress on corporate initiatives at Qalaa refinement and improvement of all systems, policies, and procedures Holdings and its subsidiaries. qalaaholdings.com • 6 +225 student & teacher Undergraduate ERC Scholarships +185k beneficiaries scholarships es ERC Students ERC Teachers (in Mostorod) the 28 r In 30 Mostakbaly teachersitia 41 scholarships in 5 universities skill training program QHSF tiv public schools in ad / Masters Progra Mostorod area upgraded by ERC benefiting 185k 163+ Schools / t Gr students QH O 1,304 m ERC 1 financially aided students Integrated Pos 1,364 prescription glasses for underprivileged students Education TAQA 1 Support arships Awarded QHFSC Program Schol May & Ahmed Heikal 2,738 Scholarship graduates from the Financial Services Center at ASEC 2 AUC Eng. ERC 60+ ASEC 950 recipients D of Cement Eng. welders ill em Engineering trained Sk C 15.3K ev en tE Diploma at workers trained at AUC elo ine ng ASEC Academy pm ering Eng ent ineering Management / Voc ational Training Social Investment to pursue careers in securities trading, risk management, and asset To improve the impact of our social contributions, we have chosen allocation. It fosters sustainability in funding through endowment, to focus on projects and initiatives that aim to achieve the fourth sound management through its fully independent board, social SDG of Quality Education, an area that has always been a priority impact through its expansive geographic reach across Egypt, and for our founders. diversity through its focus on gender equality. Recognizing the importance of education and human capital Since that time, we have donated USD 30,000 annually to ensure development in fostering economic growth and social transformation, the center continues to provide students with the training they in 2006 we donated USD 250,000 to establish the Qalaa Holdings require to enter the workforce. To date, QHFSC has benefited Financial Services Center (QHFSC) at The American University in Cairo 2,738 graduates, researchers, and faculty members. A year (AUC). QHFSC is the first institution in the MENA region dedicated later in 2007, we launched the Qalaa Holdings Scholarship to helping students develop the skills and qualifications required Foundation (QHSF) with an endowment to ensure the program’s qalaaholdings.com • 7 sustainability. QHSF is guided by an independent board of funds training for public school teachers at AUC’s Teaching Early trustees and is managed by a full time Executive Director. Learners diploma program. TAQA Arabia, Qalaa Holdings’ Today, QHSF has grown to become the largest private sector energy distribution subsidiary, has also endowed an additional funded scholarship program in Egypt and has provided 163+ annual scholarship in 2017 for students working in the alternative scholarships to date. Despite economic and political challenges, energy sector to pursue graduate studies abroad in alternative every year since 2007 QHSF has been giving 15-20 of Egypt’s energy or related disciplines. TAQA Arabia also offers the TAQA brightest students the chance to pursue graduate studies International Scholarship, which goes toward funding the studies abroad at leading global universities in the U.S. and Europe of one master’s student per year in the field of renewable energy. on the condition that they return to work in Egypt after the The TAQA scholarship covers both tuition fees and living expenses. completion of their studies. By providing youth from cities in 13 governorates throughout Egypt with opportunities, we are Seeking to add value to our employees’ experience, we strive to enabling them to make a positive impact on the economic create environments where knowledge exchange is built into and social well-being of the country. During their time abroad, the workday and facilitate vocational training opportunities. At scholarship recipients gain critical thinking skills, professional subsidiaries like TAQA Power and ASEC Holding, local employees qualifications, and international connections that equip them to learn from specialists and engineers working on site. Construction make a pivotal impact when they return to Egypt. workers hired to build ERC have also gained experience that will qualify them to work on similar projects going forward. At ASEC In 2017, we celebrated 11 years of successful, uninterrupted operations Holding, our team partnered with AUC to develop the ASEC at QHSF. During this time, we have provided students with the Engineering Professional Diploma for the cement industry from opportunity to pursue masters and doctoral degrees at top universities which 60+ ASEC employees have benefitted. across the world including Harvard, Stanford, Oxford, Cambridge, Columbia, and Wharton, to name a few. Recognizing the crucial ASEC Holding also created the ASEC Academy Program, which link between diversity and innovation, we have sought out talented provides training in engineering management, from which 15,300 young men and women from across the country. Past scholarship people have benefitted. recipients have come from Cairo, Giza, Alexandria, Menoufia, Ismalia, Assiut, Minya, Qalyubiya, Dakahlia, and Aswan. Our students also have Measurement of Outcome a diverse array of passions and have pursued degrees in fields ranging Stakeholder consultations take the form of an open dialog, allowing from filmmaking, anthropology, and art to law, business, engineering, stakeholders to interact and give their feedback about an organization’s architecture, development, and medicine. A large number of our sustainability framework. Engaging and involving stakeholders is scholars have returned to Egypt and started their own businesses in increasingly seen as a social responsibility of businesses and one that various fields from sustainable development to education. is also clearly aligned with long-term commercial interests. Stakeholder engagement is a continuous dialog between an organization and Our subsidiaries are also championing education with their own the constituents that impact and are impacted by its operations. It programs that mirror Qalaa Holdings’ goal to provide educational also enables the organization and its related stakeholders to better opportunities to those who otherwise have no access. ERC manage risks, impacts, and opportunities, in addition to implementing has been refurbishing public schools and providing vocational mitigation measures in a specific environment. Moreover, stakeholder training opportunities through purpose-built community centers engagement is a central component of international best practices with in their surrounding neighborhood of Mostorod. They have also regards to sustainable business as determined by the internationally funded school supplies and conducted vision tests for over recognized Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 36,000 students and members of their local communities. In 2016, ERC consolidated all their initiatives under the umbrella of their In 2017, Qalaa Holdings contracted an independent third party to newly launched Mostakbaly Scholarship Program, which awards conduct a full-day, comprehensive stakeholder consultation about its both graduate and undergraduate university scholarships and sustainability performance. The objectives of the consultation were to: qalaaholdings.com • 8 • Explore stakeholder feedback; Society: We will work with our subsidiaries to identify initiatives • Assess the impact, management, and delivery of Qalaa related to their core business activity. We are also exploring possible Holdings’ sustainability practices; and partnerships with academic institutions to transfer our knowledge • Identify recommendations on how to redirect, institutionalize, and experience. Partnerships with other private sector players to upgrade, better communicate, and professionalize its current address societal change are key to Qalaa Holdings’ 2018 plan. practice with the help of its stakeholders. Economy: Qalaa Holdings is currently working with the Egyptian The consultation was conducted in the form of a roundtable government and a number of other private and public institutions attended by a variety of Qalaa Holdings’ stakeholders including to improve Egypt’s energy efficiency through its subsidiaries ERC its Board of Directors, employees, subsidiaries, suppliers, investors, and TAQA Arabia. ERC is expected to go online in 2018 and TAQA as well as representatives from academia, government, civil Arabia has signed an EGP 1.35 billion contract with IFC to finance a society, and blue-collar workers. The consultation covered a 50 MW power plant that will be part of Egypt’s largest and first-ofnumber of topics, but mainly the social, governance, economic, its-kind grid-connected solar power park. and environmental performance of Qalaa Holdings. The consultation was attended by Qalaa Holdings’ management who fully supported the exercise, listened to stakeholders’ recommendations, and actively participated in the discussion. The report is currently in progress and recommendations will be considered by management. This makes Qalaa Holdings the first company in Egypt to use a comprehensive stakeholder consultation to generate a sustainable action plan and goals. Looking Ahead As a long-term, committed, responsible investor we plan to incorporate the feedback we have received from our stakeholders in our plan for 2018. Environment: We are exploring ways to raise awareness and communicate our environmental efforts both internally and externally. We will work with our subsidiary Tawazon to transfer knowledge through its engineering and consultancy arms. Our Marketing Communications team will further improve our environmental communication tactics and involve employees and media to raise awareness. qalaaholdings.com • 9
