Sustainability Report 2017 Statement of our Management About Us Our Fields of Action Sustainable Management Product – Economic Responsibility People – Social Responsibility Planet – Environmental Responsibility Partnering – Shared Responsibility Index of UN Principles and Goals References and Abbreviations Statement of our Management Dear Readers, Once again, a year of intense challenges lies behind the entire industry and of course, We are convinced that together with our regional partners at our sites worldwide BADER too. Sustainable development as such, is increasingly receiving worldwide we will be able to achieve even more. Be it with our customers in the optimization attention. We recognize our unique position as a leading manufacturer of premium of developing seat covers. Be it with our suppliers in improving traceability and leather for the automotive industry and the possibilities of influencing our product securing animal welfare. Be it with associations and alliances, in order to establish sector. For many years now, we have been committed to a more sustainable leather more sustainable industry standards. value chain – much longer than sustainability has become widespread. In the meantime, we look back on more than three decades of commitment to As a family-owned company of the fourth and fifth generation of entrepreneurs, we sustainability. By means of sustainability reporting, we now want to make our activities are convinced that our investments need to have a meaningful impact, preferably more measurable and inform interested parties of our results. over a long period. We create space for innovations while securing jobs, partnerships, and market positions, at the same time. As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, we have acknowledged its principles and sustainable development goals. With this first progress report for the As an international company, we are aware of our social responsibility. We are year 2017, we invite you to convince yourself of our commitment. committed to compliance with social standards at our sites. Our social engagement worldwide ranges from the promotion of children, youth, and seniors through sports, health and security, up to educational initiatives. With kind regards, As a manufacturer of one of the oldest natural materials, we took up the challenge Thomas Bader, CEO to adopt ecologically advanced manufacturing processes early on. Our sites have Lothar Bauhofer, CSO certified management systems, depending on their relevance. In addition, by the end Bent Dreilich, COO of 2017 we have had four of our seven leather-producing sites certified in accordance Jürgen Erb, CFO with the energy and CO2 benchmark „ECO2L“ for tanneries and the LWG environmental Marcus Röhling, CPO audit. Bader Sustainability Report 2017 2 Our board of management Figure 1: Jürgen Erb, CFO Bent Dreilich, COO Thomas Bader, CEO Lothar Bauhofer, CSO Marcus Röhling, CPO (from left to right) Bader Sustainability Report 2017 3 About Us BADER has been working with leather for the past 145 years – a sophisticated natural material and one of the oldest and most diverse raw materials known to man. Over five generations, our family business has been creating know-how and expertise in the manufacture and processing of quality leather: from different raw materials, with mineral, synthetic, and plant-based tanning processes, for various industries. We consider the further development of our products and processes to be a continuous learning process in which we reflect on and proactively adapt the economic, social, and environmental aspects of our actions. Family Generations Timeline Site Overview About Us Family Generations 1st family generation finished leather products for further processing to sports shoe leather, grained and In 1872, Otto August Bader founded the Rosslederfabrik Otto Bader (Horse Leather crushed leather, and later we also bought finished leather for sports shoes, which we Factory) in Göppingen, for tanning of horse hides for shoe uppers and later also for subsequently supplied to franchises in the USA, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, the shoe soles. He constantly experimented with new tanning techniques; such as the Philippines, and Taiwan. plant-based quebracho tanning and the mineral chrome tanning. 4th and 5th family generation 2nd family generation In 1982, Thomas Bader joined the company‘s executive management and together After Otto August’s early death in 1904, his wife Katharina Bader ran the company with Hans Bader, ran the company until Hans’ death in 2006. In 2010, Thomas Bader’s temporarily until their two sons Otto and Adolf were able to take over the management daughter, Chris, representing the fifth generation of the family, began her professional in 1909. The Bader brothers rebuilt the leather manufacturing company after two fires career in the company. on the site in the Metzgerstrasse and gradually expanded production and shipments – the first exports being to Switzerland and Austria. In 1938, they acquired a vacant In the 1980s, BADER established itself as one of the leading manufacturers of factory in Uhingen and transformed it into a leather fiber (LEFA) factory where premium leather for the global automotive industry and today operates in addition to they further processed cutting waste and shavings into LEFA products ( Chapter its headquarters in Göppingen, 10 manufacturing sites in 9 countries on 5 continents. Products). During this time, the workforce grew to 250 employees. The number of employees increased to more than 11,300 worldwide. 3rd family generation Today we convert 16,750 hides into leather on a daily basis – at the end of the 1970s, After 1945, the cousins Rolf and Hans Bader shaped the company – the third it was just 400 to 600 hides. In addition, we now manufacture cut parts and seat generation of Baders. They switched production to the processing of cattle and later covers and are developing innovative sustainability-oriented leather products and bull hides, in particular. In addition, they acquired many renowned large clients above processes, which we are gradually implementing at all our sites. Over the course of all in the footwear industry. By the end of the 1960s, BADER had established trade time much has changed at BADER, but the passion for leather is still the same today with South America, especially Uruguay and Argentina. Here we initially bought semias it was in 1872. Figure 2: Otto August Bader – Katharina Bader – Otto Bader – Adolf Bader – Rolf Bader – Hans Bader – Thomas Bader – Chris Bader (from left to right) Bader Sustainability Report 2017 5 About Us Timeline Quebracho tanning new building in Uhingen 400-600 hides/day 16,750 hides/day chrome tanning 250 employees 150 employees 11,300 employees 2nd family generation 3rd family generation 4th family generation 5th family generation Foundation manages the company manages the company joins the company joins the company first exports synthetic tanning 1872 1889 1900 1909 1914 1938 1945/46 1950 1960 1970 1979 1980er 1990er 2010 2017 new leather factory 70 employees sheepskin tanning shoe leather automotive leather CCS building cattle hides ecology-orientation 1872 Founded by Otto August Bader as 1909 Brothers Otto and Adolf Bader 1945/46 Cousins Rolf and Hans Bader 1982 Thomas Bader joins the management tannery for shoe leather from horse take over the company manage the company 2010 Chris Bader joins the company hides 1914 First exports to Switzerland and 1950s Introduction of sheepskin tanning 1980s Reorientation to automotive leather and 1889 New leather factory building in the Austria for clothing and shoes environmentally-oriented technology and Metzgerstraße 1938 New building at the site Uhingen 1960s Transition to cattle hides, process development, for instance 1900 Introduction of the plant-based as leather fiber factory to further later bull hides transition to aqueous coating systems and quebracho tanning and the mineral process cutting waste and 1970s Introduction of grained and roller application techniques chrome tanning shavings crushed leather for shoe upper 1990s Introduction of synthetic tanning and 1904 Katharina Bader runs the company 1938 250 employees leather, procurement of crust development and commissioning of a fully temporarily leather and commercial goods biological sewage plant 1909 70 employees from South America 2010 Foundation of the Competence Center 1979 Capacity of 400-600 hides Sustainability (CCS) per day Today 16,750 hides per day 150 employees 11,300 employees at 11 sites worldwide Figure 3: Our family business Bader Sustainability Report 2017 6 About Us Site Overview 2 1 3 5 8 6 7 1: Göppingen (headquarters) and Ichenhausen, Germany 2: Boleslawiec, Poland 3: Horodok, Ukraine 4 4: Ga-Rankuwa, South Africa 5: Dalian, China 9 6: Chennai, India 7: Rayong, Thailand 8: Léon and Jalisco, Mexico 9: Ciudad Del Plata, Uruguay Figure 4: BADER sites worldwide Bader Sustainability Report 2017 7 Our Fields of Action BADER signed the United Nations Global Compact and has committed to enacting its principles concerning human rights, labor standards, environmental and anti-corruption practices, as well as its sustainable development goals. Our annual sustainability report aims at expressing our commitment to embracing and enacting these principles in our strategy, culture and on-site daily work, as well as in advancing various stakeholder initiatives. This first report covers 2017. UN Principles and UN Goals Material Topics Report Structure Our Fields of Action UN Principles and UN Goals In 1999, Kofi Annan – the then Secretary General of the United Nations (UN) – in his In September 2015, the heads of state and government from all UN member countries speech at the World Economic Forum in Davos stressed the fact that globalization adopted the „2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development“ (UN SDG 2018). This should benefit all people and offer everyone at least a chance of prosperity in a healthy agenda includes 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and 169 targets to be environment. To this end the UN Global Compact was created in 1999 – to secure a achieved by 2030 – to overcome global challenges such as poverty and inequality future in which the strong and successful accept their responsibility showing global and deal with climate change. In seeking to achieve these UN targets and goals, vision and leadership. In the meantime, more than 9,500 enterprises from over 160 governments around the world are implementing national frameworks and issuing countries support the 10 UN principles of the Global Compact concerning human regular progress reviews. rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption practices (UN Global Compact 2018). Companies also need to bring their business into conformity with the UN global principles and goals and to act accordingly in their own sphere of influence. One could say that the UN principles act as a „compass“ to help navigate the course and that the UN goals act as a „lighthouse“ for orientation towards the final goals. Following this example, we are in the process of embedding the UN principles and goals in our strategy, company culture, and, ultimately, in our day-to-day business dealings. Figure 5: BADER supports the UN Global Compact Figure 6: BADER supports the Sustainable Development Goals Bader Sustainability Report 2017 9 Our Fields of Action Material Topics To determine the essential topics that we can really get behind, BADER has rated the 17 UN goals according to influence and relevance. To do this, we take into account the effects of production processes and final products on society and the environment and the possibilities we have of being able to influence change. The goals that we are especially able to influence are shown in Figure 7. They are listed numerically and do not correspond to any judgmental ranking. In our sustainability report, we elaborate more specifically on the UN goals that we consider essential. This first report covers 2017 (1st January to 31th December). Figure 7: The material Sustainable Development Goals for BADER Bader Sustainability Report 2017 10 Our Fields of Action Report Structure The sustainability report links BADER’s activities to the UN goals and assesses our „Partnering“ (cooperation), because only together with our customers, suppliers, and contribution to the material topics. We have structured this report according to other stakeholders can we reach the UN goals holistically, across the entire value the „3P” formula by Elkington (1994), where he describes the interactions of the chain. The sustainability report’s underlying structure and linkage to the UN goals is three dimensions of sustainability as three shared zones: Product (economy), People shown here Figure 8. (society), Planet (environment). We have supplemented these three dimensions with Product People Planet Partnering Economic Social Environmental Shared Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Responsibility Products Social Commitment Resources Interest Groups Optimising Material Cycles Labor Standards Chemicals Suppliers Innovation and Health and Occupational Safety Energy Awareness and Diligence Idea Management Training and Career Management Water Animal Welfare Legal Compliance Diversity and Equal Opportunity Emissions Product Safety and Traceability Figure 8: Structure of the sustainability report and link to the UN goals Bader Sustainability Report 2017 11 Sustainable Management Sustainable management integrates social and environmental concerns into business operations. BADER has embedded its sustainable management in policy and code of conduct, strategy and corporate goals and has put in place structures and management systems to enable continuous assessment and improvement. Competence Center Sustainability Values and Standards Strategies and Goals Evaluation and Control Sustainable Management Competence Center Sustainability Values and Standards Sustainable management serves to secure the long-term survival of our company and As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, BADER is committed to the UN principles and requires company commitment on all levels. Under senior management leadership, to the sustainable development goals concerning human rights, labor, environment, the Competence Center Sustainability (CCS) has had its own team working across and anti-corruption. different business units and plants on diverse sustainability topics since 2010. We create sustainability policies from visions, initiate and support projects, compile To meet this responsibility, BADER has, above and beyond the legal requirements, and make available expert knowledge. We further communicate information on firmly embedded its fundamental values and principles of conduct in its Corporate sustainability and project results and derive further measures from these data. In Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy (BADER 2017a) as well as in its Quality, Environdoing this, we work very closely with our stakeholders. mental and Energy Policy (BADER 2016). In addition, the Code of Conduct that applies to all contract and business partners (BADER 2017b) specifies the basic principles of conduct for day-to-day dealings and business policies. As part of the annual management review, we ensure that our goals are in accordance with our Board of management policies. We understand these rules as a framework within which we, as a company, operate Site managers in society. They can only be adopted through the commitment of all employees and business partners. We have conveyed our policies to all BADER employees and made them available on the internet and intranet. The Code of Conduct has been Area managers published on the internet. The documents are available in the particular language of our employees and business partners. Figure 9: BADER Competence Center Sustainability Bader Sustainability Report 2017 13 Sustainable Management Strategies and Goals Evaluation and Control We derive our business strategy from the holistic assessment of economic, ecological At least once a year, BADER uses various management reports and internal audits to and social opportunities and risks. In this context, our strategy has three drivers: review aspects of sustainable management and consequently derive measures and goals for continuous improvement. Economic responsibility: We invest in the long-term in maintaining and developing our traditional company in line with environmental and social concerns and pursue On the operational level, we support our company’s sustainable development by long-term, sustainable goals, across all company sites and business units. consistently making use of our integrated management system. It builds on various international standards according to which we certify our sites and have them Social responsibility: We are committed to the observance of human rights, fair reviewed regularly through external audits (BADER 2018). working conditions, and life-long education and training, as well as a culture characterized by diversity, mutual respect, and equal opportunity. Meanwhile, all of BADER’s sites have a quality management certification according to ISO 9001 and/or IATF 16949 specifically for the automotive industry or are currently Environmental responsibility: We develop and evaluate new products and processes in the implementation phase. over various dimensions and the whole life cycle. As of 2001, Mexico Léon, one of the sites with test and calibration laboratories, has We invest intensely into the research and development of more sustainable products, been accredited according to ISO 17025. This has been planned for our laboratory in processes, and technologies. We are further pursuing ideas to increase the utilization Germany for the end of 2018. of our leather products while taking customer-specific demands into account and minimizing residual materials. All the leather manufacturing locations have the ISO 14001 certification for environmental management or are currently in the implementation phase until the beginning of 2019. As one of the first automotive leather producers in Germany to be certified, our Göppingen headquarters along with the Ichenhausen factory was Our strategy drivers certified according to ISO 14001 in 1999. 1 2 3 As of 2015, two sites are certified in accordance with ISO 50001 for energy Economic Social Environmental management. Certification in occupational health and safety management in responsibility responsibility responsibility accordance with ISO 45001 is planned for the future. The results of the findings benefit all of our subsidiaries. Figure 10: Our strategy drivers Bader Sustainability Report 2017 14 Sustainable Management Since 2012, BADER has also been working closely with the German Leather Federation (German: Verband der Deutschen Lederindustrie, VDL) and the Leather Working ISO 9001/ Group (LWG). Both offer certifications to tanneries and leather manufacturers that IATF 16949 ISO 17025 ISO 14001 define specific performance requirements to promote environmentally friendly and sustainable manufacturing processes in the leather industry. 100% 10% 64% of the sites of the sites of the sites The VDL has developed the Energy Controlled Leather (ECO2L) Certification (VDL 2013), the world‘s first energy and CO2 benchmark for tanneries. This benchmark builds on the experience and energy analyses of about 20 leading tanneries around the world. The LWG consists of brand companies, suppliers, distributors, industry experts, NGOs, and other organizations. Together, the group discusses the latest developments and requirements to be set in the world-wide valid LWG audit protocol (LWG 2018) for the assessment of the environmental performance of ECO2L LWG ISO 50001 tanneries, in part far beyond the legal requirements. 57% of the 57% of the 18% leather leather of the sites manufacturing manufacturing BADER was actively involved in the development of the ECO2L tool as well as the LWG protocol. Since 2012, we have been gradually introducing both certifications sites sites at our leather manufacturing sites. By the end of 2017, four of our seven leatherproducing sites are certified in accordance with ECO2L and LWG. We are particularly pleased that two sites were able to achieve a LWG Gold certification while two others received a LWG Silver certification at the first attempt. In 2018, our South African site will be certified according to LWG and ECO2L standards. This means that all our major leather manufacturing sites will then be certified. It is our goal to continue to implement new requirements at our sites in the coming years. In so doing, we will gradually expand our reporting. We are also planning to integrate data collected for LWG, ECO2L, and our sustainability reporting system. BADER Polska – BAD102 BADER Ichenhausen – BAD101 BADER Polska – 010 BADER China – BAD103 BADER de Mexico – BAD104 BADER China – 012 BADER Ichenhausen – 017 BADER de Mexico – 024 Bader Sustainability Report 2017 15 Product – Economic Responsibility Companies can effectively support the UN sustainable development goals by also taking social and environmental concerns into consideration parallel to their economic development. As a familyowned company already in the fourth and fifth generation we plan for the long term, investing heavily in research and development of sustainable products, processes, and technologies and are committed to legal and fair competitive behavior at our sites. Products Optimising Material Cycles Innovation and Idea Management Legal Compliance Product – Economic Responsibility Products Today, in addition to our headquarters in Göppingen, the BADER group includes leather production cut parts 10 manufacturing sites in 9 countries on 5 continents ( Figure 4). Through our inter2017 per day 2017 per day m2 m2 72,000 44,000 national presence, adapting to the global economy has been inherent in our daily business for many years. 2010 2010 Nowadays, we manufacture leather in particular for the automotive industry with an estimated global market share of 20-25%. We manufacture worldwide on a daily basis around 72,000 m² of leather, 44,000 m² leather cut parts and seat covers for 2,700 40,100 30,200 worldwide worldwide vehicles. Mobile living environments are designed with exclusive BADER leathers. Regardless, if this is a seat cover, armrest, steering wheel, door trim, instrument panel, gearshift knob, or boot, we produce the perfect custom solution for every application. This includes leather finishing and custom cutting to the flawlessly stitched final cover. 2017 2,700 cars State-of-the-art production technologies and continuous monitoring ensure consistent high quality. This premium quality automotive leather product supplied seat covers for by BADER, is the hallmark of the international reputation, thereby, placing BADER in a class of our own. 2010 per day Leather is a material, which provides us with the inspiration for a whole world of 500 worldwide innovative ideas apart from creating new collections for automobiles. In the BADER LEATHER GOODS department, these ideas are transformed into sophisticated and exquisitely handcrafted personal products including fashion accessories such as belts, electronic device covers, card cases, small leather goods, handbags, and small luggage. This exclusive leather collection is designed for those individuals and companies, who treasure the perfect symbiosis of excellent quality and impeccable taste in fashion. Bader Sustainability Report 2017 17 Product – Economic Responsibility Optimising material cycles BADER’s sustainable, entrepreneurial mindset has a long tradition. A family tradition synthetic materials and provides optimal thermal and acoustic insulation as well as that currently the fourth and fifth generation of entrepreneurs are carrying forward. high variability in strength and density. With the conviction, for example, that the annual turnover and profits do not have to be maximized for the short term, but should be environmentally and socially Those who appreciate this high-grade leather material also want to retain its unique compatible in the long term. characteristics as long as possible. That is why we developed BADER LEATHER CARE. It is the ideal leather care product for use in automobile interiors. For us, having a passion for leather also means to deal with this material in a responsible way. The raw hides are co-products of the dairy and meat production and represent renewable raw materials that can substitute products made from non-renewable raw materials such as petroleum-based plastic sheeting and textiles Raw material input Product output (amongst others) (UNIDO 2012). For nearly 100 years, we have been looking for new opportunities to achieve high-value material uses of leather and are now selling many co-products ( Chapter Planet). Cut parts In the 1930s, raw materials were becoming increasingly scarce and companies were Raw hide Finished leather Seat covers required to use existing resources and waste for new products where possible. So, in 1936, we carried out first attempts to further process vegetable tanned leather cutting waste and shavings into leather fiber (LEFA). Two years later, we were already able to Pelleted leather Kollamat® remnants make fiber pulp in our new LEFA factory, which could be processed to make inner soles, mid soles, heel counters, or slipper outer soles and later to make briefcases. Split leather Today we are still looking for ways to responsibly deal with leather waste. We Input for gelatine developed the idea for Kollamat®, a high-quality injection molding material made and collagen from pelleted leather remnants (shavings, finished leather) and polymers which can Input for also be used to create three-dimensional components. Kollamat® is manufactured LEFA material with comparatively low energy use and can substitute 50% of plastics. It combines the haptic and moisture-regulating properties of leather with the potentials of Figure 11: Optimising material cycles Bader Sustainability Report 2017 18 Product – Economic Responsibility Innovation and Idea Management In addition, we invest heavily in research and development of sustainable products, The ideas from our employees also help us to innovate and become better at what processes, and technologies. We work closely with our customers, suppliers, and we do. Through our globally established company suggestion system, employees other interested parties to meet their needs on the one hand, while on the other hand, produce diverse ideas around economic efficiency, cooperation, environmental already taking into account the sustainability aspects in the development stage. This protection, quality assurance, and health and occupational safety. Last year, for means being able to develop holistic solutions over the entire life cycle of our leather example, we awarded a proposal for the adaptation of leather trestles, which not only products. We are gradually introducing the solutions and good experiences from our saves time and storage space, but also resources. R&D projects at our sites around the world. For decades, we have been investing in R&D projects to achieve a more sustainable 7% Raw material alignment of our products, raw materials, and machines. In 2017, 27% of our projects were established beyond technical-economic aspects also on environmentally and/or 4% Production to crust socially responsible aspects. In the past 30 years, through our own technical process development we have developed aqueous coating systems and different roller 9% Finishing application techniques to substitute the spraying technique. We were able to reduce the overspray and VOC emissions and have successfully tested and implemented 7% Machines these techniques at our sites. In addition, we carry out various projects for the improvement of material cycles, plant-based tanning, and traceability of cattle hides back to the animal owner. 73% technical-economic R&D projects 27% sustainable R&D projects Figure 12: Sustainable R&D projects Bader Sustainability Report 2017 19 Product – Economic Responsibility Legal Compliance BADER is committed to legal and fair competitive practices as well as general legal We implement and monitor compliance as part of our integrated management system compliance at all of its sites. There were and are no legal proceedings pending by means of management reviews, regular employee training, and supplier meetings against BADER. No criminal charges were imposed, have been threatened or are to and audits. be expected. Nevertheless, important issues such as legality and anti-corruption are embedded in our Policy on Corporate Social Responsibility (BADER 2017a). We respect intellectual property rights. For instance, in 2016, initiated by one of our biggest customers, we had our company audited and implemented the suggested We regularly review and adjust the requirements on an ongoing basis. Management solutions from the audit results. With a view to the EU general data protection at each plant monitors compliance and realization with all respective international, regulation that is valid as of May 2018, we are implementing the essential new rules national, and local laws and regulations in the context of all company operations for the handling of personal data in our daily business operations. We train all BADER and on all operational levels. This includes getting agreements concerning company employees that deal with digital data exchange annually. activities with the relevant authorities and obtaining the necessary approvals, which also cover such areas as construction, labor law, occupational safety, environmental protection, and food law. In dealing with business partners and government institutions, the interests of the company and private interests of employees on both sides, are kept strictly separate. Decisions are made without involving irrelevant issues and personal interests. Bader Sustainability Report 2017 20 People – Social Responsibility Whether on a local or global level – the fight against poverty, ensuring good health, fair opportunities and living conditions, as well as lessening differences are essential prerequisites for sustainable development. BADER globally supports charitable activities and initiatives and is committed to the observance of human rights, fair working conditions and life-long education and training, as well as a culture characterized by diversity, mutual respect, and equal opportunity. Social Commitment Labor Standards Health and Occupational Safety Training and Career Management Diversity and Equal Opportunity People – Social Responsibility Social Commitment At its sites worldwide, BADER joins the fight against poverty and provides the local We also support the care of young and elderly people. In Germany, we promote a population with access to essential resources and services. For this purpose, we learning initiative, kindergartens, and sports. In Mexico, our program „Adopta una dedicate a substantial part of our sales to social activities and 2006 – after Hans escuela“ supports local schools in the form of renovation work and provision of Bader’s death – the Bader family founded the non-profit foundation Hans-Baderbuilding materials and equipment. We also organize events in children’s and senior’s Stiftung in honor of his social commitment. Our global engagement extends beyond facilities and replace worn out padding in school bus seats. In South Africa, we sponsor the support of research, employment, health and safety, to the care of young and school equipment and food for the first graders of our employees. In the Ukraine and elderly people. Uruguay, we are helping to empower young people by supporting social, educational, and sports facilities. In Uruguay, we also promote an educational assistance program, We promote worldwide education and employment initiatives in order to improve which makes it possible for children to attend school. More than 50 children from employment prospects. In Germany, for example, we support the promotion of BADER employees as well as others can take advantage of this. employment and educational opportunities for difficult-to-place unemployed, longterm unemployed and persons threatened by exclusion from the labor market, including refugees. Since 2007, we have been offering a one-year leather qualification-training program in South Africa. In 2017, this program covered about 90 unemployed school leavers. Many of these young professionals are now in positions in the operational business, quality assurance and monitoring, and technical jobs at BADER and other leather processing companies. In the Ukraine and Uruguay, we cooperate together Education and employment initiatives with other companies with the local chambers of industry and commerce to advance projects in the dual vocational training system. We support initiatives concerning health, safety, and palliative care, including sports. Health, safety, and palliative care initiatives In Germany and Mexico, we support, for example, hospitals, nursing facilities, and hospices and organize joint breakfasts and other meetings. In South Africa, we offer our employees medical care, donate to charitable organizations that support HIV/ AIDS orphans, and support the BADER’s Sports Club and local sporting events. In Care of young and elderly people the Ukraine, we promote local clubs that provide long-term support to people with special needs and we further fund the purchase of medical equipment. In Uruguay, we organize informative talks on topics such as addiction, violence, or palliative care. Figure 13: Social commitment Bader Sustainability Report 2017 22 People – Social Responsibility Labor Standards We have embedded our fundamental values and principles of conduct in our The wage level at our sites bases on the regional average – not on the lower limit – jjjCorporate Social Responsibility Policy (BADER 2017a) ( Chapter Sustainable and we meet or exceed minimum standards, as far as defined. The working hours Management) which exceeds legal requirements. At BADER, we respect and protect allow a sufficient balance between work and relaxation and correspond to at least the human and workers‘ rights and human dignity. We totally reject any violations such as statutory requirements – concerning both weekly and annual working hours. Working forced labor, trafficking, and child labor. on Sundays and holidays only happens in exceptional situations. Every employee has the right to adequate vacation that partly exceeds statutory requirements. The typical All employees work at BADER voluntarily. Young people are at least 15 years old and cultural differences and statutory requirements are taken into account. receive age-appropriate tasks within the scope of their vocational preparation and training. Like all our employees, they obtain training in occupational health and safety. In the last five years, our number of employees has increased from about 6,100 to 11,300. At the individual locations, we cooperate with employment agencies to recruit BADER respects the rights of employees to freedom of assembly, freedom of employees. We are interested in keeping employees and taking over external workers. association, and collective bargaining in the framework of the applicable statutory To protect and promote our employees when the workload needs to be reduced, we regulations. At individual sites, there are regular discussions and good co-operation use the instrument of short-time work – where legally possible. between company and personnel management and the employee representatives. Collective agreements typically address a variety of issues such as the protection of health and occupational safety, working conditions, employee development, or equal treatment. 2017 employees 11,300 2012 6,100 worldwide Bader Sustainability Report 2017 23 People – Social Responsibility Health and Occupational Safety Life-long preservation of health and well-being requires both BADER and every We analyze the processes and check safety equipment on a regular basis at our sites. employee to take appropriate preventative measures. We carry out regular safety Here are some examples from our Ichenhausen site of the past few years: training for all employees including trainees, with the aim of raising awareness. We We have checked and replaced the safety equipment in terms of wearing comfort also organize health programs, which we carry out in conjunction with workers‘ and functionality and have made our lifting instructions more transparent. representatives and social agencies. At our German sites, we offer regular so-called We have invested in new transport and lifting systems to improve the effort and health days with check-ups and different events related to health and occupational ergonomics for our employees – e.g. we redesigned the crouponage workplace safety. In some cases, we financially support preventative measures, like the aids and reduced the load from 15 to 3.6 tonnes per shift and person per day. prevention campaign at our site in South Africa. We completely revised the glasses and glove concepts to improve health and safety – we also constantly test the application of new knives. We integrate aspects of health and occupational safety into our integrative We procured multiple gas measuring devices used for repairs and cleaning work in management system and check worldwide compliance through regular audits confined spaces, such as the sewage treatment plant. (jjjjChapter Sustainable Management). At our sites there are experts for occupational We have procured hydrogen sulfide measuring devices to prevent accidents with safety and emergency plans in place, who are also certified by the LWG, if already hydrogen sulfide for those employees who regularly spend time in tanneries as existent. There are mandatory procedures that ensure the reporting of serious well as let them complete the Leather Panels’ online course for hydrogen sulfide accidents to our headquarters where we analyze them in order to avoid further from the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO). incidents. Bader Sustainability Report 2017 24 People – Social Responsibility Training and Career Management BADER has 11,300 employees at 11 sites worldwide. We offer a variety of interesting BADER is targeting talent management in the spirit of lifelong learning and is offering career opportunities with our international presence, close cooperation with a variety of internal and external training opportunities to improve employment renowned manufacturers, as well as the advantages of a German global player with a options for our employees. In an effort to promote careers, we annually determine family-run company structure. Together we create not only quality at an international the individual training requirements of our employees which we inquire in voluntary level, but value and promote the talent and skills of each individual employee. appraisal interviews, or alternatively, via the supervisors. On this basis, we implement and monitor mandatory training and development plans. As part of our initiative for securing skilled personnel, we offer a portfolio covering a wide range of education and advanced training, which we continually expand, as The internal further education offers include „Training on the Job“ and various required. For these means, we cooperate with chambers of commerce and industry, training programs on different topics concerning information and product safety, research institutes, and universities. We offer young professionals opportunities for a health and occupational safety, quality, environmental and energy management, as wide variety of career paths in the areas of technical tradesmanship and commerce well as sustainable procurement. We further rely on extra occupational training and as well as in design, research and development, production, and management. In advanced education offers in addition to foreign language and intercultural training, 2017 in Germany, we trained 33 young people in various dual vocational training which are also included in technical training programs. They offer the possibility of programs and practice-oriented higher education study programs. This represents learning or working temporarily or permanently at one of BADER’s international sites a share of 6.7% of the workforce. We are always interested in taking over trainees. later on. BADER has worked together with the German leather industry to introduce At our German sites, we offer all trainees, as part of their training, the opportunity to new qualification opportunities recognized by the German Chamber of Commerce participate in a project week with voluntary work in social care institutions, in order to and Industry. promote teamwork, a sense of community, and tolerance. The trainees can familiarize themselves with the production processes on site and in many training programs, % have the possibility to work abroad and develop foreign language and intercultural Training ratio skills. 2017 6.7 2012 4.2 in Germany Bader Sustainability Report 2017 25 People – Social Responsibility Diversity and Equal Opportunity As embedded in our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (BADER 2017a), we We aim at keeping a balanced and stable workforce as far as possible, so we fully reject any discrimination no matter what the reasons are. On the contrary, promote all our employees regardless of their age, level of education, nationality, BADER promotes diversity and equal opportunity for all of its employees (jjjjChapter etc. We promote language training as well as training and further education and at Sustainable Management). our German sites, for example, we support the balance between work and family life. When required, we also assist our employees in the search for carers for family At our locations we have people working who have different backgrounds and members. experiences: Worldwide the average employee age is 37 years – in Mexico, for example, it is 32 Our process for hiring and promoting builds on clear criteria and recruitment and in Germany it is 42, which reflects the demographic trend in these countries conditions. Since April 2017, temporary workers in Germany have a statutory equal Worldwide the proportion of female and male employees is on average about the pay right after nine months of uninterrupted work at a company. BADER supports this same right and is always interested in a steady cooperation – and where possible – in taking At our German sites, we have more than 30% foreign employees for years – we also over temporary employees. In addition, also before 2017 we paid voluntary bonuses employ recognized refugees and verified that that these were paid out to our temporary workers. At our German sites, the proportion of severely disabled persons is 2% we are working to increase this percentage In the case of discriminatory statements or actions, our employees can contact our complaints office, their supervisor, or their employee representative. BADER checks complaints from a neutral standpoint and initiates the appropriate measures that are transparent for all involved. years % % Average age Proportion of female employees Proportion of foreign employees 37 47 30 worldwide worldwide in Germany Bader Sustainability Report 2017 26 Planet – Environmental Responsibility The economy and society cannot exist without functioning ecosystems and natural resources. This is why it is more important than ever that we preserve and conserve them for the present and future generations. BADER is aware of this environmental responsibility and is committed to a holistic resource management at all levels of the company and at all sites. We proactively assess the impact of our production processes and products on the environment and include them in our investment and every day decisions, in order to avoid or minimize environmental impacts. Resources Chemicals Energy Water Emissions Planet – Environmental Responsibility Resources As a manufacturer of one of the world’s oldest natural materials, we accepted the In order to achieve a desired thickness of the finished leather, we split the significantly challenge early of conserving resources in an environmentally progressive way and thicker raw hides horizontally during the manufacturing process. We process part of increasingly optimized material cycles through the life cycle. For years now, more the flesh split to split leather and the remaining parts, especially the so-called limed than 80% of the material inputs (raw hide dry matter) are processed into finished trimmings, into gelatin for the food industry. leather, other products, and energy. Approximately 18% is sewage sludge and is materially used. The non-recyclable waste amounts to less than 2%. We further process necks (15% of mass) to high-quality collagen, for example, for edible sausage skins or as a component in cosmetics. The flanks (8% of mass) after The weight of the raw hide is dependent, among other factors, on species, origin and being processed are also usable materially as high-quality collagen and gelatin for method of conservation and fluctuates significantly from one shipment to another. the food industry. At our tannery site in Ichenhausen we have been using between 7-8 kg raw material per m² leather (finished and split leather) for years now. For decades, we have been looking for ways to recycle the remaining hide components and thus improving our economic and environmental balance. Raw hide weight in Ichenhausen 7-8 kg/m2 Material input leather 80% from the skin (fully recovered) 18% sewage sludge (fully materially recovered) 02% waste (properly disposed of) Figure 14: Material input at the tannery site in Ichenhausen (dry substance of the raw hide) Bader Sustainability Report 2017 28 Planet – Environmental Responsibility We shave the tanned leather to the final thickness desired by the customer and further In addition to these raw hide co-products, the sewage sludge represents a nonprocess the resulting shavings (4-5% of mass) to LEFA ( Chapter Product), collagen negligible mass percentage of 15-18%. From the separate treatment of the chromiumand fertilizer or to Kollamat®, a high-quality injection molding material (jjjjChapter free and the chromium-containing wastewater results a chromium-containing sewage Product). sludge, which serves as substitute for landfill material, as well as a chromium-free sewage sludge, which is materially usable in the agricultural sector. In total, these material recovery paths account for between 60 and 70% of the total recovery and disposal balance. Thermal recycling constitutes further 30% to 40%, Soilage especially resulting from lime fleshings for biogas. Less than 2% of solid materials, such as coatings and paint sludge, oil contaminated operating materials or old chemicals, are not recyclable and worldwide properly disposed of. Despite a longterm recovery rate of more than 98%, we continue to search for ways of improving resource efficiency and securing existing recovery paths. Sewage sludge Meat for meat as fertilizer and dairy production Protein and fat degradation Skin as a co-product Recovery products are specifically targeted of slaughter to end up in the wastewater and disposal 60-70% material use 30-40% thermal use 0max. 10% disposal Figure 15: Circular economy in agriculture Figure 16: Recovery and disposal balance at the tannery site in Ichenhausen Bader Sustainability Report 2017 29 Planet – Environmental Responsibility Chemicals The chemical demand depends on the quality of the processed raw hides and the product properties required. Due to the generally strict requirements from our kg/t customers in the automotive industry, we replace substances, which are potentially harmful to the environment or human health, mostly much earlier than legally required (jjjjChapter Partnering). In this context, we have also significantly extended the 500 testing of chemicals before their use in order to avoid the use of possibly problematic substances with regard to leather contents, occupational safety, wastewater treatment, and food safety. EU-BAT 400 In the last 30 years, we have been able to optimize the use of chemicals through various process changes. At our tannery site in Ichenhausen, for example, our chromium recycling plant enables us to recover the complete chromium tanning agents present in the wastewater and thereby reduce the purchase of tanning agents by 25-30%. 300 Worldwide we work with almost identical finishing formulas and systems and now use for the solely aqueous coating systems in the leather finishing process 70-85% roller application techniques (Synchro Roll Coating SRC, Reverse Roll Coating RRC and rubber roll coating). By this means, we were able to reduce the originally chemical 200 intensive spraying technique (overspray) to 30-15% for which we use cutting-edge high volume, low pressure (HVLP) spray technique and quantity control as well as extremely low atomization air and 2-component dosage technology. 100 In this way we used between 200 and 300 kg of chemicals per t of raw material in Ichenhausen over the past seven years. This puts us significantly below the jjjjEU Standard of Best Available Technology (BAT) (EU 2013) that specifies 425 kg of chemicals per t of raw material. 0 Figure 17: Chemical use at the tannery site in Ichenhausen 2010-2017 (in kg/t raw materials) Bader Sustainability Report 2017 30 Planet – Environmental Responsibility BADER constantly researches and further develops its products and processes, in Plant-based tanning from renewable raw materials requires a higher amount of order to reduce the use of chemicals in accordance with the wastewater treatment. tanning agents at higher costs and longer tanning time. The wastewater treatment The different leather tanning processes involve specific leather properties and is more difficult since plant-based tanning agents are formed chemically from e.g. different environmental impacts over the product life cycle. stable phenolic cyclic compounds which are very difficult to remove from wastewater and sludge. For mineral tanning with chromium, there are proven techniques and regulations (CADS 2018) to produce safe and chromium-VI-free leather efficiently and costThe ideal tanning agent that only has positive properties over the entire life cycle effectively including environmentally friendly wastewater and sludge treatment and and the dimensions of sustainability still does not exist. Against this background, we the material use of the waste created – which BADER strictly applies. are pursuing various R&D projects on alternatives ( Chapter Product) that are both suitable for industrial use and do not endanger health and the environment. In synthetic tanning with glutaraldehyde, leather exhibits a better shrinkage behavior in its reaction to a change of climate, but is more sensitive to moisture and heat and causes higher wastewater and sludge load than chromium tanning. Bader Sustainability Report 2017 31 Planet – Environmental Responsibility Energy Energy use is an important factor when seeking to improve the environmental impact Both our factories in Ichenhausen and Mexico do not currently meet the Gold of leather production – especially due to the drying processes. Therefore, we have requirements in one of the evaluation categories, so at this state they only have the been analyzing our energy use since 2007 in more detail and have been deducing LWG Silver level certification. short and medium-term practicable measures. At our tannery site in Ichenhausen, the energy use is crucial, especially since we are In this context, the ECO2L and LWG audit systems (VDL 2013, LWG 2018) and their not yet able to implement the direct natural gas burners. Currently boiler technologies benchmarks play an important role in improving our environmental performance in from the 1960s are still in use. Nevertheless, since 2010, we have reduced our general and energy efficiency in particular ( Chapter Sustainable Management). energy-related performance by various technical measures, by good 40% (complete Apart from that, our German sites have been certified in energy management production), by using e.g.: LED lighting, highly efficient compressed air production, according to ISO 50001, since 2015. additional heat exchangers for hot water production, and heat recovery from compressor exhaust air. Furthermore, in 2017, we created the technical requirements Energy use at our ECO2L-certified sites is below the energy benchmark Best Energy for future measures: We have replaced the chimney so we can further reduce the Efficiency for Tanning (BEET) which clearly reflects our successes in the holistic temperature of the exhaust gas and have installed a gas connection so that as of optimization of energy use. BEET bases on the jjjBest Available Techniques for 2018, we can convert our drying system along with the boiler system to direct natural the Tanning of Hides and Skins specified by the EU in conjunction with worldwide gas burners. data from progressive tanneries and allows a comparison of energy efficiency in production processes and of the equipment used in tanneries (Umweltbundesamt Our plant in Mexico has already LWG Gold level in energy management, but still is 2003, VDL 2013). convincing its sub-contractors and producers of semi-finished products to have their production sites audited by LWG ( Chapter Partnering). Our plants in China and Poland already meet the LWG Gold requirements. This is because here in particular, the drying process already takes place at the place of origin with direct natural gas burners, thus avoiding heat loss during transfer and transport. Since we wish to keep the LWG Gold level at these sites also with increasing Energy reduction % requirements in the future, we are continuing to invest in expedient measures. 40 in Ichenhausen 2010-2017 Bader Sustainability Report 2017 32 Planet – Environmental Responsibility Water Water is one of the most important auxiliary materials for the tanner because it serves as a transport medium and a solvent for chemicals going into the hide and m3/t for decomposition products coming out of the hide. Therefore, two of our most important tasks that concern the environment are the economic use of water and the careful purification treatment of the resulting wastewater. Our larger leather manufacturing sites that are LWG certified, achieve LWG Gold 30 level in all sub-processes and have the most water-saving technologies worldwide. EU-BAT Through our centrally managed development, we ensure that in particular the retanning processes involve the same optimized processes worldwide. After the 25 leather technical development stage, we improve new recipes in terms of run times, water use, and chemical use. 20 BADER has reduced its water use since the 1990s through various measures, so at our tannery site in Ichenhausen it amounts to 11 to 15 m³ per t of raw material. This puts the water use below the LWG Gold level of 14 m³ (LWG 2018) and significantly below 15 the EU BAT criteria with 30 m³ per t of raw material. Instead of the sole supply of LWG Gold water coming from deep wells, in drinking water quality, we changed over to surface water from river in 2006, to conserve valuable drinking water resources. 10 It is not expedient to further reduce the water use, which would probably imply high concentrations of hide proteins and fat decomposition products and as result 5 problems in the wastewater treatment. 0 Figure 18: Water use at the tannery site in Ichenhausen 2010-2017 (in m³ /t raw materials) Bader Sustainability Report 2017 33 Planet – Environmental Responsibility With a view to wastewater treatment, over the past 7 years we have purified between From 1997 on, we gradually developed, tested and implemented this modern, 10 and 14 m³ wastewater per t of raw material in Ichenhausen. Our goal is to maximize fully biological purification technology on an industrial scale, in close cooperation the use of easily degradable chemicals. Chromium recycling – described in the with authorities and experienced internal and external engineers. Since 2000, the section on chemicals – leads not only to the reduction of chemicals used, but also to wastewater treatment plant has been running without incident. It represents the a significantly lower wastewater load with chromium. current state-of-the-art technology and has been listed as a model facility in the jjjEU BAT reference documents since 2001 (EU 2013). The water savings over the last decades caused a highly concentrated wastewater including inter alia nitrogen compounds. As one of the first companies in the tanning industry, we were largely able to jjdenitrify the wastewater in combination with a salt-free complete de-sulfidation (BADER 2011). In this way, we can Cleaned water avoid an additional increase of salinity in the water and an increase in the use in Ichenhausen 2010-2017 m3/t of chemicals, the – materially used – sludge quantity and ultimately higher costs. Without considering operational disturbances, we are in a position to reduce the ammonium content of wastewater to less than 10 mg/l and to eliminate the nitrogen compounds safely by at least 70% from the wastewater. The overall 10-14 purification performance is comparable to the size of a sewage plant for a city with 50,000 to 60,000 inhabitants. We can introduce this purified wastewater back into a biologically intact body of water. raw materials Bader Sustainability Report 2017 34 Planet – Environmental Responsibility Emissions At its sites worldwide, BADER consistently implements improvement measures to reduce resource use and emissions significantly – particularly carbon dioxide, volatile g/m2 EU-BAT (non-IED installation with >10-25t solvent per year) organic compounds (VOC), and hydrogen sulfide. 80 The approximate jjjcarbon footprint of the BADER group (BADER 2015b) amounts to 2-3 kg CO2e/m² leather. This corresponds to less than 1% of emissions for the manu70 facture of an average middle-class automobile and less than 0.2% relative to its entire lifespan. We are in the process of further specifying this and collecting information from all the sites through the scientifically based ECO2L system (VDL 2013). Currently, 60 reliable data are available in particular for production, procurement shipments of the input materials, as well as wastewater, exhaust air, and waste management. A further itemization, such as for chemical manufacturing, is in progress. 50 In the past 30 years, through the measures already described in the section on chemicals regarding the elimination of the use of solvents, we have been able to 40 reduce the VOC emissions to the extent that this task can be considered largely resolved. The annual average values of the VOC emissions lie between 9 and 23 g carbon per m² finished leather and thus mostly well below the specified limits in the 30 in the Industrial Emissions Directive (IED) 2010/75/EU (EU 2013, 2010). EU-BAT (IED installation with >10t solvent per year) 20 10 CO2 emissions 2-3 kg CO2e/m2 0 Figure 19: VOC emissions at BADER (g carbon per m² finished leather) finished leather of the BADER group Bader Sustainability Report 2017 35 Partnering – Shared Responsibility A more sustainable, long-term leather value creation is only possible if we work together with our customers, suppliers, and various organizations. In this context, issues such as product safety, traceability, animal welfare, as well as environmental aspects are becoming increasingly important in our daily decisions. Interest Groups Suppliers Awareness and Diligence Animal Welfare Product Safety and Traceability Partnering – Shared Responsibility Interest Groups We are convinced that we are often better able to develop solutions to global Direct and indirect challenges in cooperation with various interest groups. Through close and continuous suppliers External exchange, we identify challenges and develop future-oriented approaches to service providers Investors solutions and standards for a more sustainable leather industry. These include our internal and external interest groups. Public Customers NGOs and consumers We are in constant dialog with our suppliers and customers to ensure the high standards of required product properties, while facing the challenges such as product Owners Media safety, animal welfare, traceability, and environmental aspects throughout the entire Competitors supply chain. Neighbors We participate in national and international R&D projects regarding a more sustainable Certification Board of State, authorities, Subsidiaries leather production that are concerned with the use of chemicals, work safety, and companies management politics, parties emissions, for example. At our sites, we cooperate with educational institutions and associations in designing Insurances Jurisdiction and implementing initial vocational education and further development programs. Employees and their representatives Trade unions We are in close contact with government authorities, local associations, organizations, and certification authorities. Here we use our knowledge, for example, to assist in Associations External emergency developing guidelines for international standards, technical documents or instructions and unions service, fire department to improve safety, environmental, and animal welfare standards for the global leather Educational institutions industry. (universities, institutes) Figure 20: Our interested parties Bader Sustainability Report 2017 37 Partnering – Shared Responsibility Suppliers Our purchasing teams are responsible for the procurement of raw hides, chemicals, The collection and processing of the data over a long period of time, enables BADER and all other materials used, as well as for investment and purchasing spare parts for to optimally economize resources and thus achieve sustainability for years to come. the entire BADER group. Our sites worldwide are closely linked and thus procurement for all sites is centrally controlled. Apart from suppliers for raw materials and semi-finished products, BADER works together with more than 1,800 suppliers for all other materials for our leather, cutting Our raw material purchasing is one of the most important areas of our production and sewing factories. They are located mainly in the European region with a global chain, since the raw hides account for more than half of the sales price of our finished network of locations that enables us to adapt effectively and efficiently to our market. leather. We receive our raw materials and semi-finished products from more than We procure services locally to 99% and centrally manage investments worldwide 60 global suppliers consisting of raw hide dealers, abattoirs, and semi-finished product which enables synergies in procurement, logistics, and technology. manufacturers. Our buyers in all leather factories worldwide deal with handling the quantitative, sustainable supply needed for production of high-quality goods. We buy our raw hides from local suppliers and companies, as much as possible. Apart from supporting the respective regions, we thereby reduce logistics efforts and CO2 emissions. The Global Supply Chain Management team manages the complex supply relationships in the ever advancing globalization of the world. It provides a solid basis for specifically initiating improvements, making logistics and production more For raw hides and For all other efficient, and the entire planning more secure. We thereby avoid wastage, design semi-finished products materials production and transport for efficiency, and save costs. BADER has a very detailed analysis of the internal factory-to-factory connections and the complete flow of goods 60 1,800 including procurement from suppliers. Only in this way, we can effectively predict the finished leather requirements for all factories and create a forecast of requirements. suppliers suppliers This enables the long-term visualization of the factory requirements and individual capacity utilization. We can manage and develop suppliers more effectively or also terminate cooperation. Bader Sustainability Report 2017 38 Partnering – Shared Responsibility Awareness and Diligence Out of a sense of responsibility toward people, society, and the environment, BADER We evaluate and visit our suppliers regularly based on economic, environmental, also promotes a more sustainable production along the supply chain. Our fundamental and social criteria. BADER employees are on-site on a regular basis at all our major values and principles of conduct beyond legal requirements are embedded in our suppliers, in order to control and monitor their compliance with our requirements. jjjCorporate Social Responsibility Policy (BADER 2017a). In addition, the Code of Conduct for our Business Partners (BADER 2017b) specifies the basic principles of We strengthen the supply relationships by giving feedback for each delivery. Where conduct which are an inherent part of the day-to-day dealings and business policies. possible, we support the suppliers, for example, to help them improve their process Since 2017, we already have been able to motivate 80% of our raw hide suppliers and automation. producers of semi-finished products to sign this Code of Conduct. Regular and close contact with our suppliers is necessary in order to gain exact Our supply chain strategy is also part of the terms and conditions of purchase, knowledge of the properties, characteristics, and origin of the materials used, not to contracts, and agreements, such as chemicals, quality, and environmental security miss changes in the market, and react on current developments in the supply chain. agreements with our materials suppliers whom we also urge to build capacity to better This is the only way we are able to promote sustainability in areas such as product meet their due diligence responsibilities. Our Terms and Conditions of Purchase safety, animal welfare, traceability, and environmental aspects. (BADER 2012) specify our requirements, such as environmentally friendly packaging and product safety. Likewise, our activities to ensure product safety are integral parts We are committed to raising the sustainability and management system standards of our supply chain strategy. in our supply chain and urge our contract tanners and suppliers of semi-finished products to have their production sites certified by the LWG ( Chapter Sustainable The introduction of a Procurement Supplier Evaluation System and its worldwide use Management). Between 2012 and 2017, more than half of our suppliers were certified. in the area of Supplier Quality Assurance makes it easier for us to detect any risks An additional 15% are to follow in 2018. along the supply chain for raw materials and semi-finished products, early on. At the top executive level, we evaluate the results of the risk assessment of the supply chain and develop strategies for risk mitigation. In all this, we seek a relationship based on trust and pursue cooperation and constant dialog with our suppliers. This is more important than ever because of the BADER LWG certified group’s continuing global growth and the resulting increasingly more complex supply chains. So we see our suppliers as partners and vice versa. �50% of the contract tanners and suppliers of semi-finished products Bader Sustainability Report 2017 39 Partnering – Shared Responsibility Animal Welfare The BADER group only processes hides from domestic cattle. Due to particular North America has also adopted a multitude of laws and regulations for the protection demands on the properties of raw hides, we can rule out the processing of raw hides of of cattle that concern livestock farming, transport and slaughter. South Africa, as an wild animals that are listed in the Convention on International Trade in Endangered agricultural state, has shown in its Animal Welfare Strategic Implementation Plan Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES 1983). The size of a raw hide varies, depending (Department Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries 2015) that its animal protection laws on the breed, weight, and sex of the animal. On average, we process hides having a are incomplete and require a comprehensive update in order for the country to face finished leather size of 4.2 m2 that come exclusively from weaned, fully grown cattle. up to international competition. Our South African suppliers recognized this trend years ago and carry out production according to European and American standards. Long-term, sustainable economic growth is only possible if animal welfare aspects are taken into account. The basis of the present EU animal protection policy is the Employees responsible for procuring our raw hides regularly visit abattoirs and concept of the Five Freedoms of the Farm Animal Welfare Council (FAWC) (see livestock farms, keep internal check lists and document the animal welfare standards, Figure 21) which originated in the UK and that BADER is guided by. As the logical supplier activities, and developments of our suppliers. Animal welfare is a relevant consequence of our responsibility to society and the environment, respecting animal aspect in the supplier selection process and, in future, will become increasingly welfare throughout the supply chain back to the raw hide suppliers is an important important in the evaluation process of raw hide sources. prerequisite for mutual and sustainable actions. We are working on the implementation of animal welfare in our local purchasing We deliberately refuse raw materials from countries with insufficient controls and conditions and sustainability strategy. In addition, we participate in the LWG’s traceability, as well as a high risk of non-compliance with animal welfare. With our Animal Welfare Group and inform, discuss, and promote activities to improve animal focus on the main procurement markets of Australia, Europe, South Africa and North protection and welfare globally. America, we ensure that the cattle are bred, kept, transported, and slaughtered under the best possible conditions. European animal welfare laws are considered the most stringent in the world and Freedom from hunger and thirst strict regulatory controls guarantee the best possible compliance. Animal protection Freedom from discomfort is as national goal, embedded in the constitutional laws of the EU member states and livestock farming, transport, and cattle slaughtering are strictly regulated Freedom from pain, injury and disease by law. Australia, as one of the largest cattle raising nations of the world also has Freedom to express normal behaviors comprehensive laws and regulations concerning animal welfare and protection and Freedom from fear and stress implemented the Five Freedoms as a basis of all legal regulations for animal protection. Figure 21: Five Freedoms (FAWC 2012) Bader Sustainability Report 2017 40 Partnering – Shared Responsibility Product Safety and Traceability BADER, together with its customers and suppliers, is dedicated to working on product technical safety, environmental, social, and economic criteria. To constantly safeguard safety and traceability of materials used, in order to avoid and prevent health risks to this, we are motivating our suppliers for chemicals and purchased parts to enter into employees, customers, consumers, and the environment. agreements that cover chemicals, quality, and environmental safety. Concerning the quality of incoming goods, we carry out incoming goods controls at the sites. We develop innovative alternatives to substitute harmful with alternative substances. Our product safety officers at our sites worldwide ensure that risks in product Through our identification systems on every semi-finished and finished product, we development are identified, avoided or minimized, and controlled by process are in a position to trace the entire production process chain in our factories back development. In particular, they ensure that safety-related parameters such as flame to the raw material. The further traceability of hides is also becoming increasingly retardancy or emissions, at both BADER as well as their suppliers, are taken care of. In important as it influences animal welfare and animal husbandry, ethically correct and this context, since 2015, we name our product safety officers and deputies and query transparent sources, and the environment. Through complete documentation and them on our supplier side as well. In the meantime we have this information for all of marking we are able to assign the supplier to individual hides at any time during the our key chemical suppliers and 65% of the suppliers of direct materials. We also plan production process and to retrace the origin of the hides. We continually optimize our to introduce a product safety system. system of traceability by strategically steering trade relations, closely collaborating with our partners and keeping open communication with our suppliers. Via the International Material Data System (IMDS) of the automotive industry, we provide our customers with information on the materials used in the semifinished products and parts so they get a complete picture of the final product. Risk analysis of product and process developments This is accompanied by extensive random sampling and periodic checks of leather substances and emissions. Product safety system to ensure safety related parameters In the so-called BADER Black List that includes prohibited substances and those Data input into the IMDS subject to declaration, we list substances, materials, and material groups that must Black List of banned substances and safety agreements not be contained in any of the products or goods delivered to us. This list of banned substances builds on statutory regulations, customer requirements, and further Incoming goods controls requirements that we have defined for our suppliers. Where there are deviations, we need to decide in consultation with our customers and suppliers, whether these Marking systems substances can be used at all and whether substitutes are available that fulfill the Figure 22: Product safety and traceability at BADER Bader Sustainability Report 2017 41 Index of UN Principles and Goals BADER signed the United Nations Global Compact and has committed to enacting its principles concerning human rights, labor standards, environmental, and anti-corruption practices, as well as the sustainable development goals. The following table gives an overview of the progress made in the reporting period 2017. People Planet Partnering Product Index of UN Principles and Goals People UN Principles UN Goals Basis / Goals Activities and Results Principle 1: Social commitment The BADER group and the „Hans-Bader-Stiftung“ support research, employment, health, Support and respect human rights safety, and welfare of young and older people worldwide. Principle 2: Ensure fair working conditions BADER’s company and personnel management work proactively with the employee No complicity in human rights abuses representatives – including on collective agreements. Principle 3: Promote and maintain BADER is keen to keep employees and take on external workers. Uphold freedom of association and employment recognition of collective bargaining rights Promote health and safety BADER offers regular safety training and health programs and analyzes processes and safety equipment. Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and At all sites there are first responders and professionals for occupational safety who are compulsory labour trained regularly. Principle 5: For serious occupational accidents, there is a mandatory reporting procedure. Abolition of child labour A new launch has been planned for the ISO 45001 for health and occupational safety on Principle 6: one site. The conclusions are helpful for all our subsidiaries. Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Promote education and training BADER has a portfolio that offers a wide range of in-company education and advanced training – in 2017 the training ratio was 6.7% in Germany. Promote diversity and equality BADER promotes its employees equally, regardless of their age, level of education, of opportunity nationality, etc. – in 2017, the worldwide average age of employees was 37 years, the proportion of female employees worldwide was 47%, the proportion of foreign employees in Germany was 30% and the percentage of disabled employees in Germany was 2%. Bader Sustainability Report 2017 43 Index of UN Principles and Goals Planet UN Principles UN Goals Basis / Goals Activities and Results Principle 7: Holistic optimization of the use of BADER researches and develops its products and processes continuously, in order Support a precautionary approach to raw materials, chemicals, energy, to optimize the use of resources and the resulting emissions for water, soil and air – environmental challenges water, wastewater, solid waste, between 2010 and 2017 at our Ichenhausen tannery site and air emissions We used 7-8 kg raw material per m² leather We used 200-300 kg of chemicals per t of raw materials used (EU BAT: 425 kg) We reduced the energy-related performance by 40% We used 11-15 m³ of water per t of raw materials used (LWG: 14 m³, EU BAT: 30m³) We purified 10-14 m³ of wastewater per t of raw materials We recovered more than 98% of the resources used materially or thermally The carbon footprint of the BADER group amounts to 2-3 kg CO2e per m² leather, the VOC emissions amount to 9-23 g carbon per m² leather. Integrated Management System We are in the process of gradually introducing certification – at the end of 2017 we had with certifications based on 64% of our sites certified according to ISO 14001 different international standards 18% of our sites certified according to ISO 50001 that include ecology 57% of the leather manufacturing sites certified according to ECO2L that also have lower values than those specified in the BEET energy benchmark 57% of the leather manufacturing sites certified according to LWG, including 2x LWG Gold and 2x LWG Silver In 2018 we are planning further site certifications according to ISO 14001, LWG, and ECO2L. Bader Sustainability Report 2017 44 Index of UN Principles and Goals Partnering UN Principles Basis / Goals Activities and Results Principle 8: Establishing a more sustainable BADER promotes sustainability in its business worldwide with more than 60 suppliers of Undertake initiatives to promote supply chain raw materials and semi-finished products and 1,800 suppliers for all other materials by: greater environmental responsibility Defining basic principles of conduct in our Code of Conduct for our Business Partners Defining our supply chain strategy as part of the Terms and Conditions of Purchase, contracts, and agreements Assessing risks in the supply chain and developing strategies for risk mitigation Conducting regular supplier evaluations and on-site visits Between 2012 and 2017, more than half of our raw material and semi-finished product suppliers introduced the LWG certification and an additional 15% are to follow in 2018. Animal Welfare BADER deliberately refuses raw materials from countries with insufficient controls and traceability, as well as a high risk of non-compliance with animal welfare laws. BADER employees responsible for procuring our raw materials regularly visit abattoirs and livestock farms where they keep internal check lists and document the animal welfare standards, supplier activities, and developments. We incorporate animal welfare aspects when selecting our raw hide suppliers. In future, this will become increasingly important in the evaluation process of raw hide sources. Product safety and traceability BADER is dedicated to product safety and traceability through: of materials used Notifications about the product safety officers of our sites to our customers and inquiries to our suppliers – at the end of 2017, we had this information for all key chemical suppliers and 65% of the suppliers of direct materials Use of the „BADER – Black List”, a list of banned substances Entering the materials employed in the IMDS Tracking of the semi-finished and finished products back to their raw materials – R&D projects are currently underway to further traceability back to the livestock owner Bader Sustainability Report 2017 45 Index of UN Principles and Goals Product UN Principles UN Goals Basis / Goals Activities and Results Principle 9: R&D initiatives and technology BADER is always looking for new ways to achieve a high-value material use of raw Develop and diffuse environmentally transfer hides and now markets many co-products such as split leather, gelatin, LEFA, collagen, friendly technologies fertilizer, and Kollamat®. BADER develops more sustainable products and processes at individual sites and, after Principle 10: successful testing, gradually implements them worldwide – at the end of 2017, 27% Work against corruption of our projects were motivated by sustainability aspects beyond technical-economic aspects. Integrated Management System Supporting with certifications based on 100% of our sites are certified according to ISO 9001 / ISO/TS 16949 or are in the different international standards implementation phase that include products 10% of our sites are certified according to ISO 17025 Commit to legal and fair Implementation and control through our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, competitive behavior integrated management system, management reviews, training, and supplier meetings and audits. There were and are no legal proceedings pending against BADER. No penalties were imposed, nor have any been threatened or are to be expected. Dealing with complaints Any party affected can contact our complaints office, supervisors, or employee representatives. Bader Sustainability Report 2017 46 References BADER (2018) Certificates. http://bader-leather.com/zertifikate EU (2013) Commission Implementing Decision of 11 February 2013 establishing BADER (2017a) Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of BADER Group. the best available techniques (BAT) conclusions under Directive 2010/75/EU http://bader-leather.com/files/bader_csr_policy_en.pdf of the European Parliament and of the Council on industrial emissions for the BADER (2017b) Code of Conduct for BADER Group’s Business Partners. tanning of hides and skins. 2013/84/EU. http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/ http://bader-leather.com/files/bader_code_of_conduct_for_business_ EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv:OJ.L_.2013.045.01.0013.01.ENG partners_en_1.pdf EU (2010) Directive 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of BADER (2016) The Quality, Environmental and Energy Policy of Bader Group. 24 November 2010 on industrial emissions (integrated pollution prevention and http://bader-leather.com/files/qm-em-energy-policy-2016-en.pdf control). https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX: BADER (2015a) Competence Centre Sustainability Statement – Environment – 32010L0075&from=DE History-Highlights. FAWC (2012) Five Freedoms. http://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/ http://bader-leather.com/files/history_highlights_environment_2015.pdf 20121010012427/http://www.fawc.org.uk/freedoms.htm BADER (2015b) Competence Centre Sustainability Statement – Sustainability in LWG (2018) LWG Environmental Audit Protocol Responses Report. Issue 6.5.3. leatherproduction, life cycle assessment methods, certifications and labeling. https://www.leatherworkinggroup.com/how-we-work/audit-protocols/mainhttp://bader-leather.com/files/statement-sustainability_2013_2015.pdf protocol BADER (2012) GTCs. http://bader-leather.com/en/gtcs Umweltbundesamt (2003) Integrierte Vermeidung und Verminderung der BADER (2011) Biologische Stickstoff-Elimination – bei gleichzeitiger biologischer Umweltverschmutzung (IVU) Referenzdokument über die Besten Verfügbaren Sulfidoxidation: ein Bericht nach etwa 13 Jahren Betriebserfahrung. Techniken für die Lederindustrie. Pressemitteilung. https://www.umweltbundesamt.de/sites/default/files/medien/2503/dokumente/ http://bader-leather.com/files/2011_10_biologische_stickstoff_elimination.pdf bvt_lederindustrie_vv.pdf CADS (2018) The Guide for Leather Manufacturers – Recommendations for the UN (2018) Transforming Our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. avoidance of chromium(VI) formation. https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/content/documents/21252030%20 https://www.cads-shoes.com/en/shop Agenda%20for%20Sustainable%20Development%20web.pdf CITES (1983) Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild UN Global Compact (2018) The World’s Largest Corporate Sustainability Initiative. Fauna and Flora. Amended in Gaborone on 30 April 1983. https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc https://www.cites.org/eng/disc/text.php UNIDO (2012) Life Cycle Assessment, Carbon Footprint in Leather Processing: Department Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (2015) Animal Welfare Strategic Review of Methodologies and Recommendations for Harmonization. Implementation Plan to the Veterinary Strategy. https://leatherpanel.org/sites/default/files/publications-attachments/lca_ http://www.nda.agric.za/docs/media/Animal%20Welfare%20Strategic%20 carbonfootprint_lpm2012.pdf IMPLEMENTATION%20PLAN%20TO%20THE%20VET%20STRATEGY%2030%20 VDL (2013) Handbook. 6%202015.pdf http://www.eco2l-leather.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/01/ECO2L-Leitfaden. Elkington J (1994) Towards the Sustainable Corporation: Win–Win–Win Business Handbook-complete-1-2013_GB1.pdf Strategies for Sustainable Development. California Management Review 36 (2): 90 100. Bader Sustainability Report 2017 47 Abbreviations BAT IMDS Best Available Technique International Material Data System BEET LEFA Best Energy Efficiency for Tanning Leather Fiber (German: Lederfaser) CCS LWG Competence Center Sustainability Leather Working Group CITES RRC Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora Reverse Roll Coating CO2e SDG CO2 equivalents Sustainable Development Goals CSR SRC Corporate Social Responsibility Syncro Roll Coating ECO2L UN Energy Controlled Leather United Nations FAWC UNIDO Farm Animal Welfare Council United Nations Industrial Development Organization HVLP VDL High Volume Low Pressure German Leather Federation (German: Verband der Deutschen Lederindustrie) IED VOC Industrial Emissions Directive Volatile Organic Compounds Bader Sustainability Report 2017 48 Legal Notice and Contact Published by: Contact: BADER GmbH & Co. KG (BADER Goup) Project Manager Sustainability Metzgerstrasse 32-34 Dr. Ramona Rieckhof D-73033 Göppingen CCS-100@bader-leather.com Phone: +49 7161-6728-0 Phone: +49 7161-6728-427 Additional information on BADER and its commitment to sustainability is available here: www.bader-leather.com
