From grain... ...to glass 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements BREWED BY US WITH PRIDE WINNER, 2017 MONDE SELECTION, GOLD AWARD EXCESSIVE ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION IS HARMFUL TO YOUR HEALTH. STRICTLY NOT FOR SALE TO PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS. 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements EABL in 2018 EABL in 2018 East African Breweries Limited (EABL) is a regional leader in beverage alcohol with an exceptional collection of brands across beer and spirits. Although our business is concentrated in three core markets of Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania, our products are sold in more than 10 countries across Africa and beyond. Our brands are an outstanding combination of local jewels and international premium spirits. These include: Tusker, Guinness, Bell Lager, Serengeti Lager, Kenya Cane, Uganda Waragi, Smirnoff XI and Johnnie Walker. Our performance ambition is to be the best performing, most trusted and respected consumer products companies in Africa. We are proud of the brands we make and the positive impact they have on society. We are passionate about alcohol playing a positive role in society as part of a balanced lifestyle. Cover image: A graphic representation of EABL’s grain-to-glass story, representing our robust socio-economic value chain benefitting millions of people across East Africa. This is the EABL Annual Report 2018 for the year ended 30th June 2018. The Annual Report is made available to all shareholders on EABL’s website (www.eabl.com). This Report is themed around our Growing Value Together story, through which we continue to transform people’s livelihoods through direct and indirect employment and touching millions of lives through our sustainability initiatives in East African communities. As we approach our centenary, this is an enormous opportunity, which we will leverage to safeguard the future of our business in the next 100 years, while helping to address some of the biggest contemporary challenges our society and environment faces today including harmful drinking, climate change, women’s empowerment and water scarcity. Table of contents Our Business Model 04 Driving EABL’s Sustainability 05 Our Strategy 06 Financial Highlights 07 Executive Summary 08 Chairman’s Statement 12 Group Managing Director’s Statement 16 Sustainability 20 Brands 36 Innovation 52 Consumer Focus 56 People and Culture 59 Compliance and Ethics 68 Board of Directors 72 EABL Senior Management 76 Notice of Annual General Meeting 77 Corporate Governance Statement 80 Financial Statements 87 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 3 Our business model 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Our business model EABL is a regional leader in beverage alcohol with iconic brands EABL is structured into a market-based business model, across beer and spirits. Our heritage since 1922 has enabled us applying country-specific strategies to meet consumer needs. Our understand consumers across the region, adopting world-class business model enables us to identify and act on consumer trends marketing and innovation skills to build powerful brands that play early. East Africa’s vibrant beverage alcohol market has supported a positive role in society. delivery of sustainable performance over the years. ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Key Highlights 2 million The number of people 30+ Brands (beer and spirits) 1% GDP contribution 5 Production sites 1600 No. of employees positively impacted by EABL Our footprint in East Africa Our market footprint spans six countries in the larger East Africa region. EABL provides direct employment to over 1600 and indirect employment to over 2 million East Africans. As an international company, we work with our trade partners and communities to ensure that we are building sustainable practices and livelihoods. 4 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Numbers at a glance Driving EABL’s sustainability 60,000 Number of farmers recruited by EABL to supply raw materials Kshs 54 billion 240,000 EABL annual contribution to the Exchequer across East Africa Number of people employed in EABL’s farming community KSH +27,000 Kshs 1.5 billion Number of retailers trained in Amount of money paid to responsible drinking practices sorghum farmers by EABL in 2018 5 million 12Volumes million EUs Number of people benefitting produced by from EABL’s water projects EABL across East Africa GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 5 5 Our strategy 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Our strategy EABL’s growth is underpinned by a relatively stable macroOur strategy is also anchored on supporting premiumisation economic growth and changing demographics that continue to and increase our spirits participation through categories that give support population and income growth across our marketplace. us access to the growing middle-class consumer and in segments This is further characterised by changing consumer repertoires in where international premium spirits is an emerging category. segments such as international premium spirits, where we aim to Our broad portfolio means we have leading positions across grow our participation. many of our markets, enabling us to serve consumer occasions Our strategic priority is to offer a variety of beers and spirits at with our brands, across price points. In the markets we operate, we different price points to suit the pockets of the different economic do so in a responsible and sustainable way. levels of our customers. We also seek to shape responsible drinking trends in the market and to position alcohol as playing a positive role in the society. AMBITION To create the best performing, most trusted and respected consumer products company in Africa. STRATEGIC IMPERATIVES Vibrant Mainstream Beer Explode Mainstream Spirits Win in Premium Total Beverage Alcohol Return Guinness and our local Unlock and serve consumer Transform penetration and share power brands to sustainable needs through aspirational by disrupting and shaping the Value Recruitment Grow TBA and extend our long term growth. and affordable portfolio. future of premium segment. share through differentiated accessible and viable offering. KEY ENABLERS Aspirational and Accessible Innovations. Route to Consumer Stakeholder Relationships Supply Footprint Productivity Competitive coverage that Respected partner in community Guarantee supply through Culture of ruthless monitoring drives market share gains shaping industry tax and regulation an advantaged but fit for and evaluation and investment across the 4 imperatives. to drive full portfolio growth. purpose value chain. allocation to drive out cost and make every shilling worth more. Guaranteed through our people • Strategic imperatives and enablers are swiftly and fully resourced • Employer of choice with leading diversity and local talent agenda • Simple, agile and externally oriented organization • Significantly up-weighted commercial capabilities 6 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Financial highlights Financial highlights Revenue contribution +5% Overall revenue growth by country (Kshs billion) Revenue contribution Revenue growth contribution -----------11% -----------2.1 12% 1.0 -----------1.7 -----------11% 0.5 16% 1.4 ----------------------73.5 77% 70.2 73% Kenya Uganda Tanzania 2017 Bottled beer Spirits Senator Uganda Tanzania 2018 Kenya Revenue growth by category (Kshs billion) Profit before interest and tax (Kshs billion) ---------------------------------0.4 +5% 0.4 0.2 ---------------------------------0.3 -----------2.0 1.6 -----------17.1 -----------2 -----------16.5 73.5 15.1 70.2 2017 Kenya Uganda Tanzania 2018 Tax 2018 2017 Beer Spirits Ready To 2018 underlying Provision Drink (RTD) Capital expenditure (Kshs billion) Earnings Per Share (EPS)/Dividends Per Share (DPS) Kshs 7.5 7.5 DPS 12.0 7.5 13.0 7.19 6.8 4.9 5.0 5.7 9.71 EPS 12.20 8.22 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 2017 2016 2015 Operating cash conversion *Operating cash conversion 117% 104% 2018 2017 *Operating cash conversion – assesses the efficiency of the company to turn the Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation (EBITDA) into cash GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 7 Executive summary 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Executive Summary Walking the talk: Our sustainability journey A s far as corporate sustainability in our larger Grain to Glass value chain. goes, the sobering reality about This value chain encompasses every the critical need to secure our aspect of the process that contributes future business and posterity of to the end-of-line consumable product, the societies where we operate has never from the time we get the raw material been more real. With global and regional to the bottling and distribution of our economies becoming ever more intricate, products. interconnected and efficient, there are • Alongside that are a set of increasing risks to organisations due to the programmes in water and education, 80% rapid propagation of disruptive events. complementing government and other peer organisations’ efforts to provide East African Breweries Limited (EABL) is basic needs. Raw materials sourced locally increasingly alive to the exigencies of the new world, bringing to the fore the need to adopt fresh ways to operate across our business from sourcing to production and distribution. At the outset, we cannot deliver on our sustainability goals without knowing the size of and impact on our business footprint across East Africa. And we cannot tell the impact if we cannot measure it. That is why in the last decade alone, we have established the EABL Foundation, investing heavily in deliberate sustainability areas and tracking how we ZERO are progressing against set goals. EABL Group MD Andrew Cowan joins a farmer as he prepares his farm for the planting of sorghum HARM SAFETY Our clear and robust sustainability • Reducing Environmental agenda is anchored on three key pillars, Impact remains at the core of underpinning the spirit of our existence operational behaviour, relating to Programme designed to ensure all since 1922 and our determination to drive both our production processes and employees go home safe everyday a sustainable business for the next century. the way we source and distribute. This • Our Alcohol in Society agenda has increasingly made our products has presented a broad, solid platform and business operations more to create and demonstrate the positive environmentally sustainable. role alcohol plays in the society. With partnerships and programmes such Aligning Our sustainability with Sustainable as Under-18 Asipewe and Utado? in Development Goals (SDGs) Kenya, the Red Card campaign in At EABL, we strongly believe in working Uganda and Don’t Drink and Drive in with communities, recognising the Tanzania, we have taken leadership in essence of stakeholder engagement and educating and empowering consumers ensuring projects’ sustainability. and retailers not only on the dangers of We can only prosper in an all-inclusive irresponsible drinking but also on how environment, where our stakeholders to enjoy alcohol in moderation. – farmers, communities, suppliers, employees and customers – walk along • EABL is Building Thriving the sustainability journey with us. Communities, equipping people, 60,000 To achieve this, we have integrated particularly women and youth, with seven UN Sustainable Development Goals requisite skills and resources to build a (SDGs) into our business model cognisant better future for themselves. The more of the critical role we play in improving the Small-scale farmers guaranteed than 60,000 mainly small-scale who well-being of the society. These are not just sorghum market have a guaranteed market for their a set of goals implemented for conformity: sorghum are part of the estimated we have incorporated them in our business 240,000 direct and indirect beneficiaries model because their delivery can only lead 8 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Executive summary As water is the key ingredient in all of our products, SDG 6, on Clean Water and Sanitation, is extremely critical. The growing scarcity of fresh water sources is not just an issue for manufacturers like EABL; it is a major risk to the sustainability of economic, social and environmental systems in areas where we all live and work. We are committed to minimise our water use throughout our value chain. Our water sustainability efforts through the Water for Life programme have touched over 5 million people. In line with SDG 8 on Decent Work and Economic Growth, EABL’s value chain supports over 2 million people. EABL directly employs over 1,600 East Africans and remains a significant taxpayer in the region, contributing KShs 54 billion in taxes to the countries in the region. In support of SDG 12 on Responsible Consumption and Production, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has set a target of reducing alcohol-related harm by 10% across the world by the year 2025. EABL supports this goal through promotion of responsible drinking programmes and campaigns, taking an active role in educating and empowering alcohol consumers about drinking in moderation. to a better world, guaranteeing our future to grow sorghum and millet to meet their as a business. Our strategy focuses on the household needs and thereafter sell the entire value chain, ‘From Grain to Glass’. surplus to increase their income. EABL supports SDG 3, which seeks What does this alignment mean? to ensure Good Health and Well-Being At the core of our business operations through our Zero Harm programme, is the adaptation of seven SDGs. EABL, through a robust Local Raw Material (LRM) designed to ensure that all employees go “Local sourcing home safe every day, and is based on four agenda, supports SDG 1 on No poverty by providing a ready market to small holder pillars – prevention, culture, compliance is a key business and capability. farmers in Arid and Semi-Arid Land (ASAL) areas who grow sorghum and millet. As a business, we have invested heavily priority because of Local sourcing is a key business priority in human development, especially along our sorghum and barley value chain. the shared value because of the shared value it brings to local communities and the economy. We Additionally, to support SDG 4 on Quality Education, EABL Foundation’s Skills for it brings to local are currently working with over 60,000 sorghum farmers across the country, who Life has changed the lives of underprivileged yet academically gifted youth communities and earn a combined total of over Kshs1.5 billion annually. We are also sourcing 80% in Kenya. So far, we have given over 250 scholarships to bright students, enabling the economy.” of raw materials locally and aim to scale them to get university education. The rural this up to 100% by 2020. education needs are also augmented by Through the Jilishe, Kisha Uuze initiative, the multi-billion shilling trade created by we support SDG 2, which is aimed at our sorghum market, especially in arid and eradicating hunger. Our engagement semi-arid areas, furthering our support for with small-scale farmers is focused on two SDG 4. important aspects – encouraging them GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 9 Executive summary 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Environment First As water and energy are important utilities in any production process, their use in our that is geared towards ensuring that our employees are our environment “Our aim is to production sites across thre East African region are keenly measured and aligned to ambassadors. EABL invests part of its profits in the return 100% of our performance indicators. EABL has made significant strides in communities by providing access to safe drinking water. EABL is also involved in waste water from promoting water efficiency, and last year we invested millions of shillings in ultraprogrammes on environmetal education and awareness. our operations modern water treatment systems. Our aim is to return 100% of wastewater from our Our efforts at reducing environmental back to the operations back to the environment safely. impact are also supported by initiatives that promote environmental conservation. environment We are finding new and better ways to reduce, reuse, return and recycle. As So far, we have planted and nurtured over one million tree seedlings, with an 85% safely.” part of this process, we have introduced success rate. an environmental awareness campaign 10 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 11 Chairman’s message 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Chairman’s Message “Our business delivered these strong results through dedicated focus which was supported by the Management and Staff.” O Overview ur business at East African spending ability. The business showed an Breweries Limited (EABL) has unwavering focus on driving the long term concluded yet another financial as we continued to invest in our brands year on a positive note. In the and meeting consumers’ ever-changing year to 30 June 2018, we recorded growth preferences with the right propositions in Net Sales and Gross Profit and introduced through our innovations. Some of these more discipline that has ensured greater innovations included Tusker Cider in Kenya, cost efficiency across our operations. Serengeti Lite in Tanzania and Uganda Our innovations agenda delivered new Waragi Coconut and Pineapple in Uganda. vibrancy to the market and new consumers In light of the above, I am pleased to to the business. report a strong performance in the year We commissioned the construction of delivering a growth of 5% in Net Sales and a new brewery in Kisumu and in tandem 4% in Profit from operations excluding the with that commenced our “Grain to tax provision. These results demonstrate Glass” awareness campaign recruiting once again the strength of our brands and thousands of farmers and retailers to people; to deliver a resilient performance in support the activities of the new brewery the first half of the year and a turnaround once operational. Our business in Tanzania in the second half when the economies recorded an impressive trajectory, reporting showed improvement. significant double-digit growth in sales and ‘’Our business delivered these strong profitability. All in all, the business has a lot results through dedicated focus which to celebrate about. was supported by the Management and The just-ended financial year was not Staff and driven towards execution of our without challenges and the performance strategic imperatives. These imperatives for the period should be regarded with were aimed at addressing our total the following considerations. During the brand portfolio and were underpinned first half of the financial year, we witnessed by our ambition of becoming the best protracted electioneering period in Kenya, performing, most trusted and respected which not only slowed down economic consumer products Company in Africa, activity in the country and negatively while generating shareholder value.‘’ impacted the affordability of our products, but also had a knock-on impact on both Strategic focus Uganda and Rwanda whose access to sea EABL has remained unwaveringly on is through Kenya. course with its strategy focused on our key We also experienced the negative imperatives aimed at being the preferred effect of drought-related inflation consumer choice for Total Beverage Alcohol particularly in the first half of the (TBA) in a sustainable way while growing financial year, which increased the shareholder value in line with the changing costs of our inputs considerably. consumer trends across the region. In addition, the shrinking privateWe continued to optimise our balance sector lending contributed to sheet by shedding non-core assets to restrained consumer purchasing. create headroom for our investment After a slow start to the year, ambitions including the expansion of the the business delivered improved Tusker Brewery Nairobi in the beer plant, performance in the second a new plant in Kisumu and installed new half supported by economic spirits lines in both Kenya and Uganda. fundamentals like investments Our investment in the Kisumu in infrastructure, construction production plant this year is supporting our and recovery in consumer strategic agenda of providing a healthy and 12 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Chairman’s message accessible alternative to illicit propositions Board changes while supporting the community through During the financial year, we bid farewell our ‘Grain to Glass’ strategy. to Mr. Nehemiah Mchechu, who resigned Tax Policy and Regulatory Environment from the Board to concentrate on other endeavours. After the financial year end, We faced a number of excise increases in the region which required our judgment on whether to absorb them in our margins or Mr. Jimmy Mugerwa joined the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director, to 5% replace Dr. Alan Shonubi who retired from Growth in net sales to pass them on to consumers. During the the Board after serving for a cumulative year, there was an excise increase in Spirits period of 9 years. and reduction in remission on Senator in Kenya which we passed to the consumers, The Board and I welcome Mr. Jimmy inflationary increase in Tanzania that we Mugerwa and look forward to his absorbed and in Uganda there were contribution and participation. We also changes in excise which we absorbed in thank Mr. Mchechu and Dr. Shonubi for part and passed on the rest. their commitment to the Company, their invaluable contribution to the Board’s Sustainability deliberations and the Company’s success. As a business we have sustainability at the We wish them all the best in their future core of our operations and the communities endeavours. we operate in. We have endeavoured to Outlook align our business with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). During the year, EABL delivered performance through our rich portfolio of Through our 2020 sustainability and brands coupled with the concerted effort responsibility target pillars we have and dynamism of all the management initiatives driven at promoting a positive role of alcohol in society, building and staff. Our continued focus on the key 15,000 principles that have been the solid bedrock New farmers contracted to thriving communities and reducing our supply our Kisumu brewery of the Company investing in our brands environmental impact. while securing this with robust talent and We are very proud to welcome the new keeping our shareholder value at the core 15,000 farmers contracted to supply our of it all. Kisumu brewery into our ever-expanding Looking ahead, there is reason for value chain. These farmers will help us guarded optimism informed by the realise our vison: to support in delivering improving consumer spending-power over 100,000 jobs to the communities and the enhanced political stability in across the Western Kenya region. key markets in the region. The private Corporate Governance sector hinges its expectations for the East African Breweries Limited is committed next 12 months on the prospects of to the highest standards of Corporate stable macroeconomic environment, Governance and ethics. In order to ensure favourable weather conditions, improved adherence to good governance and best business environment and investor practice, the Company has embedded confidence, continued public investment internal policies and guidelines to guide in infrastructure and political stability. This activities involving our key stakeholders, bodes well for the coming years. namely employees, customers, suppliers, Appreciation competitors, government and the community. On behalf of the Board of Directors, I would +100,000 like to recognise our customers, consumers, Potential jobs across the During the year, the Company business partners and the Government Western Kenya region commissioned a rigorous Governance for your continued support. We also wish Audit, in a bid to continue supporting the to thank our management and staff for visibility of our Corporate Governance their commitment to the business and to agenda and to comply with the delivering the strategy. requirements of the Code of Corporate I would also like to sincerely thank Governance promulgated by the Capital my fellow EABL Board members for Market Authority. You will also notice their counsel, support and dedication that we have, for the first time, included throughout the year and for delivering a a Directors’ Remuneration Report in strong Corporate Governance environment. compliance with the new requirements under the Companies Act. Charles Muchene Group Chairman GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 13 Taarifa ya Mwenyekiti 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Ujumbe wa Mwenyekiti “Biashara yetu imekuwa na matokeo thabiti kupitia kujitolea kwetu kulikosaidiwa na usimamizi na wafanyikazi.” Maelezo ya jumla Biashara yetu katika kampuni ya East tulizoshughulikia ni Tusker Cider nchini African Breweries (EABL) imefanya vyema Kenya, Serengeti Lite huko Tanzania na katika mwaka wa kifedha ulioisha. Katika Uganda, Waragi Coconut na Pineapple mwaka uliomalizika tarehe 30 Juni, 2018 nchini Uganda. tulikuwa na ongezeko la mauzo na faida Kufuatia hayo nina furaha ya kutangaza pamoja na ongezeko la nidhamu katika ukuaji wa 5% katika mauzo na ukuaji kudhibiti gharama za shughuli zetu. wa 4% katika faida kabla ya matozo ya Ajenda yetu ya ubunifu ilileta msisimko ushuru. Matokeo hayo yanadhihirisha mpya katika soko na wateja wapya katika uimara wa bidhaa zetu na uwezo wa watu biashara. (wafanyikazi) wetu. Tulianzisha ujenzi wa kiwanda kipya cha “Biashara yetu imekuwa na matokeo bia mjini Kisumu sambamba na kampeini thabiti kupitia kujitolea kwetu kulikosaidiwa yetu ya ‘kutoka kwa nafaka hadi katika na usimamizi na wafanyikazi pamoja na glasi au ukipenda kutoka shambani hadi utekelezaji wa mikakati yetu. Mikakati hiyo kiwandani’ ambayo ilisajili maelfu ya inalenga azimio letu la kuwa kampuni wakulima na wafanyibiashara wa rejareja yenye utendaji bora, inayoaminika na kusaidia shughuli za kiwanda kipya pindi kuheshimiwa kuhusiana na bidhaa zake kitakapoanza shughuli zake. Biashara yetu kwa wateja barani Afrika huku ikiongeza nchini Tanzania ilikuwa ni ya kuridhisha thamani ya mwenyehisa.” kwani kumekuwa na ukuaji wa mauzo na faida. Kwa ujumla kuna mengi ya kufurahia Mtazamo wa kimkakati kuhusu biashara hii. EABL imeendelea kutoyumba katika Mwaka wa kifedha ulioisha haukukosa mkakati wetu unaolenga kuwa chaguo changamoto. Katika nusu ya kwanza ya la mteja kuhusiana na kinywaji cha mwaka huo tulishuhudia kipindi kirefu pombe(TBA) katika hali endelevu huku cha uchaguzi nchini Kenya ambacho ikiongeza thamani ya mwenyehisa hakikupunguza tu kasi ya ukuaji wa sambamba na mabadiliko ya mienendo ya uchumi wa Kenya bali pia kilikuwa na mteja katika kanda hii. athari katika nchi za Uganda na Rwanda Tuliendelea kuimarisha waraka mizania ambazo shughuli zao baharini ni kupitia yetu kwa kuachana na mali tunazomiliki Kenya. zisizokuwa za kimsingi ili kutoa fursa ya Pia tulishuhudia mfumuko wa bei kuimarisha uwekezaji wetu ukiwemo uliohusiana na ukame hasa katika nusu ya upanuzi wa kiwanda cha bia cha Nairobi, kwanza ya mwaka wa kifedha, hali ambayo kuanzisha kiwanda kipya Kisumu na iliongeza gharama za malighafi zetu. Vile kuanzisha uzalishaji upya wa mivinyo vile kupungua kwa mikopo kuliathiri Kenya na Uganda. uwezo wa ununuzi wa mteja. Uwekezaji wetu katika kiwanda cha Katika nusu ya pili ya mwaka wa uzalishaji cha Kisumu mwaka huu unaunga kifedha, biashara iliimarika. Hali hiyo mkono ajenda yetu ya kimkakati ya kuwa ilichangiwa na kuwepo kwa misingi mbadala wa uzalishaji wa pombe haramu ya kiuchumi kama muundomsingi, kupitia kampeini ya kuijali jamii ya “ kutoka ujenzi na kuimarika kwa uwezo kwa nafaka hadi kwa glasi” au ukipenda wa mteja katika ununuzi. Kupitia kutoka kwa shamba hadi kiwandani. ubunifu wetu kuhusu bidhaa tofauti, tuliendelea kuwekeza na kuafikia matakwa ya Sera ya ushuru na mazingira ya udhibiti wateja yanayobadilika mara Kumekuwa na ongezeko la kodi tofauti kwa mara. Baadhi ya bidhaa katika kanda hii ambazo zilihitajia 14 14 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Taarifa ya Mwenyekiti tuamue kama mzigo huo tuuchukue au utendaji na alichukua nafasi ya Dkt. Alan tumsukumie mteja. Katika mwaka huo wa Shonubi ambaye alistaafu kutoka kwa kifedha kulikuwa na ongezeko la ushuru Bodi baada ya kuhudumu kwa miaka 9 wa mivinyo na kupungua kwa malipo mfululizo. ya Senator nchini Kenya ambapo mzigo Bodi pamoja na mimi tunamkaribisha tulimuachia mteja, mfumuko wa bei Tanzania tulibeba athari zake na nchini Jimmy Mugerwa na tunasubiri mchango na ushirikiano wake. Pia tunawashukuru 5% Uganda kulikuwa na mabadiliko ya kodi ongezeko la uuzaji mabwana Mchechu na Shonubi kwa ambayo baadhi tulibeba mzigo lakini kujitolea kwao katika kampuni hii, mengine tulisukuma kwa mteja. mchango wao wenye thamani kubwa kwa utenda kazi wa bodi na ufanisi wa Uhimili kampuni. Tunawatakia kila la heri katika Kama biashara tuna uhimili katika shughuli zao za usoni. msingi wa shughuli zetu na katika jamii tunazohudumu. Tumeazimia kuifanya Mtazamo biashara yetu iendane na malengo ya Katika mwaka huo wa kifedha, EABL maendeleo endelevu ya Umoja wa Mataifa imekuwa na matokeo bora na tukisonga (SDG). mbele kuna matumaini ya ufanisi zaidi Kupitia nguzo za uhimili na uwajibikaji kufuatia kuimarika kwa uwezo wa mteja tunazolenga kufikia mwaka wa 2020 wa kununua bidhaa tofauti na utulivu wa tumeanzisha harakati ambazo zitaangazia kisiasa katika masoko makuu ya kanda hii. faida ya pombe katika jamii, kujenga jamii bora na kupunguza athari zetu katika mazingira. Shukrani 15,000 Wakulima wanaokuza mtama wa Kwa niaba ya Bodi ya Wakurugenzi, Tuna furaha sana kuwakaribisha kutumika katika kiwanda cha Kisumu ningependa kuwatambua wateja wetu, wakulima wapya elfu 15 waliopewa watumizi wa bidhaa zetu, wabia wa kandarasi ya kuwasilisha mazao yao katika kibiashara na serikali kwa kuendelea kiwanda cha Kisumu . Wakulima hao kutuunga mkono. watatusaidia kutimiza dira yetu: kusaidia Pia tungependa kushukuru wasimamizi katika kutoa zaidi ya nafasi 100,000 za ajira na wafanyikazi wetu kwa kujitolea katika kwa jamii zilizoko eneo la magharibi mwa biashara hii na kutimiza malengo ya Kenya. mkakati wetu. Vile vile ningependa kutoa shukrani Usimamizi wa Shirika zangu za dhati kwa wanachama wenzangu Kampuni ya East African Breweries wa Bodi ya EABL kwa nasaha yao, usaidizi imejitolea katika kuhakikisha inadumisha wao na kujitolea kwao katika kipindi chote viwango vya juu vya maadili ya usimamizi cha mwaka mzima na kuweka mazingira wa shirika. Katika kufanikisha hilo, kampuni imetoa sera na miongozo ya utekelezaji thabiti ya usimamizi wa kampuni. +100,000 wa shughuli zinazohusisha wadau Kazi zinazotarajiwa kubuniwa wetu muhimu wakiwemo wafanyikazi, katika magharibi mwa Kenya wateja,wawasilishaji wa bidhaa, Charles Muchene washindani, serikali na jamii. Mwenyekiti wa Kampuni Katika mwaka huo wa kifedha tulifanya ukaguzi wa usimamizi wa kampuni katika kutimiza matakwa ya sheria kuhusu usimamizi wa shirika iliyoanzishwa na mamlaka ya masoko ya mtaji. Pia utaona kwamba tumejumuisha ripoti ya malipo ya wakurugenzi katika kutimiza matakwa mapya ya sheria kuhusu kampuni. Mabadiliko katika Bodi Katika mwaka huo wa kifedha, tulimuaga Bwana Nehemiah Mchechu ambaye alijiuzulu kutoka kwa Bodi ili aendelee na shughuli zake binafsi. Baada ya mwaka huo kuisha Bwana Jimmy Mugerwa alijiunga na Bodi kama mkurugenzi huru asiyekuwa na GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 15 Managing Director’s message 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Group Managing Director’s Message “Our momentum in innovations has fueled further growth and reaffirmed our ability to tap into existing and emerging trends to delight our consumers.” Overview A t EABL, we have a performance brands with marketing spend up 19%, ambition to create the best ahead of net sales growth to rejuvenate performing, most trusted and bottled beer, drive innovation and improve respected consumer company Senator keg’s performance. in Africa. This year we have pursued this Full-year profit from operations was up ambition with even greater commitment 4% excluding the impact of provisions; to deliver solid growth despite a while profit after tax declined 15%. challenging operating environment, Overall strong underlying performance mainly occasioned by the political with robust cash flow delivery ensured uncertainty in Kenya and a competitive the necessary funding for the higher trading environment in Uganda and investment in the period. Tanzania. A combination of strategic and EABL’s category and geographical spread operational initiatives have enabled the allowed us to leverage opportunities business deliver strong year-on-year across our operations to offset decline in standout performance mainly driven segments facing significant headwinds. by the positive turnaround of bottled Our momentum in innovation has fueled beer at 9% and a resilient Scotch whisky further growth and reaffirmed our ability performance registering 4% growth. to tap into existing and emerging trends At EABL, we are keen to leverage this to delight our consumers. In turn, we performance momentum in bottled took advantage of our topline growth beer (whose growth was mainly driven to scale up investment behind our local by Serengeti Premium Lager and new jewels, amplify consumers’ reach of Serengeti Lite in Tanzania, Balozi in Kenya our international brands and stimulate and Guinness across the region). Marketing momentum of our innovations. and innovations across the region should help extend Scotch and other spirits Performance categories’ growth this year. To sustain future growth momentum, we Mainstream spirits maintained the 5-year deliberately underwrote our performance growth trajectory, with sales expanding ambition through a step change in by 23%, mainly driven by Kane Extra and investment, growing our revenues by Chrome Vodka in Kenya as well as Uganda 5%. Our capital-expenditure efforts Waragi and Bond 7 in Uganda. have supported the results with During the year, Senator was negatively Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania impacted by the 20% excise-led price growing at 1%, 4% and 41% increase, and performance was aggravated respectively and established by a partial production shutdown to a solid foundation to harness expand capacity coupled with political our growth agenda in the instability which depressed demand. future. Despite Senator’s subdued first-half EABL’s gross margin performance, improved capacity and improved by 4% as relative political calm in the second half productivity savings and of the year have helped boost the brand’s positive mix more than performance which stood at -13% on the offset inflation on cost of financial year. sales. We continued to invest behind our 16 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Managing Director’s message Strategic and operational highlights employment, but also boost their incomes To drive our EABL 2022 Strategy, we have and grow agriculture and our economy. continued to make robust investment Further, responsibly managing our across all areas of our business. During the environmental impact continues to be year, we spent Kshs 13 billion in capital a high priority for us. This year we have expenditure, and besides the Kshs 7.8 reduced our waste to landfill by 30%, billion being spent in the Kisumu brewery, cut down energy use by 4% and made we also invested in new keg rackers, returnable bottles, as well as two spirits investments to reduce greenhouse emissions. We have also reduced our water 4% lines in Kenya (where we doubled our use in packaging by 4% and our ambition improvement in spirits capacity) and Uganda. to return 100% of waste water from our EABL‘s gross margins We have also refreshed our focus around operations back to the environment safely marketing with impact, and expanded is also on course. our route to consumer to broaden the Finally, besides our continued reach of our products across markets investment in our Water of Life programme while innovating at scale. These efforts are that has helped quench thirst of about 5 yielding results in brands such as Serengeti million people across East Africa, this year Lite in Tanzania and Tusker Lite in Kenya we partnered players in the alcoholicand Uganda. beverages sector to sign a code of conduct Our innovation agenda also continued to drive responsible marketing of our to motor growth with Tusker Cider, products. Serengeti Lite and Uganda Waragi KSH Business outlook Coconut contributing strongly to our revenues. To recruit from illicits, our plan to Looking forward, the business is on a sound footing driven by the key strategic fully commercialise the Kisumu brewery is on course, potentially helping us achieve imperatives that are fundamental in driving our business forward. We are Kshs 13 billion our ambition to grow our Total Beverage EABL capital expenditure Alcohol (TBA). encouraged by the relative political calm in 2018 in East Africa which has renewed optimism Taken together, these capital and in the private sector. This has stabilised marketing investments, should help power the macro-economic environment, our growth agenda across East Africa, improved business environment and marshalled by a growing EABL talent pool. boosted investor confidence coupled And, in line with our business focus on with continued public investment in efficiency, we delivered Kshs 1.9 billion infrastructure. in savings across the various initiatives The second half of our financial year has enabling us to invest further behind the reaffirmed our confidence and reinforced brands to extend growth momentum our mantra: to drive excellent execution while mitigating production costs. of our strategic imperatives with ever Sustainability greater focus. This approach will continue EABL has been in East Africa for nearly a to leverage existing and emerging century now. To secure our growth in the opportunities, fuel EABL’s growth and next 100 years and to earn respect across hedges our business against potential our stakeholder audiences, we recognise headwinds in the current financial year. the need to leverage our success in I want to take this opportunity to establishing elaborate links with the environment and the communities where thank my team, who worked tirelessly and with energy and enthusiasm for 5 million beneficiaries of Water of Life we source, make and sell our brands. We our shareholders to deliver this solid programme know that for our business to thrive, these performance across diverse geographies communities and the environment must and segments and for their increasing thrive, too. agility and unwavering determination to We have lived true to this commitment; steer the business in spite of a relatively this year we are proud to have contracted turbulent year. 15,000 new farmers to supply sorghum in our new Kshs 15 billion brewery in Kisumu, Andrew Cowan adding to the 45,000 we already have Group Managing Director across East Africa. Guaranteeing a market for these farmers will not only provide GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 17 Taarifa ya Mkurugenzi Mkuu 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Taarifa ya Meneja Mkurugenzi wa Kampuni “Kasi yetu katika ubunifu imechangia ukuaji zaidi na imethibitisha uwezo wetu katika kushughulikia mienendo iliyoko na inayoibuka katika kuwasisimua wateja wetu.” Maelezo ya jumla K atika EABL tunalenga kuwa 19% zaidi ya ukuaji wa mauzo katika kupigia kampuni ya mteja yenye utendaji debe bia ya katika chupa, kuendeleza bora, inayoaminika zaidi na ubunifu na kuboresha matokeo ya Senator inayoheshimiwa zaidi barani Keg. Faida ya mwaka mzima ya shughuli Afrika. Mwaka huu tumefuatilia lengo hilo zetu ilikuwa kwa 4% huku faida baada ya kwa kujitolea zaidi katika kupata ukuaji kutozwa ushuru ikipungua kwa 15%. thabiti licha ya changamoto ya mazingira Ukuaji wa 4% wa Scotch Whisky na tunayohudumu , hasa Misukosuko ya kisiasa wa 9% wa bia katika chupa uliwezesha nchini Kenya na ushindani wa kibiashara kampuni kuwa na matokeo bora ya kila Uganda na Tanzania. mwaka kupitia mchanganyiko wa utendaji Ukubwa wa EABL umewezesha na utekelezaji wa mkakati. kukabiliana na hali tofauti za kibiashara. Katika EABL tunapanga kunufaika na kasi “Kasi yetu katika ubunifu imechangia ya matokeo ya bia ya katika chupa (ukuaji ukuaji zaidi na imethibitisha uwezo wetu wake ulitokana na Serengeti premium katika kushughulikia mienendo iliyoko Lager na Serengeti Lite nchini Tanzania, na inayoibuka katika kuwasisimua wateja balozi nchini Kenya na Guiness katika kanda wetu”. Na tulitumia ukuaji wetu kuimarisha yote). Upigiaji debe naubunifu katika kanda uwekezaji wa bidhaa zetu tunu, kurahisisha yote unapaswa kuimarisha ukuaji wa soko la wateja kupata bidhaa zetu za kimataifa na Scotch na mivinyo mingine. kuongeza kasi ya ubunifu wetu. Mivinyo mikuu maarufu ilidumisha mpango wa ukuaji wa miaka mitano Matokeo ambapo mauzo yaliongezeka kwa 23%. Ili kudumisha kasi ya ukuaji katika siku za Mauzo hayo yalikuwa zaidi ni ya Kane Extra usoni tulichukua dhamana ya kugharamia na Chrome Vodka nchini Kenya pamoja na kutimia kwa lengu letu kupitia mabadiliko Uganda Waragi na Bond 7 nchini Uganda. ya uwekezaji, kulikokuza mapato yetu kwa Katika mwaka huo wa kifedha, mauzo 5%. ya Senator yaliathiriwa na ongezeko la bei Juhudi zetu za kutumia mtaji zimechangia lililotokana na ushuru wa 20%, na matokeo matokeo ambapo ukuaji wa Kenya, yaliathiriwa na kufungwa kwa sehemu ya Uganda na Tanzania ulikuwa 1%,45 kiwanda kwa ajili ya kuimarisha uwezo wa na 41% mtawalia na hivyo kuweka uzalishaji pamoja na hali ya kigeugeu ya msingi thabiti wa ajenda yetu ya kisiasa ambayo ilipunguza utashi. Ingawa ukuaji katika siku za usoni. mauzo ya Senator yalipungua katika nusu Mapato ya jumla ya EABL ya kwanza, utulivu wa kisiasa na uimarishaji yalikuwa kwa 4% huku akiba ya wa uwezo wa uzalishaji katika nusu ya pili uzalishaji na mchanganyiko wa ya mwaka uliimarisha mauzo yake ambayo kujenga biashara ukipunguza yalikuwa ni -13% katika mwaka huo wa athari za mfumuko wa bei kifedha. katika mauzo. Tuliendelea kuwekeza katika bidhaa zetu Maelezo Makuu ya Kimkakati na Utendakazi huku matumizi ya idara ya Ili kuafikia mkakati wetu wa EABL wa masoko yakiongezeka kwa mwaka wa 2022 tumeendelea kufanya 18 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Taarifa ya Mkurugenzi Mkuu uwekezaji mkubwa katika maeneo yote kipaumbele uwajibikaji wa athari za ya biashara yetu. Katika mwaka huo wa shughuli zetu kwa mazingira. Mwaka huu kifedha tulitumia shilingi bilioni 13 za tumepunguza uchafuzi wetu kwa 30% na matumizi ya mtaji , mbali na shilingi bilioni tumepunguza matumizi ya kawi kwa 4% 7.8 zilizotumika katika ujenzi wa kiwanda na tumewekeza ili kupunguza gesi chafu. cha Kisumu, pia tuliwekeza katika mitungi Pia tumepunguza utumizi wa maji kwa mipya ya Keg , chupa za kurudishwa 4% na lengo letu ni kurudisha salama kwa pamoja na aina mbili za mivinyo nchini mazingira 100% ya maji taka yanayotokana Kenya(ambako tuliimarisha uzalishaji wa na shughuli zetu. 4% mivinyo) na Uganda. Hatimaye, mbali na kuendelea kuwekeza ongezeko la mapato ya EABL Pia tumeuangalia upya mtazamo wetu katika mpango wetu wa Maji kwa ajili ya kuhusu kupigia debe bidhaa zetu na uhai yaani Water for Life ambao umekata kiu kuongeza idadi ya wateja tunaowafikia ya takriban watu milioni 5 Afrika Mashariki, katika masoko yote. Juhudi hizo zinazaa mwaka huu tumeshirikiana na wabia matunda hasa katika uuzaji wa bidhaa kama katika sekta ya pombe na vinywaji kutia Serengeti Lite nchini Tanzania na Tusker Lite saini taratibu za maadili zitakazoongoza nchini Kenya na Uganda. uwajibikaji katika kupigia debe bidhaa zetu . Ajenda yetu ya ubunifu wetu pia imeongeza ukuaji wa mauzo ya Tsuker Cider, Mtazamo wa Biashara Serengeti Lite na Uganda Waragi coconut Kwa mtazamo wa siku za usoni, biashara iko ambao umeongeza sana mapato yetu. imara na inaongozwa na mikakati muhimu Ili tuvutie wateja wanaotumia pombe ambayo ni msingi wa kuipeleka mbele KSH haramu, mpango wetu wa kufanya biashara yetu. Tunafurahia hali ya utulivu biashara kamili katika kiwanda cha Kisumu wa kisiasa Afrika Mashariki ambayo imeipa unaendelea, na tunatarajia kuafikia lengo letu la kukuza uzalishaji wa bia. matumaini mapya sekta ya kibinafsi. Hiyo imeboresha mazingira ya kibiashara na Kshs 13 bilioni kuwekeza katika mitambo na Uwekezaji wa mtaji na masoko kwa kupiga jeki imani ya wawekezaji ambayo pia miundo mbinu mwaka jana pamoja unapaswa kuimarisha ajenda yetu imeimarishwa na kuendelea kwa uwekezaji ya ukuaji Afrika Mashariki utakaoongozwa katika muundomsingi. na vipaji vya EABL vinavyoongezeka. Nusu ya pili ya mwaka wetu wa kifedha Sambamba na utendaji bora wetu katika imethibitisha imani yetu na kuimarisha biashara, tuliokoa shilingi bilioni 1.9 ambazo lengo letu: kuwa na utekelezaji sahihi wa zilituwezesha kuwekeza zaidi katika bidhaa mikakati yetu katika upeo wake. Hii itasaidia tofauti na kuongeza kasi ya ukuaji huku kutumia fursa zilizoko na kuchochea ukuaji tukipunguza gharama za uzalishaji. wa EABL. Nataka kuchukua fursa hii, kuishukuru Uhimili timu yangu iliyofanya kazi bila kuchoka EABL imekuwa Afrika Mashariki kwa takriban na kwa bidii katika kupata matokeo haya karne moja sasa. Ili tuimarishe ukuaji mazuri katika idara zote na kanda yote katika miaka 100 ijayo na kuheshimiwa na kuendelea kujitolea bila kuyumba na wadau wetu wote ipo haja ya ufanisi katika kuiendesha biashara katika mwaka wetu kufaidi mazingira tunayohudumu uliokuwa na misukosuko kiasi. na jamii zinazotuzunguka katika maeneo tunayopata mali ghafi, tunakotengeza na Andrew Cowan Watu milioni 5 kunufaika katika mpango wa Maji kuuza bidhaa zetu. Tunafahamu fika kuwa Meneja Mkurugenzi wa Kampuni ya Uhai kote Afrika Mashariki biashara yetu kukua kutategemea kuimarika kwa jamii pamoja na mazingira. Tumekuwa tukifanya hayo, na mwaka huu tumesajili wakulima elfu 15 watakaowasilisha mtama kwa kiwanda chetu kipya cha Kisumu ambacho kimegharimu shilingi bilioni 15, hao ni pamoja na wakulima elfu 45 ambao tuko nao kote Afrika Mashariki. Kuwahakikishia wakulima hao soko sio tu kutawapa ajira bali pia kutaongeza mapato yao na kukuza kilimo pamoja na uchumi wetu. Pamoja na hayo tumeendelea kuupa GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 19 Sustainability 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Our commitments towards achieving the UN’s S ince 1922, we have been committed Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We aim to achieve the goals under to changing people’s lives, an Our sustainable development strategy each of these pillars through industry objective that has been achieved reflects the interdependence our value collaborations, impactful programmes, through our broad sustainability chain elements, and how they contribute focusing on people, communities and objectives, encompassing the growth to communities and to the environment supply chains and managing water and development of the community ultimately strengthens our business and and energy use while reducing carbon across East Africa. Together, we have built lends it longevity. emissions. a sustainable business that has provided EABL has categorised these SDG under Below, we describe our involvement in a source of livelihood to close to two three main pillars: promoting a positive the seven SDGs we have adopted at EABL. million people. To secure the future of our place for alcohol in society, building business and protect livelihoods, we have thriving communities and reducing our aligned our business to the United Nations’ environmental impact. By setting a leadership standard and NO ZERO POVERTY HUNGER professional edge, EABL is able to ignite a unified language with its people, set recognizable rituals and employee mentorship programmes, create walls of fame capturing memorable events and achievements, and share stories that EABL is committed to local sourcing of raw EABL has engaged small-scale farmers inspire brand passion and attract talent. material, which currently stands at 80%. and encourages them to satisfy their In Tanzania, for example, SBL launched We ensure that we provide ready market household needs before they sell the Just Beat It, a programme intended to for small holder farmers in ASAL who grow surplus sorghum and millet. The increase rally staff to actively participate in steering sorghum and millet. in the growth of the crops has boosted the company to new heights of success. food security in the region as they thrive Impact: Sustainable revenue and food even in arid and semi-arid lands. QUALITY security to over 60,000 farmers. EDUCATION Under this programme, EABL has GOOD HEA LTH managed to develop a network of more AND WEL L-BEING than 60,000 farmers supplying the company with 80% of raw materials. In return, EABL provides farmers with EABL has invested significantly in free inputs (seeds), fertilisers, extension human development, especially along services and other technical and financial the sorghum and barley value chains. support needed for farming. EABL’s Zero Harm programme is designed Through the EABL Foundation’s Skills for With a ready market and the contract to ensure that all employees are free from Life programme, we have impacted the farming that guarantees purchase of harm at work. This is based on four pillars: lives of underprivileged and bright youth their harvests, EABL is helping build prevention, culture, compliance and in Kenya. sustainability. capability. More than 250 scholarships have been Through these initiatives, and the direct We have employment engagement provided. payment of Shs1.5 billion to the farmers, drives across East Africa. EABL has employed hundreds EABL has played a part in local wealth Employees have been supported of students from institutions of creation. through reward programmes, coaching, higher learning through its Graduate We have created value directly to mentorship and personal development Management Trainee programme and local economies and have built capacity opportunities. the Sales Graduate Programme. among the communities we work in. We have created local wealth Graduate students undergo training creation, programmes that invest in and upon their completion, successful individual skills and empowerment. candidates become part of a talent pool for EABL. 20 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Sustainability CLEAN WATER DECENT WORK AND RESPONSIBLE AND SANI TATION ECONOMIC GROWTH CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION EABL is committed to minimise water use EABL remits more than Ksh 54 Billion EABL supports the World Health throughout the value chain and reduced annually in taxes through our subsidiaries, Organisation’s goal to reduce alcoholwastage and the water per litre of beer and is thus a major contributor to the related harm by 10% across the world produced by 4%. region’s economy. EABL employs 1,600 by 2025. We aim to create a responsible In 2015, for example, EABL launched East Africans directly and another two drinking culture. the 10 by 10 water access programme, million people indirectly. EABL has launched initiatives such as; with the aim of providing water to 10 Additionally, our new brewery in Under 18 Asipewe and Utado? in Kenya, water-stressed counties in Kenya. So Kisumu will add more than 100,000 jobs the Red Card campaign in Uganda and far, the water sustainability efforts have across the value chain in Kenya. Don’t Drink and Drive in Tanzania to touched more than 6 million people. promote the responisble consumption In Tanzania, the EABL Foundation of alcohol and to create a more positive Water of Life programme commissioned alcohol role in society. These efforts are a Tsh 80 million water project in Kaguhwa aimed at reaching all stakeholders Nyamhongolo Village, Mwanza region consumers, regulators and law enforcers to provide clean water. The project is to help spread the message. benefiting more than 7,560 people, with farmers encouraged to initiate irrigation farming. Our responsible drinking campaigns GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 21 Sustainability 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements A new dawn in Western region as Kisumu brewery is set for reopening Kisumu’s economic fortunes are set to compete, and with time eliminate, illicit Bay, Kisumu, Siaya and Busia counties receive a shot in the arm when the Senator brews. who have been contracted to grow white Keg Brewery comes into full operation The plant will initially produce Senator sorghum, the main raw material for the later in the year, following a Ksh15 billion Keg made using locally-sourced sorghum. production of Senator Keg. investment. To ensure enough sorghum supply, EABL in Kenya targets to recruit over The refurbishment of Kisumu 15,000 sorghum farmers in the next 5 years, KBL will be providing sorghum seeds Brewery started in July 2017 to meet the offering a guaranteed market for the crop. and donating tractors, with the aim of anticipated demand for an affordable and supporting farmers deliver quality crop. EABL in Kenya is also working with healthy beverage which would effectively thousands of farmers from Migori, Homa Joan Achieng Senator Keg Retailer, Kisumu “My grandfather was the first person to own a bar in Obunga area, it was known as Awendo bar. This is what motivated me to start my own bar business. I started by selling chang’aa (illicit liquor), which I used to purchase from Busia. However, most of my customers would drink the chang’aa and then refuse to pay up. Other times the police would raid the premises and confiscate everything. Due to this and many other problems, I quit selling chang’aa and opened a wines and spirits bar. Some of the customers I have are from my chang’aa days who have since reformed and are now taking Senator Keg. They also like the experience because they do not have to keep running away from the police. Thanks to this business, I now have the ability to pay rent for my house and I am able to pay Ager Kirowo school fees for my child.” Sorghum Farmer, Homa Bay “I have been a farmer all my life but I Vincent Omumbo started farming full time 20 years ago Senator Keg Retailer, Kisumu when I retired from public service. Since “I am a bar owner and a professional retiring, I have dedicated all my time to footballer playing for Tusker FC. Before farming. Before our partnership with opening the bar business, I was operating a EABL, we were planting the traditional hotel but I was not making enough money. sorghum. We did not have a ready I wanted a business that would make market and pests would attack our enough money to sustain me once my stored produce. We would suffer huge football career is over. Other than making losses. With EABL you are assured that money, I also want to save the youth in once you plant, come harvest time you this area from illicit brew by giving them a will have a ready market. The partnership safer and cheaper option, Senator Keg. I do with EABL is also very encouraging not want them to be arrested by police for because they send us their field officers consuming illegal liquor; I want to provide to inspect the progress and advise us on them with a clean place where they can how best to take care of our farms.” drink comfortably and enjoy themselves. This is a profitable business and I would recommend it to fellow footballers who are looking to invest as they prepare to retire from the profession.” 22 22 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Sustainability The Kisumu brewery gets going President Kenyatta breaks ground for the EABL Kisumu brewery EABL and Kisumu County Government collaboration has yielded great impact for residents As part of the stakeholder efforts to drive the Kisumu brewery investment, Group MD, Andrew Cowan conducted the Kisumu County Governor Prof. Anyang’ Nyong’o on a tour to check on the progress of the plant earlier this President Uhuru Kenyatta presided over the official ground-breaking of the Kshs 15 year. The brewery is one of the largest projects billion EABL brewery in Kisumu last year. The President lauded EABL’s commitment East Africa and is already proving to be a catalyst to Kenya, saying the investment will spur the economy through creation of over for economic development and growth in 1,500 direct jobs and over 100,000 jobs, including agri-based jobs from 15,000 new Kisumu and Western Kenya region. Since the farmers recruited to supply sorghum to the brewery. The climate in Nyanza is one commissioning of the plant in July 2017, EABL of the most conducive for sorghum production and the location of the plant is set has collaborated to create more value for the to immensely benefit the local farmers. Senator Keg production is anticipated to people with residents playing a great role in increase by 1 million hectoliters in the first 5 years of the Kisumu plant operation, supporting EABL set up base in the town. while the number of sorghum farmers contracted by EABL in Kenya has grown from 30,000 during the launch to the current 45,000. UK High Commissioner visits Kisumu brewery Group MD Andrew Cowan tours Kisumu farmers and brewery ahead of commissioning ahead of Commissioning EABL has engaged more than 45,000 sorghum farmers from arid and semiarid areas in Kenya, sourcing the raw material used for the production of Senator Keg and paying over Kshs 1 billion in 2018. In Kisumu, EABL has recruited over 15,000 farmers in The UK High Commissioner to Kenya, Nic anticipation of an Hailey, visited the Kisumu brewery during his increase in demand for sorghum once the Kisumu brewery is fully operational. tour of Western Kenya. He reassured EABL of Group MD Andrew Cowan toured some of the farms in Kisumu County and met his government’s support and commitment farmers, who form an integral part of our value chain. He assisted in farm preparation in continuing their trade partnership. Britain and visited a number of our Keg outlets in Ahero, interacting with retailers and is a key development and trade partner and customers. the continued partnership has been a great contributor to job creation in the country. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 23 Sustainability 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Sorghum for Senator: Making an impact for farmers EABL started using sorghum as a raw well with less water than maize, Kenya’s that delivers up to 15 % higher yields. KBL material in 2009. It opened up a new staple food, the government has also been also trains farmers on good agricultural source of income for hundreds of farmers encouraging farmers to grow sorghum practices, post-harvest handling and value in Siaya, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisumu and as an alternative. Small-scale farmers are addition. Tharaka Nithi and has spurred economic encouraged to grow sorghum and millet This way, the company developed a growth as well. to meet their household needs and sell the value chain that enables it to sustain its The company has over time supported surplus to increase their income. supply of raw materials and at the same the increasing number of farmers growing The company provides farmers with time generate an income for the farmers. the drought-tolerant crop. Because it does seeds and in July 2017 introduced a variety Beatrice Nkatha Sorghum farmer and businessperson, Tharaka Nithi “Ever since we introduced sorghum, it has created the need for many other services. After the first couple of seasons, I realised farmers needed chemicals, tractors to plough their land, threshers after harvesting and vehicles to get their produce to the brewery. I saw this opportunity and seized it. I approached several financiers and got loans to purchase tractors and a thresher. Sorghum has been beneficial to my family and me. When I started out, I did not have a house of my own but now I have a place to call home. Looking back where I started, I am proud of what I have achieved. Today, I am more than a farmer; I have become a businessperson because of this grain.” John Kubai Julius Njeru Sorghum Farmer and Aggregator, Meru Sorghum Farmer, Meru “I am a businessperson; I sell insecticides, “We were encouraged to grow sorghum and seeds. I am also a sorghum farmer because it would be beneficial to us. I started and an EABL agent; I buy sorghum from with one hectare of land and was able to fellow farmers and sell it to EABL. For harvest 18 bags of sorghum. That is when the longest time, we had been planting I realized that sorghum is more profitable maize, groundnuts, vegetables, black and the price, unlike that of maize, does not beans and green grams until recently, fluctuate. On my second attempt, I decided when 300 of us were introduced to a new to expand and invested three hectares of cash crop, sorghum. Currently, sorghum is land out of which I harvested 45 bags of our most dependable crop and earns us sorghum. The money I make from sorghum more money than the other crops. For us, farming has enabled me to pay school fees sorghum farming has become the best for my five children; one is in college, two form of employment.” are in secondary school and the last two are in primary school. Once I realized the benefits that came with sorghum farming, I started recruiting my neighbours informing them that it was more profitable compared to maize. If it was not for sorghum farming, I do not know how I would have educated my children, especially the one in college.” 24 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Sustainability EABL continues to lead the way in manufacturing excellence and economic contribution Kicking off the commercial drive ahead of the EABL is one of the biggest opening of the Kisumu Brewery contributors to the success of the manufacturing sector in Kenya, accounting for nearly 1% of Kenya’s GDP. At the annual Kenya Association of Manufacturers Expo at the KICC in 2017, we took visitors through the process of manufacturing Senator Keg beer. Our exhibition Head of Sustainability at EABL, Jean Kiarie highlighted our Growing (second left), was joined by Kisumu County Value Together model and Executive for trade, Alice Moraa, EABL’s Head was visited by the then of Sustainable Agriculture Sourcing, Kasidhi Industrialisation CS, Adan Omondi (left) and EABL’s Trade Marketing Mohamed (in spectacles). Representative, Vincent Okuto, as she received a consignment of Senator Keg pumps. A conducive tax environment is critical for growth in manufacturing The Kisumu brewery project team has EABL remains a significant been busy driving the commercial end of taxpayer across the region, the Kshs15 billion investment. The team was contributing over Kshs already distributing keg pumps to more than 54 billion annually to the 5,000 Senator Keg retailers in the area as part Exchequer in respective of EABL’s plan to provide safe and affordable economies. EABL was alcohol to consumers. The drive has also invited to participate in last converted a number of illicit brew dealers to year’s Tax Summit hosted Senator retailers providing a new, legitimate by the Kenya Revenue business opportunity. Authority. The platform gave us an opportunity to highlight the important Project Heshima converts illegal brewers to role we play in the country’s economic growth. EABL’s Corporate Relations Director, entrepreneurs in Kisumu Eric Kiniti, was part of the panel discussion on Harnessing Domestic Revenue for Sustainable County Development. He emphasised the need for the private sector and the County governments to work hand in hand to ensure the investment environment is conducive for business to thrive. The KEBS board tours the Nairobi Tusker Brewery EABL and Kenya Bureau of Standards (KEBS) have been working together for decades to ensure brands EABL launched an entrepreneurship and produced and distributed vocational training programme in Kenya for in Kenya are of the highest youth and women in an initiative targeting standards. 2000 women and youth countrywide at risk This year, both teams of falling prey to illicit brew consumption and committed to work ever production.The project has been rolled out more closely to support across ten counties: Nairobi, Kwale, Kiambu, the government’s broader Murang’a, Nakuru, Makueni, Machakos, agenda to eradicate the Homa Bay, Migori and Kisumu. The project is sale of illicit alcohol, which aimed at equipping women and youth with continues to endanger practical skills that will enable them earn a the health and safety of decent living, improving lives and creating consumers while denying the country billions of shillings in revenue. livelihoods across the country. Over 89 youth The KEBS Board of Directors toured the Nairobi Tusker Brewery to familiarise recently graduated in Kisumu, acquiring skills themselves with the process of making beer. They emphasised the need for in dress-making, hair and beauty, catering, information-sharing and cooperation, which is critical in informing the strategy to mechanical engineering, plumbing and combat sub-standard products in Kenya. electrical installation. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 25 Sustainability 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements EABL joins ABAK in launch of industry Code of Conduct Engaging media for insightful industry reportage EABL recognises the positive role that alcohol plays in Kenya and recently partnered with the Alcohol Beverages Association of Kenya (ABAK) to launch a thought-leading Responsible Marketing Code. ABAK is an umbrella body that brings together Kenya’s leading manufacturers and distributors. One of ABAK’s critical roles is to support selfregulation by providing information, training and technical expertise to the alcohol industry in Kenya. In launching an industry-driven Responsible Marketing Code, members are committed to reducing harmful consumption of alcohol in Kenya. EABL fully supports the code because we recognise the potential danger excessive alcohol consumption can cause to the sustainability of our business. Nairobi Liquor Licensing Board tour Media remain a critical part of EABL’s growth agenda as they help educate and inform our stakeholders and consumers about what we do. This year, we took journalists on a tour of the brewery and As part of stakeholder relations and education, we hosted the Nairobi Liquor Licensing distillery and shared our strategy and Board on an awareness tour, as the team responsible for the licensing of EABL’s most vision for 2018 and beyond. expansive trade division in East Africa. To wrap up the event, the journalists Our team, led by KBL Supply Chain Director Patrick Kamugi (centre) and KBL Regulatory were also treated to a mixology class Affairs Manager, Alligator Makori, (right) took Kenneth Odhiambo, Chairman, Nairobi where they got an opportunity to learn County Liquor Licensing Board and his team through some points during a visit to the more about the history and enjoyment of KBL Brewery in Ruaraka by the Board. a broad range of our Scotch whiskies. The visit entailed a tour of all the production lines and random inspection of the various EABL products. 26 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Sustainability EABL’s efforts in taking care of the environment Water is the key ingredient As a result, we are committed to minimise Water and energy are important utilities in in all of our products. our water use throughout our value chain. any production process. The growing scarcity of fresh water is We have made commendable progress With targets of 136 megajoules per not just an issue for our company. It towards environmental goals, with some hectolitre and 4.4 megajoules per hectolitre is a global risk to the economic, social substantial gains in the management of for energy and water respectively, the and environmental well-being of the our water, energy and waste materials. Energy and Water teams have delivered communities where we all live and work. exemplary numbers. Efficient Water Usage 100% Waste water return We have invested in an efficient water treatment plant. 5 million Our aim is to return 100% of waste water from our People benefitting from EABL’s Water of operations back to the environment safely. Life programme across East Africa 50% reduction 4% reduction We have set ambitious production targets to reduce water use by 50% by 2020, reduce greenhouse carbon emissions, and return 100% in Water usage per liter packaged of water used in the final product in water stressed areas. Prudent Energy Consumption 114 mj/hl We have managed to reduce energy consumption 25% reduction In Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) Load to the from 118 mega joules in 2015 to 114 mega joules in 2016 for every hectolitre of beer produced at EABL. environment (BOD is the amount of dissolved oxygen demanded by aerobic biological organisms to break down organic material present in a given water sample at certain temperature over a specific time period) 30% 4% kWh Improvement in production improvement in Waste to landfill 15% reduction 20% CO2 reduction We are re-insulating hot pipes which will lead to a 15% reduction in energy costs. This will, in turn, automatically We aim to reduce energy consumption by 20%, reduce translate to a 15% reduction in greenhouse emissions. CO2 emissions in production by 10% and procure 100% of our electricity from renewable sources by 2030. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 27 Sustainability 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Increasing income opportunities for sorghum farmers in East Africa: a case study from Kenya In 2004, East African Breweries Ltd. (EABL) introduced Senator Keg, From Grain to Glass a beer brewed from a robust, low-cost grain called sorghum. Thousands of farmers across Kenya are part of the EABL Sorghum Using sorghum supports the livelihoods of smallholder farmers Farming Programme which helps them to grow and transport their across Kenya who grow the crop. It also means the beer is more sorghum harvest. affordable for consumers which helps to tackle the problems FROM GRAIN TO GLASS caused by illicit alcohol. Sorghum Farming Programme EDUCATION SUPPORT TRANSPORTATION BREWING Once harvested, Senator Keg is brewed EABL supports the in Nairobi and packaged transportation of the and sold in 50 litre kegs, crop to the brewery which helps keep costs low Teaching farmers how Providing seeds, to best grow and farming materials and manage their crops The sorghum effect The increase in sorghum production has benefitted both farmers Kenya Breweries Limited Managing Director Jane Karuku (Left) Nyando Holdings Limited Managing Director and the wider regional economy. Clifford Biko (right) and Ondisore Women Group Chairperson Rolly Achieng (Centre) take a look at a sample of freshly harvested sorghum from one of the farmers in Homabay. As well as providing a stable income for smallholder farmers, it also increases the food supply and contributes to food security. For Why sorghum? example, ‘Jillishe Uuze’ or ‘feed yourself, then sell’ is a programme Sorghum is usually used in home cooking, but the success supported by EABL that encourages farmers to first cater for their of Senator Keg has created a demand for increased sorghum domestic food needs before selling the sorghum they produce. production. This means farmers can grow sorghum as a commercial crop and receive a stable income. Consumption of EABL has also committed to sourcing 80% of its ingredients dangerous illicit alcohol is a public health issue across the region. locally, ensuring continued investment in the local economy. It is often cheaper than legitimate branded alcohol and the quality THE SORGHUM EFFECT is poor. Consumption can lead to chronic health problems and even death. Senator is sold at an affordable price which competes with the illicit brews and consumers know they are buying a safe, quality product. WHY SORGHUM? 240,000 45,000 Kshs 1 bn Sorghum grows to between 60cm and 120cm tall Jobs created throughout Farmers growing Farmer revenues from Senator Keg SUSTAINED GROWTH the Senator Keg supply sorghum for Senator Keg growing from Ksh 12.4 million 2016 Grows over long period so chain since 2009 expanding from 1000 by water stress in 2009 2009 Continued support for sorghum farmers THRIVES IN HEAT Responds well to temperatures over 25°C and gains maximum 31,000 metric tonnes grown in 2016 in Kenya As the largest brewer in Kenya and largest single buyer of sorghum, yields when farmed in areas with daytime temperatures over 30°C. compared to 500 tonnes in 2009 EABL is committed to combating the issue EASTERN of illicit brews and will RIFT VALLEY continue to support RETAINS MOISTURE Leaves and stem have a waxy WESTERN NORTH EASTERN local sorghum farmers coating that helps retain water, even in intense heat, unlike other NYANZA CENTRAL and their communities. crops such as maize and wheat Nairobi EASTERN The Sorghum Farming COAST Programme is set to SORGHUM IS GROWN IN THE expand, with a target EASTERN, NYANZA, RIFT VALLEY AND WESTERN REGIONS OF KENYA to collect 25,000 metric tonnes of sorghum. 28 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 29 Sustainability 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Engaging Stakeholders for impact in Uganda UBL Partners with Rotary Uganda to restore 200 hectares of forest Restoring Gangu forest, one tree at a time reserves Uganda Breweries Limited (UBL) through its Water of Life initiative signed a 5-year partnership with Rotary Uganda worth UGSh 250 million to jointly restore 200 hectares of forest reserves within Lake Victoria water catchment areas. The partnership was signed on behalf of UBL by the Managing Director, Mark Ocitti, and on behalf of Rotary Uganda by the Country Chairperson Rebecca Mutawe and District Governor for Uganda and Tanzania Kenneth Wycliffe Mugisha at the UBL head office in Luzira, Kampala. The initiative will help boost the conservation of Lake Victoria, an important ecosystem for UBl and the communities around the water body. UK Minister for Environment visits Uganda Breweries Limited In April 2018, under the Water of Life initiative, UBL planted over 2,000 indigenous trees on 40 hectares of land at Gangu Central Forest Reserve in Butambala District. This was to kick-start the partnership between UBL and Rotary Uganda to restore over 200 hectares of forest cover in forest reserves that have been threatened by deforestation. The planting of trees to restore Gangu Forest Reserve was led UBL hosted Thérèse Coffey, UK Minister for Environment and Peter by the UBL E-Green team, a group of staff volunteers led by the West the British High Commissioner to Uganda at the factory MD, Mr. Mark Ocitti, together with a team from Rotary Uganda and premises. officials from National Forestry Authority. The dignitaries paid a courtesy visit to appreciate Diageo’s The State Minister for Environment, Hon. Mary Goretti Kitutu, footprint in Uganda as well as to appreciate the environmental who was the chief guest, applauded UBL for its participation. protection practices. Accompanied by the Managing Director, Mark Ocitti, the team toured UBL’s production site and the state of the art effluent treatment plant that allows UBL to dispose of water cleaner than taken out of the lake. 30 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Sustainability UBL launches women’s campaign against drunk driving Showcasing production to the UBL sorghum farming community in Uganda UBL hosted sorghum and cassava farmers from Northern Uganda to a plant tour in April 2018. The aim of the visit was to engage and interact with the farmers who provide raw materials for our production. UBL through its local raw material (LRM) programme, injects UGsh 20 billion annually into farming communities and value chains to source locally-grown raw materials for brewing. UBL Under the company’s responsible drinking Red Card initiative, has also invested over USD 10 million into the local grain sector UBL rolled out a campaign spearheaded by Ugandan female promotion including large sorghum trials in Ngenge/Kapchorwa celebrities aimed at reducing drunk-driving traffic incidents and and Nwoya in the last seven years. general alcohol abuse in society. Besides offering a ready market for sorghum and cassava, The campaign, dubbed Girls Against Drunk Driving seeks to UBL supports farmers with quality seeds, modern farming leverage the proverbial “soft power” or “feminine strength” that equipment and trainings. The farmers were taken on a guided tour women wield over men to encourage them to adopt responsible enlightening them on beer-making process. They were also given behaviour when interacting with alcohol and to choose an training on how to achieve the right quality products and taught alternate means of transport afterwards. how to identify good grain. UBL hosts the Kampala Capital City Authority (KCCA) in a tour of its effluent treatment plant Upon completion of the expanded effluent treatment plan in 2018, UBL hosted a team from KCCA, the Kampala Pollution Taskforce and other key stakeholders in the water sector to showcase UBL best practice in waste management and and to gain an understanding of our business, the environment in which we work and UBL’s sustainability agenda. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 31 Sustainability 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Making an impact in Tanzania SBL gets President’s Manufacturer of the Year recognition In April 2018, SBL was awarded a President’s Manufacturer of the Year Award (PMAYA) under the Energy Efficiency category. The PMAYA competition is an annual event organised by the Confederation of Tanzania Industries (CTI) to award outstanding industries. It aims to recognise the industrial sector for its contribution to the national economy, to encourage and motivate investors in the industrial sector, to publicize the importance of the industrial sector in the country, raising the standard of business practices and promoting sound corporate governance in the country. SBL was recognized for promoting energy management and efficiency. SBL announces major plan to support local farmers Serengeti Lite sponsors Women’s Premier League Serengeti Breweries Limited (SBL) this year signed a three-year In March 2018, Serengeti Breweries Limited (SBL) announced an agreement to support the Tanzania national women Premier ambitious agribusiness project at a meeting with Parliament’s League through the Serengeti Premium Lite brand. As the official Budget Committee at its Mwanza plant. The project currently sponsor, Serengeti Premium Lite is backing the eight-team women supports a network of 300 farmers across the country, which will competition. The league’s winner becomes the country’s flag expand to 450 in the coming two years. SBL provides farmers bearer to international tournaments at regional and continental with free inputs (seeds) and other technical and financial support levels. and extension services critical for farming. Every year, the farmers SBL is the first official sponsor of the women’s premier league supply up to 400,000 kgs of seeds worth TZSh 550 million and through the popular Serengeti Lite, demonstrating the company’s those contracted to supply SBL are guaranteed market for their determination to nurture sporting talent across the country. SBL raw materials. MD Helene Weesie said the company is certain the sponsorship For the programme to remain sustainable and enable would inspire fans to support the women league and take it to recruitment of more farmers, SBL called for a favourable tax on another level. beer made from local raw materials, stating that any increase would trigger an increase in prices, risk the benefit to farmers and potentially lead to growth of the illicit alcohol market. 32 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Sustainability SBL extends responsible drinking agenda In November 2017, SBL launched a campaign to sensitise consumers on responsible alcohol consumption, as the brewer’s contribution towards curbing high incidents of road accidents during the festive season. Dubbed, ‘Don’t Drink and Drive’, the campaign was launched to educate motorists, passengers, pedestrians and the general public on the importance of road safety during the festive season. The campaign lasted two months. The nationwide campaign featured Taifa Stars players on various media channels including online platforms. Serengeti Premium Lager is the official sponsor of Tanzania’s national soccer team, Taifa Stars. In addition, SBL conducted DRINKiQ sessions to its stakeholders such as traffic officers, students and staff of the National Institute of Transport (NIT), joining cabin crews of Air Tanzania Limited, bar owners and retailers. Some 71 contractors also received DRINKiQ training at the annual SBL Supplier Conference in September 2017. SBL drives water access in Tanzanian communities SBL extends talent growth agenda with fresh graduate recruitment As part of its elaborate corporate talent programme, SBL enrolled 17 graduate students in its 2018 Sales Graduate Programme. Graduate students (10 women, 7 men) from higher learning institutions have been undergoing a two-year programme that includes a one and a half month training and field attachment. Upon their completion, successful candidates become part talent pool for SBL resourcing. Under the EABL Foundation Water of Life programme this year, SBL commissioned a Tsh 80 million water project in Kaguhwa Nyamhongolo Village, Ilemela, Mwanza region to provide clean water to the area residents. The project is benefiting more than 7,560 people who include local farmers who were encouraged to initiate irrigation farming. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 33 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements From grain... Malting The fresh barley gets soaked in water and put in germinating boxes to germinate. In this phase the enzymes (amylase) are formed which are needed for the starch separation. The germinating process is then interrupted at the optimal stage by the drying (kilning). The green malt is dried carefully at 80° celsius and tastes slightly sweet when dried. The malt sugar later serves to feed the yeast cultures, which then form the alcohol. Milling: The finished malt is milled, similar to the making of flour, so that it dissolves better in water. Malt mills produce various grades of crushed malt: husks, groats, meal, semolina and powder (from the coarsest to the finest). Mashing In the brewing pan or wort kettle the wort is The milled malt is mixed boiled and the hops are added. The taste of with water in the mash the beer depends on the type and amount tun – mashing-in. The of hops used: the more hops the bitterer starch in the grist dissolves the beer. As the water and sugar, protein and evaporates the wort is tannin are released. The concentrated to the original malt extract is produced wort, the malt enzymes by this mashing process. are deactivated and tannin and protein elements are separated out to form the trub. 34 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Fermentation This takes place in a fermentation tank where special brewing yeast is added. The yeast turns the malt sugar into alcohol and carbon dioxide. As soon as the malt sugar has fermented the yeast sinks and is collected. Depending on the type of yeast and the wort preparation used, a topor bottom-fermented beer is produced. Filtration At this last stage any substances still remaining after fermentation and secondary fermentation, such as yeast particles, hop resin and protein are extracted and the beer gets its final clear color. Filling Bottled beer is filled in the filling station. The beer is filled using counter pressure to prevent any carbon dioxide from escaping. Returnable Glass We use returnable glass to ensure that we do not pollute the environment. ...to glass GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 35 Brands 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Brands Strengthening and accelerating our beer brands Kenya beer brands Tusker Lager Tusker exists to inspire Kenyans of all ages and backgrounds to unite to achieve new possibilities. Tusker has been at the heart of social occasions in Kenya Since 1922 and is now a world-renown brand. Recently, the iconic brand launched ‘Here’s to Us in Every Tusker’ campaign, furthering its connection, built around the premise of Kenyans drawing strength from each other to achieve extra-ordinary feats. Tusker was recognised in the global Monde Selection awards in 2018. Tusker Cider Tusker Premium Cider is the first locally-produced cider in East Africa. It is a deliciously crisp and refreshing drink, crafted from premium apples, perfectly balanced for a drinking experience. Tusker Cider comes in a unique, clear glass bottle and is also packaged in a can. Best served chilled, it is one of EABL’s most successful innovations. The Tusker trade mark has a rich heritage since its launch in 1922 and is the leading, most-loved beer in Kenya, comprising Tusker Lager, Tusker Malt and Tusker Lite and now the new kid on the block Tusker Premium Cider. Tusker Lite Tusker Lite is premium party beer brand targeting high energy occasions, and is synonymous with the nightlife in Kenya. EABL launched Tusker Lite’s “This Is My Night”, which tells the story of the Kenyan millennial and how they prepare for a night out. The campaign has received a great reception and is supported by a host of marketing activities, including in-bar activations and parties across Kenya. 36 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Brands Guinness Guinness boasts the highest equity scores of any brand across the alcohol beverage category in Kenya. Football remains a powerful and proven growth driver as the brand continues to enjoy the highest conversion rates during the English Premier League football-watching occasion. Through a best in class national consumer promotion execution (dubbed Front Row Fan), the brand scooped a Diageo pan-African award for brilliant campaign execution in 2018. WhiteCap White Cap has grown to become a beer of true distinction and exclusivity with a brand connection to the iconic, snow-capped Mt. Kenya. The new neck label prominently showcases the ‘No Added Sugar’ position thus reinforcing WhiteCap’s natural ingredients of the finest barley, hops and Kenyan sunshine. The recently launched ‘Beer of True Distinction’ brand purpose campaign has worked to further strengthen the brand’s unique position, promise and appeal. Senator Senator continues to be a key recruitment brand from illicit brews market. The iconic, quality beer has provided value for money for its targeted price-sensitive consumers. Expanding our route to market and enhancing its efficiency has driven Senator’s availability; this will be further augmented by the Kisumu plant. The new brewery is set to extend the socio-economic impact so far brought about by Senator, through improved utilisation of local raw materials like sorghum, supplied by over 60,000 farmers contracted by EABL. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 37 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 38 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 39 Brands 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Brands Strengthening and accelerating our beer brands Uganda beer brands Bell Lager Brewed at Port Bell in Kampala along the shores of Lake Victoria since 1950, Bell Lager is the first truly Ugandan beer and UBL’s flagship brand. Its history is interwoven with that of the nation, making it a true icon that has stood the test of time. The Monde Selection-winning Bell Lager provides an easy drinking experience and has over the decades undergone renovation to retain its appeal to the target market. This has elicited positive feedback particularly by older 35+ year old consumers who still hold on to the nostalgia of a past in which Bell was at the center of Ugandan social life. Thus, Bell Lager is on a journey to reinvent itself without losing its sense of purpose and provenance in order to meaningfully recruit new consumers, and live to see many more decades. Ngule Launched in 2016, Ngule (meaning “Crown”) remains the most disruptive innovation to-date from UBL. Borne out of a partnership with the Kingdom of Buganda, one of many indigenous royal houses, the 6.5% ABV beer was introduced with much fanfare and positioned as a socioeconomic lever for the people of Buganda; named for the crown to be enjoyed by the king’s subjects during their pastimes and celebrations, and yet also a beer that would contribute to the sustenance of the kingdom through royalties paid by UBL off every sale of Ngule, as well as from the income Buganda’s farmers enjoyed by supplying raw materials to produce it. This year Ngule is at the heart of celebrations to mark the 25th coronation anniversary of the reigning King of Buganda, Ronald Mutebi. And throughout the annual calendar it is involved in other activities such as Inter-clan football, Royal birthday and end year events among others. Senator Half the beer sold in Uganda is within the value beer category of which the Senator trademark enjoys impressive volume share. Senator was launched in 2004 and today is available in two variants, Senator Extra and Senator Stout in 500ml bottles. Over the last two years, the brand has been boosted by commercially driven incentives that helped deliver on growth. In order to cement its presence, the Senator “WELL DONE” campaign was launched in August 2017 to highlight the well done quality of Senator as a product made from fresh, locally-sourced ingredients. The drive was also seen as one aimed at saluting the hardwork of Senator’s target consumers, the mid to lower social economic class male who deserve a great quality beer after a hard day’s work. 40 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Brands Tanzania Beers Serengeti Premium Lager Serengeti Premium Lager continued leveraging its sponsorship of the Tanzania National Football Team “Taifa Stars” to grow awareness and equity of the brand. During the last Festive Season Serengeti Premium Lager mobilized the fame and credibility of the Taifa Stars players to launch a joint responsible drinking campaign. Product availability was boosted by the launch of a returnable small pack at affordable price point, expanding distribution and the creation of Landmark Outlets. Serengeti Premium Lager’s double digit growth demonstrates that the brand is well underway towards achieving its brand ambition of becoming one of the top 3 mainstream beer brands in Tanzania. The National Pride platform, summarized in the slogan ‘Our Nation, Our Pride, Our Beer’ is clearly resonating with Tanzanian consumers. Serengeti Premium Lite Building on quality cues of the Mother Brand, Serengeti Premium Lite was introduced successfully as the “First Truly Tanzanian Lite Beer” demonstrating strong market performance and lifting the Serengeti trademark to its highest volume ever. According to consumers, 3 key factors are behind this success: a fuller taste than other lite beers; great looking pack and humorous campaign which is frequently refreshed. Pilsner King Young Tanzanian men want to be recognized for their masculinity. The real Tanzanian man is confident and bold in his choices and he is proud of his masculinity and strength in a calm way. Pilsner King is inspired by the original Pilsner brewing process practiced in the city of Pilsen, Czech Republic since 1842. Pilsner KING reflects the real man in you brewed with local ingredient. Pilsner offers consumers a value for money brand with mainstream aspiration (packaging). These attributes have seen the brand gain single digit growth and is among the top 10 brands in the Lake region where it was initially launched in September 2017. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 41 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 42 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 43 Brands 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Brands Growing our spirits portfolio in Kenya Kenya spirits brands Kenya Cane Kenya Cane delivered double digit growth for the third consecutive year, thereby continuing to cement its number one spirits market share in Kenya. We continue to invest in building brand strength through the new thematic campaign ‘Wakilisha Hustle’. This is an innovative campaign that ensures a big brand feel while generating excitement and pride in the brand, further establishing our position as the brand that Kenyans reach for when celebrating. In addition, the full roll out of the new bespoke bottle delivers on Kenya Cane as the industry leader for a very aspirational consumer. Chrome Vodka Chrome Vodka continues to be an icon of contemporary values for the Kenyan millennial. Through its endorsement partnership with Sauti Sol, a popular Kenyan brand, Chrome has used Music as a platform to not only elevate its brand position within repertoire, but more importantly to provide an emotional connection of the Chrome brand purpose. Since the launch of Chrome Vodka in December 2014, it has continued to grow in double digits. Chrome Vodka’s growth drivers have included participation in the national consumer promotion ‘Jijenge na Kaquarter’ and a major distribution drive with the millennials. Johnnie Walker Black Label Johnnie Walker has leveraged its leadership position as the No. 1 premium whisky in the market to transform category participation, revolutionize the whisky-drinking culture and make whisky drinking aspirational and cool for a new generation of drinkers. The growth has been led by Johnnie Walker Red Label driven by scaled up in-bar activations and liquid to lips of signature serve Johnnie Ginger. We have transformed connection to the trademark by rooting the global brand purpose with skill in local context and culture, making the Johnnie Walker trademark a revelant and desirable icon of progress. In Kenya, the ‘Keep Walking Kenya and key cities edition’ campaign has grown brand awareness through above-the-line marketing, focusing on digital and social media. Johnnie Walker Black Label remains the leading brand for gifting as well as mentorships, which continues to effectively deliver consumer knowledge on whisky. 44 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Brands Smirnoff Vodka Smirnoff vodka is one most-loved spirits brand in Kenya. Created using a unique process involving three distillations and ten stages of filtration to deliver smoothness and clarity, Smirnoff has evolved over the years. In Kenya we have responded to consumer demands by offering it at accessible price points supported by local sourcing and production. In 2018, we re-introduced the ‘Win A Ride’ to drive growth and reward our consumers. A new communication themed ‘We Are Open’, has also responded to new trends especially among millennials and extended the brand’s growth. Baileys Baileys Original Irish Cream is a unique marriage of fresh, dairy cream, Irish whiskey, finest spirits and natural flavours. The brand has successfully made its mark in the market as well as generating excitement during special occasions such as the Valentine’s Day where consumers got to enjoy the brand at competitive prices. RESERVE Singleton Singleton is a perfect entry into single malts due to its distinct taste profile and accessible price point. In 2018 we executed the Singleton experience through 5 world class partnerships with Koroga Festival to bag the coveted ‘Best Experiential Award’ at MSK Gala 2017. This campaign has grown brand awareness focusing on digital as the key communication channel. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 45 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements TURN UP. THEN TURN IT UP! INTRODUCING THE NEW SMIRNOFF ICE GREEN APPLE BITE EXCESSIVE ALCOHOL CONSUMPTION IS HARMFUL TO YOUR HEALTH. NOT FOR SALE TO PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS. www.eabl.com 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements GROWING VALUE TOGETHER Brands 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Brands Growing our spirits portfolio in Uganda Uganda Waragi Uganda Waragi is the most loved spirits brand in Uganda. Known as “The Spirit of Uganda” it’s a bold vibrant Gin that has over the years taken a leading role in bringing people together. Uganda Waragi continues its premiumisation strategy to build aspiration and recruit new consumers with the national roll out of flavors led by Uganda Waragi Coconut that has since taken the market by storm. The brand also launched the UG Mix Maestro campaign to extend its partnership with DJs that has helped position it as a vibrant brand and bring its brand purpose to life in the bar. Kampala Cocktail Week is another key activity driving trial for the amazing Uganda Waragi cocktails. Penetration and brand love has since grown over the years, cementing its position as the leading spirits brand in Uganda. BOND 7 Bond 7 is a very aromatic whisky with hints of peat and fruit. The whisky scent combines rich, balanced notes of both holiday spice and dark caramel. Bond 7 has over the years continued to maintain leadership in the Ugandan market. Gilbey’s Founded in London in 1857, Gilbey’s Gin, which has been described as one of the classic juniper-led London Dry Gin, has continued to become one of the popular gins throughout the world. An exceptionally balanced, traditional and bold London Dry Gin, Gilbey’s has continued to make inroads in Uganda, especially with the various innovative campaigns run by UBL. One such activity is a series of cocktail editions that have helped accelerate its growth in the market. 48 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Brands Growing our spirits portfolio in Tanzania Smirnoff Ice Black Smirnoff Ice Black is the only true ready-to-drink in Tanzania within a category that is geared to recruit new consumers based on changing consumer occasions. Positioned as the No.1 brand of choice among Legal Drinking Age 24yr old consumers within the ready-to-drink / Cider category, this brand’s unique and highly sessionable liquid provides great value for money across all those seeking an alternative to beer. The Smirnoff Ice Black DJ competition, now in its second year running is a huge success across its target consumer group across the country and was instrumental in its growth. Johnnie Walker ™ Red label ® Johnnie Walker Red Label, the no.1 selling Scotch whisky in the world, is an incredibly aspirational brand within Tanzania. With the brand’s highly mixable liquid, sampling consumers with the signature serve of Johnnie Walker Red Label & Gingerale has proven incredibly successful in overcoming many taste barriers within the whisky category. This ‘Liquid to Lip’s’ approach through scalable sampling activations in both the On-Trade and Off-Trade, along with focusing smaller serving sizes, has been the key growth driver within 2018, resulting in the brand’s double digit growth. Gordon’s Gin Gordon’s Gin, the second largest spirit brand within our portfolio, continues to grow from strength to strength and is uniquely positioned to capture share within the Premium gin category. With white spirits contributing to >80% of the Tanzanian spirits market, Gordon’s remains highly aspirational and iconic through its consistent availability and visibility. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 49 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 50 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements GROWING VALUE TOGETHER Innovation 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Innovation Accelerating growth of our innovation brands Kenya Captain Morgan Gold EABL is leading the revolution in the spirits segment with a launch into new sub categories. Captain Morgan Gold was launched in December with a huge buzz and excitement amongst millennial consumers. Captain Morgan is a hugely successful global brand that is among the top 5 for Diageo. It has grown rapidly in the recent past and is now making an entry into mainstream segment with the introduction of this locally produced variant. Captain Morgan Gold is available in 250ml and 750ml and is priced to recruit mainstream consumers. Captain Morgan is a fun brand, with a unique brand character that will also drive recruitment of new millennial consumers and tap into the high energy/release occasion. Captain Morgan Gold is a golden spirit that is easy to drink and is best enjoyed with cola. It introduces a new and adventurous choice into mainstream spirits which fits well with the millennials’ lifestyle. Black and White Whisky Since the beginning of 2018, EABL has been transforming consumer access to Scotch in Kenya with the introduction of Black & White Scotch Whisky which is recruiting a new generation of mainstream consumers into the category. Black & White has been blended to deliver an exceptionally smooth and accessible liquid profile that has won multiple awards globally. The brand has been received well by consumers in Kenya driven by its affordability, smooth taste and unique packaging. 52 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Innovation Triple Ace Vodka In line with our strategy of winning in all segments and all price points, the lower mainstream segment is one that we continue to strengthen. In December 2017, UDV introduced Triple Ace Vodka, its most affordable. Triple Ace Vodka delivers a distinct smooth tasting vodka in a striking pack, which has high appeal among the target consumers. The brand is packaged in 250ml and 750ml packs. Consumers want brands that are aspirational and offer great value i.e. good quality at an affordable price. Triple Ace Vodka will grow the market share by offering segment consumers a low priced brand that still delivers the high quality cues and is aspirational. Triple Ace Vodka is the perfect choice for consumers in the low end market. It is a perfect trade up for these consumers who want a quality brand from a reputable manufacturer compared to what they would otherwise be consuming. Kenya Cane Citrus Fusion Kenya Cane is the number 1 spirits brand in Kenya and has led the way in developing new and exciting flavors for mainstream consumers. This plays into the mainstream spirits category that we have purposed to grow, leveraging our strengths in RTC and EABL’s heritage of making high quality spirits. Following a successful Kenya Cane Coconut launch in 2016, we launched a new Kenya Cane Citrus Fusion in December 2017. Kenya Cane Citrus Fusion is a fresh and fruity flavored variant launched in 250ml and 750ml packs and priced competitively. Its objective is to drive further appeal for Kenya Cane and to give consumers wider choice. The introduction of Kenya Cane Citrus Fusion has helped us to continue shaping and extending offerings to mainstream consumers and leading the way for local brands in bringing exciting flavors to consumers. These innovations continue to make Kenya Cane the fastest growing spirits brand in Kenya. Smirnoff Ice Green Apple Bite Smirnoff Ice Green Apple is the new variant from the Smirnoff Ice ready-to-drink family with a clear and crisp taste. The bold flavour of Green Apple mixes with the refreshing taste of lime. Smirnoff Green Apple is the party before the party drink seeking to create tasteful experiential moments for the target market. With it, you are able to have a good time with friends as you warm up for the ultimate party. Smirnoff Ice Green Apple urges consumers to dare to be bold to discover new things. Smirnoff Ice Green Apple is packaged in a 300ml bottle. Smirnoff is the number one vodka brand in the world. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 53 Innovation 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Innovation Accelerating growth of our innovation brands Uganda Uganda Waragi Coconut 2018 focus for UBL Innovation was to nurture existing Innovation with the potential to grow. So far, Uganda Waragi Coconut has seen phenomenal growth in 2018, delivering double digit growth vs last year. The growth is attributed to a massive product awareness drive through the ‘#Go loco for coco’ campaign and consistent distribution. Pilsner Renovation Pilsner renovation is aimed at refreshing and breathing new life into the brand through mild liquid optimization and a refreshed pack. The aim is to recruit new consumers in the UBL mainstream beer category. The brand delivers on value for money both on ABV and price. This presents a great value proposition that can recruit consumers from value beer and defend UBL’s mainstream tuff at the same time. The results so far have been good; Pilsner has realized exponential growth, delivering double digit growth on NSV ahead of target. Performance is driven by a sustained distribution drive in the South and West Uganda using dedicated trucks and trade development representatives. Furthermore, investment has been injected into the through the-line communication and sampling campaign which is delivering awareness and brand reappraisal. 54 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Innovation Tanzania Smirnoff X1 Leveraging the scale of our global brand portfolio, SBL launched Smirnoff X1, Xtra Pure vodka in December 2017. Smirnoff X1 was launched to compete within the mainstream spirits category and build a differentiated consumer proposition, that is accessible to consumers who aspire International spirits. Available in 2 pack sizes, a 200ml PET and 750ml glass bottle, Smirnoff X1 aims to meet the evolving dynamics of convenience and changing consumption occasions. Smirnoff X1, imported from South Africa, is a high quality vodka that is triple distilled, and perfectly blended to create the smoothest tasting vodka that can be consumed neat, or with a mixer. The brand aims to grow the vodka category through its International appeal capture share within the white spirits market. Pilsner King Pilsner King, brewed using local ingredients, is inspired by the original Pilsner brewing process practiced in the city of Pilsen, Czech Republic since 1842. Pilsner King offers consumers a value for money brand with mainstream aspiration (packaging). These attributes have seen the brand gain single digit growth and become among the top 10 brands in the Lake region where it was initially launched in 2018. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 55 Consumer Focus 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 56 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Consumer Focus EABL Scaled up Consumer Focus in 2018 to drive our Brands’ Availability W e make a ‘quality promise’ to the continued Business growth across Boosting Route to Consumer Financial Services consumers of our products East Africa, we continued to enlist new We have been working with about five every time they buy and distributors for our low-priced beer and financial firms as partners to boosting our enjoy our brands. To keep this spirits, aligned to our ambition aimed at distributors’ financial capability to leverage promise, we are keen to maintain global growing Total Beverage Alcohol. We intend latent growth across our marketplace. standards right through the value chain, to complete the recruitment process for In 2018, in collaboration with our financial while always aiming to meet or exceed our all the new distributors before the start of partners we offered financial services to consumers’ expectations. 2019. 1,500 retailers, meaning they they are now To keep this long-held promise, lasting focussed on implementing their strategic nearly a century in East Africa, we take time Entrenching Gold Standard plans to grow their businesses. to study the market trends, understand the To drive development of our distributors, dynamic marketplace we operate in and we have in the last couple of years Kisumu Brewery understand consumer needs, constantly introduced the Gold Standard. This is a The new Kisumu Brewery aims at increasing investing on how to address them. This growth-enhancing model that targets our geographic footprint in retail and means that we have to focus on how to at delivery of a professional outlook distribution, with a focus to recruit from best deliver our consumers, continuously through training and recruitment as well illicit in the Western Kenya region. We innovating brands to keep pace with as effective use of automated sales tools. aim to enlist by 5,000 new outlets which, emerging trends and realities. In line The Gold Standard ensures distributors combined with our existing outlets, with this, we have in financial year 2018, make right business decisions, ultimately will significantly expand our emerging focussed on the following areas; moving from passive to active selling. business universe, setting the stage for In Kenya, our Gold Standard achievers growth in future. Our consumer plan to Enhancing our Route to Market rose by 157% in 2018, meaning that the commercialise the brewery is elaborate, In 2018, we set out to recruit new distributors are more solid businesses, given the scale of illicit trade across the distributors for Emerging Business (driving growing alongside EABL’s strategy. The Kenyan border. our iconic Senator brand and affordable Emerging Business Distributors began spirits) to deliver fresh growth and enable their Gold Journey in March 2018, and will us recruit further from illicits. Aware of be evaluated for the first time in 2019. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 57 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 58 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER PEOPLE AND CULTURE GROWING VALUE TOGETHER People and Culture 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Our people and culture F or nearly a century now, EABL’s purpose has been Talent development as the bedrock for people’s growth ‘Celebrating life every day, everywhere’. Ensuring that we We have developed a robust, multi-year talent planning (MYTP) have the best talent – now and in the future – is both one of approach to strategically forecast human resource needs to drive our biggest challenges and opportunities. EABL has been a growth. In this flagship programme, we have outlined four priority top attraction for the best talent. It has also actively driven talent areas to guarantee our plans with the right people and capabilities development and has been building talent capability across East as we believe in creating an environment for our people that will Africa. We believe that our performance ambition as a business stretch, challenge and enable them to grow themselves and the can only be achieved by having the people and capabilities in business. These areas include talent, capability, organisational place across our business to deliver our plans. The continuous effectiveness and culture, ensuring that: growth and development of our people is central to this, and we are committed to unleashing the full potential of all our people • We have put in place an assurance process that focuses on through great partnerships with leaders, line managers, teams and how we plan, assess and develop talent, underpinned by individuals. sound hiring practices, retention of talent and succession cover that enables us win in the marketplace; The EABL Way • Our organizational effectiveness agenda seeks to transform Our people are our biggest asset our reputation for and enable the delivery of our performance ambition while professionalism, commitment and integrity is something that we our organization is known for the consistency, transparency deeply desire to harness and build upon. Ultimately, this is how and pace of its performance in an empowering and we will achieve our ambition to create the best performing, most winning culture; trusted and respected consumer goods company in Africa. • Our recruitment and selection policy ensures fair access to To extend our success, we have continually integrated talent job opportunities and diversity (50:50). We are constantly development with our broader strategy, ensuring that we are tracking the ratios on a quarterly basis to ensure a balanced more than the sum of our parts of our business across East Africa. approach on internal moves versus external recruitment. Our long-term, deliberate and elaborate growth agenda for our people outlines how we will achieve success through a host of programmes sharpening and developing skills in EABL to deliver on our strategy. EABL talent programmes We have made a conscious effort to boost our people’s skills, embedded by our firm commitment to help our people realise and reach their full potential. To achieve this we have numerous training and development programs, but we also strongly believe that our leaders are key in creating the conditions for our people to succeed. Some of these are: “We have made a conscious effort to boost our people’s skills, embedded by our firm commitment to help our people realise and reach their full potential.” 60 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements People and Culture • Partners for Growth (P4G) – Our performance management system that puts performance and career conversations at the heart of the process, focusing on using and building strengths with two-way development conversations to deliver both business and personal outcomes. It supports individuals in identifying career aspirations with development actions as a priority. A philosophy of 70-20-10 principle has been adopted for development with 70% practice and experience coming from one’s day-to-dayjob, 20% through coaching and mentoring, and 10% from formal traditional learning experience including training and e-learning. Our reward system encourages equal pay for equal work while it also recognises and rewards exceptional individual performance in alignment with real business Alvin Mbugua, former CFO, Uganda Breweries, recieves his awards outcomes. • Amazing People Manager – The quality of our line managers is People welfare and rewards key to releasing the potential of our people and to deliver The welfare of our people remains a critical part of our growth agenda, on our performance ambition. To fast-track development cognizant of the fact that our performance as a company will remain of our line managers, we have developed “Amazing People robust only if they consider EABL a great place to work in. Manager”. This programme equips managers with tools To remain truly transformative to our employees, we have in place and resources while offering support as they seek to inspire a robust end-to-end welfare and rewards programme including: others and drive results. Currently, over 70% of our people managers have gone through the programme, which has • A host of annual rewards including annual salary reviews, now been adopted globally by Diageo. performance rewards and long-service awards. • Graduate Programme – A process that assesses entry-level • A mortgage benefit scheme, partly funded by EABL, in talent with high potential to join a 3-year rotational consideration that one of the highest priorities for our programme in Sales, Marketing, Supply, Finance or Enabler employees is the ability to own a home and this aspiration functions such as Legal, Human Resources, Corporate is an integral part of their financial plans. Relations and others. • An employees’ medical scheme and wellness programme • Future Leaders Programme – Mobile junior leadership talent to ensure a healthy workface across our business. who have shown the potential to be future leaders of the • A clinic fully resourced to provide general and specialist business. Upon nomination, they join a 2-year programme medical care to employees and their families. that includes a global rotation to stretch their leadership and functional breadth. • Collective Bargaining Agreement that spells out all the working conditions and applicable labour relations with • Accelerated Leaders Programme – Key to accelerating the the union as mutually agreed. This has reduced our overall growth of high potential senior managers joining an attrition rate curently trending at less than 5%. international cohort of thirty (30) leaders across Diageo; focusing on increasing breadth of international experience • An Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) connecting with more detailed development and career planning. employment to the long-term success of our business. The plan forms a crucial part of employee engagement and • International Directors Programme – A styled Diageo commitment to creating sustainable value for both our Leadership Performance Programme (DLPP) aimed at people and our business. accelerating development of newly-appointed individuals to executive levels. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 61 People and Culture 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements “We approach our diversity goals with the same attitude and drive that we approach our financial goals.” Diversity is in our DNA As a signatory of the UN Global Compact and the UN Women Empowerment Principles, we exercise and align to a set of codes internally to secure diversity in our workplace. Our approach to gender diversity is driven by the core belief that KBL Supply Chain Director Nderitu Kamugi holds the Monde Selection Award winners in global business must embrace diverse leadership teams. Employer Brand EABL is a diverse business and we believe Our EABL culture is rooted in a set of values, standards and behaviours at the heart of our it is important for our future success that culture. These underpin all of our work, every day, everywhere. We are passionate about our workforce reflects the parts of the world customers and consumers – our curiosity and consumer insights drive our growth. in which we operate. This clearly includes We cherish our brands and we are creative and courageous in pursuing their full having women in leadership positions. potential, doing all we can to be the best. Our investment and work has enabled us Today at EABL, we have 7 women out of earn recognition across East Africa as: 19 in Board and Senior Management positions, representing about 36% of the • Best Employer in Uganda – Federation of Uganda Employers total, with backgrounds spanning food science, finance, technology, legal, and so • KBL Supply Team (Tusker Brewery and UDV) – 11 Gold Awards in the Monde Selection. on. A decade ago, we had 2 women out of 12 board members (or 16%). • UBL’s Finance Director Scoops 2017 CFO Award – Association of Chartered and There has been a marked progress in this Certified Accountants (ACCA) and Deloitte Uganda. agenda, a deliberate journey intrinsic in our • EABL is a net exporter of talent in Diageo. There are three employees working as culture of diversity. In fact, EABL’s intention Managing Directors: Peter Ndegwa (General Manager, Continental Europe and is to ensure diversity is sustained in the Russia), Baker Magunda (Managing Director, Nigeria) and Kimani Mwaura (Managing leadership roles: before hiring at senior Director, Cameroon) and 11 East Africans in roles across Diageo. management level, we ask that there is a female candidate on all our shortlists– and if there isn’t we ask questions to find out why. Overall, we approach our diversity goals with the same attitude and drive that we approach our financial goals. All members of our Executive Committee are individually responsible for helping EABL realise its diversity ambitions and as a group we are committed to tackling any unconscious bias that might exist within the business. 62 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements People and Culture GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 63 People and Culture 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Building an inclusive and diverse culture “We continue to promote equality of opportunity in recruitment, selection, training and career development.” D iversity and inclusion is crucial We also understand the responsibilities for growth and prosperity within that women have away from work, taking an organization. It not only care of their families and building homes. gives a company a competitive This is why we strive to provide them with edge but also breeds success. This is why world class facilities and benefits to be we have invested heavily in promoting able to do this comfortably. We provide diversity within EABL to cultivate a distinct our female employees best-in-class talent pool and build our capabilities. maternity covers, allow new mothers Achieving gender equality and flexible working hours and have also set empowerment is a key focus area for up nursing rooms for them. us and ties in with SDG number 5 on These achievements have been made 7 women empowering women and girls. To this possible through deliberate efforts end, we have put in place measures and from staff and senior management. As frameworks to ensure that we align our a company, we understand the benefits business to meet this target. we stand to gain from an inclusive and out of 19 in Board and Senior Management positions One of the outstanding initiatives diverse workplace. that fuel our drive is the UN Women We have also promoted staff Empowerment Principles, a joint participation in various initiatives that initiative of the UN Global Compact and support diversity. Holding our leaders UN Women, providing a blue print for accountable for inclusion has similarly business in supporting men and women resulted to ownership from top to in both the work and market place. bottom. We believe that every one of our Beyond our internal operations, we 36% women employees needs to feel part of a are also working to empower and uplift great place to work irrespective of women throughout our value chain. We the background, gender or religion. believe they are the center of economic Recognizing how critical this agenda is, development especially in the rural areas. in senior management positions the business has devised strategies that Of the 30,000 smallholder farmers we promotes diversity and inclusion. have contracted, 50% are women. These At EABL, we remain committed to women are able to support themselves, supporting education, training and their families and the community at professional development for women. large creating a domino effect on the Through our ‘Spirited Women’ program, economy. we focus on celebrating the value of women to an organization by sponsoring middle and senior managers to participate in leadership courses. We continue to promote equality of opportunity in recruitment, selection, 50% training and career development. With this framework in place, we have been able to push boundaries. Today, 36% senior management positions are held of the farmers are women by women. 64 64 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements People and Culture “EABL is a diverse business and our belief is that our workforce is all inclusive. Our approach to gender diversity is driven by the core belief that winners in global business must embrace diverse leadership teams.” GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 65 People and Culture 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Our new EABL leadership standard behaviours and standards that leaders need to demonstrate at EABL. The Leadership Standard is expected to: • Be engaging and aspirational for the whole organisation. • Inform recruitment, assessment, development and evaluation of leaders and their future potential. • Be distinctive and relevant to EABL’s culture and values. • Be simple to follow and articulate; clear, memorable and compelling. • Be instructive now and of enduring relevance (3-5 year view of leadership). This Leadership Standard is the upshot of a thorough exercise that included interviews and conversations with a cross-section of current and future leaders to hear their ideas and thoughts on the stretch in leadership required today at EABL versus requirements of the past as well as their input on what they expect of leaders and line managers. N o matter where we are across What became apparent through this East Africa, the dynamics of our marketplace are continuously “Our Performance review and through the work we have undertaken on shaping the culture that shifting. Against a backdrop of this constant change and volatility across Ambition, for will guarantee EABL wins is that there is a need for more entrepreneurial spirit, more East Africa, it has become more critical now than ever before that we at EABL remain EABL to be the pace, urgency and ownership at EABL. We also know we want to continue to build laser-sharp in our performance focus and clear on how we will enable this through best performing, a culture that is inspiring, that is full of passion and one where our leaders shape our leadership. In addition, we increasingly hear about a lack of inspirational leadership most trusted the future, while creating meaning and pride through our Purpose. in the external world and can see daily firsthand the turmoil that this can create. While and respected, We want to unlock the capacity and potential of our people and processes so we cannot control the macroeconomic environment around us, each of us at consumer that we always execute boldly and win at the point of purchase. At EABL, our teams EABL has the ability to inspire others and to shape the environment in which we live products’ company should be free to learn quickly, disrupt and dare to fail. And we will only do this and work. Our Performance Ambition, to be in Africa, remains by creating a trusting, respectful, open, honest and inclusive environment where the “best performing, most trusted and respected, consumer products company unchanged.” we invest in talent and harness the full extent of our capabilities. in Africa”, remains unchanged. Our strong Against a volatile external environment Anchored on four key areas, our results in 2018 exemplify the power of this and an audacious set of goals, it was time Leadership Standard is expected to ambition and the progress we are making. to review our Leadership Standard, which support the delivery of our Performance How we go about further strengthening was introduced over 10 years ago, against Ambition to be the “best performing, most and accelerating our performance delivery the context that was present at that time. trusted and respected, consumer products’ will set us apart from our competitors Our new Leadership Standard is expected company in Africa” and amplification of and peers, we know that our leaders play to support the delivery of our Performance our Purpose by setting the expectation of a disproportionate role in creating this Ambition and amplification of our the behaviours and standards that leaders success. Purpose by setting the expectation of the need to demonstrate. 66 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements People and Culture Our new focus will ensure that everyone at purpose. We will continue to leverage this that can unlock new growth areas. Our EABL is able to help the Company: driven by a belief that personal motivators new ask of leaders is to bring the outside Win through Execution and personal purpose are powerful in in, looking across diverse consumers, This new Leadership Standard amplifies helping people to be their best at work channels and industries to generate data our previous focus on consistently and in life. The key shift we need to and insights that propel us to be leaders delivering great performance, reflecting create is a richer and more consistent of trends, rather than followers. Our leaders the fast-changing world we live in. connection with EABL’s purpose, enabling will use these data and insights to make We have incorporated the must-do our employees and those who engage informed decisions, shape our execution behaviours, describing the need for leaders with us to experience and own its various plans, enable teams to be ready for change to personally role-model and instil across manifestations from shaping and and take ownership for pursuing EABL’s their teams bold execution that ensures supporting the communities in which ambition. we are winning at the point of purchase. we operate, to ownership of inclusion This dimension demands that we apply and diversity, and our commitment to Invest in Talent an owner’s mind-set, taking accountability the responsible role of alcohol in society. This new dimension increases our for the highest standards and demanding Through leaders amplifying our purpose, expectations of leaders from creating brilliant execution in all that we do. It brings we can generate the kind of personal pride the conditions for people to succeed, new focus on scanning the environment and meaning that releases growth for our to fully harnessing the extent of EABL’s to be able to continuously adapt plans, people and business. It ensures our teams talent and diversity in order to achieve at pace. It also asks of leaders to inject are brand ambassadors for EABL. Critical our performance ambition. We are asking restlessness, and to unlock capacity to to inspiring through purpose continues leaders to take bolder bets on talent decide and act quickly – to simplify our to be the quality of relationships that using rigorous evaluation of individuals’ business and release the energy of our leaders build – open, honest and candid strengths and development areas so people to prioritise executing plans that relationships that are based on mutual that they actively build a ready pipeline make the biggest difference to achieving respect, trust and understanding. of succession. Our leaders have long our ambition. been focused on building and coaching Shape the Future diverse teams, yet this Standard demands Inspire through Purpose Given that the environment we operate even greater focus on creating inclusive EABL’s enduring commitment to in is changing constantly, we need to environments where everyone can celebrating life, every day, everywhere is be ahead of, and shaping the market, to be at their best and to harness this for the source of inspiration for what we do continue winning. We need our leaders performance and innovation outcomes. and why. In the new Standard, we call for to go beyond creating possibilities to Finally, the Standard calls for leaders leaders to amplify our purpose internally being able to envisage the future and to build sustainable engagement and and externally. translate that for others to act boldly in performance in their teams by increasing In the past our focus on purpose has the present. By imagining the future, our the organisations’ agility and resilience centred on individuals’ discovery of their leaders can set the context and vision for to succeed in the context of increasing own personal purpose connected to EABL’s people, encouraging experimentation external expectations and volatility. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 67 Compliance and Ethics 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Compliance and Ethics Running a compliant, sustainable business E ABL has an ambition to only being the best performing GMs of our respective businesses in Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania consumer products company, but also ‘most trusted and as well as East Africa Maltings each chair the RMC in their business. respected’ business in Africa. The Controls, Compliance In addition, EABL has a Control Assurance and Risk Management and Ethics (CCE) function drive this EABL agenda to embed (CARM) framework in place covering all the major controls required broad ownership of the company’s ‘trusted and respected’ agenda for every function in the business to operate effectively, efficiently throughout our business. The CCE function works with other and in a compliant manner. As has been the case in previous years, functions to ensure that a robust control environment exists, the CARM process was refreshed in 2018, with an assessment of that we comply with our Code of Business Conduct (COBC) and key controls that are scoped for design and then tested. applicable Policies and Standards. Where breaches are suspected to have occurred, CCE also ensures that they are investigated professionally with appropriate consequence management if Breach Management EABL’s approach to breach management is embedded in its a breach is confirmed. The CCE team seeks to underpin EABL’s Breach Management Standards. In order to ensure that potential reputation as an organisation that can be relied upon to deliver breaches to our Code, Policies and Standards are handled fairly on its promises to its people, its customers, its consumers and its and expeditiously Breach Management Committees in each communities. business meet on a regular basis to review progress of ongoing investigations, check on the status of any ongoing disciplinary Risk Management and Controls Assurance proceedings and progress agreed actions to closure. EABL’s elaborate approach to risk management is in line with • The number of cases at the close in 2018 continued to fall Diageo’s Global Risk Management Standard. On an annual year-on-year, in line with the 3-year trend. We had 58 cases basis, each business unit undertakes a ‘blue sky’ risk assessment. at the end of during the financial year compared to 89 in Thereafter, the top internal and external risks are ranked based on 2017, a 53% drop. their likelihood of occurrence and their impact to the business. • We are committed to driving transparency with our Action owners are then tasked with ensuring that robust riskpeople following proven breaches by sharing appropriate mitigation plans are in place. These risks are reviewed every quarter communications. As at end 2018 we dismissed 17 employees by Business Units at the Risk Management Committee (RMC). The across EABL for for CoBC breaches, compared to 15 in 2017. 68 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Compliance and Ethics Whistle Blowing (SpeakUp) Policy relations, relationship marketing, digital media, We wish to be an open and transparent mobile media, social media, brand sponsorship, business, providing our people with various promotional activities on and off trade and avenues to raise concerns. One way of raising a experiential marketing and events. We also concern is through our whistle blowing policy ensure that there is frequent training on the which is embedded in our “SpeakUp” facility. requirements of the policies. Our people also SpeakUp is a confidential service anyone can spend time in trade through various initiatives use to raise concerns about things relating to and market storms which help in driving sales EABL that are not or do not seem right, such while ensuring responsible business practices. as the risk of harm to EABL people, customers, the public or the environment. Speak Up is Recognising the positive role that alcohol plays, administered by an independent company and hence its independent nature as a channel One way EABL was also part of the launch of a thoughtleading, industry-wide Responsible Marketing addressing matters touching on our integrity. of raising a Code by Alcohol Beverages Association of This service is available 24 hours a day, seven Kenya (ABAK) which we are a part of. One of days a week, and can accommodate calls in concerns is ABAK’s critical roles is to support self-regulation by providing information, training and technical more than 75 languages. One does not have to be an employee of EABL to report a matter. through our expertise to the alcohol industry in Kenya. whistle blowing In launching an industry-driven Responsible Marketing Code members are committed to Compliance and Responsible Market Place Practices policy which is reducing of harmful consumption of alcohol in Kenya. EABL fully supports the code because a) Responsible competition EABL is committed to fair business embedded in we recognise the potential danger excessive practices and upholding the highest our “SpeakUp” alcohol consumption can cause to the sustainability of our business. standards of commercial integrity. We are governed by policies, standards and facility. guidelines such as the Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy (which includes Gifting and Entertainment guidelines), Politics in the Workplace Policy, Competition and Anti-Trust and the Diageo Marketing Code. We require that all our people (including third parties and contractor staff ) undergo mandatory periodic training on these policies and guidelines to embed awareness. We also have various platforms such as Pathway of Pride and our annual Master the Code (Code of Business Conduct refresher) that give our people an opportunity to engage on various areas within our Code and policies including responsible competition and confirm their knowledge/awareness of this content. We also continue to use various other platforms to evaluate the level of our peoples’ knowledge and understanding of these policies, including organization-wide quizzes, engagement of contractors during sales cycle briefs and various supply chain site sessions. b) Responsible marketing and advertisement EABL has put in place various measures to ensure responsible marketing and advertising. As a business we are guided by our Diageo Marketing Code as well as the Competition and Anti-Trust policy that ensure our people remain conscious of their personal responsibilities when advertising, marketing and selling our products. These policies guide our daily commercial activities, including how we engage our competitors and our customers. It also guides activities such as market research, brand innovation, brand names and packaging, trade advertising, consumer advertising, public GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 69 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 70 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER OUR LEADERSHIP GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 71 Board of Directors 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Board of Directors Mr. Charles Muchene (Age 61) Mr. John O’Keeffe (Age 46) Mr. Andrew Cowan (Age 51) Mrs. Jane Karuku (Age 56) Independent NonExecutive Director NonExecutive Director Executive Director and Group Executive Director and Kenya Breweries and Group Chairman Irish Managing Director Limited Managing Director Kenyan British Kenyan Appointed to the Board as a NonAppointed to the Board on 1 July Appointed Group Managing Appointed to the Board in Executive Director of the Company 2015. Director in July 2016. September 2013. in February 2011 and as Chairman Mr. John O’Keeffe has worked at Mrs. Jane Karuku is currently in February 2012. Mr. Cowan is an established Diageo for over 20 years. During business leader, with a wide the Managing Director of Kenya Mr. Charles Muchene is a boardhis career with the Company, he range of commercial and strategic Breweries Limited (KBL). level advisor focusing primarily on has gained a wealth of experience management experience spanning Before her appointment to KBL Corporate Governance, Strategy across both emerging and over 20 years in the FMCG sector. she was the President of Alliance and Ethics. developed markets namely Ireland, Prior to this appointment, he led for a Green Revolution in Africa Since leaving PwC (where he was a Jamaica, Sweden, Greece and Diageo Great Britain (GB). Mr. (AGRA). She has also previously practising accountant and Country Russia. Before his appointment as Cowan’s experience straddles held a number of senior positions Senior Partner) in 2010, he has President, Diageo Africa, John was corporate leadership, strategy in various companies including served as a Non-Executive Director Managing Director for Guinness development, operational Deputy Chief Executive and on the boards of leading public Nigeria Plc. management as well as sales Secretary General, Telkom Kenya interest entities. He currently serves Mr. O’Keeffe holds a Bachelor of and marketing. Andrew joined and Managing Director, Cadbury on the boards of Barclays Bank Commerce (Hons) (Economics and Diageo in 2008 as Commercial East and Central Africa. of Kenya Limited and AIG Kenya Marketing) Degree from University Director for Northern Ireland Mrs. Karuku holds a Bachelor of Limited in addition to East African College Cork, Ireland. and was appointed to the role Science Degree in Food Science Breweries Limited. of Commercial Director in the and Technology from the University He holds a Bachelor of Commerce Republic of Ireland a year later. He of Nairobi and an MBA in Marketing Degree from the University of returned to GB in 2011 and led from the National University of Nairobi. He is also a Fellow of the Diageo GB business until his California. the Institute of Certified Public appointment to EABL. Accountants of Kenya, a Member of the Institute of Certified Public Secretaries of Kenya and a Member of the Institute of Directors. 72 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Board of Directors Dr. György Geiszl (Age 50) Ms. Carol Musyoka (Age 46) Dr. Martin Oduor-Otieno, CBS (Age 61) Mr. Paul Gallagher (Age 50) Executive Director and Group Independent NonExecutive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Finance and Strategy Director Kenyan Kenyan Irish Hungarian Appointed Group Finance and Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in May Appointed to the Board in July Strategy Director in October, 2015. September 2015. 2016. 2016. He joined Diageo in 2006 as Finance Ms. Carol Musyoka is a Lawyer by Dr. Oduor-Otieno is currently an Mr. Paul Gallagher is currently the Director Corporate Region and training and a banker by profession. independent Business Advisor and Global Operational Excellence Diageo Business Services Centre She currently provides consulting Executive Coach. Prior to this, he Director at Diageo and is (DBSC). He has subsequently held and knowledge partnerships for worked with Deloitte East Africa as responsible for developing and other Senior Management roles various local and international Partner, Financial Services Industry executing the overall excellence in Diageo including Group Chief institutions specifically in the from May 2013 to December 2015. in supply chain strategy in the Accountant and most recently areas of leadership and corporate Dr. Oduor-Otieno had an illustrious Diageo global beer markets. His Finance Director for Diageo’s Russia governance. career at Kenya Commercial Bank 25 years’ experience spans across and Eastern Europe markets. Group between October 2005 and end to end supply management, She was previously an executive procurement, customer service, Dr. Geiszl is a qualified Chartered director at Barclays Bank Kenya December 2012, initially as Deputy Accountant and in addition holds a CEO and then as Chief Executive manufacturing, and transformation holding the position of Corporate management. Prior to joining Doctor of Economics Degree from Director. Officer. He has held senior positions the University of Janus Pannonius, in Barclays Bank of Kenya Limited Diageo, Paul worked at Cement Hungary. She currently holds Non-Executive and in the Public Sector in Kenya. Roadstone Holdings where he held Directorships in BAT (K) Limited, a number of positions across its Business Registration Services Dr. Oduor-Otieno holds Executive operations and supply chain. and the Competition Authority of MBA and Bachelor of Commerce Kenya. degrees and is an alumnus of the Harvard Business School’s AMP. He is a Fellow of the Kenya Institute of Bankers, Institute of Public Accountants of Kenya, Institute of Certified Secretaries and a Member of the Institute of Directors of Kenya. He holds Directorships in Standard Bank Group, Standard Bank of South Africa, British American Tobacco Kenya plc, Kenya Airways plc and GA Life Assurance Limited. He is also a Trustee of SOS Children’s Villages Kenya and a member of the International Senate of SOS KDI. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 73 Board of Directors 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Mr. Japheth Katto (Age 67) Dr. Alan Shonubi (Age 59) Mr. Nehemiah Mchechu (Age 45) Mr. Jimmy D. Mugerwa (Age 54) Ms. Joyce Munene (Age 44) Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Group Company Secretary Ugandan Ugandan Tanzanian Ugandan Kenyan Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the board in Appointed to the Board on 27 Appointed Group Company February 2014. July 2009 and retired on 26 February 2014 and resigned July 2018. Secretary on 27 April 2016. Mr. Japheth Katto is a July 2018. on 6 June, 2018. Mr. Mugerwa has a Ms. Munene is an Advocate consultant in corporate Dr. Alan Shonubi is an Nehemiah is a transformational distinguished 25-year career of the High Court of Kenya, governance and financial Advocate and Notary Public business leader. He has led in the oil and gas industry a Certified Public Secretary, a services regulation. and the founding partner various large organizations and is currently the Managing Certified Governance Auditor He was the first CEO of of the Ugandan law firm such as National Housing Director, Tullow Uganda and a Certified Professional Uganda’s Capital Markets Shonubi, Musoke & Co. Corporation, Tanzania and Operations. He is also the Mediator. Authority from 1998 until Advocates, a tier one law firm. Commercial Bank of Africa chairman of the DFCU Bank Prior to her appointment, Ms. 2013. (CBA) Tanzania Limited. Prior Board and serves in various Munene worked with Equity He is ranked as one of the to CBA, Nehemiah worked leadership roles on several He has a wealth of experience world’s leading lawyers in Bank (K) Limited where she for Standard Chartered Bank Boards, including non-profit held the position of Manager, in both the private and Uganda by Chambers Global Tanzania Limited, Citibank organisations. public sector having held specializing in commercial Legal Services and Assistant and Barclays Bank Tanzania Prior to joining Tullow, he Company Secretary. She various accounting, auditing, law mergers, and acquisitions. Limited. Nehemiah chairs insolvency, companies A former President of the East served in various positions started her career as a Legal several Boards and is the at Shell including the Senior Officer with United Insurance investigation and financial Africa Law Society, Dr. Shonubi Director & Founding member services regulation roles in is a reputable business leader Regional Advisor for SubCompany Limited and later of the CEO Roundtable. He is Saharan Africa, Kenya Country practiced law in the firm of East Africa and the UK. in Uganda in his own right a B-Com Finance Graduate and Chairman of Uganda Chair and General Manager, Munene, Omwenga and Mr. Katto is the Board from the University of Dar Shell East Africa. He brings to Company Advocates. Chairman of Stanbic Bank Breweries Limited, Uganda Es Salaam, a member of ACIBaati Limited, International EABL a proven track record in Ms. Munene holds a Uganda, a Board member of Dealers Association and a diverse industries across the Uganda Breweries Limited Distillers Uganda Limited and fellow of Henry Crown Fellows Master’s Degree in Business Entebbe Hospital. region. Administration (Strategic and a member of the Global and Arch. Bishop Tutu Fellows. Council of the UK based He is also a director of several Mr. Mugerwa holds a Management) from Jomo Association of Chartered private companies including Master of Sciences Degree Kenyatta University, a Certified Accountants (ACCA). Cooper Motors Corporation, in Agricultural Chemicals Bachelors of Laws Degree Golf Course Holdings (Garden from the University of from University of Pune and He holds a Bachelor of Wales and also attended a Diploma in Law from the Commerce Degree from City), AAR Health Services and Interswitch Uganda Limited. the Executive Business Kenya School of Law. Makerere University, is a Fellow Leadership Programme at of ACCA and a member of the IMD in Lausanne, Switzerland Institute of Certified Public and the Financial Times NonAccountants of Uganda. Executive Director Diploma. 74 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements GROWING VALUE TOGETHER EABL SENIOR MANAGEMENT Andrew Cowan Group Managing Director György Geiszl Group Finance and Strategy Director Jane Karuku Kenya Breweries Limited Managing Director Mark Ocitti Uganda Breweries Limited Managing Director Helene Weesie Serengeti Breweries Limited Managing Director Peter Vogtlander Group Supply Chain Director Wambui Kosgey* Group Legal Director Eric Kiniti Group Corporate Relations Director Ednah Otieno Group Human Resources Director Pat Rich Group Controls, Compliance and Ethics Director Stephen O’Kelly Group Marketing and Innovations Director *Resigned on 31st July 2018 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice of Annual General Meeting N otice is hereby given that the Ninety-Sixth Annual General Meeting), the changes being made in order to align certain Meeting (AGM) of East African Breweries Limited will be provisions of the Articles of Association to the Companies Act, held on Wednesday, 19th September, 2018 at Safari Park Hotel, 2015 and the CMA Code of Corporate Governance Practices Ruaraka NAIROBI at 11.00 am to transact the following for Issuers of Securities to the Public, 2015. business: 7. To consider any other business of which notice will have been duly received. Ordinary business: 1. To receive, consider and if thought fit, adopt the Annual Report and audited Financial Statements for the year ended By order of the Board 30th June 2018 together with the Directors’ Report and Auditors’ Reports thereon. 2. To confirm the interim dividend of Kshs 2/per ordinary share paid on 20th April 2018, and declare a final dividend of Kshs 5.50/per ordinary share payable net of withholding tax on Joyce Munene (Ms) or about 30th October 2018, to shareholders on the register at Group Company Secretary the close of business on 24th August 2018. P.O. Box 30161-00100 3. Election of Directors: NAIROBI. a. Mr. Jimmy Mugerwa retires in accordance with Article 105 of the Articles of Association and being eligible, offers himself for re-election. 27 August, 2018 b. Dr. Martin Oduor-Otieno retires by rotation in accordance with Article 106 of the Articles of Association and being eligible, offers himself for re-election by virtue of Article 108 of the Articles of Association. Notes c. Mr. Paul Gallagher retires by rotation in accordance with Article 106 of the Articles of Association and being 1) A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting eligible, offers himself for re-election by virtue of Article and who is unable to attend is entitled to appoint a 108 of the Articles of Association. proxy to attend and vote on his or her behalf. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. d. In accordance to the provisions of Section 769 of the 2) In case of a shareholder which is a body corporate, the Companies Act 2015, the following Directors being members of the Board Audit and Risk Committee be proxy form must be completed by an officer or attorney elected to continue serving as members of the said of the body corporate duly authorised in writing. committee: 3) Shareholders who do not propose to be at the Annual General Meeting are requested to complete and i. Dr. Martin Oduor-Otieno; return the proxy form to the Company Secretary at the ii. Mr. Japheth Katto; registered office of the Company or to the Registrars – iii. Mr. Paul Gallagher; Custody & Registrars, 6th Floor Bruce House, Standard iv. Mr. Jimmy Mugerwa. Street, P. O. Box 8484-00100 Nairobi so as to arrive not later than 2.30pm on 17th September 2018, being not 4. To receive, consider and if thought fit approve the Directors’ less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the Remuneration Report for the year ended 30th June 2018 and meeting. to authorize the Board to fix the remuneration of Directors. 4) Duly signed and dated proxy forms may also be emailed 5. To note that the auditors Messrs. PricewaterhouseCoopers to proxy@candrgroup.co.ke in PDF format. (PwC) continue in office as auditors by virtue of Section 5) In accordance with Article 166 of the Company’s Articles 721(2) of the Companies Act 2015 and to authorize the Board of Association, a copy of the entire Annual Report and to fix their remuneration. Financial Statements may be viewed and/or obtained from the Company’s website (www.eabl.com). Special business: 6. To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a Special Resolution:Adoption of certain amendments to the Articles of Association: THAT the existing Articles of Association of the Company be amended as per the draft text of the Articles of Association (in which the proposed amendments are highlighted and which is available on the Company’s website www.eabl.com, and available for inspection at the Company’s registered office at the Corporate Centre, P.O. Box 30161-00100, Ruaraka, Nairobi from the date hereof until the date of the Annual General GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 77 Taarifa ya Mkutano Mkuu wa Mwaka 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Ilani ya Mkutano Mkuu wa Kila Mwaka I lani inatolewa hapa kwamba Mkutano Mkuu wa Kila Mwaka mujibu wa maelezo kwenye rasimu ya Mkataba wa (AGM) wa Tisini ya Sita wa East African Breweries Limited Ushirikiano na Kanuni za Kampuni (ambayo ikiwa na utafanyika Jumatano, tarehe 19 Septemba, 2018 katika Hoteli ya marekebisho yaliyopendekezwa yakiwa yametiliwa Safari Park, Ruaraka, NAIROBI, 11:00 a.m. (saa tano asubuhi) kwa mkazo inapatikana katika tovuti ya Kampuni www. madhumuni ya kutekeleza shughuli zifuatazo: eabl.com, na inapatikana pia katika afisi za Kampuni zilizosajiliwa katika jumba la Corporate Centre, S.L.P. 30161-00100, Ruaraka, Nairobi kwa ajili ya ukaguzi Shughuli ya kawaida: kuanzia tarehe ya ilani hii hadi tarehe ya Mkutano Mkuu 1. Kupokea, kutathmini na kama itakubalika, kuidhinisha Ripoti wa Kila Mwaka), marekebisho yanayofanywa yakiwa na ya Mwaka na Taarifa za Kifedha zilizokaguliwa kwa mwaka lengo la kuhakikisha baadhi ya vifungu vya Mkataba uliomalizika 30 Juni 2018 pamoja na Ripoti ya Wakurugenzi wa Ushirikiano na Kanuni za Kampuni zinawiana na na Ripoti ya Wakaguzi wa Hesabu ambazo zimeambatishwa. Sheria ya Kampuni ya mwaka 2015 na Mwongozo wa Usimamizi wa Kampuni kwa Watoaji wa Hisa na Hati za 2. Kuthibitisha mgawo wa faida wa muda wa Kshs 2/kwa Dhamana kwa Umma wa CMA wa mwaka 2015. kila hisa ya kawaida uliolipwa 20 Aprili 2018, na kutangaza mgawo wa faida wa mwisho wa Kshs 5.50/kwa kila hisa ya 7. Kujadili shughuli nyingine yoyote ambayo ilani kuihusu kawaida, mgawo ambao utalipwa baada ya kutozwa ushuru itakuwa imepokelewa kwa utaratibu ufaao. mnamo au karibu na 30 Oktoba 2018, kwa wenyehisa ambao watakuwa kwenye sajili ya wenyehisa kufikia wakati wa kufungwa kwa shughuli za kibiashara 24 Agosti 2018. Kwa agizo la Bodi 3. Kuchaguliwa kwa Wakurugenzi: a. Bw. Jimmy Mugerwa anastaafu kwa mujibu wa Kifungu 105 cha Mkataba wa Ushirikiano na Kanuni za Kampuni Joyce N. Munene na kwa kuwa anahitimu, anajiwasilisha achaguliwe tena. Katibu wa Kampuni b. Dkt. Martin Oduor-Otieno anastaafu kwa mzunguko kwa mujibu wa Kifungu 106 cha Mkataba wa Ushirikiano S.L.P. 30161-00100 na Kanuni za Kampuni na kwa kuwa anahitimu, NAIROBI. anajiwasilisha achaguliwe tena kwa mujibu wa Kifungu 108 cha Mkataba wa Ushirikiano na Kanuni za Kampuni. 27 Agosti, 2018 c. Bw. Paul Gallagher anastaafu kwa mzunguko kwa mujibu wa Kifungu 106 cha Mkataba wa Ushirikiano na Kanuni za Kampuni na kwa kuwa anahitimu, anajiwasilisha achaguliwe tena kwa mujibu wa Kifungu 108 cha Mkataba wa Ushirikiano na Kanuni za Kampuni. Kumbuka: 1) Mwenyehisa aliye na haki ya kuhudhuria na kupiga kura d. Kwa mujibu wa maelezo kwenye Kifungu 769 cha Sheria katika mkutano huu ambaye atashindwa kuhudhuria, ya Kampuni ya mwaka 2015, wakurugenzi wafuatao ambao ni wanachama wa Kamati ya Ukaguzi wa Hesabu ana haki ya kumteua mwakilishi ambaye atahudhuria na na Utathmini wa Hatari katika Bodi wachaguliwe kupiga kura kwa niaba yake. Mwakilishi huyo si lazima kuendelea kuhudumu kama wanachama katika kamati awe mwenyehisa katika Kampuni. hiyo: 2) Iwapo Mwenyehisa anayetaka kuwakilishwa ni Shirika i. Dkt. Martin Oduor-Otieno; au Kampuni, ni lazima fomu ya uwakilishi ijazwe na afisa ii. Bw. Japheth Katto; au wakili ambaye ameidhinishwa na Kampuni hiyo kwa maandishi. iii. Bw. Paul Gallagher; 3) Wenyehisa ambao hawapangi kuhudhuria Mkutano iv. Bw. Jimmy Mugerwa. Mkuu wa Kila Mwaka wanaombwa kujaza na kuwasilisha fomu ya kumteua mwakilishi kwa Katibu wa Kampuni 4. Kupokea, kutathmini na ikikubalika, kuidhinisha Ripoti ya Malipo na Marupurupu ya Wakurugenzi ya mwaka au kwa Msajili wa Hisa Custody & Registrar Services uliomalizika 30 Juni 2018 na kuipa Bodi idhini ya kuamua Limited, Ghorofa ya 6, Bruce House, Standard Street, malipo na marupurupu ya Wakurugenzi. S.L.P. 8484-00100, Nairobi ili ipokelewe kabla ya saa nane unusu audhuhuri (2.30pm) 17 Septemba 2018, ambapo 5. Kufahamu kwamba wakaguzi wa hesabu wa itakuwa si chini ya saa 48 kabla ya saa ya mkutano. Fomu PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) wanaendelea kuhudumu iliyojazwa na kutiwa saini na kuandikwa tarehe inaweza kama wakaguzi kwa mujibu wa Kifungu 721(2) cha Sheria ya kufanywa dijitali na kutumwa kupitia barua pepe kwa Kampuni 2015 na kuipa idhini Bodi kuamua malipo yao. proxy@candrgroup.co.ke ikiwa muundo wa PDF. Shughuli maalum: 4) Kwa mujibu wa Kifungu 166 cha Mkataba wa Ushirikiano 6. Kutathmini na, ikionekana kwamba inafaa, kuidhinisha azimio na Kanuni za Kampuni, nakala kamilifu ya Ripoti ya lifuatalo kama Azimio Maalum:Kila Mwaka na Taarifa za Kifedha inaweza kusomwa Kuidhinishwa kwa marekebisho kadha kwenye Mkataba wa na/au kupakuliwa kutoka kwenye tovuti ya Kampuni Ushirikiano na Kanuni za Kampuni: (www.eabl.com). i. KWAMBA Mkataba wa Ushirikiano na Kanuni za Kampuni wa sasa ufanyiwe marekebisho kwa 78 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 79 Corporate Governance Statement 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Corporate Governance Statement Overview successful planning and execution of the objectives and strategies Corporate Governance is the system through which corporations agreed by the Board. are directed, controlled and operated as power is exercised over its assets and resources. East African Breweries Limited is committed Non-Executive Directors to the highest standards of corporate governance and business The Board had eight Non-Executive Directors, collectively made ethics. The Company has instituted systems to ensure that high up of six Independent NonExecutive Directors and two Nonstandards of corporate governance are maintained at all levels of Executive Directors as at the end of the financial year. The Nonthe organization and is in compliance with the Capital Markets Executive Directors come from broad industry and professional Authority Code of Corporate Governance Practices for Issuers of backgrounds, with varied experience and expertise aligned to the Securities to the Public (the CMA Code) as well as the equivalent needs of the business. The Chairman and five of the Non-Executive guidelines for listed companies in Tanzania and Uganda. Directors, as at the date of this report, are independent as defined by the Corporate Governance Code and accordingly over half of Besides complying with the CMA Code, the Company has the Board is constituted of Independent Non-Executive Directors. committed to embedding internal rules of engagement to support corporate governance. These internal guidelines are constituted On joining the Board, all Directors receive a full induction. Nonin the Code of Business Conduct (the Code) to which every Executive Directors also receive a full programme of briefings on employee makes a commitment to comply. The Code is aligned to all areas of the Company’s business from Executive Directors, the globally accepted standards and meets the requirements of local Company Secretary and other senior executives. laws as well as internationally applicable laws and regulations. It guides activities in dealing with employees, customers, suppliers, Independence of Directors and Conflict of Interest competitors, government and the community at large. The code The Board recognizes the importance of independent judgement also articulates the Company’s policy on insider trading. Directors, and constructive engagement on all matters brought before the management, staff members and related parties are instructed Board for deliberation. Directors views should have regard to the during closed periods, not to trade in their shares while in best interest of the organization and its stakeholders. possession of any insider information not available to the public. In accordance with the CMA code, the Board undertakes an annual assessment of Director’s independence based on the The Board of Directors independence criteria outlined in the code. The Board comprises of six Independent Non-Executive Directors, The Board also requires all Directors to disclose on appointment, two Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors. The annually and at the beginning of each Board and Board Committee Board is collectively responsible to the Company’s shareholders for meeting, any circumstance which may give rise to an actual or the long-term success of the Company and for its overall strategic potential conflict of interest with their roles as Directors. direction, its values and governance. It provides the leadership necessary for the organization to meet its business objectives Directors Training and Development within the framework of its internal controls, while also discharging The Board is committed to on-going training and development the Company’s obligations to its shareholders. Responsibility of its Directors and towards that goal, appropriate training for implementing strategy and day-to-day operations has been interventions were identified during the year for attendance by delegated by the Board to the Group Managing Director and the Directors. To enable the Non-Executive Directors gain exposure to Company’s executive team. the Group’s business on the ground, one of the four scheduled During the year, there were three standing committees and one Board meetings is held in one of the end markets, where Directors ad hoc Committee of the Board. The standing committees were get an opportunity to undertake various trade visits and engage the Board Corporate Governance Committee, the Board Audit outlets on market related issues. This year, the April 2018 board and Risk Management Committee and the Board Nominations meeting was held in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania where Directors and Remuneration Committee. The Board Investment Committee had an opportunity to undertake a deep dive on the Tanzania is an ad hoc committee. The committees are all chaired by subsidiary, visit distributors, retailers and engaged them on market Independent Non-Executive Directors who also form the majority related issues. The Board and its Committees also receive regular of the committee’s membership. briefings on legal and regulatory developments that affect the business. Division of Responsibilities The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors have a particular The Chairman and the Group Managing Director’s roles are responsibility for ensuring that the organization strategy, the key separate, with each having distinct and clearly defined duties enablers and business operations are fully discussed and critically and responsibilities. The Chairman is responsible for leadership reviewed. This enables the Board to promote the success of the of the Board, for ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its Company for the benefit of all its stakeholders as a whole. In so role and for facilitating productive contribution of all Directors. doing, the Board has regard to matters such as the interests of the The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that the interests Company’s employees, the fostering of business relationships with of the Company’s shareholders are safeguarded and that there is customers, suppliers and other stakeholders and the impact that effective communication with them. the Company has on the environment and communities in which The Group Managing Director has overall responsibility for the it operates. performance of the business and provides leadership to facilitate 80 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Corporate Governance Statement The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with Members: the Company but instead have letters of appointment which Mr. J. Katto * (Chairman) stipulate the terms of their appointment. Dr. A. Shonubi* The Composition of the Board Ms. C. Musyoka* The composition of the Board is as set out on page 72, 73 and 74. Ms. J. Munene (Secretary) *Independent Non-Executive Directors Attendance at Board and Annual General Meetings during the financial year Attendance at Board Corporate Governance Committee Meetings meetings during the financial year Meetings Eligible to Meetings Eligible to Name Attended Attend Name Meetings Attended Attend Mr. C. Muchene (Group Chairman) 6 6 Mr. J. Katto 3 3 Mr. A. Cowan (Group Managing Director) 6 6 Dr. A. Shonubi 3 3 Dr. G. Geiszl 6 6 Ms. C. Musyoka 2 3 Dr. A. Shonubi 6 6 Mr. J. O’Keeffe 6 6 Board Audit and Risk Management Committee Mrs. J. Karuku 6 6 The Audit and Risk Management Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the financial Mr. J. Katto 6 6 statements, the effectiveness of the accounting, internal control Mr. N. Mchechu 2 6 and business risk systems of the Group, and the efficiency of the Ms. C. Musyoka 6 6 Group’s procedures for handling complaints and whistle blowing allegations. Dr. M. Oduor-Otieno 6 6 During the year, the Committee comprised of three independent Mr. P. Gallagher 6 6 Non-Executive Directors and one Non-Executive Director. Board Corporate Governance Committee The Mandate of the Committee also includes: The Board Corporate Governance Committee has oversight over • Overseeing the internal control and risk management the adherence and compliance by the Company to the principles systems in relation to the Company’s financial reporting and requirements of good corporate governance and business process and the Group’s process for preparation of the ethics. All members of the Committee are Independent Nonconsolidated financial statements. Executive Directors. • Monitoring and reviewing the performance of the During the year, the Committee commissioned a Governance Group’s external auditors by keeping under review their Audit as required by the CMA Code, to check whether the Company independence and objectivity. had adopted sound governance practices and to further check • Making recommendations as to their reappointments (or compliance with relevant laws and regulations. After completion where appropriate, making recommendations for change). of the Governance Audit, the Committee received and reviewed in detail the audit report. The report revealed that the Board had put • Approving their terms of engagement and the level of audit in place a sound governance framework that complied with the fees payable to them. legal and regulatory framework. During the year, the Audit and Risk Management Committee met five times and reviewed the following business: Additionally, the Committee provided oversight over the implementation of the changes brought about by the Companies • Annual report and associated preliminary year end results Act, 2015 together with the subsequent amendments thereto. announcement, focusing on key areas of accounting judgement and complexity, accounting and provisioning The Committee monitored implementation of the requirements policies. under the CMA code and in that regard reviewed various plans • The external audit strategy and the findings of the external and policies presented by management such as the stakeholder auditors from their review of the interim results and hard engagement plan and sustainability goals. The Committee also close as at 30 April 2018 and their audit of the year-end reviewed the compliance report to CMA, detailing the measures consolidated financial statements. taken to ensure compliance with the CMA code. The Committee further reviewed the progress made on various governance • Interim results announcement, which included financial statements and Company’s management results. projects such as the digitization of the share register, restructuring of EABL subsidiaries and winding up of dormant entities. Upon completion of the consolidated financial statements, a report highlighting key issues and judgments considered in In a bid to enhance governance within EABL, the Committee respect of the 2018 financial statements was reviewed by the included in its annual work plan, a corporate governance training Committee with the following being deliberated upon: for all Directors. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 81 Corporate Governance Statement 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements • Impairment testing for investment in Serengeti Breweries and makes a recommendation to the Board accordingly. The Limited (SBL) – An asset is impaired when its carrying Group has a policy on auditors’ independence and on the use amount exceeds its recoverable amount. According to IAS 36 of the external auditor for non-audit services which is reviewed ‘Impairment of assets’, an entity is required to test an asset for annually. Any decision to open the external audit to tender is impairment whenever there is any indication that the asset taken on the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Management may be impaired. The conversion of debt to equity at SBL Committee. There are no contractual obligations that restrict the was a trigger for impairment testing for EABL’s restructured Company’s current choice of external auditors. equity investment in SBL. Management carried out a detailed PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) were the Group’s auditors impairment review of the restructured equity investment during the financial year. They have since issued a written and based on the results, there were no impairment losses confirmation to the Board of their intention to seek reappointment required. as the Company’s Auditors at the Annual General Meeting, subject • Impairment testing for goodwill attributable to SBL to shareholders’ approval. Goodwill impairment testing is performed annually for SBL. The impairment testing is based on SBL’s growth projections Members: which are premised on its robust business strategy around Mr. N. Mchechu* (Chairman) resigned on 6th June 2018 driving volumes in order to maximize capacity utilization through its premium brands, spirits and innovation brands. Mr. J. Katto*(Acting Chairman) During the financial year 2018, management maintained the Dr. M. Oduor-Otieno* same approach as in the financial year 2017 and based on Mr. P. Gallagher the results of impairment testing there were no impairment Ms. J. Munene (Secretary) losses noted. In 2017, impairment charge on goodwill of Kshs 285 million was recognised. The goodwill attributable to SBL *Independent Non-Executive Directors stood at Kshs 2.12 billion as at 30 June 2018 ( 2017: Kshs 2.23 billion). The reduction in goodwill in 2018 is attributable to Attendance at Board Audit and Risk Management translation differences. Committee meetings during the financial year • Impairment testing for capital assets (Kisumu Brewery) – Meetings Eligible to An asset is impaired when its carrying amount exceeds its Name Meetings Attended Attend recoverable amount. According to IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Mr. N. Mchechu 2 5 assets’, an entity is required to test an asset for impairment whenever there is any indication that the asset may Dr. M. Oduor-Otieno 5 5 be impaired. The current regulatory environment and Mr. J. Katto 5 5 challenging value beer environment in the first half of the Mr. P. Gallagher 5 5 year was a trigger for impairment testing for the capital investment in the brewery. Management carried out a detailed impairment testing of the plant and based on the Board Nominations and Remuneration Committee results, there were no impairment losses required. The Board Nominations and Remuneration Committee (BNRC) is • Recoverability of deferred income tax assets (SBL) SBL had responsible for three key business processes as listed below: deferred income taxes of TZS 10.72 billion as at 30 June 2018 i. Identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board, (2017: TZS 6.53 billion). The deferred income tax asset was and EABL Subsidiary Boards candidates to fill Board vacancies mainly attributable to tax losses. According IAS 12 ‘ Income as and when they arise. taxes’, deferred income tax assets should only be recognised to the extent that they are deemed recoverable. Management ii. Implementation of the annual Board performance evaluation assessed the recoverability of the deferred income tax asset process. and determined that the asset is recoverable based on the iii. Approving key policies and principles driving remuneration positive growth trajectory in SBL. The tax losses that give rise decisions for management and non-management to the deferred income tax asset are expected to be utilised employees. by the end of financial year 2023. SBL will therefore continue The mandate of the Committee is executed through the to recognise the deferred income tax asset. processes indicated below: • Provisions and material contingent liabilities in the Group. • Succession planning and external talent pipelining for In addition, the Committee reviewed various detailed reports potential vacancies within the Board. This is done through from; nomination, selection and vetting from a pool of suitable • The Control, Compliance and Ethics team (CCE) and the candidates to fill vacancies that may arise from the Board and Global Audit and Risk (GAR) team. Board Committees. • The annual GAR audit plan and the assessment of top risks • Evaluation of the performance of the Board, Board identified by GAR as driving the plan and scope of audits for Committees, Board Members and the Company Secretary the year ending 30 June 2018. against a set of parameters for effective delivery of each role. • Regular legal updates from the Group Legal Director. • Assessing and recommending to the Board, the remuneration of management and Non-Executive Directors including The Audit and Risk Management Committee reviews annually approval of staff incentive schemes, pension plans, and other the appointment of the auditors taking into account the auditors’ remuneration related terms and conditions of employment. effectiveness and independence and all appropriate guidelines, 82 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Corporate Governance Statement The Committee had 4 meetings during the year and dealt with the The mandate of the Committee includes: following business: • Ensuring new investments made by the Company and its • Assessment of the effectiveness and adequacy of the Board subsidiaries comply with the Company strategy and with all succession pipeline and succession plans, with particular applicable laws and regulations. consideration for actual and potential vacancies in the longer • Ensuring the necessary due diligence is conducted before term horizon. any investments or divestments are made by the Company • Approval of a recruitment and selection policy setting out or its subsidiaries. the criteria and focussing on diversity and inclusion in the • Ensuring investments made by the Company take into Board composition. consideration all the stakeholders of the Company. • Review and adoption of changes to reward pay principles, During the year, the Committee met twice and reviewed the management pay structures, pension plans and other cash funding proposals for the construction of Kisumu Brewery and and non-cash benefits pursuant to the talent strategy. the foreign currency risk management framework on the foreign • Review and adoption of revision to the Board development currency denominated debt funding. principles and structures pursuant to the Board development strategy with focus on training programs to strengthen the Members: Board effectiveness and performance. Ms. C. Musyoka* (Chairperson) • Establishment of a framework for evaluation of effectiveness Mr. J. Katto* of the Board and each of the individual Board members. Mr. A. Cowan • Review and approval of benefits associated with long term Dr. G. Geiszl incentive plans related to the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) including the relevant governance framework Ms. J. Munene (Secretary) and structures. *Independent Non-Executive Directors In the year ended 30 June 2018, EABL was recognized in Uganda Attendance at Board Investment Committee meetings as the gold winner of the Employer of Choice awarded by the during the financial year Federation of Uganda Employers. Internally, EABL was recognized as the winning team for having made an important contribution Meetings Eligible to in terms of Employee Engagement in Diageo Globally. Name Meetings Attended Attend Three out of the four members of the Committee were Ms. C. Musyoka 2 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors as at 30 June 2018. Mr. J. Katto 2 2 Members: Mr. A. Cowan 1 2 Dr. M. Oduor-Otieno* (Chairman) Dr. G. Geiszl 2 2 Mr. J. O’keeffe Board Evaluation Dr. A. Shonubi* The effectiveness of the Board, its Committees, the Executive Ms. C. Musyoka* and Non-Executive Directors, the Chairman, and the Company Ms. J. Munene (Secretary) Secretary is reviewed annually. During the year, a Board evaluation *Independent Non-Executive Directors was conducted by an external consultant. Each Director completed a detailed questionnaire designed to obtain feedback Attendance at Board Nominations and Remuneration on the following areas: Committee meetings during the financial year • Board composition and skills. Meetings Eligible to • Board diversity. Name Meetings Attended Attend • Board interaction and support. Dr. M. Oduor-Otieno 4 4 • Board work plan and agenda. Mr. J. O’Keeffe 4 4 • Board meetings and procedure. Dr. A. Shonubi 4 4 • Implementation of Strategy. Ms. C. Musyoka 3 4 • Risk oversight. • Internal control systems. Board Investment Committee The Board obtained a very good rating on all areas of assessment. The Board Investment Committee is responsible for reviewing and The overall results revealed that the Board continued to operate interrogating any investments or divestments that would have a effectively. significant impact on the Company’s balance sheet. Governance Audit In line with the requirements of the CMA code, a governance audit was conducted during the financial year. The audit opinion is outlined on page 86 of this report. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 83 Corporate Governance Statement 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Communication with Stakeholders East African Breweries Limited is committed to ensuring that there is regular interaction and communication with its stakeholders who include shareholders, investors and the financial markets among others. The Board has mapped all its stakeholders and ensures that they are provided with full and timely information about the Company’s performance. This is achieved through the release of the half-year and annual results in the local press, distribution of annual reports and holding of investor briefings as appropriate. The Annual General Meeting provides a useful opportunity for shareholder engagement and, in particular, for the Chairman to articulate the Company’s progress, receive and answer questions from investors. The Board believes that there is an active and regular interaction with all its stakeholders. In addition to information on the Company’s activities the following documents and policies are readily available to stakeholders on the Company’s website: 1. The Board Charter. 2. Board Committees Terms of Reference. 3. The Board Diversity Policy. 4. Past and current copies of the Annual Reports. 5. Investor news. 6. Share Price performance – Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania. 84 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities Statement of the Responsibilities of the Directors The Board of Directors is central to corporate governance, and is appointed for the sole purpose of governing the Company on behalf of stakeholders, thus creating a fiduciary relationship. This requires that the Board works with the Chief Executive, staff and other stakeholders to ensure the organization is properly run to meet the needs for which it was set up. The Board of Directors of East African Breweries Limited (“the Company”) is committed to adhering to the requirements of applicable laws and regulations and in particular matters of Corporate Governance as set out under the Companies Act, 2015 (“the Act”) and the Code of Corporate Governance for Issuers of Securities in Kenya (“the Code”). The Board is guided by the tenets of Corporate Governance being, accountability, transparency, fairness, probity and integrity, ethical leadership and efficiency and effectiveness. While the Board recognizes that the Act has now codified the fiduciary duties of the Board, and the Code provides the minimum standards required from Shareholders, Directors, Chief Executive Officers and Management of listed companies so as to promote high standards of conduct as well as to ensure that they exercise their duties and responsibilities with clarity, assurance and effectiveness, the Board strives for continuous improvement, recognizing that there are now greater demands on Boards for transparency, accountability, independence and more structured engagements with the shareholders and stakeholders. It is on this premise that the Board commissioned a Governance Audit with the aim of ensuring that the Company has complied with the Act, the Code and has adopted best practices in corporate governance. The Directors therefore have adopted the Governance Audit report for the year ended 30 June 2018, which discloses the state of governance within the Company. Adoption of the Governance Audit Report The Governance Audit Report was adopted by the Board of Directors on 26 July 2018. Mr. Charles Muchene Mr. Andrew Cowan Group Chairman Group Managing Director Date: 26 July 2018 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 85 Governance Audit overview 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Governance Audit Overview Regulatory requirements on good corporate governance have become more stringent in Kenya following the corporate failures seen in the recent past. Boards are now required to adhere to corporate governance principles that are appropriate for the nature and scope of their Company’s business; establish policies and strategies for achieving them; and annually assess the extent to which the Company has observed the set policies and strategies. The Code specifically requires listed companies to engage the services of an independent and accredited governance auditor to establish the extent to which the Board has applied corporate governance principles. The annual Governance Audit should be conducted by a competent and recognized professional accredited for that purpose by the Institute of Certified Public Secretaries of Kenya (ICPSK). The Board, in compliance with the Act and Code, appointed Ms. Catherine Musakali of Dorion Associates (“the Auditor”) to conduct a Governance Audit of the governance structures, procedures and processes of the Company in order to assure the Board that its goals, structure and operations are consistent with the law, the Code, as well as the latest developments in corporate governance; and that the Company has adopted best practices in corporate governance as a means of ensuring sustainability. The Code further requires that after undergoing the Governance Audit, the Board should provide an explicit statement on the level of compliance. Governance Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the existence and effectiveness of governance instruments, policies, structures, systems and practices in the organization in accordance with best governance practices as envisaged within the legal and regulatory framework. We conducted our audit in accordance with ICPSK Governance Audit Standards and Guidelines, which conform to global Standards. These standards require that we plan and perform the governance audit to obtain reasonable assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the organization’s policies, systems, practices and processes. The audit involved obtaining audit evidence on a sample basis. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the Board has put in place a sound governance framework, which is in compliance with the legal and regulatory framework, and in this regard we issue an unqualified opinion. FCS. Catherine Musakali, ICPSK GA. No 006 Date: 26 July 2018 Dorion Associates For more information about this report, please contact: Catherine Musakali – cmusakali@dorion.co.ke 86 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Table of contents Corporate Information 88 Directors’ Report 90 Directors’ Remuneration Report 94 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 99 Independent Auditor’s Report 100 Financial Statements: Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss 104 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 105 Company Statement of Profit or Loss and other Comprehensive Income 106 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 107 Company Statement of Financial Position 109 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 110 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 112 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 113 Company Statement of Cash Flows 114 Notes to the Consolidated and Company Financial Statements 115 Principal Shareholders and Share Distribution 158 Information to Shareholders 159 Proxy Form 161 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 87 Corporate information 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Corporate Information Directors Mr. C. Muchene Group Chairman Mr. A. Cowan* Group Managing Director Dr. G. Geiszl** Group Finance and Strategy Director Mr. J. O’Keeffe*** Dr. A. Shonubi **** Retired on 26 July 2018 Mr. J. Katto**** Mrs. J. Karuku Mr. N. Mchechu***** Resigned on 6 June 2018 Ms. C. Musyoka Dr. M. Oduor-Otieno Mr. P. Gallagher*** * British **Hungarian *** Irish **** Ugandan *****Tanzanian Audit and Risk Management Committee Nominations and Remuneration Committee Mr. N. Mchechu* (Chairman) – Resigned on 6th June 2018 Dr. M. Oduor-Otieno* (Chairman) Mr. J. Katto* (Acting Chairman) Mr. J. O’keeffe Dr. M. Oduor-Otieno* Dr. A. Shonubi* Mr. P. Gallagher Ms. C. Musyoka* Mr. A. Cowan (Permanent Invitee) Mr. A. Cowan (Permanent Invitee) Dr. G. Geiszl (Permanent Invitee) Ms. E. Otieno (Permanent Invitee) Mr. P. Ndungu (Permanent Invitee) Ms. J. Munene (Secretary) Mr. P. Rich (Permanent Invitee) Mrs. W. Kosgey (Permanent Invitee) Investment Committee (Ad hoc) Ms. J. Munene (Secretary) Ms. C. Musyoka* (Chairperson) Mr. J. Katto* Corporate Governace Committee Mr. A. Cowan Mr. J. Katto * (Chairman) Dr. G. Geiszl Dr. A. Shonubi* Mr. P. Vogtlander (Permanent Invitee) Ms. C. Musyoka* Mrs. W. Kosgey (Permanent Invitee) Mrs. W. Kosgey (Permanent Invitee) Ms. J. Munene (Secretary) Ms. J. Munene (Secretary) *Independent Non-Executive Directors 88 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Corporate information Secretary Principal Bankers Ms. Joyce Munene (CPS No. 1954) Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited Certified Public Secretary of Kenya 48 Westlands Road, Nairobi, Kenya Corporate Centre P.O. Box 30003 Ruaraka 00100 Nairobi, GPO P.O. Box 30161 CfC Stanbic Bank Limited 00100 Nairobi, GPO CfC Stanbic Center Auditors Chiromo Road, Westlands PricewaterhouseCoopers P.O. Box 30550 Certified Public Accountants of Kenya 00100 Nairobi, GPO PwC Tower Citibank NA Waiyaki Way / Chiromo Road Citibank House P.O. Box 43963 Upper Hill Road 00100 Nairobi, GPO P.O. Box 30711 00100 Nairobi, GPO Advocates Bowmans Barclays Bank of Kenya Limited 5th Floor, ICEA Lion Centre, West Wing Barclays Westend Building Riverside Park, Chiromo Road, Nairobi Off Waiyaki Way P.O. Box 10643 P.O. Box 30120 00100 Nairobi, GPO 00100 Nairobi, GPO Kaplan and Stratton Advocates Registered office Williamson House East African Breweries Limited 4th Ngong Avenue Corporate Centre P.O. Box 40111 Ruaraka 00100 Nairobi, GPO P.O. Box 30161 00100 Nairobi, GPO Share Registrars Custody and Registrar Services Limited 6th Floor, Bruce House Standard Street P.O. Box 8484 00100 Nairobi, GPO GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 89 Directors’ Report 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Directors’ Report T he Directors submit their report together with the construction and recovery in consumer spending ability. audited financial statements for the year ended 30 June This was exacerbated by the macroeconomic pressures with 2018, which disclose the state of affairs of East African rising inflation and drought impacting consumer spending Breweries Limited (“EABL“ or the “Company”) together power in the first half of the year. In spite of this, our brands with its subsidiaries (jointly the “Group”). The annual report and weathered the headwinds throughout the year to deliver a financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the strong performance. In Tanzania, the trading environment requirements of the Companies Act, 2015. was characterized by price adjustments in response to changing consumer spending patterns. 1. Principal activities The Company and the Group are involved in marketing, c) Policy and regulation production and distribution of a collection of brands that The policy and regulatory environment remains quite range from beer, spirits to adult non-alcoholic drinks. dynamic. In Kenya there have been a number of key regulatory developments as set out below:2. Results i. The Finance Bill, 2018 which formulates the proposals The Group and Company results for the year are set out on announced in the budget for 2018/2019 was presented page 104 and page 106 respectively. on 14 June 2018. The Bill seeks to amend various laws, key being, the Income Tax Act, the Value Added Tax Act, 3. Business review the Excise Act, the Betting, Lotteries and Gaming Act, the Kenya Revenue Authority Act and the Tax Appeals a) Business performance Tribunal Act. The proposals under the Income Tax Bill, EABL achieved a solid year on year performance driven by 2018 will have far reaching implications. continued strong mainstream spirits performance, improved ii. On 6 July 2018, the Minister adjusted the rate of excise bottled beer growth and a resilient Scotch delivery. However, duty on beer, spirits and ready to drink products by the performance was muted by decline of Senator keg and applying an inflation factor of 5.2% with effect from 1 electoral uncertainty in Kenya in the first half coupled with a August 2018. This will necessitate appropriate price challenging and competitive trading environment in Uganda adjustments by the business. and Tanzania. iii. The Kenya Data Protection Bill, 2018 was published on Significant business resilience throughout the year and 30 May 2018 and it is due for first reading in the Senate. growth across most of our categories delivered Kshs 73.5 This comes hot on the heels of the Kenya Computer billion in revenue, a 5% growth compared to the prior year. Misuse and Cybercrimes Act, 2018, and the European Selling and distribution costs grew by 20% as we invested General Data Protection Regulation which seek to in rejuvenating bottled beer and accelerating momentum promote protection of personal data and penalties in innovation during the year in line with our strategy and for breach. These laws will generally change the way commitment. our business collects and handles data and we have a Administrative expenses increased by 3% in line with inflation compliance plan in place. and securing our growth plans with the right resources. d) Sustainability The business delivered a gross profit margin and operating EABL is increasingly alive to the exigencies of the new margin of 44% and 19% respectively with the latter excluding world bringing to the fore the need to adopt fresh the impact of a one-off tax provision. Profit for the year ways to operate across our business from sourcing decreased 15% driven by the one-off provision excluding to production and distribution. We can only prosper in an which there would have been a 3% growth. all-inclusive environment, where our stakeholders – farmers, EABL’s continued investment into the future growth through communities, suppliers, employees or customers – walk increased capacity and operational efficiency saw capital along the sustainability journey with us. Our strategy focuses expenditure of Kshs 13 billion in the year. The new brewery on the entire value chain, ‘From Grain to Glass’. in Kisumu, a Kshs 15 billion investment is scheduled to Our clear and robust sustainability agenda is anchored on commence its operations in the first half of the new financial three key pillars, underpinning the spirit of our existence year. since 1922 and our determination to drive a sustainable b) Operating environment business for the next century. EABL’s overall operating environment improved significantly Our leadership agenda in Alcohol in Society has presented a in the second half, especially in Kenya. A protracted period broad, solid platform to create and demonstrate the positive during the general elections impacted our largest market, role for alcohol in society with partnerships and programmes leading to economic uncertainty and softening demand delivering impact. across the region in the first half of the year. During the second EABL is Building Thriving Communities, equipping people, half there was improvement supported by resumption of particularly women and youth, with requisite skills and economic fundamentals like investments in infrastructure, resources to build a better future for themselves. More than 90 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Directors’ Report 60,000 mainly small-scale farmers have a guaranteed market 6. Auditor for their sorghum and are part of the estimated 180,000 Disclosures to Auditor direct and indirect beneficiaries in our larger Grain to Glass The Directors confirm that with respect to each director at value chain. the time of approval of this report: Reducing Environmental Impact relating to both our production processes and the way we source and distribute a. There was, as far as each Director is aware, no relevant has increasingly made our products and business operations audit information of which the Company’s auditor is more environmentally sustainable. unaware; and To achieve this, we have integrated several UN Sustainable b. Each Director had taken all steps that ought to have Development Goals (SDGs) into our business model been taken as a Director so as to be aware of any cognizant of the critical role we play in improving the wellrelevant audit information and to establish that the being of the society. Company’s auditor is aware of that information. e) Employees Terms of appointment of Auditor We recognize that people are integral part of the business PricewaterhouseCoopers continue in office in accordance and as such are investing in their growth and we have with the Company’s Articles of Association and Section 719 continually been acknowledged in the area. During the year, of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. our investment and work has enabled us earn recognition across East Africa as: The Directors monitor the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the auditor. This responsibility includes • Best Employer in Uganda – Federation of Uganda the approval of the audit engagement contract and the Employers. associated fees on behalf of the shareholders. • EABL is a net exporter of talent in Diageo world including 3 General Managers and Managing Directors in Europe 7. Employees and across Africa. The Directors are pleased once again to record their f) Internal policy framework appreciation to all the employees of the Group for the EABL endeavors to ensure that it has best in class policies in untiring effort, energy and dedication during the year. the region. EABL wishes to highlight in particular the diversity, procurement and ICT policies that are in place and are 8. Approval of financial statements constantly updated in order to incorporate current trends in The financial statements were approved by the Board of the region and the fast pace of advancement in technology. Directors on 26 July 2018. g) Related party transactions The Directors confirm that they have disclosed the Group By Order of the Board and Company related party transactions in these financial statements and there were no insider dealings for the year ended 30 June 2018. Joyce Munene (Ms) Group Company Secretary 4. Dividends The Directors recommend a final dividend of Kshs 5.50 26 July 2018 (2017: Kshs 5.50) per share amounting to a total of Kshs 4,349,259,000 (2017: Kshs 4,349,259,000) to be paid on or before 30 October 2018 to those members on the register at the close of business on 24 August 2018. During the year an interim dividend of Kshs 2.00 (2017: Kshs 2.00) per share, amounting to a total of Kshs 1,581,548,000 (2017: Kshs 1,581,548,000) was paid. The total dividend for the year is therefore Kshs 7.50 per share (2017: Kshs 7.50 per share), amounting to a total of Kshs 5,930,807,000 (2017: Kshs 5,930,807,000). 5. Directors The Directors who held office during the year and to the date of this report are set out on page 88. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 91 Ripoti ya Wakurugenzi 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Ripoti ya Wakurugenzi W akurugenzi wanawasilisha ripoti yao pamoja na uchaguzi kilikuwa kimeathiri soko hilo letu kuu, na kuchangia taarifa za matokeo ya kifedha zilizokaguliwa za kutotabirika kwa hali ya kiuchumi na kupungua kwa hitaji mwaka uliomalizika 30 Juni 2018, ambazo zinaonesha la bidhaa zetu kadha nusu ya kwanza ya mwaka. Nusu ya hali halisi ya East African Breweries Limited (“EABL” pili ya mwaka hali iliimarika kutokana na mambo kadha ya au “Kampuni”) pamoja na kampuni zake tanzu (kwa pamoja kiuchumi kama vile uwekezaji kwenye miundo mbinu, ujenzi zikifahamika kama “Shirika”). Ripoti ya kila mwaka na taarifa za na kuimarika kwa uwezo wa wateja kununua bidhaa na kifedha huandaliwa kwa kufuata Sheria ya Kampuni Kenya ya huduma. mwaka 2015. Hali ilifanywa kuwa mbaya zaidi na shinikizo za jumla za kiuchumi huku mfumko wa bei na ukame vikiathiri uwezo 1. Shughuli kuu wa kifedha wa wateja. Licha ya hayo, nembo zetu zilihimili Kampuni hii na Shirika hili hujihusisha na mauzo, uzalishaji na changamoto hizi na kuandikisha matokeo mazuri. Nchini usambazaji wa mkusanyiko wa bidhaa mbalimbali ambazo Tanzania, mazingira ya kibiashara yalilazimisha kubadilishwa ni pamoja na bia na pombe kali hadi kwa vinywaji vya watu kwa bei kutokana na kubadilika kwa mitindo ya ununuzi wazima visivyo na kileo. miongoni mwa wateja. 2. Matokeo c) Sera na sheria Matokeo ya Shirika na Kampuni kwa mwaka huo uliomalizika Mazingira ya kisera na kisheria yalibaki kuwa ya kutotabirika yamechapishwa katika ukurasa 104 na ukurasa 106 mtawalia. na ya kubadilika mara kwa mara. Nchini Kenya, kulitokea mabadiliko kadha ya kisheria kama ifuatavyo: 3. Utathmini wa biashara i. Mswada wa Fedha, 2018 ambao hujumuisha a)Matokeo ya kifedha mapendekezo yaliyotangazwa kwenye bajeti ya mwaka 2018/2019 uliwasilishwa 14 Juni 2018. Mswada huo EABL ilipata matokeo mema kwa mwaka mwingine unataka kufanyia marekebisho sheria kadha, muhimu yakichangiwa na kuendelea kufanya vyema sokoni kwa zikiwa Sheria ya Ushuru wa Mapato, Sheria ya Ushuru wa pombe kali, kuongezeka kwa mauzo ya bia za chupa na Ongezeko la Thamani (VAT), Sheria ya Ushuru wa Bidhaa kuimarika pia kwa mauzo ya Scotch. Hata hivyo, matokeo zinazotengenezewa au kupakiwa ndani ya nchi, Sheria yaliathiriwa na kushuka kwa mauzo ya Senator Keg na ya Michezo na Mashindano ya Bahati Nasibu, Sheria ya wasiwasi kuhusu uchaguzi mkuu Kenya nusu ya kwanza ya Mamlaka ya Mapato Kenya na Sheria ya Jopo la Rufaa mwaka, pamoja na ushindani mkali Uganda na Tanzania. kuhusu Ushuru. Mapendekezo ambayo yametolewa Kuwa imara kwa biashara yetu mwaka huo pamoja na ukuaji chini ya Mswada wa Sheria ya Ushuru wa Mapato 2018, katika vitengo vingi vya biashara vilichangia mapato ya jumla pia yatakuwa na athari kubwa. ya Kshs 73.5 bilioni, ambalo ni ongezeko la 5% ukilinganisha ii. Mnamo 6 Julai 2018, Waziri alifanyia mabadiliko ushuru na mwaka uliotangulia. wa bidhaa zinazotengenezewa au kupakiwa ndani ya Gharama za uuzaji na usambazaji zilipanda kwa 20% kutokana nchi unaotozwa bia, pombe kali na vinywaji vingine na kuwekeza katika bia za chupa huku tukiongeza kasi katika kwa kuongeza kipimo cha mfumko wa bei cha 5.2% cha ubunifu na uvumbuzi mwaka huo kuambatana na mkakati kuanza kutekelezwa 1 Agosti 2018. Hili litailazimisha wetu na ahadi yetu kuu. kampuni kubadilisha bei ya bidhaa zake. Gharama za usimamizi nazo ziliongezeka 3% kutokana iii. Mswada wa Kulinda Data wa 2018 ulichapishwa na mfumko wa bei na mipango yetu ya kuhakikisha tuna mnamo 30 Mei 2018 na unatarajiwa kusomwa mara ya rasilimali na watu wafaao kuhakikisha ukuaji siku zijazo. kwanza karibuni katika bunge la Seneti. Hii inajiri baada ya kuidhinishwa kwa Sheria ya Matumizi Mabaya ya Biashara iliandikisha ukuaji wa faida kabla ya ushuru wa 44% Kompyuta na Uhalifu wa Kimitandao ya 2018 na Sheria na ongezeko la gharama kwa 19% (ukiondoa gharama ya ya Kulinda Data Ulaya ambazo lengo lake ni kulinda mara moja tu ya kutenga pesa za kulipa kodi) kuambatana na taarifa na maelezo kuhusu watu binafsi na kutoa adhabu mwaka uliotangulia. Faida halisi ya mwaka huo uliomalizika kwa wanaokiuka sheria hizo. Sheria hizi zitabadilisha ilishuka kwa 15% na lakini iliongezeka kwa 3% (ukiondoa pakubwa jinsi kampuni yetu inavyopokea na kutumia gharama ya mara moja tu ya kutenga pesa za kulipa kodi), data na tayari tumeweka mpango kutii sheria hizo. bila kuzingatia uwekezaji mkubwa tulioufanya katika biashara yetu mwaka huo. d) Uendelevu EABL iliendelea kuwekeza katika msingi wa ukuaji siku za EABL inafahamu na kutambua haja kuu ya kubadilika kadiri baadaye kupitia kuongeza uwezo wa viwanda na utendaji ulimwengu unavyobadilika, kubadilisha biashara yetu kuanzia kazi bora ambapo kwa jumla tulitumia Kshs 13 bilioni mwaka kutafuta malighafi, uzalishaji viwandani na katika uuzaji. huo. Kiwanda chetu kipya cha Kisumu kilichogharimu Kshs Tunaweza tu kunawiri katika mazingira yanayowajumuisha 15 bilioni kinatarajiwa kuanza kufanya kazi nusu ya kwanza ya wote, katika hali ambapo wadau wetu – wakulima, jamii, mwaka ujao wa kifedha. wanaosambaza bidhaa zetu, wafanyakazi na wateja – wanasonga pamoja katika safari hii ya kuwa endelevu. b) Mazingira ya kibiashara Mkakati wetu unaangazia mfumo wote wa uzalishaji, ’kuanzia Kwa jumla, mazingira ya kufanyia biashara ya EABL yaliimarika kwa Nafaka hadi kwa Gilasi.’ kiasi nusu ya pili ya mwaka, hasa Kenya. Kipindi kirefu cha 92 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Ripoti ya Wakurugenzi Ajenda yetu ya uendelevu ambayo iko wazi na madhubuti zitalipwa mnamo au kabla ya 31 Oktoba 2018 kwa wenyehisa ina msingi wake katika nguzo tatu kuu, ambazo zinaakisi ambao majina yao yatakuwa kwenye sajili kufikia wakati wa moyo ambao umetuwezesha kuwepo tangu 1922 na kufungwa kwa biashara 31 Agosti 2018. Katika mwaka huo, kujitolea kwetu kuhakikisha biashara endelevu itakayodumu kulikuwa kumetolewa mgawo wa faida wa muda wa Kshs kwa karne nyingine. 2.00 (2017: Kshs 2.00) kwa kila hisa, ambazo ni jumla ya Kshs Uongozi wetu katika ajenda ya Pombe katika Jamii umetupa 1,581,548,000 (2017: Kshs 1,581,548,000). jukwaa pana na imara la kujenga na kudhihirisha mchango MMgawo wa hisa wa jumla kwa mwaka huo kwa hivyo ni mwema ambao pombe inaweza kuwa nao katika jamii Kshs 7.50 kwa kila hisa (2017: Kshs 7.50 kwa kila hisa), ambazo kupitia ushirikiano na miradi ambayo ina matokeo mema. ni jumla ya Kshs 5,930,807,000 (2017 Kshs 5,930,807,000). EABL Inajenga Jamii Zinazonawiri, kuwawezesha watu, hasa 5. Wakurugenzi wanawake na vijana, kwa kuwapa ujuzi muhimu na rasilimali za kuwawezesha kujijengea maisha mazuri ya siku za usoni Wakurugenzi ambao walihudumu mwaka huo, na kufikia sasa, wameorodheshwa katika ukurasa 88. wenyewe. Wakulima wadogo wadogo zaidi ya 30,000 wamepewa hakikisho la soko kwa mtama wao na ni sehemu ya watu takriban 180,000 wanaonufaika kwa njia moja au 6. Wafanyakazi nyingine katika mfumo wetu mkubwa wa uzalishaji wa Wakurugenzi wana furaha kutoa shukrani kwa mara nyingine Nafaka hadi kwenye Gilasi. kwa wafanyakazi wa Shirika hili kwa juhudi zao na kujitolea kwao katika mwaka huo. Hatua ya Kupunguza Athari kwa Mazingira katika shughuli zetu za uzalishaji na jinsi tunavyopata malighafi na kusambaza 7. Wakaguzi wa Hesabu bidhaa zetu imesaidia kuzifanya shughuli za kampuni yetu Kuweka bayana mambo kwa Wakaguzi wa Hesabu kuwa endelevu kimazingira. Ili kutimiza hili, tumekumbatia Malengo ya Maendeleo Endelevu (SDG) ya Umoja wa Mataifa Wakurugenzi wanathibitisha kwamba kuhusiana na na kila katika mpangilio wa biashara zetu tukitambua mchango Mkurugenzi wakati wa kuidhinishwa kwa ripoti hii: muhimu ambao huwa tunatekeleza katika kuboresha hali ya maisha ya watu katika jamii. a) Hakukuwepo, kwa uelewa wa kila Mkurugenzi, taarifa zozote muhimu kwa ukaguzi wa hesabu za Kampuni e) Wafanyakazi ambazo mkaguzi wa hesabu hakuwa nazo; na Tunatambua kwamba watu ni kiungo muhimu sana katika b) Kila Mkurugenzi alikuwa amechukua hatua zote zilizofaa biashara yetu na kwa hivyo, tunawekeza katika kuwakuza kuchukuliwa kama Mkurugenzi ili kufahamu taarifa zozote na kuwaendeleza. Tumetambuliwa mara kadha kwa kufanya muhimu kwa ukaguzi wa hesabu na kuhakikisha kwamba vyema katika hilo. Katika mwaka huo uliomalizika, uwekezaji mkaguzi wa hesabu za Kampuni anafahamu taarifa hizo. wetu na juhudi zetu, vilituwezesha kutambuliwa Afrika Mashariki kama: Masharti ya uteuzi wa Mkaguzi wa hesabu • Mwajiri Bora Zaidi Uganda – Shirikisho la Waajiri PricewaterhouseCoopers wanaendelea kuhudumu kwa Uganda. mujibu wa Mkataba wa Ushirikiano na Kanuni za Kampuni na Kifungu 719 cha Sheria ya Kampuni za Kenya ya mwaka 2015. • EABL imewatuma watu kufanya kazi Diageo ambapo kuna Wakurugenzi Wakuu 3 na Mameneja Wakurugenzi wanafuatilia utendaji kazi, kutopendelea Wakurugenzi Ulaya na kwingineko Afrika. upande wowote, na uhuru wa mkaguzi wa hesabu. Wajibu huu ni pamoja na uidhinishaji wa mkataba wa kuhudumu f) Mfumo wa sera za ndani kama mkaguzi wa hesabu na malipo yanayohusiana na hilo EABL EABL inajizatiti kuhakikisha kwamba ina sera bora kwa niaba ya wenyehisa. zaidi katika kanda hii. EABL ingependa kugusia zaidi sera ya kuhakikisha kujumuishwa kwa makundi mbalimbali, sera ya 8. Wafanyakazi ununuzi wa bidhaa na huduma za kutumiwa na kampuni Wakurugenzi wana furaha kutoa shukrani kwa mara nyingine na sera ya Teknolojia ya Habari na Mawasiliano (ICT). Sera kwa wafanyakazi wa Shirika hili kwa juhudi zao na kujitolea hizi zipo na zimekuwa zikiboreshwa kila wakati kujumuisha kwao katika mwaka huo matukio na mitindo mipya katika kanda hii na mabadiliko katika teknolojia. 9. Kuidhinishwa kwa taarifa za kifedha Taarifa za kifedha ziliidhinishwa na Bodi ya Wakurugenzi g) Biashara na washirika mnamo 26 Julai 2018. Wakurugenzi wanatoa hakikisho kwamba wameweka bayana shughuli za kibiashara zinazohusisha Shirika na Kampuni na Kwa Agizo la Bodi mashirika au watu wenye maslahi katika Shirika au Kampuni yenyewe katika taarifa hizi za kifedha na kwamba hakukuwa na shughuli za kibiashara zilizowahusisha wahusika wa ndani katika mwaka uliomalizika 30 Juni 2018. Joyce Munene (Bi) 4. Mgawo wa faida Katibu wa Kampuni Wakurugenzi wanapendekeza mgawo wa faida wa mwisho wa Kshs 5.50 (2017: 5.50) kwa kila hisa ambazo ni jumla 26 Julai 2018 ya Kshs 4,349,259,000 (2017: Kshs 4,349,259,000) ambazo GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 93 Directors’ Remuneration Report 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Directors’ Remuneration Report E ast African Breweries Limited (“EABL” or “Company”) ambition is to be the best performing, most trusted and respected consumer products Company in Africa. Achieving this will require significant leadership focus and investment behind an ambitious growth strategy. Reward is a key enabler to this strategy – impacting our ability to not only attract, but to motivate and retain talent with the capability to deliver EABL’s strategy and performance goals. EABL is pleased to present the Directors’ remuneration report for the year ended 30 June 2018. This report is compiled pursuant to EABL’s reward policy, the Capital Market Authority Code of Corporate Governance (CMA Code), and the Companies Act 2015 Regulations on Directors’ remuneration. A key provision of the Company’s principles is that reward directly support the business strategy with clear and measurable linkage to business performance. The EABL reward system seeks to recognize the contribution its employees make towards the success of the Company, while reflecting not only the value of the roles they perform, but also the level to which they perform them. Our approach to recognizing our Directors’ contribution to the business is based on our reward principles, which are summarized as below: • Competitiveness: Our total reward levels are reflective of the competitive market, and compare favourably with our peers for such skills. Our reward structure is reviewed regularly and is subject to external benchmarking to ensure that we continually offer our Directors a competitive total reward package. • Transparency: Our reward programme is simple and globally aligned in terms of core offerings and mechanism. We strive to explain to all stakeholders the component value of the total reward package and the criteria which may affect it. • Performance based: Our reward programmes are linked to our performance ambition. They are simple and clearly communicated recognizing individual and business performance. During the financial year, EABL’s Board of Directors consisted of: • 3 Executive Directors: Mr. Andrew Cowan, Dr. György Geiszl and Mrs. Jane Karuku. • 2 Non-Executive Directors: Mr. John O’Keeffe and Mr. Paul Gallagher. • 6 Independent Non-Executive Directors (“INEDs”): Mr. Charles Muchene, Dr. Alan Shonubi, Mr. Japheth Katto, Mr. Nehemiah Mchechu, Dr. Martin Oduor-Otieno and Ms. Carol Musyoka. For the financial year ended 30 June 2018, the consolidated Directors’ remuneration was Kshs 219,373,000 (2017: Kshs 256,255,000). The next section outlines the details of these remuneration. 1. Executive Directors The reward of the Executive Directors is therefore guided by the principles set out above. It comprises guaranteed elements (base pay and fixed allowances), benefits and variable elements (bonus pay and stock option or awards). The elements of the Executive Directors’ remuneration are as detailed out on the table below: Reward Element Description Base pay Purpose and link to Group Strategy The base pay supports the attraction and retention of the best global talent with the capability to deliver EABL’s strategy and performance goals. Operation • It is paid monthly (12 equal instalments) during the year, and is pensionable. • The base pay is reviewed annually in October, to reflect changes in market pay levels and individual performance. • The Board Nominations and Remuneration Committee “BNRC”) approves the budgets that form the basis for the annual base salary increments on an annual basis. Performance measure – It is based on individual’s level of responsibility. Fixed allowances and benefits Purpose and link to Group Strategy These allowances and benefits provide market competitive and cost effective benefits. Operation • Fixed allowances are provided in line with the Company’s pay structure and may include a car allowance (unless in cases where an actual car is provided). Further, Executive Directors on international assignee contracts receive mobility related allowances to compensate for cost of living and location differentials. • Market competitive benefits that are in line with the Company’s pay structure include pension, medical, accident and life insurance and club membership. • International assignees receive additonal benefits that include: home leave travel, housing support, dependants’ education support and tax support through tax equalisation. Performance measure – It is based on individual’s level of responsibility. 94 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Directors’ Remuneration Report Reward Element Description Bonus Purpose and link to Group Strategy This incentivises delivery of EABL’s annual strategic financial and non-financial targets. It provides focus on the key financial metrics and the individual’s contribution to the Company’s performance. Operation • Bonus pay is discretionary and is paid out in line with the Company’s bonus scheme referred to as the Annual Incentive Plan (“AIP”). AIP seeks to reward an employee’s contribution as part of a ‘winning team’. • Bonuses are awarded during the EABL Annual Review Cycle and paid out in cash in October of every year. • The elements used to calculate the bonus are: »» Annual base salary Bonus is usually expressed in terms of one’s annual base salary. »» The business multiple – This is a reflection of the performance of the business against its annual operating plan. It could be between 0.0 and 3.0 ; and »» The bonus factor is the proposed recommendation by the Line Manager. It is a reflection of one’s individual performance in the performance year and is between 0% 200%. Performance measure – This is based on individual and Company performance. Shares / stock options Purpose and link to Group Strategy This incentivises delivery of EABL’s annual strategic financial and non-financial targets. It provides focus on the key financial metrics and the individual’s contribution to the Company’s performance. Operation • Diageo Executive Long Term Investment Plan (DELTIP) – This is a plan whereby awards/options are discretionary and normally granted in September every year. They create an opportunity for executives of the business to act like owners linking reward to Diageo’s share price performance. Under the Plan, the shares or share options granted have a vesting period of three years after which an employee can exercise the award/option within the third year to the tenth year. • The Performance Share Plan (PSP) – This is a long-term incentive that offers the executive the opportunity to receive conditional awards of shares in Diageo plc, subject to the achievement of performance conditions: organic Profit Before Exceptional Items and Tax (PBET), organic Net Sales Value (NSV) growth and cummulative cashflow. The vesting period for PSP is three years but is also subject to meeting the relevant performance conditions. The number of shares a person receives depends on the extent to which the performance condition is met. • Diageo Performance Incentive (DPI) – This was a single one time incentive award that offered an executive the opportunity to receive shares in Diageo, in order to lead and deliver productivity and growth across the business. The incentive award commenced on 1 July 2016 and the vesting period was three years. The number of shares awarded depended on both the grade and salary. The performance conditions were pegged on Diageo productivity savings and NSV growth. Additionally, the overall performance was also pegged on achieving a Line Manager net promoter score of at least +20 for two of the three years in the period to vesting. Performance measure – The awarding and vesting of the awards are linked to a range of measures which may include but are not limited to a growth measure (e.g. net sales), a measure of efficiency (e.g. return on invested capital) and the business’ relative performance in relation to peers (e.g. total shareholder value). Product allowance All employees are eligible to receive a discretionary choice from a select product range to enable them experience the Company brands first hand. The value of the products is Kshs 3,000 per month. There is no cash alternative to product allowance and it is not a contractual benefit. Notice period The notice period is defined in the indvidual contracts. Local contracts provide for 3 months notice period. Notice period for international assignees is defined by their home contracts terms of service. Termination payments These are defined by Company policy, which provides for severance payment, payment in lieu of notice and payment of any accrued fixed pay and leave. This report includes payments made in the relevant financial year to any person who was not a Director of the Compensation for past Directors Company at the time the award was made but had previously been a Director of the Company. The details of the payments include accrued bonus and other allowances paid after the close of the year in line with the Company policy of settling these payments based on the previous year’s performance. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 95 Directors’ Remuneration Report 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Independent non-executive Directors’ remuneration policy and framework (continued) Remuneration Audited For the year ended 30 June 2018 Salary Bonuses Allowances Benefits Total Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Andrew Cowan 34,973 10,019 26,291 23,770 95,053 Jane Karuku 27,251 5,057 2,818 999 36,125 György Geiszl 19,650 5,984 19,711 5,095 50,440 Total 81,874 21,060 48,820 29,864 181,618 For the year ended 30 June 2017 Salary Bonuses Allowances Benefits Total Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Andrew Cowan 24,964 34,356 14,283 73,603 Jane Karuku 25,800 25,092 3,818 993 55,703 György Geiszl 17,489 10,229 17,561 5,396 50,675 Charles Ireland 2,937 38,109 7,472 11,622 60,140 Total 71,190 73,430 63,207 32,294 240,121 Stock options The movement in the Executive Directors’ share options awards is as follows: For the year ended 30 June 2018 Total (vested and At start of year Shares awarded Shares exercised Leaver unvested) Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Andrew Cowan 65,287 12,797 (1,973) 76,111 Jane Karuku 20,709 7,863 28,572 György Geiszl 11,492 2,929 (3,456) 10,965 Charles Ireland 79,790 (79,790) Total 177,278 23,589 (5,429) (79,790) 115,648 For the year ended 30 June 2017 Total (vested and At start of year Shares awarded Shares exercised Leaver unvested) Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Andrew Cowan 54,674 14,835 (4,222) 65,287 Jane Karuku 8,433 12,276 20,709 György Geiszl 7,859 4,781 (1,148) 11,492 Charles Ireland 58,040 24,515 (2,765) 79,790 Total 129,006 56,407 (8,135) 177,278 The charge through profit or loss relating to the share options and awards was Kshs 39,459,000 (2017: Kshs 29,385,000). 96 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Directors’ Remuneration Report 2. Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors (Mr. John O’Keeffe and Mr. Paul Gallagher) are full time employees of the majority shareholder; Diageo plc, and consequently do not earn any fees for sitting on the Board of EABL. 3. Independent Non-Executive Directors (INEDS) Independent Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration policy and framework EABL offers a selection of financial and non-financial reward and benefits. The precise nature of these is subject to ongoing review and may be amended from time to time, taking into account market practice. The list of the reward components is as follows: 1. Retainer fees This is competitive taking into account market rates of pay. Fees are reviewed every two years after a survey of prevailing market rates. Any increases will be determined in accordance with the business’ ability to fund the increase. Retainer fees are paid on a monthly basis. 2. Attendance fees / sitting allowance Independent Non-Executive Directors are paid an attendance fee in recognition of the time spent attending EABL Board or Committee meetings as well as meetings for the Subsidiary Companies. These are also benchmarked on market rates and trends. 3. Insurance cover EABL provides professional indemnity insurance for all the Non-Executive Directors in line with best practice in the market. 4. Product allowance Non-Executive Directors’ are eligible to receive a discretionary choice from a select product range to enable them experience the Group’s brands first hand. The value of the products is Kshs 3,000 per month. There is no cash alternative to product allowance and it is not a contractual benefit. 5. Travel and accommodation when on company business EABL provides for travel and accommodation costs in line with its Travel and Entertainment policy. Independent Non-Executive Directors travel on business class when going for Company related meetings. The Company values continued dialogue with EABL’s shareholders and engages directly with them at the Annual General Meeting when making any revisions to the INEDs remuneration package. INEDS Remuneration Audited For the financial year ended 30 June 2018, the consolidated INEDs fees was Kshs 37,755,000 compared to Kshs 16,134,000 paid during the financial year ended 30 June 2017. This increase is attributable to changes to the Board governance structure in a bid to enhance Corporate Governance, which led to the constitution of EABL subsidiary boards. The subsidiary boards held scheduled meetings on a quarterly basis. It also takes account of the fact that Directors fees had been constant for a number of years. There was, therefore a revision of Directors’ fees effective 1 July 2017 aimed at benchmarking with the market. The increase in Directors’ fees was approved by shareholders on 21 September 2017. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 97 Directors’ Remuneration Report 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Independent non-executive Directors’ remuneration policy and framework (continued) For the year ended 30 June 2018 Retainer Sitting allowances Total Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Charles Muchene* 8,000 1,589 9,589 Carol Musyoka* 5,250 1,778 7,028 Martin Oduor-Otieno* 5,250 2,008 7,258 Japheth Katto** 3,500 1,416 4,916 Alan Shonubi** 3,500 1,259 4,759 Nehemiah Mchechu** 3,500 705 4,205 Total 29,000 8,755 37,755 For the year ended 30 June 2017 Retainer Sitting allowances Total Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Charles Muchene 3,000 1,495 4,495 Carol Musyoka 1,000 990 1,990 Martin Oduor-Otieno 1,000 1,155 2,155 Japheth Katto 1,861 920 2,781 Alan Shonubi 1,861 863 2,724 Nehemiah Mchechu 1,182 807 1,989 Total 9,904 6,230 16,134 *Consolidated retainer for sitting in 3 boards **Consolidated retainer for sitting in 2 boards By Order of the Board Joyce Munene (Ms) Company Secretary Date: 26 July 2018 98 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Directors’ Remuneration Report Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities T he Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and Company at the end of the financial year and its financial performance for the year then ended. The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Group and Company keeps proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the transactions of the Group and Company; disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company; and that enables them to prepare financial statements of the Group and Company that comply with prescribed financial reporting standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. The Directors accept responsibility for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. They also accept responsibility for: i. Designing, implementing and maintaining internal control as they determine necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error; ii. Selecting suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; and iii. Making judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. In preparing the financial statements, the Directors have assessed the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern and disclosed, as applicable, matters relating to the use of going concern basis of preparation of the financial statements. The Group’s statement of financial position indicates a net current liabilities position of Kshs 4,257,806,000 (2017: net current assets of Kshs 150,886,000). As Directors, we are satisfied that this is transient in nature as the Group continues to align its capital expenditure with long term funding. The Capital Markets Authority has exempted the Group from maintaining a current ratio of 1 until 2020. The Group had undrawn funding available as at 30 June 2018 of Kshs 13.4 billion as disclosed in Note 34. To further satisfy ourselves as to the going concern of the Group, we have undertaken a detailed funding assessment including a debt maturity analysis. Based on the outcome of this exercise we have concluded that the Group will generate/access sufficient funds to meet all its obligations over the next twelve month period from the date of this report. We have also reviewed all our borrowing financial covenants and confirm to be compliant. As explained in Note 2(a)(ii) we find it appropriate to continue to prepare these financial statements on a going concern basis. The Directors acknowledge that the independent audit of the financial statements does not relieve them of their responsibility. Approved by the board of Directors on 26 July 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Mr. Andrew Cowan Dr. György Geiszl Group Managing Director Group Finance and Strategy Director GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 99 Auditor’s Report 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of East African Breweries Limited Report on the audit of the financial statements Our opinion We have audited the accompanying financial statements of East African Breweries Limited (the Company) and its subsidiaries (together, the Group) set out on pages 104 to 157, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position at 30 June 2018 and the consolidated statement of profit or loss, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, together with the Company statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, Company statement of financial position at 30 June 2018, the statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the Company for the year then ended, and the notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion the accompanying financial statements of East African Breweries Limited give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and the Company at 30 June 2018 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the company in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Kenya, and we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the IESBA Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 100 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Auditor’s Report Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Carrying value of intangible assets (goodwill and brands) and investment in subsidiary (Group and Company) The Group had goodwill of Kshs 2.7 billion and indefinite-lived We evaluated and challenged the composition of management’s brand intangibles of Kshs 459 million as at 30 June 2018 arising future cash flow forecasts and the underlying assumptions from business acquisitions in prior years. The company’s carrying based on the historical performance of the CGUs, industryvalue of investments in subsidiaries at the year end was Kshs 40.1 specific reports and the macro economic outlook. billion. Our audit procedures included challenging management on the As explained in the accounting policies Note 2 (h) and 2 (s) in appropriateness of the impairment model and reasonableness the financial statements, management perform an impairment of the assumptions by benchmarking the key market-related assessment on intangible assets on an annual basis. The assumptions in the models, including discount rates, long term determination of recoverable amount, being the higher of valuegrowth rates and foreign exchange rates, against external data in-use and fair value less costs to dispose, requires judgement on and assessing the reliability of cash flow forecasts through a the part of management in both identifying and then valuing the review of actual past performance and comparison to previous relevant cash generating units (CGUs). Recoverable amounts are forecasts based on management’s view of variables and market conditions We tested the mathematical accuracy and performing sensitivity such as future selling prices and sales volume growth rates, the analyses of the models. timing of future operating expenditure, and the most appropriate discount and long term growth rates. Variations in management We assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the related estimates and judgements could result in material differences in disclosures in Notes 23 and 25 of the Group financial statements. the outcomes of the assessment. Provisions and contingent liabilities (Group) As explained in Note 30 in the Group financial statements, the Group Our audit focused on assessing the reasonableness of the faces challenges by tax authorities on a range of tax compliance Directors’ judgements in relation to unresolved tax claims. In matters in the normal course of business. particular, our procedures included the following: The Directors use the best available information to make significant • Where relevant, reading external legal advice obtained by judgements at the year end as to the likely outcome of these management; matters for purposes of calculating any potential liabilities and/or • Discussing open matters and developments with the determining the level of disclosures in the financial statements. The group legal counsel and management; future outcome of these claims could be materially different from the Directors’ judgement. • Challenging management’s analysis which sets out the basis of the exposures; and • Obtaining direct confirmation from the Group’s external legal counsel of the estimated financial exposure. As explained in Note 30 in the financial statements, since the settlement of these matters is subject to future negotiations and legal proceedings, the calculations of the provisions are subject to inherent uncertainty. In our view, the provisions were within a reasonable range of outcomes in the context of that uncertainty. We evaluated whether the disclosures in the financial statements appropriately reflect any significant uncertainties that exist around the unresolved tax matters. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 101 Auditor’s Report 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Independent auditor’s report to the shareholders of East African Breweries Limited (continued) Other information The other information comprises the Company information, the Directors’ report, the Directors’ remuneration report and the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities which we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report and other sections of the Integrated Report a draft of which we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements The Directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Kenyan Companies Act 2015, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Directors. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 102 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Auditor’s Report Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements (continued) • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the Group’s financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the Group’s financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Report on other matters as prescribed by the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 Report of the Directors In our opinion, the information given in the Directors’ report on pages 90 to 91 is consistent with the financial statements. Directors’ remuneration report In our opinion the auditable part of the Directors’ remuneration report on pages 94 to 98 has been properly prepared in accordance with the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015. The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent auditor’s report is FCPA Michael Mugasa – Practising Certificate Number 1478. Certified Public Accountants PricewaterhouseCoopers CPA. PwC Tower, Waiyaki Way/Chiromo Road, Westlands P O Box 43963 – 00100 Nairobi, Kenya T: +254 (20)285 5000 F: +254 (20)285 5001 www.pwc.com/ GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 103 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Consolidated statement of profit or loss Year ended 30 June Note 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Revenue 6(a) 73,456,832 70,247,065 Cost of sales 7(a) (41,052,409) (39,116,742) Gross profit 32,404,423 31,130,323 Selling and distribution costs 7(a) (6,423,767) (5,375,078) Administrative expenses 8(a) (8,534,844) (8,249,140) Other (expenses)/income, net 9(a) (2,344,884) (1,025,056) Finance income 12(a) 81,949 81,686 Finance costs 12(a) (3,441,067) (3,255,402) Profit before income tax 10 11,741,810 13,307,333 Income tax expense 13(a) (4,486,255) (4,792,765) Profit for the year 7,255,555 8,514,568 Profit attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 5,683,764 7,677,032 Non-controlling interests 18 1,571,791 837,536 Profit for the year 7,255,555 8,514,568 Earnings per share Basic and diluted (Kshs per share) 15 7.19 9.71 104 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Year ended 30 June 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Profit for the year 7,255,555 8,514,568 Other comprehensive income, net of tax: Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss Exchange differences from translation of net foreign operations (865,067) (788,612) Total comprehensive income for the year 6,390,488 7,725,956 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 4,873,315 7,032,965 Non-controlling interests 1,517,173 692,991 Total comprehensive income for the year 6,390,488 7,725,956 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 105 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Company statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income Year ended 30 June Note 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Revenue 6(b) 8,005,621 7,549,884 Cost of sales 7(b) (2,662,550) (2,595,378) Gross profit 5,343,071 4,954,506 Selling and distribution costs 8(b) (15,395) Administrative expenses 8(b) (1,656,329) (1,893,385) Other (expenses)/income, net 9(b) (6,728,019) (904,767) Finance income 12(b) 1,584,653 1,619,077 Finance costs 12(b) (3,881,863) (4,019,349) Dividend income 7,798,813 9,723,594 Profit before income tax 10 2,460,326 9,464,281 Income tax (expense)/credit 13(b) (400,973) 557,722 Profit for the year 2,059,353 10,022,003 Other comprehensive income, net of tax: Profit for the year 2,059,353 10,022,003 Other comprehensive income, net of tax Total comprehensive income for the year 2,059,353 10,022,003 106 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Consolidated statement of financial position At 30 June Note 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Equity attributable to owners of the Company Share capital 16 1,581,547 1,581,547 Share premium 16 1,691,151 1,691,151 Treasury shares reserve 17(a) (507,275) Share based payment reserve 17(a) 14,584 Translation reserve 17(b) (3,381,533) (2,571,084) Proposed dividends 4,349,259 4,349,259 Retained earnings 1,933,212 7,334,700 5,680,945 12,385,573 Non-controlling interests 18 5,971,091 (397,403) Total equity 11,652,036 11,988,170 Non-current liabilities Deferred income tax liabilities 20(a) 3,264,233 5,095,988 Borrowings 34(a) 30,546,789 27,488,274 Finance lease liabilities 19 110,166 33,811,022 32,694,428 Total equity and non-current liabilities 45,463,058 44,682,598 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 21(a) 45,363,844 37,317,446 Intangible assets – Software 22(a) 441,597 562,815 Intangible assets – Goodwill 23(a) 2,712,564 2,839,319 Intangible assets – Brand 23(b) 459,394 482,562 Prepaid operating lease rentals 24(a) 7,351 14,992 Other investments 26 10,000 10,000 Deferred income tax assets 20(a) 726,114 3,304,578 49,720,864 44,531,712 Current assets Inventories 27 7,882,606 7,473,094 Trade and other receivables 28(a) 7,946,481 9,928,000 Current income tax 2,108,505 826,033 Cash and bank balances 32(c) 3,588,370 3,907,473 21,525,962 22,134,600 Continued on Page 108 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 107 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Consolidated statement of financial position (continued) At 30 June Note 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 29(a) 24,629,299 20,814,011 Dividends payable 14 562,611 487,109 Borrowings 34(a) 118,667 Finance lease liabilities 19 93,228 Derivative financial liabilities 33 71,946 Bank overdraft 32(c) 401,245 589,366 25,783,768 21,983,714 Net current (liabilities) / assets (4,257,806) 150,886 45,463,058 44,682,598 The financial statements on pages 104 to 157 were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 26 July 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Mr. Andrew Cowan Dr. György Geiszl Group Managing Director Group Finance and Strategy Director 108 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Company statement of financial position At 30 June Note 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Equity attributable to owners of the Company Share capital 16 1,581,547 1,581,547 Share premium 16 1,691,151 1,691,151 Proposed dividends 4,349,259 4,349,259 Share based payment reserve 17(a) 14,584 Retained earnings 8,645,297 12,516,751 Total equity 16,281,838 20,138,708 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 34(b) 30,337,698 26,969,236 Total equity and non-current liabilities 46,619,536 47,107,944 Non-current assets Property and equipment 21(b) 382,388 384,424 Prepaid operating lease rentals 24(b) 644 1,124 Intangible assets – software 22(b) 206,427 282,544 Investment in subsidiaries 25 40,105,207 29,053,977 Other investments 26 10,000 10,000 Long-term receivables from Group companies 35(b) 18,502,436 20,436,978 Deferred income tax assets 20(b) 726,114 1,424,232 59,933,216 51,593,279 Current assets Inventories 38,906 33,958 Trade and other receivables 28(b) 3,825,755 5,862,696 Current income tax 1,391,212 1,203,598 Cash and bank balances 32(c) 1,685,800 1,927,851 6,941,673 9,028,103 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 29(b) 19,613,621 13,025,960 Dividends payable 14 562,611 487,109 Derivative financial liabilities 33 71,946 Bank overdraft 32(c) 7,175 369 20,255,353 13,513,438 Net current liabilities (13,313,680) (4,485,335) 46,619,536 47,107,944 The financial statements on pages 104 to 157 were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 26 July 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Mr. Andrew Cowan Dr. György Geiszl Group Managing Director Group Finance and Strategy Director GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 109 110 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Share based NonYear ended 30 June 2018 Share Treasury payment Translation Proposed Retained controlling Share capital premium shares reserve reserves dividends earnings Total interest Total equity 2018 Financial Statements Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 At 1 July 2017 1,581,547 1,691,151 (2,571,084) 4,349,259 7,334,700 12,385,573 (397,403) 11,988,170 Total comprehensive income Profit for the year 5,683,764 5,683,764 1,571,791 7,255,555 Other comprehensive income (810,449) (810,449) (54,618) (865,067) Total comprehensive income for the year (810,449) 5,683,764 4,873,315 1,517,173 6,390,488 Transactions with owners of the Company Transactions with non-controlling interests (Note 18(b)) (5,694,139) (5,694,139) 5,694,139 Share based payment reserve (Note 17(a)) 14,584 14,584 14,584 Employees Share Ownership Plan (Note 17(a)) (507,275) 539,694 32,419 32,419 Dividends: Proposed final for 2018 4,349,259 (4,349,259) GROWING VALUE TOGETHER Interim for 2018 (1,581,548) (1,581,548) (1,581,548) Final for 2017 (4,349,259) (4,349,259) (842,818) (5,192,007) Total transactions with owners of the Company (507,275 14,584 (11,085,252) (11,577,943) 4,851,321 (6,726,622) At 30 June 2018 1,581,547 1,691,151 (507,275) 14,584 (3,381,533) 4,349,259 1,933,212 5,680,945 5,971,091 11,652,036 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity (continued) NonYear ended 30 June 2017 Translation Proposed Retained controlling Share capital Share premium reserves dividends earnings Total interest Total equity Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements At 1 July 2016 1,581,547 1,691,151 (1,927,017) 4,349,259 5,588,475 11,283,415 (416,169) 10,867,246 Total comprehensive income Profit for the year 7,677,032 7,677,032 837,536 8,514,568 Other comprehensive income (644,067) (644,067) (144,545) (788,612) Total comprehensive income for the year (644,067) 7,677,032 7,032,965 692,991 7,725,956 Transactions with owners of the Company Dividends: Proposed final for 2017 4,349,259 (4,349,259) Interim for 2017 (1,581,548) (1,581,548) (1,581,548) Final for 2016 (4,349,259) (4,349,259) (674,225) (5,023,484) Total transactions with owners of the Company (5,930,807) (5,930,807) (674,225) (6,605,032) At 30 June 2017 1,581,547 1,691,151 (2,571,084) 4,349,259 7,334,700 12,385,573 (397,403) 11,988,170 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Financial Statements 111 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Company statement of changes in equity Share based Share payment Proposed Retained Share capital premium reserve dividends earnings Total equity Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Year ended 30 June 2018 At 1 July 2017 1,581,547 1,691,151 4,349,259 12,516,751 20,138,708 Total comprehensive income for the year 2,059,353 2,059,353 Transactions with owners of the Company: Share based payment reserve (Note 17(a)) 14,584 14,584 Dividends: Proposed final for 2018 4,349,259 (4,349,259) Interim for 2018 (1,581,548) (1,581,548) Final for 2017 (4,349,259) (4,349,259) Total transactions with owners of the Company 14,584 (5,930,807) (5,916,223) At 30 June 2018 1,581,547 1,691,151 14,584 4,349,259 8,645,297 16,281,838 Year ended 30 June 2017 At 1 July 2016 1,581,547 1,691,151 4,349,259 8,425,555 16,047,512 Total comprehensive income for the year 10,022,003 10,022,003 Transactions with owners of the Company: Dividends: Proposed final for 2017 4,349,259 (4,349,259) Interim for 2016 (1,581,548) (1,581,548) Final for 2016 (4,349,259) (4,349,259) Total transactions with owners of the (5,930,807) (5,930,807) Company Total transactions with owners of the (5,930,807) (5,930,807) Company At 30 June 2017 1,581,547 1,691,151 4,349,259 12,516,751 20,138,708 112 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Consolidated statement of cash flows At 30 June Notes 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Operating activities Cash generated from operations 32(a) 21,717,296 21,523,606 Interest received 12(a) 81,949 81,686 Interest paid (3,429,018) (3,255,402) Income tax paid (4,810,885) (4,435,419) Net cash generated from operating activities 13,559,342 13,914,471 Investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 21(a) (13,028,734) (5,662,510) Purchase of prepaid lease rentals 24(a) (5,066) Purchase of intangible assets software 22(a) (2,627) (31,388) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 2,539,228 1,031,397 Net cash used in investing activities (10,492,133) (4,667,567) Financing activities Dividends paid to Company's shareholders 14 (5,855,305) (6,317,286) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (842,818) (674,255) Proceeds from borrowings Long term bank loan 34(a) 4,907,194 Medium term note 34(a) 6,000,000 Short term bank loan 34(a) 3,800,000 2,500,000 Repayment of borrowings 34(a) (5,492,942) (2,500,000) Purchase of treasury shares (9,272) Net cash used in financing activities (3,493,143) (991,541) Net (decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents (425,934) 8,255,363 Movement in cash and cash equivalents At start of year 3,318,107 (3,954,090) Foreign exchange impact on translation 294,952 (983,166) Net (decrease)/increase during the year (425,934) 8,255,363 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 32(b) 3,187,125 3,318,107 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 113 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Company statement of cash flows At 30 June Notes 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Operating activities Cash generated from/ (used in) operations 32(a) 10,232,649 (235,712) Interest received 12(b) 1,584,653 1,619,077 Interest paid (3,871,045) (4,019,349) Income tax paid (220,162) (118,663) Net cash generated from/ (used in) operating activities 7,726,095 (2,754,647) Investing activities Purchase of property and equipment 21(b) (71,659) (377,026) Purchase of intangible assets 22(b) (2,627) (7,607) Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment 1,786,943 1,271,650 Proceeds on disposal of prepaid operating lease rentals 421 Movement in intercompany funding (15,000,000) (591,634) Dividends received from subsidiaries 7,798,813 9,723,594 Net cash generated from/ (used in) investing activities (5,488,109) 10,018,977 Financing activities Dividends paid to Company's shareholders 14 (5,855,305) (6,317,286) Proceeds from borrowings Long term bank loan 34(b) 4,907,194 Medium term note 34(b) 6,000,000 Short term bank loan 34(b) 3,800,000 2,500,000 Loan repayments 34(b) (5,338,732) (2,500,000) Net cash used in financing activities (2,486,843) (317,286) (Decrease) / increase in cash and cash equivalents (248,857) 6,947,044 Movement in cash and cash equivalents At start of year 1,927,482 (5,019,562) (Decrease) / increase during the year (248,857) 6,947,044 At end of year 32(b) 1,678,625 1,927,482 114 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements Notes 1. General information East African Breweries Limited is incorporated as a limited information presented in Kenya Shillings have been rounded to liability Company in Kenya under the Kenyan Companies Act the nearest thousand except when otherwise indicated. and is domiciled in Kenya. The address of its registered office and Items included in the financial statements are measured using principal place of business is as follows: the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency) except where otherwise East African Breweries Limited indicated. Corporate Centre, Ruaraka (iv) Use of judgement and estimates P.O Box 30161 The preparation of financial statements in conformity with 00100 Nairobi GPO International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires The consolidated financial statements for the Company as at 30 management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying June 2018 and for the year then ended comprise the Company the Company’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher and the subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’ and degree of judgement or complexity, or where assumptions and individually as ‘Group entities’). The Group is primarily involved in estimates are significant to the financial statements, are disclosed manufacturing, marketing and sale of drinks, malt and barley. in Note 3. The Company’s shares are listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange, Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange and Uganda Stock (v) New and amended standards adopted by the Company Exchange. The following standards and amendments have been applied by For Kenyan Companies Act reporting purposes, the balance the Company for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 sheet is represented by the statement of financial position and the July 2017: profit or loss account by the income statement, in these financial Amendment to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Asset for statements. Unrealised Losses: Amendments made to IAS 12 in January 2016 clarify the accounting for deferred tax where an asset is measured 2. Summary of significant accounting policies at fair value and that fair value is below the asset’s tax base. The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of Specifically, the amendments confirm that: these financial statements are set out below. These policies have • A temporary difference exists whenever the carrying been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise amount of an asset is less than its tax base at the end of stated. the reporting period. (a) Basis of preparation • An entity can assume that it will recover an amount higher (i) Basis of accounting than the carrying amount of an asset to estimate its future taxable profit. The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) and in the • Where the tax law restricts the source of taxable profits manner required by the Kenyan Companies Act. The measurement against which particular types of deferred tax assets can be basis applied is the historical cost basis, except where otherwise recovered, the recoverability of the deferred tax assets can stated in the accounting policies below. only be assessed in combination with other deferred tax assets of the same type. (ii) Going Concern • Tax deductions resulting from the reversal of deferred tax The Group’s statement of financial position indicates a net current assets are excluded from the estimated future taxable liabilities position of Kshs 4,257,806,000 (2017: net current assets of profit that is used to evaluate the recoverability of those Kshs 150,886,000). As Directors, we are satisfied that this is transient assets. in nature as the Group continues to align its capital expenditure with long term funding. The Capital Markets Authority has The amendment to IAS 12 is effective 1 January 2017. The adoption exempted the Group from maintaining a current ratio of 1 until of this amendment did not have a material impact on the Group’s 2020. The Group had undrawn funding available as at 30 June financial statements. 2018 of Kshs 13.4 billion as disclosed in Note 34. To further satisfy themselves as to the going concern of Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative: Amends IAS 7 the Group management have undertaken a detailed funding Statement of Cash Flows to clarify that entities shall provide assessment including a debt maturity analysis. Based on the disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate outcome of this exercise it was concluded that the Group would changes in liabilities arising from financing activities. generate/access sufficient funds to meet all its obligations over The amendment to IAS 7 is effective 1 January 2017. The the next twelve month period from the date of the financial adoption of this amendment did not have a material impact on statements. the Group’s financial statements. (iii) Functional and presentation currency Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2014–2016 Cycle: Makes The financial statements are presented in Kenya Shillings (Kshs) amendments to IFRS 12 by clarifying the scope of the standard by which is the Company’s functional currency. All financial specifying that the disclosure requirements in the standard, GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 115 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) losses for its trade receivables, as required or permitted by IFRS (a) Basis of preparation (continued) 15. In general, the Directors anticipate that the application of the (v) New and amended standards adopted by the Company (continued) expected credit loss model of IFRS 9 will not result in a material impact on the financial statements of the Group. except for those in paragraphs B10–B16, apply to an entity’s interests listed in paragraph 5 that are classified as held for sale, as IFRS 16: Leases: The standard specifies how an IFRS reporter will held for distribution or as discontinued operations in accordance recognise, measure, present and disclose leases. The standard with IFRS 5 ‘Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to Operations’. recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is The amendment to IFRS 12 is effective 1 January 2017. The 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value. Lessors adoption of this amendment did not have a material impact on continue to classify leases as operating or finance, with IFRS 16’s the Group’s financial statements. approach to lessor accounting substantially unchanged from its predecessor, IAS 17. (vi) New standards and interpretations early adopted The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers: The standard or after 1 January 2019. Early adoption is permitted. The Group is deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for assessing the potential impact on its financial statements resulting reporting useful information to users of financial statements about from the application of IFRS 16. the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of flows arising from an entity’s contracts with customers. Revenue is Share-based Payment Transactions: The amendments clarify recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service the standard in relation to the accounting for cash-settled and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits share-based payment transactions that include a performance from the good or service. The standard replaces IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ condition, the classification of share-based payment transactions and IAS 11 ‘Construction contracts’ and related interpretations. with net settlement features, and the accounting for modifications The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on of share-based payment transactions from cash-settled to equityor after 1 January 2018 and earlier application is permitted. The settled. Group has early adopted the standard. An extensive assessment The amendment to the standard is effective for accounting was carried out by the Group to determine the impact of IFRS 15. periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Early adoption is From the exercise carried out, the only area that management permitted. The Directors of the Group do not anticipate that the determined may have an impact to the Group was with respect to application of the amendments in future will have a significant the associated value of goods in transit to the distributors. Details impact on the financial statements as the Group does not have were obtained about sales that had been recognised but the any cash-settled share-based payment arrangements. goods had not yet been delivered to the distributor premises as IFRIC 22: Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance at 30 June 2018. The amounts were determined not to be material Consideration: IFRIC 22 addresses how to determine the ‘date of to warrant any adjustment or restatement. Therefore, the adoption transaction’ for the purpose of determining the exchange rate to of IFRS 15 did not have a material impact on the Group’s financial use on initial recognition of an asset, expense or income, when statements. consideration for that item has been paid or received in advance in a foreign currency which resulted in the recognition of a non(vii) Relevant new standards and interpretations not yet adopted by the monetary asset or non-monetary liability. (e.g. a non-refundable Company deposit or deferred revenue). The interpretation specifies that IFRS 9: Financial Instruments: The standard addresses the the date of transactions is the date on which the entity initially classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets recognises the non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability and financial liabilities. The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration. in July 2014. It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to The Directors of the Group do not anticipate that the application the classification and measurement of financial instruments. of the amendments in the future will have an impact on the IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and financial statements as the Group already accounts for transactions establishes three primary measurement categories for financial involving the payment or receipt of advance consideration in a assets: amortised cost, fair value through OCI and fair value foreign currency in a way that is consistent with the amendments. through profit or loss. There is now a new expected credit losses model that replaces the incurred loss impairment model used in IFRIC 23: Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments: The IAS 39. IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for hedge effectiveness by interpretation addresses the determination of taxable profit (tax replacing the bright line hedge effectiveness tests. loss), tax bases, unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates, The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments under IAS or after 1 January 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The Group is 12. It specifically considers: assessing IFRS 9’s full impact. By the nature of financial instruments • Whether tax treatments should be considered held by the Group, the relevant financial instruments are financial collectively. assets measured at amortised cost. Financial assets measured • Assumptions for taxation authorities’ examinations. at amortised cost, primarily trade receivables will be subject to • The determination of taxable profit (tax loss), tax bases, the impairment provisions of IFRS 9. The Group expects to apply unused tax losses, unused tax credits and tax rates. the simplified approach to recognise lifetime expected credit • The effect of changes in facts and circumstances. 116 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) the benefits from the good or service. Revenue is recognised as (a) Basis of preparation (continued) follows: (vii) Relevant new standards and interpretations not yet adopted by the i. Sales of goods are recognised in the period in which the Company (continued) Group delivers products to the customer, the customer accepts the products and collectability of the related The Group is assessing the potential impact on the financial receivables is reasonably assured. statements resulting from the application of these changes. ii. Dividend income is recognised as income in the period in (b) Basis of consolidation which the right to receive payment is established. iii. Royalty income is recognised based on agreed rates The consolidated financial statements include the results of the applied on net sales value of the related products. Company and its subsidiairies. A subsidiary is an entity controlled by East African Breweries Limited. Control is the power to direct iv. Management fee is recognised based on actual costs plus the relevant activities of the subsidiary that significantly affects the an agreed mark up. subsidiary’s return so as to have rights to the variable return from its activities. (d) Finance income and costs Where the Group has the ability to exercise joint control over Finance income comprises interest income and foreign exchange an entity but has rights to specified assets and obligations for gains that relate to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents. liabilities of that entity, the entity is consolidated on the basis of Interest income is recognised in profit or loss on a time proportion the Group’s rights over those assets and liabilities. basis using the effective interest method. Finance costs comprise interest expense and foreign exchange (i) Subsidiaries losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents. Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The financial Interest expense is recognised in profit or loss using the effective statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated interest method. financial statements from the date on which control commences All other foreign exchange gains and losses are also presented until the date on which control ceases. Investments in subsidiaries in profit or loss. are accounted for at cost in the Company’s financial statements. (e) Foreign currency translation (ii) Non-controlling interests (‘NCI’) Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional NCI are measured at their proportionate share of the acquired currency of the respective entity using the exchange rates identifiable net assets at the acquisition date. prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and (iii) Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in existing subsidiaries from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in subsidiaries that and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in do not result in the Group losing control over the subsidiaries are the profit or loss. accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amount of the Group’s interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted Consolidation of Group entities to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling a functional currency different from the presentation currency are interests are adjusted and the fair values of the consideration translated into the presentation currency as follows: paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to • Assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position owners of the Company. presented are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date; (iv) Balances and transactions eliminated at consolidation • Income and expenses for each statement of profit or Intra-Group balances and transactions, and any unrealised loss and other comprehensive income are translated income and expenses arising from intra-Group transactions, are at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a eliminated. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case of impairment. income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions); and (c) Revenue recognition • All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or comprehensive income and accumulated in the translation receivable for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course reserve except to the extent that the translation difference of the Group’s activities. Revenue is shown net of value-added tax is allocated to Non-controlling interest (NCI). (VAT), excises, returns, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 117 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) Freehold land and capital work in progress is not depreciated. (e) Foreign currency translation (continued) Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are Consolidation of Group entities (continued) reassessed annually at each reporting date and adjusted if On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the appropriate. translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property, plant borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds of such investments, are taken to other comprehensive income. from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences are equipment and are recognised net within “other income” in the recognised in the profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on sale. profit or loss. If the Group disposes of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation while retaining control, then the (h) Intangible assets relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reattributed to (i) Computer software NCI. Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are software. These costs are amortised over their estimated useful translated into presentational currency at the spot exchange lives of the software from the date that they are available for use. rates at the reporting date. The income and expenses of foreign The estimated useful life is three to five years. operations are translated into the presentational currency at spot exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. (ii) Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over (f) Hyperinflation the fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of The South Sudan economy has been classified as hyperinflationary the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on from 1 July 2016. Accordingly, the results, cash flows and financial subsidiaries is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. position of East African Breweries (South Sudan) Limited have Goodwill is tested annually for impairment. Impairment losses been expressed in terms of the measuring unit current at the on goodwill are not reversed. Gains and losses on disposal of an reporting date. The results, cash flows and financial position have entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the also been expressed in terms of the measuring unit current at the entity sold. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the reporting date. purpose of impairment testing. The allocation is made to those As the presentation currency of the Group is that of a noncash-generating units or Groups of cash-generating units that are hyperinflationary economy, comparative amounts are not expected to benefit from the business combination in which the adjusted for changes in the price level or exchange rates in the goodwill arose identified according to operating segment. current year. The Group has not adjusted the current year amounts for (iii) Brands changes in the price level or exchange rates as the impact has Brands acquired as part of acquisitions of businesses are capitalised been assessed by management not to be material (Note 3). separately from goodwill as intangible assets if their value can be measured reliably on initial recognition and it is probable that the (g) Property, plant and equipment expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost, less asset will flow to the Group. Brands are considered to have an accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. indefinite economic life because of the institutional nature of the Costs include expenditure that is directly attributable to the brands and the Group’s commitment to develop and enhance acquisition of the asset. Purchased software that is integral to the their value. The carrying value of these intangible assets is reviewed functionality of the related equipment is capitalized as part of that at least annually for impairment and adjusted to the recoverable equipment. amount if required. Expenditure on assets under construction is charged to work in progress until the asset is brought into use. (i) Financial instruments Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it is probable (i) Classification that future economic benefits of the expenditure will flow to A financial instrument is a contract that gives rise to both a the Group. Ongoing repairs and maintenance are expensed as financial asset of one enterprise and a financial liability of another incurred. enterprise. These are classified as follows: Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis to write down the cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed Buildings 25 years or unexpired period of lease if less than 25 years or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market other than those that the Group intends to sell in the short-term Plant, equipment, furniture and fittings 5 – 33 years or that it has designated as at fair value through profit or loss or Motor vehicles 4 – 5 years available for sale. Loans and receivables comprise trade Returnable packaging 5 – 15 years 118 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and receivables are (i) Financial instruments (continued) measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, (i) Classification (continued) less any impairment losses. Derivative financial instruments are and other receivables, cash and bank balances and balances with measured at fair value. Other financial liabilities are measured at related parties. amortised cost. These are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. (iv) De-recognition A financial asset is derecognised when the Group loses control Derivative financial instruments over the contractual rights that comprise that asset. This occurs Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value from when the rights are realized, expire or are surrendered. A financial the price of underlying items such as equities, bonds, interest liability is derecognised when it is extinguished, cancelled or rates, foreign exchange, credit spreads, commodities and equity or expires. other indices. Derivatives are intended to acquire, increase, reduce or alter exposure to market risks. The Group uses derivatives, (j) Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities primarily foreign exchange forward contracts, to manage exposure to currency risks. Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported on the statement of financial position when Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised the derivative contracts are entered into and are subsequently amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to remeasured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period. realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately. A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset; a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a (k) Leases financial liability. (i) Finance leases Leases of equipment, including hire purchase contracts where Other financial liabilities the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards incident Other financial liabilities are non-derivative financial liabilities to ownership, are classified as finance leases. Finance leases are that are recognised on the date the Group becomes party to the recognised as a liability at the inception of the lease at the lower contractual provisions of the instruments. These include trade and of the fair value of the leased assets and the present value of the other payables, loans and borrowings and intercompany balances. minimum lease payments. The interest rate implicit in the lease is Other financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value less used as the discount factor in determining the present value. The any directly attributable transaction costs. finance cost is charged to the profit or loss account in the year in Loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised which it is incurred. Equipment acquired under finance leases are cost using the effective interest (EIR) method, with interest capitalised and depreciated over the estimated useful life of the expense recognised on an effective yield basis. The effective asset. interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the (ii) Operating leases relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly Leases of assets where a significant proportion of the risks and discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified life of the financial liability, or (where appropriate) a shorter as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition. The EIR recognised to the profit or loss account on a straight line basis amortisation is included in finance costs in profit or loss. over the term of the lease. (ii) Recognition (l) Inventories The Group recognises loans and receivables on trade date. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. These assets are initially recognised at fair value plus any directly Cost is based on the weighted average method and expenditure attributable transaction cost. Subsequent to initial recognition, incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest existing location and condition. The cost of finished goods, work method. in progress and raw materials comprises an appropriate share of All other financial instruments are recognised on the trade production overheads based on normal operating capacity. date which is the date on which the Group becomes party to the Net realisable value is the estimate of the selling price in the contractual provisions of the instrument. ordinary course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses. (iii) Measurement Financial instruments are measured initially at fair value. In the (m) Treasury shares case of financial instruments not at fair value, these are measured Treasury shares are shares in East African Breweries Limited that through profit or loss less applicable transaction costs. are held by the East African Breweries Limited Employee Share. Ownership Plan for the purpose of issuing shares under the GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 119 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) respect of previous years. The current tax charge is calculated on (m) Treasury shares (continued) the basis of the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Group’s share ownership scheme. Treasury shares are recognized reporting date. at cost where cost is determined to be the purchase price of the Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between shares in an open market (Nairobi Securities Exchange). Shares the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting issued to employees are recognised on a first-in-first-out basis. purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred The Group operates equity-settled share-based compensation tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: plans for its employees and executives. Equity-settled share based the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the not a business combination and that affects neither accounting equity instruments at the grant date. The fair value determined nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in at the grant date of the equity-settled share based payments is subsidiaries to the extent that it is probable that they will not expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based reverse in the foreseeable future. In addition, deferred income tax on the Group’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually is not recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on the vest, with a corresponding increase in equity. At the end of each initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred tax is measured using tax reporting period, the Group revises its estimate of the number of rates that are expected to be applied to the temporary differences equity instruments expected to vest. The impact of the revision when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such substantively enacted by the reporting date. that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally a corresponding adjustment to the equity share based payment enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and reserve. they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend (o) Employee benefits to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously. (i) Retirement benefits obligations A deferred income tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is The Group operates defined contribution retirement benefit probable that future taxable profits will be available against which schemes for some of its employees. The assets of all schemes are the temporary difference can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are held in separate trustee administered funds, which are funded by reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent contributions from both the Group and employees. The Group and that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be all its employees also contribute to the National Social Security realised. A tax rate reconciliation that reconciles the notional Funds, which are defined contribution schemes. taxation charge as calculated at the Kenya tax rate, to the actual The Group’s contributions to the defined contribution schemes total tax charge is prepared on a materiality basis. As a Group are recognised in the profit or loss in the year to which they relate. operating in multiple countries, the actual tax rates applicable to The Company has no further obligation once the contributions profits in some of countries are different from the Kenya tax rate. have been paid. Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay (ii) Termination benefits the related dividend is recognised. Termination benefits are recognised as an expense when the Group is demonstrably committed, without realistic possibility of (q) Dividends withdrawal, to a formal detailed plan to terminate employment Dividends on ordinary shares are charged to equity in the period before the normal retirement date. in which they are declared. (iii) Short-term employee benefits (r) Segmental reporting Short-term employee benefits are expensed as the related service Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s is provided. A liability is recognised for the amount expected to geographical segments, which is the primary format and is based be paid if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation on the countries in which the Group operates. The Group has no to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the distinguishable significant business segments. employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably. Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated (p) Income tax expense on a reasonable basis. Inter-segment pricing is determined on an The tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred arm’s length basis. income tax. Tax is recognised in the profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive (s) Impairment income or directly in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognised Impairment of financial assets in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively. A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine Current tax is the amount of tax payable on the taxable profit whether there is any objective evidence of impairment. A financial for the year determined in accordance with the relevant tax asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates legislation and any adjustment to tax payable or receivable in 120 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 2. Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. Borrowing costs (s) Impairment (continued) that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or Impairment of financial assets (continued) production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily that one or more events have had a negative effect on the take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended estimated future cash flows of that asset. use or sale, are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets, until such a time as the assets are substantially ready for their An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at intended use or sale. Investment income earned on the temporary amortised cost such as trade and other receivables is calculated as investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on the difference between its carrying amount and the present value qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for of estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective capitalisation. interest rate. All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the All impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. An period in which they are incurred. impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. For financial assets measured at amortised cost the reversal is (v) Share capital recognised in profit or loss. Ordinary shares are classified as ‘share capital’ in equity. Any premium received over and above the par value of the shares is Impairment of non-financial assets classified as ‘share premium’ in equity. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by a than deferred income tax assets and inventories, are reviewed at Group entity are recognised at the proceeds received, net of direct each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication issue costs. of impairment. If any such indication exists then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit (w) Cash and cash equivalents exceeds its recoverable amount. A cash-generating unit is the For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash smallest identifiable asset Group that generates cash flows that equivalents comprise cash in hand, bank balances and deposits largely are independent from other assets and Groups. Impairment held at call with the banks net of bank overdrafts. losses are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating (x) Comparatives units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any Where necessary, comparative figures have been adjusted to goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying confirm with changes in presentation in the current year. amount of the other assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis. The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is (y) Other investments the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. Other investments are measured at cost. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of 3. Critical accounting estimates and judgements money and the risks specific to the asset. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. For based on historical experience and other factors, including other assets, an impairment of loss is reversed only to the extent expected future events that are believed to be reasonable under that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying the circumstances. amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation and amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. (a) Critical accounting estimates and judgements The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the (t) Earnings per share future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company the next financial year are addressed below: by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the (i) Impairment of goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets (brand) profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the Assessment of the recoverable value of an intangible assets, the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the useful economic life of an asset, or that an asset has an indefinite effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which comprise life, requires management judgement. The Group annually tests share options granted to employees. whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated in Note 2(s). The recoverable (u) Borrowing costs amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that an entity on value-in-use calculations as stated in Note 23. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 121 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 3. Critical accounting estimates and judgements (continued) Market risk (a) Critical accounting estimates and judgements (continued) i. Foreign exchange risk (ii) Income taxes Foreign currency risk arises on sales, purchases and borrowings The Group is subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions. denominated in currencies other than Kenya Shillings. Significant judgment is required in determining the Group’s Management’s policy to manage foreign exchange risk is to provision for income taxes. There are many transactions and actively manage the foreign currency denominated procurement calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain contracts. In addition, the Group enters into short term cash flow during the ordinary course of business. The Group recognises hedge contracts using available cash balance. liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of In addition, the Group manages the foreign currency exposure whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome on foreign denominated borrowings through foreign exchange of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially forward contracts. recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred income tax provisions in the period in which such determination is A 5 percent strengthening of the Kenya shilling against the made. Disclosures on contingent liabilities with respect to tax are following currencies at 30 June 2018 would have increased/ included in Note 30. (decreased) profit for the year by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, (iii) Property, plant and equipment remains constant. The analysis was performed on the same basis Critical estimates are made by the Directors in determining useful for 2017. lives for property, plant and equipment. The rates used are set out Group: in Note 2(g) above. Directors also apply estimates in determining Profit or loss/equity the existence of returnable packaging materials. At 30 June 2018 2017 (iv) Non-controlling interests (“NCI”) Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Critical estimates are made by the Directors in determining control EUR Euro 252,563 99,865 of a subsidiary for measurement of NCI. NCI are measured at their proportionate share of the acquired identifiable net assets at the GBP Sterling Pound 1,490,481 1,509,924 acquisition date. TZS Tanzania Shillings 1,049 1,147 UGX Uganda Shillings 97,853 100,632 (b) Critical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies USD US Dollar 876,921 890,380 In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management has made judgements in determining whether ZAR South African Rand 1,945 1,939 assets are impaired based on the annual fixed assets verification 2,720,810 2,603,887 exercise. Company: 4. Financial risk management objectives and policies Profit or loss/equity The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks including At 30 June 2018 2017 credit risk, liquidity risk and market risks which mainly comprise effects of changes in debt and equity market prices, foreign Kshs’000 Kshs’000 currency exchange rates and interest rates. The Group’s overall EUR Euro 229,280 114,390 risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of GBP Pound Sterling 1,450,230 1,527,954 financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on its financial performance. This note presents information about SSP South Sudanese Pound 520 1,209 the Group’s exposure to financial risks, the Group’s objectives, UGX Ugandan Shilling 98,317 99,673 policies and processes for measuring and managing the financial USD US Dollar 850,000 895,970 risks. Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout 2,628,347 2,639,196 these financial statements. East African Breweries Limited has established a Risk ii. Price risk Management Committee made up of senior management which The Group does not hold any financial instruments subject to is responsible for developing and monitoring the Group’s risk price risk. management policies. These policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate iii. Interest rate risk risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence The Group’s interest bearing financial assets and financial liabilities to limits. These risk management policies and systems are include bank loans, bank overdrafts and related party borrowings. reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities. The Group has also established a controls These are at various rates, and they are therefore exposed to and compliance function, which carries out regular and ad hoc cash flow interest rate risk. The Group regularly monitors financing reviews of risk management controls and procedures. The results options available to ensure optimum interest rates are obtained. are reported to senior management. As at 30 June 2018, an increase/decrease of 1 percentage point would have resulted in a decrease/increase in profit for the year of Kshs 37,410,000 (2017: Kshs 31,737,000), mainly as a result of higher/lower interest charges on variable rate borrowings. 122 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 4. Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. Credit risk arises from cash balances (including deposits with banks and financial institutions), derivative financial instruments, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding loans, trade and other receivables, financial guarantees and committed transactions. The carrying amount of the financial assets represents the Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk at the end of the reporting period excluding the impact of any collateral held or other credit enhancements. The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults. The Group’s exposure and the credit rating of its counterparties are continuously monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved counterparties. Loans, trade and other receivables exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise and credit limits are set as deemed appropriate for the customer. The operating units analyse credit risk for each new customer before standard payment and delivery terms are offered, taking into account its financial position, past experience and other factors. Individual risk limits are set based on internal ratings in accordance with limits set by the board. The utilisation of credit limits is monitored regularly. In addition, the Group manages credit risk by requiring the customers to provide financial guarantees. The Group does not have any significant concentrations of credit risk with respect to loans, trade and other receivables as the Group has a large number of customers which are geographically dispersed. The credit risk associated with receivables is minimal and the allowance for uncollectible amounts that the Group has recognised in the financial statements is considered adequate to cover any potentially irrecoverable amounts. The credit quality of financial assets that are neither past due nor impaired can be assessed by reference to external credit ratings if available or historical information about counterparty default rates. The trade receivables which were past due but not impaired relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no history of default. The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is analysed in the table below: Group: 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Not due, 4,392,766 4,775,144 Past due but not impaired: -by up to 30 days 1,768,847 2,607,949 -by 31 to 120 days 1,056,325 1,872,054 -over 121 days 305,041 327,210 Trade and other receivables 7,522,979 9,582,357 Receivables individually determined to be impaired: Carrying amount before provision for impairment loss 856,495 956,840 Provision for impairment loss (856,495) (956,840) Net carrying amount 7,522,979 9,582,357 Company: 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Past due but not impaired: -by upto 30 days 900,336 2,016,411 -by 31 to 120 days 219,879 175,486 Trade and other receivables 3,821,318 5,862,696 Receivables individually determined to be impaired: Carrying amount before provision for impairment loss Provision for impairment loss Net carrying amount 3,821,318 5,862,696 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 123 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 4. Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. Prudent liquidity risk management includes maintaining sufficient cash balances, and the availability of funding from an adequate amount of committed credit facilities. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, the finance department maintains flexibility in funding by maintaining availability under committed credit lines. Management performs cash flow forecasting and monitors rolling forecasts of the Group’s liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet its operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities at all times so that the Group does not breach borrowing limits or covenants (where applicable) on any of its borrowing facilities. The Group’s approach when managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation. The table below analyses the Group’s financial liabilities that will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the reporting date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table below are the contractual undiscounted cashflows. At 30 June 2018: Less than 1 Between 1 Between 2 Current year and 2 years and 5 years Over 5 years Total Group Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 borrowings 118,667 5,000,000 10,209,091 3,868,462 19,196,220 related party borrowings 11,469,236 11,469,236 derivative financial liability 71,946 71,946 bank overdrafts 401,245 401,245 trade and other payables 2,980,139 21,649,160 24,629,299 dividend payable 562,611 562,611 3,733,363 22,050,405 5,000,000 10,209,091 15,337,698 56,330,557 Less than 1 Between 1 Between 2 Current year and 2 years and 5 years Over 5 years Total Company Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 borrowings 5,000,000 6,000,000 7,868,462 18,868,462 related party borrowings 11,469,236 11,469,236 derivative financial liability 71,946 71,946 bank overdrafts 7,175 7,175 trade and other payables 16,926,026 2,687,595 19,613,621 dividend payable 562,611 562,611 21,429,045 2,694,770 5,000,000 6,000,000 19,337,698 50,593,051 At 30 June 2017: Group Current Less than 1 Between 1 Between 2 Over 5 years Total year and 2 years and 5 years Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 borrowings 43,224 15,975,814 16,019,038 related party borrowings 11,469,236 11,469,236 bank overdrafts 589,366 589,366 trade and other payables 3,060,871 17,753,140 20,814,011 dividend payable 487,110 487,110 Finance lease 93,228 110,166 203,394 3,547,981 18,478,958 110,166 15,975,814 49,582,155 124 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 4. Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) Liquidity risk (continued) Company Current Less than 1 Between 1 Between 2 Over 5 years Total year and 2 years and 5 years At 30 June 2017: Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 borrowings 15,500,000 15,500,000 related party borrowings 11,469,236 11,469,236 bank overdrafts 369 369 trade and other payables 5,570,972 7,454,988 13,025,960 dividend payable 487,110 487,110 6,058,082 7,455,357 15,500,000 11,469,236 40,482,675 Capital risk management The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business. The Board of Directors monitors the return on capital, which the Group defines as total shareholders’ equity. There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the year. The Group is not subject to externally imposed capital requirements. Group: 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Total borrowings (Note 34) 31,066,701 28,077,640 Less: cash and bank balances (Note 32(c)) (3,588,370) (3,907,473) Net debt 27,478,331 24,170,167 Total equity 11,652,036 11,988,170 Total capital 39,130,367 36,158,337 Gearing ratio 70.22% 66.85% Company: 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Total borrowings (Note 34) 30,344,873 26,969,605 Less: cash and bank balances (Note 32(c)) (1,685,800) (1,927,851) Net debt 28,659,073 25,041,754 Total equity 16,281,838 20,138,708 Total capital 44,940,911 45,180,462 Gearing ratio 63.77% 55.43% Fair value measurement Fair value measurements of financial instruments are presented through the use of a three-level fair value hierarchy that prioritises the valuation techniques used in fair value calculations. The Group specifies a hierarchy of valuation techniques based on whether the inputs to those valuation techniques are observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources; unobservable inputs reflect the Group’s market assumptions. The different levels in the fair value hierarchy have been defined as follows: i. Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active trading markets for identical assets or liabilities. This level includes listed debt and equity instruments traded mainly on the Nairobi Securities Exchange (“NSE”). ii. Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as a price) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). iii. Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 125 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 4. Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued) Fair value measurement (continued) The Group maintains policies and procedures to value instruments using the most relevant data available. If multiple inputs that fall into different levels of the hierarchy are used in the valuation of an instrument, the instrument is categorised on the basis of the most subjective input. Foreign currency forwards are valued using discounted techniques that incorporate the prevailing market rates. In determining the market rates, inputs at levels 1 and 2, such as foreign exchange rates are used. These market inputs are used in the discounted cash flow calculation incorporating the instrument’s term, notional amount and discount rate, and taking credit risk into account. As significant inputs to the valuation are observable in active markets, these instruments are categorised as level 2 in the hierarchy. Other investments are carried at cost as there is no suitable basis for its valuation and are therefore categorised as level 3 in the hierarchy. The following table presents the Group and Company’s financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 30 June 2018. Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: -Other investments 10,000 10,000 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: -Derivative financial liabilities (Foreign exchange forward contracts) (71,946) (71,946) Net (liabilities)/assets at fair value through profit or loss (71,946) 10,000 (61,946) The following table presents the Group and Company’s financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 30 June 2017. Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: Other investments 10,000 10,000 Total assets at fair value through profit or loss 10,000 10,000 There were no transfers between levels during the two years ended 30 June 2018 and 30 June 2017. 5. Segmental reporting Directors have determined the operating segments based on the reports reviewed by the Group Executive Committee that are used to make strategic decisions. The Group Executive Committee includes the Group Managing Director and the Group Finance and Strategy Director. The Group Executive Committee considers the business from a geographical perspective. Geographically, the Group Executive Committee considers the performance of the business in Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania. Exports to South Sudan, Rwanda, Burundi and the Great Lakes Region are recognised in the country of origin. The reportable operating segments derive their revenue primarily from brewing, marketing and selling of drinks, malt and barley. The Group Executive Committee assesses the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of net sales value. The segmental information provided to the Group Executive Committee is as follows: Kenya Uganda Tanzania Eliminations Consolidated 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 External sales 53,371,231 52,502,022 11,912,213 11,563,786 8,173,388 6,181,257 73,456,832 70,247,065 Inter segment sales 6,903,578 9,212,093 28,277 131,803 16,556 45,448 (6,948,411) (9,389,344) Total sales 60,274,809 61,714,115 11,940,490 11,695,589 8,189,944 7,167,143 (6,948,411) (9,389,344) 73,456,832 70,247,065 126 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 5. Segmental reporting (continued) Reportable segments assets and liabilities agree to the consolidated assets as follows: Kenya Uganda Tanzania Eliminations Consolidated 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Segment non-current assets 74,995,854 73,652,321 5,465,994 5,280,202 8,093,008 8,500,521 (38,833,992) (42,901,332) 49,720,864 44,531,712 Total segment assets 93,802,019 91,653,521 8,848,544 11,050,051 10,999,432 10,978,352 (42,403,169) (47,015,612) 71,246,826 66,666,312 Segment liabilities 57,152,310 47,532,845 6,760,049 8,888,928 2,926,524 13,993,490 (7,244,093) (15,737,121) 59,594,790 54,678,142 Capital expenditure 10,942,093 4,437,421 1,290,964 743,206 798,304 518,338 13,031,361 5,698,965 Depreciation expense 2,402,142 2,241,656 461,271 402,873 782,067 785,792 3,645,480 3,430,321 and amortisation Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the period to acquire segment assets that are expected to be used for more than one year. Segment revenue is based on the geographical location of both customers and assets. The revenue from external parties reported to the Group Executive Committee is measured in a manner consistent with that in the income statement. There is no reliance on individually significant customers by the Group. The amounts provided to the Group Executive Committee in respect to total assets and total liabilities are measured in a manner consistent with that of the financial state. 6. Revenue 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 (a) Group Gross sales 135,037,775 124,066,748 Indirect taxes (61,580,943) (53,819,683) 73,456,832 70,247,065 (b) Company Net sales 5,667,981 5,457,700 Management fees 1,445,643 1,766,691 Royalties 891,997 325,493 8,005,621 7,549,884 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 127 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 7. Cost of sales 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 (a) Group Raw materials and consumables 21,639,676 20,412,467 Distribution and warehousing 5,251,900 3,851,777 Maintenance and other costs 7,288,566 7,605,545 Staff costs 3,711,495 4,204,872 Depreciation and amortisation 3,160,772 3,042,081 41,052,409 39,116,742 (b) Company Cost of goods sold 2,379,412 2,378,534 Distribution and warehousing 23,993 27,938 Staff costs 259,021 188,864 Maintenance and other costs 124 42 2,662,550 2,595,378 8. Administrative expenses 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 (a) Group Staff costs 5,694,930 5,145,984 Office supplies and other costs 2,139,538 2,502,216 Depreciation and amortisation 419,184 388,239 Travelling and entertainment 281,192 212,701 8,534,844 8,249,140 (b) Company Staff costs 1,391,396 1,611,197 Office supplies and other costs 50,390 45,811 Depreciation and amortisation 128,053 148,826 Travelling and entertainment 86,490 87,551 1,656,329 1,893,385 128 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 9. Other income/(expenses), net (a) Group 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Other income Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (Note 32(a)) 699,098 Sundry other income 467,191 381,721 Transactional foreign exchange gains 1,205,986 1,166,289 1,587,707 Other expenses Indirect tax expenses (*) 2,604,670 593,161 Transactional foreign exchange losses 391,260 Impairment charge on trade receivables (Note 28) 137,650 210,505 Write down of inventories 89,846 225,274 Impairment of goodwill (Note 23) 284,687 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 212,965 Write-off of returnable packaging 67,755 Impairment of investments 33,195 Sundry expenses 287,747 985,221 3,511,173 2,612,763 (2,344,884) (1,025,056) (*) Indirect tax expenses are expenses associated with irrecoverable VAT, irrecoverable withholding tax and other indirect tax provisions. (b) Company 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Other expenses Write-off of loan receivable from subsidiary (SBL) (Note 18) 4,256,283 Write-off of loan receivable from subsidiary (EABSS) 1,751,000 Net transactional foreign exchange losses 345,060 51,130 Irrecoverable withholding tax 189,807 580,942 Sundry expenses 185,869 272,695 (6,728,019) (904,767) 10. Profit before income tax The following items have been charged/(credited) in arriving at the profit before tax. (a) Group 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Employee benefits expense (Note 11(a)) 9,406,425 9,350,856 Depreciation on property, plant and equipment (Note 21(a)) 3,495,415 3,328,169 Amortisation of intangible assets software (Note 22(a)) 149,249 101,788 Impairment of goodwill (Note 23) 284,687 Amortisation of prepaid operating lease (Note 24(a)) 816 363 Auditor's remuneration 39,599 39,599 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 129 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 10. Profit before income tax (continued) (b) Company 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Employee benefits expense (Note 11 (b)) 1,650,417 1,800,061 Write-off of loan receivable from subsidiary (SBL) (Note 18) 4,256,283 Write-off of loan receivable from subsidiary (EABSS) 1,751,000 Depreciation on property and equipment (Note 21 (b)) 47,393 90,223 Amortisation of intangible assets software (Note 22(b)) 80,602 58,532 Amortisation of prepaid operating lease (Note 24 (b)) 59 71 Auditor's remuneration 11,307 11,307 11. Employee benefits expense (a) Group The following items are included within employee benefits expense: 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Salaries and wages 6,280,515 6,887,648 Defined contribution scheme 449,661 436,303 National Social Security Fund 118,475 164,145 Share based payments 14,584 Employee share ownership plan of the parent company(*) 79,444 31,294 Other staff costs 2,463,746 1,831,466 9,406,425 9,350,856 The average number of employees during the year was as follows: 30 June 2018 30 June 2017 Production 823 797 Sales and distribution 351 353 Management and administration 417 459 1,591 1,609 (b) Company The following items are included within employee benefits expense: 2018 201 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Salaries and wages 880,374 1,046,021 Defined contribution scheme 72,623 78,143 National Social Security Fund 23,588 45,752 Share based payments 14,584 Employee share ownership plan of the parent Company(*) 47,343 22,709 Other staff costs 611,905 607,436 1,650,417 1,800,061 130 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 11. Employee benefits expense (continued) (b) Company (continued) The average number of employees during the year was as follows: 30 June 2018 30 June 2017 Management and administration 217 248 217 248 (*) Some of the senior executives of the Group participate in the share ownership schemes linked to the share price of Diageo plc shares and administered by Diageo plc. The schemes are of various categories. The costs associated with these schemes are recharged to the Company and accounted for as part of staff costs. 12. Finance income/(expenses) 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 (a) Group Finance income Interest income 81,949 81,686 81,949 81,686 Finance costs Interest expense (3,284,208) (3,255,402) Other finance costs (156,859) (3,441,067) (3,255,402) (b) Company Finance income Interest income 1,584,653 1,619,077 1,584,653 1,619,077 Finance costs Interest expense (3,749,012) (4,019,349) Other finance costs (132,851) (3,881,863) (4,019,349) 13. Income tax expense (a) Group 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Income tax expense Current income tax Current year charge 3,423,241 4,725,556 Under / (over) provision of tax in prior years 125,196 (484,345) Current income tax charge 3,548,437 4,241,211 Deferred income tax (Note 20) Current year charge 901,377 439,340 Under provision of tax in prior years 36,441 112,214 Deferred income tax charge 937,818 551,554 Total income tax expense 4,486,255 4,792,765 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 131 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 13. Income tax expense (continued) (a) Group (continued) The tax on the Group’s profit before income tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the statutory income tax rate as follows: 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Profit before income tax 11,741,810 13,307,333 Tax calculated at the statutory income tax rate of 30% (2017 30%) 3,522,543 3,992,200 Tax effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 802,075 580,802 Deferred income tax asset not recognised 591,894 Under/(over) provision of current income tax in prior year 125,196 (484,345) Under provision of deferred income tax in prior year 36,441 112,214 Income tax expense 4,486,255 4,792,765 (b) Company 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Income tax expense Current income tax Current year charge Over provision of income tax in prior years (297,145) (786,122) Current income tax charge (297,145) (786,122) Deferred income tax Current year charge 672,313 144,984 Under provision of deferred income tax in prior years 25,805 83,416 Deferred income tax charge (Note 20 (b)) 698,118 228,400 Total tax charge/(credit) 400,973 (557,722) The tax on the Company’s profit before income tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the statutory income tax rate as follows: 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Profit before income tax 2,460,326 9,464,281 Tax calculated at the statutory income tax rate of 30% 738,098 2,839,284 Tax effects of: Non-taxable income (2,339,644) (2,917,077) Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2,273,859 222,777 Under/(over) provision of deferred income tax in prior year 25,805 (786,122) (Over)/under provision of current income tax in prior year (297,145) 83,416 Income tax charge / (credit) 400,973 (557,722) 132 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 14. Dividends A final dividend in respect of the year ended 30 June 2018 of Kshs 5.50 (2017: Kshs 5.50 per share) amounting to a total of Kshs 4,349,259,000 (2017: Kshs 4,349,259,000) has been proposed. During the year an interim dividend of Kshs 2.00 per share amounting to a total of Kshs 1,581,548,000 (2017: 1,581,548,000) was paid. The total dividend for the year is therefore Kshs 7.50 per share (2017: Kshs 7.50) amounting to a total of Kshs (2017: 5,930,807,000 Kshs 5,930,807,000). Payment of dividends is subject to withholding tax at a rate of 0%, 5% and 10% depending on the residence and the percentage shareholding of the respective shareholders. The following is the movement in dividends during the year: Group Company Group and Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 At 1 July 487,109 562,611 487,109 873,588 Dividend declared during the year 6,773,625 6,241,784 5,930,807 5,930,807 Dividends paid (6,698,123) (6,317,286) (5,855,305) (6,317,286) At 30 June 562,611 487,109 562,611 487,109 15. Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share The calculation of basic earnings per share at 30 June 2018 was based on profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of Kshs 5,683,764,000 (2017: Kshs 7,677,032,000) and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year ended 30 June 2018 of 790,774,356 (2017– 790,774,356). The basic and diluted earnings per share are the same as there is no dilutive effect on earnings. 2018 2017 Kshs ‘000 Kshs ‘000 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 5,683,764 7,677,032 Weighted average number of ordinary shares Issued and paid shares (Note 16) 790,774,356 790,774,356 Basic and diluted earnings per share (Kshs per share) 7.19 9.71 16. Share capital Number of shares Ordinary shares Share premium Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Issued and fully paid Balance as at 1 July 2016, 30 June 2017 and 30 June 2018 790,774,356 1,581,547 1,691,151 The total authorised number of ordinary shares is 1,000,000,000 with a par value of Kshs 2.00 per share. The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, and are entitled to one vote per share at general meetings of the Company. All shares rank equally with regard to the Company’s residual assets. 17. Reserves (a) Employee share based payment reserves The Company operates two equity settled employee share ownership plans (ESOPs) as follows: a. Executive Share Option Plan (ESOP) –Under the plan, an employee is given an option to buy units at a future date but at a grant price, which is set at the time that the option is granted. The vesting period for the shares is three years after which an employee can exercise the option within the third year to the tenth year. There are no performance conditions attached to this share plan. b. Employees Share Save Scheme (ESSS) – This plan enables the eligible employee to save a fixed amount of money over a threeyear period. If an employee joins the plan, he or she is given an option to buy units at a future date at a fixed grant price set at the grant date. The grant price is fixed at 80% of the market price at grant date. The vesting period for the shares is three years after which an employee can exercise the option within the third year to the tenth year. There are no performance conditions attached to this share plan. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 133 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 17. Reserves (continued) (a) Employee share based payment reserve (continued) The reserves that arise from employee share based payments are as listed below: i. Treasury shares Treasury shares represent the cost of the shares held by the Company’s Employee Share Ownership Trust at the end of the year as follows: Number of shares Kshs’000 Shares held by the Trust 2,478,146 507,275 2,478,146 507,275 Share options of Kshs 2,501,000 were exercised by the employees during the year. ii. Share based payment reserve The share based payment reserve represents the charge for the profit or loss account in respect of share options granted to individual employees. The allocated shares for the employee share based payments are held by the East African Breweries Employee Share Ownership Trust. Share based payments are measured at fair value at the grant date, which is expensed over the period of vesting. The fair value of each option granted is estimated at the date of grant using black scholes option pricing model. The assumptions supporting inputs into the model for options granted during the period are as follows: 2017 series 2016 series 2015 series Grant date share price 250 277 274 Exercise price -ESOP 250 277 100 -ESSS 196 224 Expected volatility 13.1% 13.1% 13.1% Dividend yield 3% 3% 3% Forfeiture rate 3% 3% 3% Option life 5 years 5 years 5 years The assumptions above were determined based on the historical trends. Share based payment reserves are not distributable. (b) Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations. Exchange differences relating to the translation of the net assets of the Group’s foreign operations from their functional currency to the Group’s presentation currency (Kenya shillings) are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve. Exchange differences previously accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve are reclassified to profit or loss on disposal or partial disposal of a foreign operation. Translation reserves are not distributable. 134 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 18. Non-controlling interests (a) Subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests The following table summarizes the information relating to the Group’s subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests. At 30 June 2018 UDV (Kenya) Serengeti Breweries Other Subsidiaries Total Limited Limited Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Non-controlling interests percentage 53.68% 27.5% 1% 1.8% Non-current assets 2,230,063 8,550,389 5,458,464 Currents assets 9,226,109 3,280,227 3,681,980 Non-current liabilities (340,000) (4,025,699) Current liabilities (4,463,747) (3,166,775) (4,833,729) Net assets 6,652,425 8,663,841 281,016 Carrying amount of non-controlling interests 3,571,022 2,380,824 19,245 5,971,091 Revenue 15,637,384 8,189,944 11,919,899 Profit 2,857,183 112,314 2,592 Total comprehensive income 2,857,183 112,314 2,592 In respect of non-controlling interests 1,533,736 30,864 7,191 1,571,791 Cash generated from operating activities 3,509,850 2,215,280 2,775,094 Cash used in investment activities (525,874) (789,774) (1,287,210) Cash used in financing activities (1,570,079) (927,708) (24,451) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,413,897 497,798 1,463,433 At 30 June 2017 UDV (Kenya) Serengeti Breweries Other Subsidiaries Total Limited Limited Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Non-controlling interest percentage 53.68% 49% 1% 1.8% Non-current assets 1,947,565 8,498,407 5,271,414 Currents assets 7,691,502 2,477,831 5,770,767 Non-current liabilities 90,231 (12,002,326) 4,840,746 Current liabilities (4,363,973) (5,706,024) (5,727,413) Net assets/(liabilities) 5,365,325 (6,732,112) 10,155,514 Carrying amount of non-controlling interests 2,880,106 (3,298,735) 21,226 (397,403) Revenue 14,758,986 6,226,706 11,694,593 Profit/(loss) 3,132,374 (1,706,107) (711,591) Total comprehensive income 3,132,374 (1,706,107) (711,591) In respect on non-controlling interests 1,681,458 (835,992) (7,930) 837,536 Cash generated from operating activities 2,954,149 1,324,268 893,324 Cash used in investment activities (909,825) (511,476) (841,755) Cash (used in) / generated from financing activities (1,256,063) (52,712) 1,516,775 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 788,261 760,080 1,568,344 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 135 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 18. Non-controlling interests (continued) (b) Transactions with noncontrolling interests On 1 July 2017, the Company entered into an agreement with the non-controlling shareholders of its subsidiary, Serengeti Breweries Limited (SBL), to convert all its outstanding loans receivable to the subsidiary into equity shares, without proportionate capital contribution by the non-controlling shareholders. The transaction resulted in an increase in the effective control of the subsidiary from 51% to 72.5%. The original effective control will be restored in the future through the non-controlling shareholders ceding to the company 50% of any dividends received from the subsidiary. A summary of the transaction with the non-controlling interests in SBL is as follows: Kshs ‘000 Loans receivable converted to equity (Note 25) 11,049,893 Loans receivable written off (Note 9) 4,256,283 15,306,176 Change in share of net assets of subsidiary: Share of net liabilities pre-conversion (3,395,842) Share of net assets post conversion 6,216,196 9,612,038 Difference arising on transaction with non-controlling interests 5,694,139 The difference, which has been charged to equity, relates to an increase in the non-controlling interests balance in the subsidiary as a result of the transaction. 19. Finance lease liabilities In 2017, the Group had an open lease agreement for purchase motor vehicles. The vehicles under the lease agreement were recognised as the Group’s assets at their fair value at the inception of the lease. The corresponding liabilities to the lessor were disclosed as finance lease liabilities. During the year, the Group settled all its outstanding finance lease liabilities. 20. Deferred income tax Deferred income tax is calculated using the enacted domestic tax rate of 30% (2017 30%). The movement on the deferred income tax account is as follows: 2018 2017 (a) Group Kshs’000 Kshs’000 At the beginning of the year 1,791,410 1,303,190 Charge to profit or loss 901,377 439,340 Under provision of deferred income tax in prior year 36,441 112,214 Effect of change in exchange rates (191,109) (63,334) Total deferred income tax movement 746,709 488,220 At the end of the year 2,538,119 1,791,410 Analysed as follows: Deferred income tax liabilities 3,264,233 5,095,988 Deferred income tax assets (726,114) (3,304,578) At the end of the year 2,538,119 1,791,410 (b) Company At the beginning of the year (1,424,232) (1,652,632) Charge to profit or loss 672,313 144,984 Under provision of deferred income tax in prior year 25,805 83,416 Total deferred income tax movement 698,118 228,400 At the end of the year (726,114) (1,424,232) 136 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 20. Deferred income tax (continued) Deferred income tax assets and liabilities and deferred income tax charge/(credit) in the income statement are attributable to the following items: (a) Group Charged/ Prior year (credited) to Effects of (over)/under income exchange rate At 30 June Year ended 30 June 2018: At 1 July 2017 provision statement changes 2018 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Deferred income tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment on historical basis 4,869,229 102,798 868,696 (179,369) 5,661,354 Unrealised exchange gain/losses 226,759 80,412 (81,475) 2,864 228,560 Deferred income tax liabilities 5,095,988 183,210 787,221 (176,505) 5,889,914 Deferred income tax assets Property, plant and equipment on historical basis (78,520) (168,574) (36,003) 1,692 (281,405) Unrealised exchange gain/losses (93,398) (55,366) (36,420) 400 (184,784) Tax losses carried forward (2,803,396) 88,741 802,294 (31,451) (1,943,812) Provisions (329,264) (11,570) (615,715) 14,755 (941,794) Deferred income tax assets (3,304,578) (146,769) 114,156 (14,604) (3,351,795) Net deferred income tax 1,791,410 36,441 901,377 (191,109) 2,538,119 Charged/ Prior year (credited) to Effects of (over)/under income exchange rate At 30 June Year ended 30 June 2017: At 1 July 2016 provision statement changes 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Deferred income tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment on historical basis 5,047,442 (66,120) (90,992) (21,101) 4,869,229 Unrealised exchange gain/losses 193,151 (5,697) 40,630 (1,325) 226,759 Deferred income tax liabilities 5,240,593 (71,817) (50,362) (22,426) 5,095,988 Deferred income tax assets Property, plant and equipment on historical basis (85,889) 22,158 (14,789) (78,520) Unrealised exchange gain/losses (731,013) 52,355 300,994 (38,018) (415,682) Tax losses carried forward (2,849,038) 107,682 (57,821) (4,219) (2,803,396) Provisions (271,463) 1,836 (61,004) 1,367 (329,264) Derecognized deferred tax 322,322 (38) 322,284 Deferred income tax assets (3,937,403) 184,031 489,702 40,908 (3,304,578) Net deferred income tax 1,303,190 112,214 439,340 (63,444) 1,791,410 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 137 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 20. Deferred income tax (continued) (b) Company Prior year (over)/ Charged/ (credited) to At 30 June Year ended 30 June 2018: At 1 July 2017 under provision income statement 2018 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Deferred income tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment 16,287 (53,485) (499) (37,697) Unrealised exchange gains 12,060 2,120 45,654 59,834 Deferred income tax liabilities 28,347 (51,365) 45,155 22,137 Deferred income tax assets Unrealised exchange losses (664) (60,585) (61,249) Provisions (291,631) (11,571) 7,523 (295,679) Tax losses (1,160,284) 88,741 680,220 (391,323) Deferred income tax assets (1,452,579) 77,170 627,158 (748,251) Net deferred income tax (1,424,232) 25,805 672,313 (726,114) Prior year (over)/ Charged/ (credited) to At 30 June Year ended 30 June 2017: At 1 July 2016 under provision income statement 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Deferred income tax liabilities Property, plant and equipment 8,300 1,701 6,286 16,287 Unrealised exchange gains 52,758 (52,914) 12,216 12,060 Deferred income tax liabilities 61,058 (51,213) 18,502 28,347 Deferred income tax assets Unrealised exchange losses (121,876) 52,914 68,298 (664) Provisions (147,239) (144,392) (291,631) Tax losses (1,444,575) 81,715 202,576 (1,160,284) Deferred income tax assets (1,713,690) 134,629 126,482 (1,452,579) Net deferred income tax (1,652,632) 83,416 144,984 (1,424,232) 138 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 21. Property, plant and equipment (a) Group Year ended 30 June 2018 Freehold Leasehold Plant and Motor Returnable Capital work Total property buildings equipment vehicles packaging in progress Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Cost 1 July 2017 4,611,690 3,047,596 38,358,297 81,626 13,829,816 4,553,792 64,482,817 Additions 177,011 37,509 2,075,654 1,370,384 9,368,176 13,028,734 Transfers from work in progress 258,557 41,103 1,011,850 684,444 (1,995,954) Disposals (50,188) (40,128) (153,786) (244,102) Transfer to intangible assets (Note 22) (41,013) (41,013) Assets written off (1,807,349) (1,807,349) Effect of exchange rate changes (9,859) (150,598) (1,092,421) (114) (293,200) (53,204) (1,599,396) At 30 June 2018 4,987,211 2,975,610 40,313,252 81,512 13,630,309 11,831,797 73,819,691 Depreciation At 1 July 2017 1,003,217 894,389 17,595,049 54,145 7,618,571 27,165,371 Charge for the year 88,707 67,579 1,844,879 195 1,494,055 3,495,415 On assets disposed (18,130) (24,419) (130,676) (173,225) On assets written off (1,402,943) (1,402,943) Effect of exchange rate changes (5,763) (36,757) (407,134) (84) (179,033) (628,771) At 30 June 2018 1,068,031 925,211 19,008,375 54,256 7,399,974 28,455,847 Carrying amount at 30 June 2018 3,919,180 2,050,399 21,304,877 27,256 6,230,335 11,831,797 45,363,844 There are no assets pledged by the Group to secure liabilities other than as disclosed under Note 34. The capital work in progress mainly relates to construction of a brewery in Kisumu, Kenya. Included under additions to capital work in progress are borrowing costs of Kshs 299,944,000 incurred on the long term loan that was received during the year to finance the construction of the new brewery in Kisumu. The weighted average capitalization rate on funds borrowed is 10%. Year ended 30 June 2017 Freehold Leasehold Plant and Motor Returnable Capital work Total property buildings equipment vehicles packaging in progress Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Cost 1 July 2016 4,267,901 3,352,209 36,026,391 158,922 14,178,725 3,022,938 61,007,086 Additions 172,568 31,430 805,393 886,331 3,766,788 5,662,510 Disposals (191,102) (378,391) (345,400) (74,395) (1,241,994) (63,116) (2,294,398) Transfers from work in progress 363,271 48,429 1,556,323 271,102 (2,554,392) (315,267) Assets written off (439,283) (439,283) Effect of exchange rate changes (948) (6,081) 315,590 (2,901) 174,935 381,574 862,169 At 30 June 2017 4,611,690 3,047,596 38,358,297 81,626 13,829,816 4,553,792 64,482,817 Depreciation At 1 July 2016 985,215 868,115 16,230,959 138,292 7,177,697 25,400,278 On assets disposed (63,142) (99,652) (225,855) (74,290) (604,219) (1,067,158) On Assets written off (371,530) (371,530) Charge for the year 82,445 128,478 1,689,927 (8,304) 1,435,623 3,328,169 Effect of exchange rate changes (1,301) (2,552) (99,982) (1,553) (19,000) (124,388) At 30 June 2017 1,003,217 894,389 17,595,049 54,145 7,618,571 27,165,371 Carrying amount at 30 June 2017 3,608,473 2,153,207 20,763,248 27,481 6,211,245 4,553,792 37,317,446 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 139 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 21. Property, plant and equipment (continued) (a) Group (continued) Year ended 30 June 2018 (continued) There are no assets pledged by the Group to secure liabilities other than as disclosed under Note 34. The capital work in progress is mainly due to a new spirits line and expansion of the kegging line in Kenya. (b) Company Year ended 30 June 2018 Freehold Leasehold Plant and Capital work in property buildings equipment progress Total Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Cost 1 July 2017 132,228 41,490 318,158 104,146 596,022 Additions 9,132 62,527 71,659 Transfers from work in progress 25,577 3,427 (29,004) Transfers to intangible assets (Note 22 (b)) (1,858) (1,858) Assets written off Transfers to Group companies (34,940) (34,940) At 30 June 132,228 32,127 330,717 135,811 630,883 Depreciation 1 July 2017 3,647 15,213 192,738 211,598 Transfers to Group companies (10,496) (10,496) Charge for the year 711 1,240 45,442 47,393 At 30 June 4,358 5,957 238,180 248,495 Carrying amount at 30 June 2018 127,870 26,170 92,537 135,811 382,388 There are no assets pledged by the Company to secure liabilities other than as disclosed under Note 34. Year ended 30 June 2017 Freehold Leasehold Plant and Capital work in property buildings equipment progress Total Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Kshs '000 Cost 1 July 2016 174,900 41,490 466,689 232,474 915,553 Additions 29,705 347,321 377,026 Disposals (205,041) (102,700) (62,729) (370,470) Transfers from work in progress 35,423 11,665 (177,205) (130,117) Transfers to/from Group Companies 126,946 (87,201) (235,715) (195,970) At 30 June 2017 132,228 41,490 318,158 104,146 596,022 Depreciation At 1 July 2016 11,845 20,853 221,129 253,827 On assets disposed (149,345) (5,640) (102,700) (257,685) Transfers from/to Group Companies 126,946 (1,713) 125,233 Charge for the year 14,201 76,022 90,223 At 30 June 2017 3,647 15,213 192,738 211,598 Carrying amount at 30 June 2017 128,581 26,277 125,420 104,146 384,424 There are no assets pledged by the Company to secure liabilities other than as disclosed under Note 34. 140 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 22. Intangible assets software 2018 2017 (a) Group Kshs'000 Kshs'000 Cost At 1 July 1,927,111 1,650,241 Additions 2,627 31,388 Disposals (69,275) Transfer from property, plant and equipment (Note 21(a)) 41,013 315,268 Effect of exchange rate changes (26,752) (511) At end of the year 1,943,999 1,927,111 Amortisation At 1 July 1,364,296 1,227,630 Charge for the year 149,249 101,788 Effect of exchange rate changes (11,143) 34,878 At end of the year 1,502,402 1,364,296 Net book value 441,597 562,815 (b) Company Cost At 1 July 1,480,923 1,412,475 Additions 2,627 7,607 Disposals (69,275) Transfer from property and equipment (Note 21(b)) 1,858 130,116 At end of the year 1,485,408 1,480,923 Amortisation At 1 July 1,198,379 1,139,847 Charge for the year 80,602 58,532 At end of the year 1,278,981 1,198,379 Net book value 206,427 282,544 Transfer of assets from property plant and equipment to intangible assets relate to costs incurred in the acquisition of software. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 141 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 23. Intangible assets goodwill and brand (a) Goodwill Carrying amount Impairment charge Effect of exchange Carrying amount at 1 July rate changes at 30 June Kshs'000 Kshs'000 Kshs'000 Kshs'000 Year ended 30 June 2018 Serengeti Breweries Limited (SBL) 2,225,442 (106,882) 2,118,560 UDV (Kenya) Limited (UDV) 415,496 415,496 International Distillers (Uganda) Limited (IDU) 198,381 (19,873) 178,508 Total 2,839,319 (126,755) 2,712,564 Year ended 30 June 2017 Serengeti Breweries Limited (SBL) 2,928,527 (284,687) (418,398) 2,225,442 UDV (Kenya) Limited (UDV) 415,496 415,496 International Distillers (Uganda) Limited (IDU) 233,168 (34,787) 198,381 Total 3,577,191 (284,687) (453,185) 2,839,319 Goodwill represents the excess of cost of acquisitions over the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities of the respective Companies at acquisition date. (b) Brand 2018 2017 Kshs'000 Kshs'000 At start of year 482,562 563,005 Effect of exchange rate changes (23,168) (80,443) At end of year 459,394 482,562 The balance represents the purchase price allocation to the “Premium Serengeti Lager” brand at acquisition of Serengeti Breweries Limited. (c) Impairment testing for cash-generating units containing goodwill and brand (i) Impairment testing methodology For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s operating divisions which represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. The recoverable amount of an operating division is determined based on a detailed 5-year model that has been extrapolated in perpetuity by applying the long term growth rate of the country. Profit has been amended with working capital and capital expenditure requirements.The net cashflows have been discounted using the country-specific pre-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC). These calculations use cash flow projections based on financial projections approved by management covering a 5-year period. Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using estimated terminal growth rates. (ii) Key assumptions used for fair value calculations Tanzania Kenya Uganda 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 EBITDA margin1 18% 12% 11% 11% 12% 12% Terminal growth rate 2 6% 5% 5% 5% 5% 5% WACC rate3 15% 18% 12% 13% 12% 14% 1. Forecast EBITDA margin 2. Weighted average growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the projected period. 3. Pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projections. 142 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 23. Intangible assets goodwill and brand (continued) (c) Impairment testing for cash-generating units containing goodwill and brand (continued) (ii) Key assumptions used for fair value calculations (continued) These assumptions have been used for the analysis of each operating segment. Management determined forecast EBITDA margin based on past performance and its expectations for market developments. The weighted average growth rates used are consistent with the forecasts included in industry reports. The discount rates used are pre-tax and reflect specific risks relating to the relevant segments. (iii) Results of impairment testing on the carrying amount of goodwill Serengeti Breweries Limited (SBL) Based on the above assumptions, the recoverable value of the CGU exceeded the carrying net asset amount (including the goodwill) for SBL at 30 June 2018. As a result, the Group has not recognised an impairment charge 2017: impairment charge of Kshs 285 million). UDV (Kenya) Limited (UDV) and International Distillers (Uganda) Limited (IDU) Based on the above assumptions, the recoverable value of the CGU exceeded the carrying net asset amount (including the goodwill) for SBL, UDV and IDU at 30 June 2018. As a result, the Group has not recognised an impairment charge (2017: Nil). (iv) Significant estimates : Impact of possible changes in key assumptions Serengeti Breweries Limited (SBL) Goodwill There were no reasonably possible changes in any of the key assumptions that would have resulted in an impairment charge in the SBL, UDV and IDU CGUs. Brand Based on the above assumptions, the recoverable value of the brand exceeded the carrying net asset amount for the brand at 30 June 2018. As a result, the Group has not recognised an impairment charge (2017: Nil). 24. Prepaid operating lease rentals Leases of land have been classified as operating leases. (a) Group 2018 2017 Kshs'000 Kshs'000 Cost At 1 July 21,743 16,698 Additions 5,066 Disposals (11,328) Effect of exchange rate changes (74) (21) Carrying amount as at year ended 10,341 21,743 Amortisation At 1 July 6,751 6,389 Charge for the year 816 363 On disposals (4,575) Effect of exchange rate changes (2) (1) Carrying amount as at year ended 2,990 6,751 Net book value 7,351 14,992 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 143 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 24. Prepaid operating lease rentals (continued) (b) Company 2018 2017 Kshs'000 Kshs'000 Cost: At 1 July 2,250 2,250 Transfers to intercompany (870) At end of year 1,380 2,250 Amortisation: At 1 July 1,126 1,055 Charge for the year 59 71 On assets transferred (449) At end of year 736 1,126 Net book value 644 1,124 25. Investments in subsidiaries Book value Effective 30-Jun-18 30-Jun-17 ownership Country of incorporation interest Kshs'000 Kshs'000 Kenya Breweries Limited Kenya 100% 22,377,809 22,377,809 Serengeti Breweries Limited Tanzania 72.5% 15,992,891 4,942,998 Uganda Breweries Limited Uganda 98% 687,648 687,648 UDV (Kenya) Limited Kenya 46% 589,410 589,410 International Distillers Uganda Limited Uganda 100% 300,000 300,000 EABL International Limited Kenya 100% 150,000 150,000 EABL Tanzania Limited Tanzania 100% 5,610 5,610 East African Breweries (Rwanda) Limited Rwanda 100% 1,337 East African Beverages (South Sudan) Limited South Sudan 99% 299 299 Salopia Limited Kenya 100% 200 200 Allsopps (EA) Sales Limited Kenya 100% 3 3 East African Breweries (Mauritius) Limited Mauritius 100% East African Maltings Limited Kenya 100% East African Maltings (Uganda) Limited Uganda 100% Kenya Liquor Distributors Limited Kenya 100% Harp Distributors Limited Kenya 100% International Distillers Kenya Limited Kenya 100% Kenya Distillers Limited Kenya 100% Gilbeys East Africa Limited Kenya 100% Net book amount 40,105,207 29,053,977 During the year, the Company made the following additional investments in subsidiaries: 144 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 25. Investments in subsidiaries (continued) (a) Serengeti Breweries Limited (SBL) As disclosed in Note 18, the Company increased its shareholding in SBL by conversion of loans receivable amounting to Shs 15,306,176,000 into equity shares. The conversion increased its effective shareholding in the subsidiary from 51% to 72.5%. An impairment assessment of the carrying amount of the investment in SBL at Company level was performed at the year-end using the value in use model. The key assumptions used in the value in use model are as shown in Note 23. Based on the assumptions, the carrying amount of the investment was equivalent to the recoverable amount. Significant estimate: Impact of possible changes in key assumptions If the budgeted cash flows used in the value-in-use calculation for the cash generating unit (CGU) had been 10% lower than management’s estimates at 30 June 2018, the Group would have had to recognise an impairment against the carrying amount of the investment in subsidiary of Kshs 86,659,000. If the pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projections of this CGU had been 1% higher than management’s estimates (16.2% instead of 15.2%), the Group would have had to recognise an impairment against the carrying value of the investment in subsidiary of Kshs 318,001,000. If the terminal growth rate applied to the cash flow projections of this CGU had been 1.5% lower than management’s estimates (5.0% instead of 6.5%), the Group would have had to recognise an impairment against the carrying value of the investment in subsidiary of Kshs 514,637,000. (b) East African Breweries (Rwanda) Limited The Company has recognised its investment in East African Breweries (Rwanda) Limited, a Company that was incorporated to run marketing activities in Rwanda. Movement in investment in subsidiaries: The movement in the carrying amount of the total investment in subsidiaries figure is as reflected below: 2018 2017 Kshs'000 Kshs'000 At 1 July 29,053,977 29,053,977 Acquisition of additional interest in subsidiary (Note 18(b) Investment loan converted to equity investment 15,306,176 Capital contribution on behalf of NCI (4,256,283) Investment in East African Breweries (Rwanda) Limited 1,337 At 30 June 40,105,207 29,053,977 26. Other investments (Group and Company) 2018 2017 Kshs'000 Kshs'000 Unquoted at cost 20% investment in Challenge Fund Limited who in turn have subscribed to 50% in Central Depository and Settlement Corporation Limited 10,000 10,000 At end of year 10,000 10,000 27. Inventories Group 2018 2017 Kshs'000 Kshs'000 Raw materials and consumables 4,835,788 5,096,867 Work in progress 721,933 483,618 Finished goods 1,930,324 1,672,653 Goods in transit 394,561 219,956 7,882,606 7,473,094 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in ‘cost of sales’ amounted to Kshs 21,639,676,000 (2017: Kshs 20,412,467,000). GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 145 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 28. Trade and other receivables (a) Group 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Trade receivables 5,371,289 6,815,831 Less: provision for impairment losses (685,942) (822,526) 4,685,347 5,993,305 Other receivables 2,657,087 3,024,375 Less: provision for impairment losses (170,421) (134,314) Prepayments 423,502 325,642 Receivables from related companies (Note 35(a)(iii)) 350,966 718,992 7,946,481 9,928,000 Movement in provision for impairment losses: At 1 July 956,840 784,055 Impairment charge on trade receivables (Note 9(a)) 137,650 210,505 Write offs (238,127) (37,720) At 30 June 856,363 956,840 (b) Company 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Trade receivables 512,080 590,159 Receivables from related companies (Note 35(b)(ii)) 2,925,420 3,198,367 Other receivables 383,818 2,074,170 Prepayments 4,437 3,825,755 5,862,696 29. Trade and other payables 2018 2017 (a) Group Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Trade payables 5,781,983 4,393,197 Other payables and accrued expenses 17,694,450 15,891,910 Payables to related parties (Note 35(a)(iii)) 1,152,866 528,904 24,629,299 20,814,011 (b) Company Trade payables 114,640 149,708 Payables to related parties (Note 35(b)(ii)) 16,943,244 10,155,305 Other payables and accrued expenses 2,555,737 2,720,947 19,613,621 13,025,960 146 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 30. Contingent liabilities The Group has operations in several countries and is subject to a number of legal, customs duty, excise duty and other tax claims incidental to these operations, the outcome of which cannot at present be foreseen and the possible loss or range of loss of which cannot at present be meaningfully quantified. In particular, the Group is subject to claims in Kenya that challenge its interpretation of various tax regulations and the application thereof. Based on their own judgement and professional advice received from legal, tax and other advisors, the Directors believe that the provision made for all these claims sufficiently covers the expected loss arising from them. For most of these cases, the likelihood that the Group will suffer significant charges or payments is remote; however in a few cases the Directors consider it possible but not probable that such charges will be incurred. The Group continues to vigorously defend its position. The Directors continue to monitor the development of these matters and to the extent those developments may have a major impact on its financial position, or may significantly affect its ability to meet its commitments, the Group shall disclose those developments in line with its listing obligations as required by relevant regulations. 31. Commitments – Group (i) Capital commitments Capital expenditure contracted for at the reporting date but not recognised in the financial statements is as follows: 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Contracted but not provided for 5,626,927 642,325 Authorised but not contracted for 4,573,991 798,067 10,200,918 1,440,392 Capital commitments primarily relates to construction of a brewery in Kisumu. ii) Operating lease commitments (a)Group leases as lessee The Group has entered into operating lease agreements for leasing of commercial and non-commercial vehicles and point-of-sale refrigerators. Lease payments cover principal rentals, maintenance fees, fleet management costs and insurance costs. Future minimum lease payments under these operating leases are as follows: 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Not later than 1 year 540,785 1,248,186 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 94,157 377,300 634,942 1,625,486 (b) Group leases as lessor The Group had entered into operating lease agreements for leasing part of its properties.The property under the operating lease agreement was sold of during the year. Future minimum lease receipts under operating leases are as follows: 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Not later than 1 year 49,396 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 67,169 116,565 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 147 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 31. Commitments – Group (continued) ii) Operating lease commitments (continued) (c) Company leases as lessee The Company has entered into operating lease agreements for leasing of printers and motor vehicles. Future minimum lease payments under these operating leases are as follows: 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Not later than 1 year 70,875 121,940 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 55,056 277,156 125,931 399,096 32. Cash generated from operations (a) Reconciliation of profit before income tax to cash generated from operations Group 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Profit before income tax 11,741,810 13,307,333 Adjusted for: Interest income (Note 12) (81,949) (81,686) Interest expense (Note 12) 3,441,067 3,255,402 Depreciation (Note 21 (a)) 3,495,415 3,328,169 Share based payments 14,584 (Profit) / loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (699,098) 212,965 Write off of property, plant and equipment 404,406 67,753 Impairment of goodwill (Note 23) 284,687 Fair value movement on derivative financial instruments 71,946 Amortisation of intangible asset software (Note 22 (a)) 149,249 101,788 Amortisation of prepaid operating lease rentals (Note 24 (a)) 816 363 Cash generated from operations before working capital adjustments 18,538,246 20,476,774 Changes in working capital: -Trade and other receivables 15,015 608,209 -Inventories (568,417) 563,305 -Trade and other payables 3,732,452 (124,682) Cash generated from operations 21,717,296 21,523,606 148 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 32. Cash generated from operations (continued) (a) Reconciliation of profit before income tax to cash generated from operations (continued) Company 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Profit before income tax 2,460,326 9,464,281 Adjustments for: Interest income (Note 12(b)) (1,584,653) (1,619,077) Interest expense ( Note 12(b)) 3,881,863 4,019,349 Depreciation (Note 21 (b)) 47,393 90,223 Share based payments 14,584 Write off of intangible assets 69,275 Amortisation of intangible asset software (Note 22(b)) 80,602 58,532 Amortisation of prepaid operating lease rentals (Note 24(b)) 59 71 Dividend income (7,798,813) (9,723,594) Fair value movement on derivative financial instruments 71,946 Loss on disposal of property and equipment 156,839 Release of prior year overprovision of current tax 329,693 786,122 Write off of loan receivable from subsidiary (Note 25) 4,256,282 Write off of investment loan 1,751,000 Cash generated from operations before working capital adjustments 3,510,282 3,302,021 Changes in working capital: -Trade and other receivables 150,470 (1,364,307) -Inventory (4,947) (31,364) -Trade and other payables 6,576,844 (2,142,062) Cash generated from /(used in) operations 10,232,649 (235,712) (b) Cash and cash equivalents 2018 2017 Kshs'000 Kshs'000 Group Cash and bank balances 3,588,370 3,907,473 Bank overdraft (Note 34(a)) (401,245) (589,366) 3,187,125 3,318,107 Company Cash and bank balances 1,685,800 1,927,851 Bank overdraft (Note 34(b)) (7,175) (369) 1,678,625 1,927,482 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 149 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 32. Cash generated from operations (continued) (c) Non-cash transactions Group 2018 2017 Kshs'000 Kshs'000 Movement in trade and other receivables Movement per statement of financial position 1,981,519 1,644,146 Proceeds from sale of leasehold property (1,762,500) (994,500) Foreign currency translation differences (204,004) (41,437) Net movement in receivables as per cash flow 15,015 608,209 Movement in trade and other payables Movement per statement of financial position 3,815,288 (1,033,749) Foreign currency translation differences (82,837) 909,067 Net movement in payables as per cash flow 3,732,451 (124,682) Company 2018 2017 Kshs'000 Kshs'000 Movement in trade and other receivables Movement per statement of financial position 3,971,483 (369,807) Proceeds from sale of leasehold property (1,762,500) (994,500) Write off of investment loan (EABSS) (1,751,000) Conversion of investment loan to equity investment (SBL) (15,306,176) Investment in long term loan (KBL) 15,000,000 Investment in subsidiaries (EABL Rwanda) (1,337) Net movement in receivables as per cash flow 150,470 (1,364,307) Movement in non cash items in current tax Release of prior year overprovision 329,693 786,122 Net movement in receivables as per cash flow 329,693 786,122 33. Derivative financial instruments The amount represents the fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts held to manage foreign currency risk on the Euro denominated borrowings (see Note 34). These derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value through profit or loss. 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Derivative financial liabilities Foreign exchange forward contracts 71,946 71,946 150 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 34. Borrowings a) Group 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 The borrowings are made up as follows: Non-current Related party loan 11,469,236 11,469,236 Medium term note 11,000,000 11,000,000 Bank loans 8,077,553 5,019,038 30,546,789 27,488,274 Current Borrowings 118,667 Bank overdraft 401,245 589,366 519,912 589,366 31,066,701 28,077,640 The carrying amounts of current borrowings approximate their fair value, as the impact of discounting is not material. 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 The movement in borrowings is as follows: At start of year 28,077,640 26,648,750 Advanced in the year Long term bank loan 4,907,194 Medium term note 6,000,000 -Short term bank loan 3,800,000 2,500,000 Repayments in the year (5,492,942) (2,500,000) Movement in bank overdrafts (188,121) (4,585,790) Effect of exchange rate changes (37,070) 14,680 At end of the year 31,066,701 28,077,640 i. Related party loan from Diageo Finance Plc of Kshs 11,469,236,000. The related party loan issued in 2012 attracts variable interest rates at 2% above Kenya Bankers’ Reference Rate (KBRR) (2017: 2%). This loan is unsecured. ii. Bank loans comprise: • Long term loan from Stanbic Bank Kenya Limited of Kshs 4,520,000,000 at a weighted average interest rate of 6%. The loan is unsecured and matures 7 years from March 2018. • Medium term loan from Barclays Bank of Kenya Kshs 3,156,250,000 (2017:Kshs 4,500,000,000) at average annual interest rates of (CBR+300bps) which currently comes to12.50% (2017: 13.62%). This facility is secured by a letter of comfort from Diageo Plc for Kshs 7.8 billion and matures in 5 years from June 2017. • Medium term loan from Stanbic Bank of Uganda USD 3,250,000 (2017: USD 3,250,000) at an effective interest rate of (3 months LIBOR+4.85%) which currently comes to 6% (2017: 6%). This facility is unsecured and matures on 30 April 2021. iii. Medium term note of Kshs 11,000,000,000 (2017: Kshs 11,000,000,000) in two tranches. The first tranche (Kshs 5,000,000,000) is unsecured, has an annual interest rate of 12.95% (2017:12.95%) and matures in March 2020. The second tranche (Kshs 6,000,000,000), also unsecured has an annual interest rate of 14.17% (2017: 14.17%) and matures in March 2022. iv. The bank overdraft has an effective interest rate of 10% (2017: 15.29%) and is sourced from Barclays Bank of Kenya, Barclays Bank of Uganda, Citibank Uganda, Citibank Tanzania and Citibank Kenya. The Group is not in breach of any financial covenants for facilities issued by its bankers as at 30 June 2018. For the medium term note, the Capital Markets Authority has exempted the Group from maintaining a current assets ratio of 1 until 2020. The Group had available undrawn facilities of Kshs 13.4 billion as at 30 June 2018 (2017: Kshs 11 billion). GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 151 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 34. Borrowings (continued) (b) Company The borrowings are made up as follows: 2018 2017 Kshs'000 Kshs'000 Non-current Related party loan 11,469,236 11,469,236 Medium term note 11,000,000 11,000,000 Bank loans 7,868,462 4,500,000 30,337,698 26,969,236 Current Bank overdraft 7,175 369 Total borrowings 30,344,873 26,969,605 The carrying amounts of current borrowings approximate their fair value, as the impact of discounting is not material. The movement in borrowings is as follows: 2018 2017 Kshs'000 Kshs'000 At start of year 26,969,605 26,024,236 Advanced in the year Long term bank loan 4,907,194 Medium term note 6,000,000 -Short term bank loan 3,800,000 2,500,000 Repayments (5,338,732) (2,500,000) Movement in bank overdrafts 6,806 (5,054,631) At end of the year 30,344,873 26,969,605 i. Related party loan from Diageo Finance Plc of Kshs 11,469,236,000. The related party loan issued in 2012 attracts variable interest rates at 2% above Kenya Bankers’ Reference Rate (KBRR) (2017: 2%). This loan is unsecured. ii. Bank loans comprise: • Long term loan from Stanbic Bank Kenya Limited of Kshs 4,520,000,000 at annual interest rates of 6% drawn down during the year. This is part of a loan facility for EUR 60,000,000 and Kshs 5,000,000,000 loan. The loan is unsecured and matures 7 years from March 2018. • Medium term loan from Barclays Bank of Kenya Kshs 3,156,250,000 (2017:Kshs 4,500,000,000) at average annual interest rates of (CBR+300bps) which currently comes to 12.50% (2017: 13.62%). This facility is secured by a letter of comfort from Diageo Plc for Kshs 7.8 billion and matures in 5 years from June 2017. iii. Medium term note of Kshs 11,000,000,000 (2017: Kshs 11,000,000,000) in two tranches. The first tranche (Kshs 5,000,000,000) is unsecured, has an annual interest rate of 12.95% (2017:12.95%) and matures in March 2020. The second tranche (Kshs 6,000,000,000), also unsecured has an annual interest rate of 14.17% (2017: 14.17%) and matures in March 2022. iv. The Company has a bank overdraft sourced from Barclays Bank of Kenya, Citibank Kenya and Standard Chartered Bank of Kenya at a rate of 10% (2017: 13.37%). 152 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 35. Related party transactions The ultimate parent of the Group is Diageo Plc, incorporated in the United Kingdom. The Company is controlled by Diageo Kenya Limited incorporated in Kenya and other subsidiaries of Diageo Plc. There are other Companies that are related to East African Breweries Limited through common shareholdings. The following are transactions and balances with related parties: (a) Group (i) Management and manufacturing fees payable/receivable to/from companies and royalties paid 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Diageo Great Britain Limited 1,554,262 843,508 Diageo North America, Inc 591,465 327,244 Diageo Ireland 273,040 265,571 Diageo Business Services Limited 155,614 68,517 Diageo Brands B.V. 111,386 39,168 Diageo Scotland Limited 109,718 Guinness Ghana Breweries Limited 29,050 Guinness Nigeria plc 12,844 15,343 Diageo plc 11,651 11,584 Other related parties 7,108 5,408 2,856,138 1,576,343 (ii) Purchase of goods and services 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Diageo Ireland 1,498,684 2,000,289 Diageo Brands B.V. 420,040 831,586 Diageo North America, Inc 354,455 284,266 Diageo Great Britain Limited 132,906 119,300 Guinness Cameroun S A 46,081 782 Diageo Scotland Limited 35,806 105,180 Diageo South Africa (Pty) Limited 33,387 30,860 United Spirits Singapore Pte. Limited 12,912 Other related parties 8,111 5,313 2,529,470 3,390,488 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 153 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 35. Related party transactions (continued) (a) Group (continued) (iii) Outstanding balances arising from sale and purchase of goods/services 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Receivables from related parties Diageo Southern Africa Markets (Pty) Limited 105,639 73,760 Guinness Cameroun S.A. 51,971 8,129 Guinness Nigeria plc 23,838 21,490 Diageo Great Britain Limited 23,104 11,320 Diageo Supply Marracuene Limitada 9,482 23,224 Meta Abo Brewery Share Company 7,529 180,646 Diageo South Africa (Pty) Limited 5,031 18,690 Diageo Ireland 4,702 176,767 Diageo Mozambique Limitada 10,517 Diageo North America, Inc 42,317 Diageo Brands B.V. 10,840 Other related parties 21,676 40,954 350,966 718,992 Payables to related parties Diageo Ireland 444,579 84,156 Diageo Great Britain Limited 397,215 118,528 Diageo Finance plc 102,752 123,302 Diageo Brands B.V. 108,191 84,902 Diageo North America, Inc 66,312 74,049 Diageo Business Services Hungary 12,943 21,062 Diageo Business Services India 16,060 Guinness Nigeria plc 2,602 Other related parties 20,874 4,243 1,152,866 528,904 Long term debt Loan from Diageo Finance Plc 11,469,236 11,469,236 154 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 35. Related party transactions (continued) (b) Company (i) Management and manufacturing fees payable/receivable to/from companies and royalties paid 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Sale of goods and services Kenya Breweries Limited 1,501,955 1,539,268 UDV (Kenya) Limited 696,065 411,109 Uganda Breweries Limited 135,187 127,138 East African Maltings Limited 4,433 7,441 Other related parties 7,228 2,337,640 2,092,184 Purchase of goods and services Kenya Breweries Limited 2,742,801 2,946,932 Diageo Great Britain Limited 540,766 577,322 Diageo Scotland Limited 93,243 164,670 Uganda Breweries Limited 68,890 60,474 Diageo Business Services India 62,774 102,659 Diageo South Africa (Pty) Limited 39,890 32,623 Diageo Brands B.V. 33,372 45,490 Guinness Ghana Breweries Limited 28,796 11,208 Diageo North America, Inc 27,338 40,006 Diageo Americas Supply Inc 15,653 20,679 Guiness Nigeria plc 12,844 16,835 Other related parties 19,292 31,225 3,774,490 4,171,045 (ii) Outstanding balances arising from sale and purchases of goods and services Non current assets: 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Loans receivable from related parties Kenya Breweries Limited 15,000,000 Uganda Breweries Limited 1,759,774 1,954,853 East African Maltings Limited 1,742,662 1,742,662 East African Beverages (South Sudan) Limited 1,433,287 Serengeti Breweries Limited 15,306,176 18,502,436 20,436,978 The company advanced loans to the subsidiaries to finance their capital expenditure and working capital requirements as part of the Group’s centralized treasure management process. The loans are repayable on demand depending on the cash flows of the subsidiaries. At the year end, the company had committed not to recall the loans for at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements. The loans receivable are unsecured. They attract interest based on the Central Bank of Kenya Rate (CBR) plus 2.5% p.a. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 155 2018 Financial Statements 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes (Continued) 35. Related party transactions (continued) (b) Company (continued) Current assets: 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Receivables from subsidiaries Kenya Breweries Limited 1,933,792 1,562,673 East African Maltings Limited 629,090 914,880 UDV (Kenya) Limited 96,321 55,628 Uganda Breweries Limited 46,338 7,287 East African Beverages (South Sudan) Limited 163,711 Serengeti Breweries Limited 8,296 2,705,541 2,712,475 Receivables from related parties Diageo Southern Africa Markets (Pty) Limited 100,608 73,760 Diageo Supply Marracuene Limitada 51,376 51,376 Diageo Great Britain Limited 23,104 11,302 Meta Abo Brewery Share Company 11,679 7,796 Diageo North America, Inc 9,482 23,224 Diageo Scotland Limited 5,031 18,690 Seychelles Breweries Limited 800 82,274 Guinness Nigeria plc 10,517 Diageo Mozambique Limitada 2,873 Other related parties 11,649 11,369 219,879 485,892 Total current assets 2,925,420 3,198,367 Current liabilities: 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Payables to subsidiaries Kenya Breweries Limited 9,577,351 3,064,349 UDV (Kenya) Limited 4,558,847 4,422,995 EABL international limited 2,659,896 2,514,026 East African Maltings Limited 8,796 Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) 5,343 East African Breweries (Rwanda) Limited 1,152 16,811,385 10,001,370 Payables to related parties Diageo Great Britain Limited 102,752 123,302 Diageo Americas Supply 12,943 15,125 Diageo Finance plc 14,089 Other related parties 16,164 1,419 131,859 153,935 Total current liabilities 16,943,244 10,155,305 156 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 2018 Financial Statements 35. Related party transactions (continued) (b) Company (continued) Non-current liabilities: 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Long term debt Loan from Diageo Finance Plc 11,469,236 11,469,236 11,469,236 11,469,236 (c) Other related party disclosures (i) Directors’ remuneration 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Group Fees for services as a Director 37,754 16,134 Share based payments 39,459 29,384 Other emoluments (included in key management compensation in (ii) below) 181,618 240,121 258,831 285,639 Directors’ remuneration include fees in relation to Non-Executive Directors and compensation to Executive Directors in the Company and its subsidiaries. 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Company Fees for services as a Director 37,754 16,134 Share based payments 32,469 25,784 Other emoluments (included in key management compensation in (ii) below) 145,493 184,418 215,716 226,336 (ii) Key management compensation (Group) Key management includes Executive Directors and members of senior management. The compensation paid or payable to key management for employee services is shown below: 2018 2017 Kshs’000 Kshs’000 Salaries and other shorter term employment benefits 952,511 854,722 Share based payments 79,444 31,294 Post-employment benefits 49,420 49,416 1,081,375 935,432 36. Events after the reporting period There were no material events after the reporting period requiring adjustment to, or disclosure in the financial statements. GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 157 Principal shareholders and share distribution 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Principal shareholders and share distribution The ten largest shareholdings in the Company and the respective number of shares held at 30 June 2018 are as follows: Name(s) and Address Number of shares % Diageo Kenya Limited 338,618,340 42.82% Diageo Holdings Netherlands B.V. 36,361,290 4.60% Guiness Overseas Limited 20,628,804 2.61% 395,608,434 50.03% Standard Chartered Nominees Non-Resd. A/C KE10085 16,880,000 2.13% Standard Chartered Nominees Non-Resd. A/C 9069 16,305,847 2.06% Kenya Commercial Bank Nominees Limited A/C 915B 10,834,544 1.37% Standard Chartered Kenya Nominees Ltd A/C KE003315 8,327,449 1.05% Standard Chartered Nominees Non-Resd. A/C KE8723 6,599,600 0.83% Kenya Commercial Bank Nominees Limited A/C 915A 6,541,117 0.83% Standard Chartered Nominee Account KE17682 5,635,240 0.71% Total number of shares 466,732,231 59.02% Number of Distribution of shareholders Number of shares % shareholders 1 – 500 shares 2,365,592 12,461 0.30% 501 – 5,000 shares 15,473,601 9,687 1.96% 5,001 – 10,000 shares 6,753,226 953 0.85% 10,001 – 100,000 shares 39,001,889 1,371 4.93% 100,001 – 1,000,000 shares 116,962,032 373 14.79% Over 1,000,000 shares 610,218,016 78 77.17% Total 790,774,356 24,923 100.00% EABL Directors’ shareholding as at 30 June 2018: Director’s names Number of shares Alan Shonubi 2,800 Jane Karuku 1,296 Carol Musyoka 1,882 158 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Information to Shareholders Information to Shareholders E ABL is pleased to inform you that its share registrar – CandR To access this functionality a shareholder should: Group has set up an online link called SHAREHUB – www. a. Open the sharehub portal on www.sharehub.co.ke sharehub.co.ke through which our shareholders can access b. Click on ‘Corporate Events Calendar’ or ‘Reports/Notices’ or query information relating to their shares, dividends and i. Under ‘Corporate Events Calendar’ browse the any other corporate information such as Annual General Meetings calendar and view all the added corporate action and / or accessing statutory information. To access or use the events. portal, please follow the steps below: ii. Under ‘Reports/Notices’ filter by ‘Event type’, ‘Security’ or ‘Year’ to get the events of interest. 1. Dividend status query – a shareholder can query his / her past c. Click on the event name to download the associated dividends and confirm their status. event notice. Benefits: 4. Quick and hassle free AGM registration online followed by express a. Fast and hassle free dividend query, and information for access at the AGM venue and Online access to follow the AGM follow up for shareholder; proceedings. b. Security is maintained as only minimal information is provided through a generic response and query Benefits: logging to track and stop potential abuse. a. Efficient AGM registration process and proxy nomination. To access this functionality a shareholder should: b. Access to the express counter for AGM attendance. a. Open the sharehub portal on www.sharehub.co.ke To access this functionality a shareholder should: b. Click on ‘Dividend Query’ and Select Company, a. Open the sharehub portal on www.sharehub.co.ke. Account Type and enter your Account Number. b. Register by clicking on ‘Not yet registered? Click here c. Click on the ‘Send’ button and the system will to register as a user’ and fill in the forms and click generate an appropriate message depending on the on the ‘Register’ button to submit the form to the shareholders dividend status. shareholder services department for verification and d. If needed the shareholder can then raise a query or approval. contact CandR shareholder services department for c. Once the newly created account has been approved further assistance. by the shareholder services department the shareholder will receive a notification with his/her 2. Send a Query here a shareholder can raise a query online and login credentials. have CandR shareholder services department follow up and d. He/she can then login and register for any upcoming resolve the issue. AGMs for listed companies that he/she is a shareholder of. To access this functionality a shareholder should: a. Open the sharehub portal on www.sharehub.co.ke. b. Click on ‘Send a Query’ and fill in the form and ‘Captcha’. c. Click on the ‘Send’ button and the query will be submitted to the shareholder services department for resolution and the shareholder contacted through the contact details provided. 3. A central source of information for corporate events calendar such as historical dividends, bonus issues and IPO’s. Benefits: a. One stop information source for Kenyan market. b. Allows shareholders to plan their corporate and financial. c. Calendar (for AGM attendance, dividend payments, bonus and rights issue activities). GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 159 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements 160 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Proxy Form Proxy Form I/We _______________________________________________________________________________________________________ Of (address) _________________________ _________________________ _____________ Being a member/members of East African Breweries Limited, hereby appoint _________________________ of ______________________________, or failing him _________________________ of ______________________________ as my / our proxy to vote for me/us on my/our behalf at the 96th Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on the 19th of September 2018 at 11.00 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof. Number of shares held________________ (if available) Account Number…………………………………………………………… Signature (s)………………………………………………………………… Signed this_____________ day of ___________20___. Note: 1. A member may appoint the chairman of the meeting as his proxy. 2. If the appointer is a corporation, this Form of Proxy must be completed under the hand of the officer or attorney duly authorized on that behalf. 3. Proxies must be completed and returned to the Company’s Registered Office or to Custody and Registrar Services Limited, Bruce House, 6th Floor, Standard Street and P. O. Box 8484 – 00100, Nairobi. Alternatively, duly signed proxy forms can be scanned and emailed to: proxy@candrgroup.co.ke in PDF format, no later than 2:30pm on 19th September 2017. 4. Please note the proxy should also avail a copy of the shareholder’s ID/Passport when returning the Form. ADMISSION CARD Please Admit ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________ To the 96th Annual General Meeting of East African Breweries Limited which will be held at Safari Park Hotel, Ruaraka, Nairobi on 19th September 2018 at 11.00 a.m. This admission card must be produced by the Shareholder or proxy in order to obtain entrance to the Annual General Meeting. Joyce N. Munene Group Company Secretary GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 161 Fomu ya Uwakilishi 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Fomu ya Uwakilishi Mimi/Sisi _________________________________________________________________________________________________ Wa (anwani) _________________________ _________________________ _____________ Kama mwanachama / wanachama wa East African Breweries Limited, namteua / twamteua_________________________ wa ______________________________, na akikosekana _________________________ wa ______________________________ kama mwakilishi wangu / wetu kupiga kura kwa ajili yangu/ yetu katika Mkutano Mkuu wa 96 wa Kampuni kufanyika Septemba xx, 2018 saa tano asubuhi na wakati kuahirishwa kwake kukiweko. Idadi ya hisa zilizoshikiliwa________________ (kama ipo) Nambari ya akaunti…………………………………………………………… Sahihi…………………………………………………………………….. Siku ya_____________ Mwezi ___________20___. Kumbuka: 1. Mwanachama anaweza kuteua mwenyekiti wa mkutano kama wakala wake. 2. Ikiwa mteuzi ni shirika, fomu hii ya wakala lazima ijiazwe na afisa au wakili aliyeteuliwa na shirika. Mibadala lazima yawe yamekamilika na kurudishwa kwa Ofisi ya Kampuni iliyosajiliwa ama Huduma ya Usimamizi na Usajili yaani Custody and Registrar Services Limited, Bruce House, 6th Floor, Standard Street na S.L.P 8484 – 00100, Nairobi. Kama sivyo, fomu za uwakilishi zikitiwa saini zaweza kutumwa kama barua pepe kwa: proxy@candrgroup.co.ke, katika muundo wa PDF kabla saa nane unusu tarehe 19 Septemba 2017. 3. Lazima fomu hii iambatanishwe na nakala ya cheti cha kitambulisho (ID) / pasipoti ya mwenyehisa wakati inaporejeshwa. KADI YA KIINGILIO Tafadhali mruhusu ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Kwa Mkutano Mkuu wa 96 wa East African Breweries Limited utakaofanyika katika Safari Park Hotel, Ruaraka, Nairobi, Septemba 19, 2018 saa tano asubuhi. Kadi hii ya kiingilio lazima ionyeshwe na Mwanahisa au wakala wake ili aruhusiwe kuingia kwenye Mkutano wa Mwaka. Joyce N. Munene Katibu Mkuu wa Kampuni 162 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements Notes Notes GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 163 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements GROWING VALUE TOGETHER 2018 Integrated Report and Financial Statements www.eabl.com 166 GROWING VALUE TOGETHER
