Pentland Group 2017 Corporate Responsibility Review Doing Business Better Contents 1.0 Introduction 1.1 1.2 A message from our Chairman 2017 Highlights 3 4 1.3 Who we are 4 1.4 Our approach to corporate responsibility 7 1.5 UN Global Compact: Ten principles 8 1.6 UN Sustainable Development Goals: Our contribution 8 2.0 Corporate responsibility at Pentland Brands 2.1 Our corporate responsibility strategy 9 2.2 Building brands with social purpose 10 2.3 Future proofing our supply chain 14 2.4 Respecting human rights and tackling inequality 18 2.5 Supporting our people 24 3.0 Corporate responsibility at JD Sports Fashion plc 3.1 Environment 27 3.2 Ethical Sourcing & People 28 3.3 JD Foundation 28 1.1 A message from our Chairman 1.0 As a family business we take a Our brands have continued to introduce long-term view on developing and more eco-friendly fabrics in their latest positioning our brands. We are ranges, such as Berghaus’ signature passionate about our people (Pentland Made Kind™ products and Speedo’s employees, customers, and everyone use of ECONYL® made from recycled in our value chain) and committed ocean waste in its H2O Active range. to being good corporate citizens. JD Sports Fashion plc trained more Introduction People are at the heart of what we than 170 auditors to spot modern do. We focus on creating products slavery risks and the JD Foundation our customers can be proud to wear, has raised £1.9 million to support youth demanding high standards for workers charities since its launch in 2015. in our supply chain, supporting our Pentland Group won the International own people so they can achieve Institute for Management Development their best, and giving back to our Global Family Business International communities. I’m tremendously proud Award in 2017. Receiving this prestigious of what we have achieved this year. award is the culmination of many Pentland Brands has continued its decades of evolving as a family business efforts to tackle modern slavery risks and being supported by great teams in the supply chain, publishing three and partners. This kind of external new policies to protect vulnerable recognition is a great validation of workers, training over 90 staff in what we all do, and it shows us that factory-facing roles to identify risks, we benchmark with the very best. and working with the Issara Institute We remain committed to playing our part to improve working conditions at in tackling some of the world’s greatest factories in Thailand. Its longstanding challenges – as expressed in the UN support through product donations Global Compact and the UN Sustainable earned an award from charity partner Development Goals – and I look In Kind Direct and 400 people forward to further progress next year. across the business volunteered their time and skills to give R. Stephen Rubin back to their communities. Chairman, Pentland Group 3 1.2 1.3 2017 Highlights Who we are Pentland Group plc Pentland Brands Ltd Pentland Group plc Since our founders sold their first In 2017, we simplified the way we shoe in Liverpool in the 1930’s, we’ve buy and sell products so we can is a private, family been building global sports, fashion continue to grow sustainably. We’re Pentland Group was awarded the Nearly 400 employees supported their communities prestigious International Institute for through Pentland Brands’ 28 Give Back Days around owned, global and outdoor brands that people love. consolidating our supply chain and UK Our business is changing rapidly but operations to better align our brands Management Development Global the world brand management Family Business International Award and our values have not changed and our and streamline their relationship recognised for our strong commitment In Kind Direct recognised Pentland Brands’ company with people remain at the heart of what with retailers. As a result, we’ve longstanding support with an award for Pro Bono to sustainability, human rights and wholesale and we do. restructured Pentland Brands into two Support by a Product Donor and our product donations divisions: active and footwear. environment throughout our value chain helped over 500 charities this year retail businesses Pentland Group employs over 20,000 people and we work with trusted JD Sports Fashion plc We won EY’s UK Family Business of Speedo has provided over 500,000 free swimming in sports, outdoor suppliers around the world to make Excellence Award 2017, celebrating the Pentland Group is the majority owner contribution Pentland Group is making to lessons in 12 countries through its Swim Generation and fashion. our products. We have three business of JD Sports Fashion plc, which programme since 2014 groups: Pentland Brands Ltd, JD the economy and the legacy we’re building operates 1,300 sports, fashion and 40% of Berghaus’ range was MADEKIND™ for Sports Fashion plc, and Pentland outdoor stores in 12 countries under Investments which manages our JD Sports Fashion plc the environment several different brands including JD, investments and trading subsidiaries. More than 70% of Speedo’s men’s water shorts use Size?, Blacks and Go Outdoors. It The JD Foundation has raised £1.9 million eco-friendly production techniques or materials Pentland Brands Ltd employs around 19,000 people (FTE). to support youth charities since 2015, Pentland Brands trained more than 90 staff in factoryPentland is the name behind some of Investments and trading subsidiaries including the ‘Inspired to Aspire’ Mentoring facing roles to identify risks of modern slavery the world’s best active and footwear Programme launched in 2017 to help Through our Pentland Investments brands. It owns Speedo, Berghaus, young people prepare for the world of work Pentland Brands partnered with the Issara Institute to Division, Pentland Group is also a Canterbury of New Zealand, Boxfresh, improve working conditions at factories in Thailand shareholder in other companies such JD trained more than 170 auditors to spot Ellesse, KangaROOS, Mitre and Red as Hunter Boots, Butterfly Twists modern slavery risks in the supply chain We’ve had a positive impact on more than 30,000 or Dead. It’s the majority shareholder and Tracksmith. workers in Southeast Asia through Pentland Brands’ in US sneaker brand SeaVees, is Better Work programme the global footwear licensee for Ted Baker, the Kickers licensee in the UK 1 For 2017 (the period covered by this report) Pentland Brands We’ve gone beyond compliance to pay at least the real was the global footwear licensee for Lacoste and Ireland, and has a joint venture Living Wage, as defined by the Living Wage Foundation, partnership for Lacoste footwear.1 to all Pentland Brands UK employees from August 2017 Pentland Brands employs around 1/3 of Pentland Brands senior leaders are women and 1,700 people. we’re working to improve that figure 4 1.3 Pentland Group plc Pentland Brands Ltd Pentland Investments JD Sports Fashion plc (57%) Owned brands Footwear Licenses 2 Joint Ventures Associates & JVs Trading Subsidaries Retail Fascias Owned & Licensed Brands 2 For 2017 (the period covered by this report) Pentland Brands was the global footwear licensee for Lacoste 5 Our Story Scope of this report We opened an office in Hong We sold our share in Reebok Kong, strengthening our ability and invested in Speedo Europe, to source shoes in Asia and we International and Australia became a public company listed This report provides an overview on the London Stock Exchange of Pentland Group plc’s corporate responsibility strategy and performance for the 2017 calendar year. We focus Outdoor footwear Californian sneaker mainly on Pentland Brands’ activities brand SeaVees Our founders set up the and clothing brand because we can directly influence the became the most Established Liverpool Shoe Company, Berghaus joined We bought a 55% the Pentland family recent brand to join us design and sourcing of its products. a small family business stake in a small athletic selling shoes We bought footwear brand called a stake in As a separate publicly listed company, Reebok USA JD Sports JD Sports Fashion plc publishes its own Fashion plc Annual Report, where you can find out 1932 2017 more about its corporate responsibility 46 64 73 81 89 90 91 93 99 05 12 approach and performance. A brief overview is also included in this report. JD Sports Fashion Plc is excluded from our Group level data, except for The company was energy and carbon emissions data privatised and (in line with the requirements of the The company name reverted to being fully owned family Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy changed to Pentland Industries Ltd business again Efficiency scheme). We changed our name from Pentland Industries to The rugby brand Pentland Group. Canterbury joined the group and we invested We expanded into Ellesse and Kickers We built a strong in luxury swimwear manufacturing shoes appointed us UK relationship with the brand Heidi Klein distributors Lacoste family and became the worldwide licensee for its footwear 6 1.4 Our approach to corporate responsibility Partnering for progress Our Standards and policies set out our We partner with academic institutions and position on social, environmental and industry bodies to support positive change. ethical issues, including anti-bribery. They make our expectations clear to everyone Partnerships include: who works for us or with us: employees, World Federation of the Academia business partners and suppliers. Sporting Goods Industry (WFSGI) We’ve worked closely with the UCL School All Group companies in which we hold Pentland Brands is an active member of of Public Policy since its inception in 50% or more equity are required to comply the WFSGI, an independent non-profit 2001. In partnership with the NYU Wagner with these policies. We also endeavour association that represents the global Graduate School of Public Service in New to use our influence to persuade other sporting goods industry. It promotes York, our innovative academic sponsorship companies in which we have nonresponsible business practices and for individual scholars from the Global South controlling stakes to meet our standards. encourages more people to become region supports a student from Africa, Asiainvolved in sport. Pentland Group Chairman Pentland Group is a signatory to the UN Pacific or Latin America at an early stage of Stephen Rubin is Honorary President of the Global Compact and we support the UN their career. It helps them to complete their WFSGI, and Pentland Brands Chairman Sustainable Development Goals to build studies and go on to make an important Andy Rubin is European Vice President and a fairer and more sustainable world. contribution to public service. an active board member. The Pentland Centre for Sustainability Other industry groups and non-governmental in Business at Lancaster University organisations (NGOs) that we work with are tasks businesses and academics to find mentioned throughout this report. practical solutions to real-world social and environmental challenges. In 2017, Professor Gail Whiteman, who chairs the Centre, and her team, set up an Arctic basecamp at Davos 2017 to raise awareness of the impact of climate change in the Arctic. 7 1.5 1.6 UN Global Compact: UN Sustainable Development Ten principles Goals: Our contribution We became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in 2001. We fully support its ten Based on our assessment of the business against the UN Sustainable Development principles that cover human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This report is our Goals, we believe we can make the biggest contribution on six of the goals. Communication on Progress for 2017. The table below shows where the relevant information in This is where we will focus our efforts through our corporate responsibility strategy. our report can be found for each principle. Topic UN Global Compact Principle Location in report Human  usinesses should support and respect the protection of 1. B Section 2.4 1 2 3 4 5 rights internationally proclaimed human rights; and Respecting human rights No poverty Zero hunger Good health Quality Gender 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. and tackling inequality and well-being education equality Section 2.5 Supporting our people Labour 3. B usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Section 2.4 6 7 8 9 10 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Respecting human rights Clean water Affordable and Decent work Industry, Reduced 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; and tackling inequality and sanitation clean energy and economic innovation and inequalities 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and Section 2.5 growth infrastructure Supporting our people 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 11 12 13 14 15 occupation. Environment 7. Businesses  should support a precautionary approach to Section 2.3 Sustainable Responsible Climate action Life below Life on land environmental challenges; Future proofing our cities and consumption water 8. u ndertake initiatives to promote greater environmental supply chain communities and production responsibility; and Section 2.2 9. encourage  the development and diffusion of environmentally Building brands with social friendly technologies. purpose 16 17 Peace, justice Partnerships Anti10. B  usinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Section 1.4 and strong for the goals corruption including extortion and bribery. Our approach to corporate institutions responsibility 8 2.0 2.1 Our corporate Corporate responsibility responsibility strategy at Pentland Brands Pentland Brands’ corporate responsibility strategy helps us drive progress in three key areas: building brands with social purpose, future-proofing our supply chain, and respecting human rights and tackling inequality. Building brands with Future-proofing our Respecting human rights social purpose supply chain and tackling inequality Focus areas: Focus areas: Focus areas: Using our brands to make a Better chemicals management Tackling modern slavery positive difference in society Better materials selection Paying living wages Supporting causes that matter Better understanding of Understanding workers Volunteering and giving back our supply chain and giving them a voice environmenal footprint 9 2.2 Building brands with social purpose We’re supporting causes Using our brands to make a positive difference in society The ripple effect with SeaVees gives 1% For The Planet that matter through our Speedo Swim Generation Based in and inspired by California, USA, brands, our business, our We want our brands to play a positive role Speedo is synonymous with swimming. Its Swim SeaVees is passionate about the coastal products and our people. in society. Many of them run their own social Generation programme is harnessing the power environment. In 2015 it joined 1% For The programmes that resonate with their consumers of the brand to help more people around the Planet, an initiative that brings donors and and brand ethos. world learn how to swim. grassroots environmental organisations together, and as a member the brand has For example, Berghaus contributes to the John Swimming lessons can reduce the risk of made a commitment to give 1% of net sales Muir Trust that aims to protect wild places and drowning – the third biggest cause of accidental to support environmental causes. SeaVees reconnect people with the outdoors. It also deaths worldwide – by 88%. Over the last three has chosen to support the Gaviota Coast supports the Outward Bound Trust to help young years, Swim Generation has provided more than Conservancy, which works to protect the people from all walks of life widen their horizons by half a million free lessons on water safety and undeveloped coastal wilderness close to the getting outdoors. swimming and it’s helping to make more than brand’s Santa Barbara office. 50,000 children safer in the water. Canterbury partners with England Rugby on the All Schools programme to get more kids playing rugby. Swim Generation has also trained more than 130 And Speedo’s Swim Generation aims to reduce swimming teachers and lifeguards, and reached incidents of accidental drowning worldwide. over 630,000 young people through campaigns on water safety to prevent drowning. In November 2017, Pentland and Speedo supported the biennial House of Lords versus There are now 18 Swim Generation projects in House of Commons Speedo Charity Swim and 12 countries: Argentina, Australia, Bangladesh, Gala Dinner, which we’ve sponsored for over 20 Bulgaria, Cambodia, India, Lesotho, Malta, Sri years. The event raised £80,000 this year in aid of Lanka, South Africa, Sudan and the UK. Hope for Youth Northern Ireland. 10 2.2 Supporting causes that matter Giving back is baked into our DNA. Every year, Pentland Brands gives at least 1% of its net profit after tax to charitable causes through product “Pentland Brands’ generous support donations and financial contributions. has helped us to make dramatic improvements to the health of In 2017, Pentland Brands completed the second thousands of people across Kenya. year of our three-year partnerships with the global The Red Cross has worked alongside charity partners chosen by our employees. We vulnerable communities across three support projects that are relevant to our brands counties to make clean water available and mean the most to our people: and more accessible. Combined “WWF has been researching the Javan “United Purpose places great emphasis on Improving access to clean water in with health education drives around rhino for decades now, but much of the promoting gender equality, and our partnership Kenya for more than 65,000 people so far the importance of toilet facilities and rhino’s behaviour remains a mystery. With with Pentland has enabled us to reach with the British Red Cross hand-washing, communities are being Pentland’s support, we’ve purchased 121 thousands of young women, many of them Empowering young girls in India to overcome empowered to prevent the spread of infrared cameras this year to help us obtain incredibly vulnerable, in rural communities of gender inequality with United Purpose illnesses linked to poor sanitation.” critical data. With only 67 Javan rhinos left India where women often suffer discrimination (formerly International Inspiration) Paul Davenport, Country Manager it helps us get to know each individual rhino and violence. Through our innovative project Kenya British Red Cross personally. Take Rawing for example, an combining sport and education, these young P  rotecting the endangered Javan rhino in old-timer that WWF teams had only ever seen women have had new life experiences and Indonesia with WWF. in the southern part of Ujung Kulon National gained new awareness and knowledge, which Park. He hung out there because the invasive has challenged how women are seen in their Arenga palms that destroy rhino plant food society, and perceptions of what women can weren’t so concentrated. But thanks to our do. Through Pentland’s support over three efforts to control arenga palm, which Pentland years, we’ve been able to embed this work have supported, we noticed that Rawing was deeply into communities to ensure that we’re moving into the cleared area to feed.” making a lasting change for women.” Nicola Loweth, Regional Officer Kathryn Llewellyn, CEO WWF-UK United Purpose Image Source: PRADAN 11 2.2 Donating products to those in need Our clothing, shoes and sports equipment can We were one of the first companies to endorse In come in handy for community organisations Kind Direct’s new manifesto to Join the Product and people in need. Giving Revolution. Launched at the end of 2017, the campaign aims to encourage more manufacturers We channel our product donations through and retailers to share surplus stock to help In Kind our charity partner, In Kind Direct, to help our Direct support more charities and the millions of surplus stock reach those who need it most. people they help. They distribute our products to charities and community organisations across the UK Some of our footwear brands donate surplus stock and beyond. to the social enterprise, Africa Shoes, for a token fee which we pass on to our charity partners. The In 2017, our donations through In Kind shoes are then redistributed to entrepreneurs in Direct reached over 500 community projects Africa who earn a living by recycling and selling including those focusing on youth, disability them on to people who need them at a fraction of and family welfare. The charity recognised the cost of new shoes. our longstanding support with an award for Pro Bono Support by a Product Donor this year. Over the past 17 years, more than 2,100 charities have benefited from our donations of products worth an estimated retail value of over £2.4million. 12 2.2 Volunteering and giving back to local communities “We spent our Give Back Day at a service house in North Jakarta which was built to help people in need in our local neighbourhood. Community organisers arrange daily activities at the house We’re not the only ones giving back. Our Wrapping holiday gifts for refugees, including to help locals learn important skills and gain employees are too. We help them support their essentials like toothbrushes and gloves some income. We volunteered across a range communities through our Give Back Days. of activities, including helping children with Helping out at an orphanage in Vietnam and Every year, teams across the business a neighbourhood service centre in Indonesia their homework, getting involved in a cooking choose a local cause that matters to class and organising donations to support their Making paper funeral flowers for the Royal them and volunteer a day of their work daily activities. After an action-packed day, Cremation of King Bhumibol in Thailand. time to help. It’s a great experience for we finished by serving meals for the students our people, it helps their communities Our employees also help to raise funds for our at the house. We had a great experience and the environment, and it supports our charity partners and we offer matched funding volunteering. To be able to give back to those in business too by promoting teambuilding. to give them an extra boost. In 2017, several need was a blessing for us.” employees took part in charity challenge events, In 2017, almost 400 people were Yanuar Nurazizah, Pentland team including the Great North Run, the Royal Parks “We had a great day on our first Berghaus involved in 28 Give Back Days around Indonesia Half Marathon and the London Marathon, Give Back Day of the year. We were helping the world. Activities included: our local council clear the bushes from a to support our charity partners such as the Clearing rubbish from beaches British Red Cross, WWF and In Kind Direct. park so the kids had somewhere safe to and forests in China play. They also wanted to plant flowers for We also donated £5,000 to the World Land Trust a memorial garden. With the help of the Gardening, cleaning and painting for in support of one of our employees who left the council grounds staff, we managed to pull all community centres, historic houses and business to row the Atlantic in aid of the charity. the bushes out, clear all the litter and rake a wildlife rescue centre in the UK all the bushes and leaves away, ready for Preparing food packages for families them to grass over. It was hard work and in need in Hong Kong and the UK we never stopped all day, but it was worth it. It’s lovely to know that our day of helping has hopefully got them nearer their goal. We can’t wait to go back and see it complete.” Julie White, Berghaus team Sunderland, UK 13 2.3 Future proofing our supply chain We’re working Our approach Mapping our supply chain Mapping our supply chain is an Reducing our supply chain Our focus is on two parts of the Higg important first step in identifying and environmental footprint Index: with suppliers to managing ethical and environmental We want everyone to be proud to wear Pentland Brands’ supply chain We’re working with other brands, The Brand & Retail Module helps us reduce the impact Pentland products. That’s why we aim is complex. We’re gradually, and risks. A list of all our tier 1 suppliers is manufacturers and NGOs for industryidentify gaps and opportunities and available on our website3 and we have of Pentland Brands to protect people and the environment responsibly, consolidating it so we wide change as a member of the target better practices across the through every stage of a product’s source products from fewer suppliers. begun to map tier 2 suppliers. We’re products across lifecycle, from sourcing raw materials This gives us more visibility and control focusing on our product (stock) supply Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC). lifecycle of our products. Berghaus continued to support development their lifecycle. to design, production and use. of how our products are made. We’ll chain in the first instance as this is The SAC’s Higg Index is an important of the tool for small and medium where the greatest risks are and where tool in our efforts to protect the continue relationships with the best sized companies in 2017, after See section 2.4 for more on our efforts we can make the biggest difference. environment by measuring impacts in suppliers that meet our ethical and piloting it the previous year. to protect workers in our supply chain. our supply chain. environmental standards. We want to make design decisions The Factory Environmental Module knowing which factories will produce It’s a standardised tool to help brands This includes: helps us map the environmental the materials and components. understand the impact of making and  uppliers that cut, sew and S footprint of our tier 1 and tier 2 We’re developing a product lifecycle selling their products. assemble our finished products suppliers. Factories measure management system to give our (tier 1) and share information on their designers a standardised list of environmental management system,  uppliers that provide materials and S suppliers to source from and will waste, emissions to air and use components (tier 2) explore possibilities for consolidating of chemicals, water and energy. our tier 2 supply chain in 2018. S  uppliers that provide chemicals Berghaus has rolled the tool out to (tier 3) 29% of its tier 1 and 24% of its tier 2 suppliers so far, and we aim to Suppliers of raw materials (tier 4) expand the tool to other brands too. 3 The tier 1 supplier list includes all factory sites assembling our finished goods for retail, inclusive of approved subcontractors performing assembly processes such as cutting and/or sewing. It does not include suppliers to our licensed partners, not-for-retail product, or suppliers and producers beyond tier 1 14 2.3 Managing chemicals Our suppliers use chemical treatments In 2017, Mitre switched to solvent-free MadeKind™ Speedo OEKO-TEX® and processes to turn raw materials into printing inks across all professional and Berghaus’ signature MadeKind™ products All Speedo swimwear, except fastskin, is finished products. We don’t want workers, match footballs, and it aims to extend have at least 50% recycled content, or are accredited to the OEKO-TEX® 100 standard. the environment or customers to be harmed this to training balls next year. made with Colourkind™ fabrics, or contain This means the fabric has been independently in the process so we have a programme Replacing PFC water repellents at least 90% bluesign® approved fabrics. In tested and certified to be free from harmful to manage restricted substances. 2017, more than 40% of the Berghaus range levels of more than 100 substances. We’re looking at more sustainable ways to Any potentially harmful chemicals are was MADEKIND™ and the range for 2018 will waterproof our products. Waterproofing is restricted or completely banned in include a new Polartec® fleece designed for essential to keep our customers dry outdoors, production. We set out these requirements hillwalkers with over 50% recycled polyester. but the compounds used in many water in a Restricted Substances List. Suppliers We plan to use what we’ve learned from repellent treatments (known as PFCs) can be can’t work with us unless they comply Berghaus’ and Speedo’s innovations to harmful to the environment. More than 40% with the list and provide evidence introduce more eco-friendly fabrics across our of the Berghaus range being developed for that they’re putting our standards into other active and footwear brands. 2018 is PFC-free and we’re aiming to reach practice. We test products regularly 100% PFC-free. Speedo is switching to PFCto check they meet our standards. free options across the range over time. We try to choose materials and components Berghaus was the first British brand to join the that reduce the risk of potentially harmful bluesign® system, an industry leading initiative substances being used in the first place. which works with chemical suppliers, textile We will be updating our chemicals mills and component manufacturers to eliminate management policy in 2018 to make our harmful substances from the supply chain. expectations clearer for suppliers and we’ve also updated our sourcing guidance We use the system to identify and work with for licensees. As a member of the industry the most responsible suppliers in the business group, AFIRM, we’re supporting efforts to so that when you see the bluesign® logo on a reduce the impact of harmful substances Berghaus product you can be confident that in the wider apparel and footwear sectors. chemicals used in its manufacture have been handled in the safest way throughout the whole Our list of restricted substances aligns with process. If a product contains more than 90% Afirm’s and our brands are making progress bluesign® approved fabrics it will achieve the in reducing the use of harmful substances Berghaus’ signature MADEKIND™ label. in their supply chains. Examples include Berghaus and Speedo (see case studies). 15 2.3 Sourcing better materials Speedo targets more sustainable swimwear Speedo’s customers love and live to swim, so we’re designing products they can feel good in while they’re doing it, knowing they’re helping to We’re working to source Finding better fabrics protect our oceans and the wider environment. more sustainable materials We’re exploring how we can contribute to the We’ve invested in sustainable production circular economy by choosing more recycled that help us reduce the materials. We’re using more eco-friendly fabrics and recycled materials to transform our range of men’s swimming shorts in 2017. environmental impact in our range, including yarn made from recycled We’re offering customers swim shorts of our products. polyester and ocean plastics. made from 100% recycled polyester. Speedo has increased its use of sustainable Sourcing natural The fabric for our new Glide water shorts materials, including Colourkind™ fabrics that materials responsibly range is made from recycled plastic bottles go through fewer dyeing stages, saving water, and the innovative Xpress Dry Eco fabric is We don’t use fur in our products. Our policy chemicals and CO2 emissions. “We’re really concerned about the damage being made from 86% recycled polyester. In total, requires suppliers to source animal skins, wreaked on our oceans from climate change and Reducing the impact of packaging 73% of our men’s water shorts use ecodown or feathers in line with industry best plastic pollution. That’s why we’re proud to offer What goes into our products is important, but so friendly production techniques or materials. practice on animal welfare. customers our H2O Active range from Speedo. is the packaging they come in. We’re always on Speedo is also steadily increasing the amount It’s made from sustainable, chlorine-resistant We’re a member of the Leather Working the lookout for ways to reduce the environmental of recycled yarn in women’s swimming gear fabric and 78% ECONYL yarn®, taking plastics Group (LWG). It certifies tanneries that are impact of packaging. and using recycled ocean plastics. The H2O out of our seas and regenerating it to make minimising their environmental impact. Our In 2017, we teamed up with a supplier to develop Active range uses ECONYL®, an innovative products without compromising on either comfort goal is to source all our leather from tanneries a lightweight paper shoe box for Lacoste products. fabric that turns waste fishing nets, plastics or durability. Knowing we are offering a great certified as LWG Gold, Silver or Bronze. Customers will get their shoes in the new lighter and even carpet, into first grade nylon. This product while reducing the impact on our planet is Lacoste is already sourcing all their leather box from 2018, saving an estimated 300 tonnes of takes plastic out of the sea, preventing very exciting.” from LWG certified tanneries. paper per year. further harm to marine ecosystems. Tim Sharpe, Director of Innovation Down is a crucial component of Berghaus’ Pentland Brands high performance products. It keeps people warm in extreme outdoor conditions. We make sure the down used in Berghaus products is certified to the Responsible Down Standard (RDS). That means we know which farm the ducks and geese come from and no inhumane practices like live plucking or force-feeding are used. In 2017, 100% of the down used in Berghaus jackets was RDS certified. 16 2.3 Reducing the environmental Pentland Group CO 2 emissions, 2014-2017 4 impact of our operations Caring for the environment and protecting it Pentland Brands facilities in the UK use 100% for future generations is part of how we do renewable electricity and we’ve installed EV 45000 business. We apply this mindset to our own charging points at three of our UK offices to operations too. encourage employees to drive electric and hybrid vehicles when they do come into work. We also 40000 We report our greenhouse gas emissions at switched to more efficient LED lights at the staff Group level in line with the requirements of car park of our Nottingham office, which led to the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy 35000 cost savings as well as reductions in energy use. Efficiency scheme. In 2017, we continued to reduce Pentland Group CO2 emissions in the We aim to minimise the amount of waste we UK by 9% to 34,540 tonnes4. This includes generate and recycle as much as possible. In 30000 CO2 emissions (tonnes) the carbon footprint from the energy we use 2017, we gave Pentland Brands employees mugs in Pentland Brands’ offices and distribution to cut the use of disposable cups and we’ve 25000 centres – and in the operations and retail changed our printer system to reduce paper use, stores run by JD Sports Fashion plc in the UK. achieving a 12% reduction compared with 2016. Pentland Brands UK offices and distribution 20000 centres don’t send any waste to landfill. Anything that can’t be recycled is sent to an external provider for energy recovery. 15000 4 Energy and carbon emission data is for all Pentland Group sites in the UK, including JD Sports Fashion plc, distribution centres and Pentland Wholesale 10000 5000 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 Year 17 2.4 Respecting human rights and tackling inequality We’re working hard to protect the rights of everyone involved in making Pentland Brands products – and to stamp out any risk of modern slavery in our supply chain. Our supply chain Before a finished shirt, shoe or other product Being transparent about who we reaches us for retail and distribution, it source from helps us work in a more passes through the hands of many workers constructive, open and collaborative and several tiers of the supply chain around way with our suppliers, customers, other the world. We engage with our suppliers and brands, NGOs, and civil society. partners to ensure they provide safe working It means: conditions and fair pay to their employees and contract workers. Factories are more accountable for their standards We outsource most of our manufacturing, but we do co-own three factories: two in Sri Lanka We can collaborate with brands that and one in Vietnam. We order products from source from the same factories as us 145 factories at tier 1 of our supply chain. People can alert us if they’ve found These are the factories where our products an issue at one of the factories we are cut, sewn and assembled. We also use a source from. licensing model where we work with licensee partners who manage their own supply chain That’s why we publish a list of our tier 1 to make and distribute our products. assembly factories on our website. We’re also mapping homeworkers in our supply chain in India. 18 2.4 Setting high standards Our Standards set out our expectations for Making every stitch count for homeworkers in our all employees, licensees, business partners, shoe supply chain suppliers and distributors to ensure we all Homeworkers are the unseen hands that support do business in the right way. We require our parts of the shoe making industry. For example, partners to apply the same standards to their they sometimes stitch and finish leather shoe own supply chains. uppers by hand before shoes go back onto the Our Code of Employment Standards for factory production line. Suppliers aligns with the Ethical Trading Homeworkers tend to be women with families, Initiative (ETI) base code and International working from home while looking after children Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions. We and doing domestic duties. We support their right audit tier 1 assembly factories against this. to work at home and earn a wage flexibly, but In 2017, we also set out our position on we want the homeworkers in our supply chain vulnerable workers in our new policies on to be paid fairly and have the same rights and child labour and young workers, migrant protections as other workers. workers and homeworking. In 2017, we worked with two NGOs to map the supply chain of one of our suppliers in Tamil Nadu, India. Together with our NGO partners, we’re formalising employment, educating homeworkers about their rights and understanding how we can have a positive impact on the livelihoods of homeworkers. 19 2.4 Working with suppliers to improve standards From the moment we consider working with Starting a relationship Working with licensees to Supplier audits in 2017 a supplier, we’re continually assessing their improve standards We carry out a social audit of new factories We carried out 76 audits in 2017 to check compliance with our standards through, for Sometimes we grant others the right to make and our standards are being met. Factory example, regular social audits. Issues that come They must be approved before our brands sell our products through licensing, for example audits are completed by a third party up during an audit are categorised as zero can place any orders with them for our Ellesse and KangaROOs brands. provider, supported by our internal ethical tolerance, critical or minor and we work with our We conducted 15 initial audits in 2017 trade team. In Cambodia, Indonesia and suppliers to help them improve. A licensing model means we don’t have a Vietnam, we partner with Better Work, an direct commercial relationship with some of the Terminating our relationship with a factory that’s organisation with an established and robust factories making our products. Licensees are not meeting our standards is always a last resort Monitoring standards auditing programme. contractually obliged to meet our standards, to because we realise that exiting a factory may We regularly re-audit every factory tell us which factories they source from, and to Most instances of non-compliance we lead to deteriorating conditions for workers due prove that these factories meet our standards by identified in audits were minor, while 20% to the loss of our business and the lifting of the In 2017, we carried out cyclical audits for providing an acceptable social audit. of instances were critical. All have either requirement to meet our standards. We’d rather 42 of our factories been remedied or have improvement plans use our influence as a buyer to encourage We continually work with our licensees to build in place. suppliers to improve working conditions, but if a their capability to ensure their suppliers are factory refuses to make positive changes we will Improving standards upholding good social standards. In 2017, we We identified one zero tolerance issue terminate the relationship while planning our exit updated our licensee sourcing policy with more in relation to minimum wages not being If we find areas for improvement, we make responsibly to minimise the impact and disruption detail on factory selection, modern slavery risk paid at a factory in China. This issue was recommendations, agree an action plan and for the workforce. and chemical compliance. We also developed a satisfactorily resolved within two months of follow up to check on progress. We encourage tool to help us assess which licensees need more being identified. Factory review process manufacturers to include workers in the support based on their awareness and ability to process and to consult them on the changes Number of factory audits by type We have an established process for monitoring implement our standards. (Excludes audits of factories that are part of the Better whether our standards are being met and In 2017, we made 19 targeted audits to check Work programme) In 2017, we brought together other businesses implementing improvements. We’ve also piloted up on improvement progress, understand the that license their brands in a workshop to share 2017 an enhanced investigation process specifically on root causes and gauge the impact on workers best practice and find better solutions to protect modern slavery. Initial audits 15 We regularly contract an independent people’s rights in licensed supply chains. local interviewer to join our visits and speak Cyclical audits 42 directly with factory employees about Targeted audits 19 working conditions Total 76 20 2.4 Factory audits by country (% of audits) Building suppliers’ capability more profitable. It provides audits, advice and training to improve standards at factories. We don’t audit a factory and then disappear. Instead, we partner with the supplier to improve Better Work audited 12 factories we source from standards over time. In 2017 we partnered in Cambodia, Indonesia and Vietnam in 2017. with 11 factories in China on a detailed training Together, our efforts have halved the number China 37 programme designed to improve their ability to of non-compliances picked up in initial audits. Vietnam 19 meet our standards. The factories selected for We estimate that Better Work made a positive Indonesia 12 this programme either had low awareness of impact on more than 30,000 workers in our India 10 our standards or had unresolved issues from supply chain in 2017. Thailand 5 previous audits. Cambodia 4 Pakistan 3 To help them improve, we trained factory Portugal 3 managers and staff responsible for production, Taiwan 3 employee welfare, health and safety, as well as Promising workers a future in China Other (Belgium, Italy, Spain,UK) 4 union representatives. Issues covered included Many factory workers in China face retiring paying fair wages, employee benefits, health without a pension, and have no safety net if and safety, working hours, modern slavery and they’re unable to work, despite laws designed to environmental protection. stop this from happening. Both employers and We also shared tools, for example to help track employees should pay into a social insurance working hours more accurately. Following our scheme, but in reality few workers are signed up. Issues identified by type in 2017 training and capability building programme, more We’re partnering with ETI China and nine other than a quarter of critical issues were resolved brands to turn this around. In 2017, we worked at participating factories. We’re continuing to with managers at over half of the factories we Zero Tolerance: An issue that 0.3% check progress with regular monitoring, and we’re source from in China to raise awareness through has an unacceptable impact looking at using the same approach in other on worker rights or conditions. a Promising Future campaign. Workers saw countries such as India and Vietnam. It could lead us to suspend posters put up around the factory floor, were or even end our relationship with a supplier if they do Partnering with Better Work for a positive given handouts and got texts advertising a video not immediately engage in impact in Southeast Asia explaining the benefits of social insurance and sustainable improvement how to enrol. We’re partnering with Better Work – an Critical: An issue of serious 19.8% concern that could turn into a International Labour Organization and A survey after the campaign found that thousands zero-tolerance issue International Finance Corporation initiative – to of workers had watched the video and over 80% Minor: Less significant 79.9% increase our impact in Cambodia, Indonesia of the factories that ran the campaign now meet breaches. Individually, they can be quickly tackled. But in and Vietnam. Better Work makes ethical trade our minimum standards for the number of workers clusters they can identify assessments and runs programmes to improve signed up to social insurance. a need for improved labour conditions while helping factories become management practices 21 2.4 Preventing modern slavery Modern slavery is We piloted an in-depth modern slavery investigation at a factory in Thailand in difficult to detect, but it’s “As one of the founding members of ETI, 2016 that flagged some potential indicators prevalent in many supply Pentland continues to lead the way in its of slavery and trafficking, including during approach to modern slavery. Its last Modern the recruitment process. Thailand is very chains. Worldwide, it Slavery Statement was clear, honest and dependent on foreign migrants recruited for affects an estimated 25 open about the nature of the company and low skilled and production line work in our the risks in its supply chain, and clearly to 40 million people. demonstrated the steps it is taking to tackle industry. We’re working to address these risks at the factories we source from in Thailand one of the great human rights issues of Our position is clear: our time. This is what good practice looks that employ foreign migrants. modern slavery is always like, and I hope to see many more brands In 2017, we strengthened our approach through new policies on vulnerable workers unacceptable. This is set following Pentland’s lead.” and licensee sourcing, and training for our “When the Pentland Brands and Issara out in our first Modern Cindy Berman, Head of Modern Slavery people to spot modern slavery indicators. leadership teams went to Yangon to visit Strategy, Ethical Trading Initiative Slavery Statement, (commenting on our first Modern Slavery We’re also working with the Issara Institute, recruitment agencies sending workers to their an NGO in Thailand, to address risks at the suppliers, the agencies – which send tens of published in June 2017. Report published in 2017) Thai factories we source from that employ thousands of workers to Thailand and Malaysia foreign migrants, and to ensure our new annually – remarked that this was the first Read more about our work to identify and vulnerable worker policies are implemented time they had ever been visited by a global tackle modern slavery in our latest Modern by our suppliers. buyer. Pentland Brands is deeply committed Slavery Report. We’ve been very encouraged by progress on to unpacking the issues and driving positive the recruitment of foreign migrants. Together change for migrant workers on the ground.” with Issara Institute, our suppliers are making Mark Taylor, Director of Strategy & Global changes to protect their workers from risk by Partnerships Issara Institute embedding responsible recruitment practices and our migrant worker policy. 22 2.4 Partnering with others for industry-wide change Training our people Giving workers a voice There’s no quick fix to protect human rights and By 2017, 86% of our suppliers in Indonesia were prevent modern slavery. It’s a complex global signed up to the Indonesia Freedom of Association We’re training staff across our business We want everyone in our supply chain to be challenge, but we’re working with others to change Protocol, which we became a signatory to in 2011. to spot indicators of modern slavery, treated with dignity and respect and feel they things further and faster. It aims to protect workers’ rights to form and join wherever they work. Our Executive can speak up. We’re enabling workers to find trade unions and bargain collectively for better Team have completed the training and their voice by: One area we’re focusing on is living wages. A wages and working conditions. Further guidance we have started intensive workshops living wage is defined as one that covers basic Educating factory workers about their rights was published this year to help factories implement for people in factory facing roles. needs and provides some additional income. This Using Issara Institute’s Inclusive Labour the protocol, together with a questionnaire to track should be earned during legal working hours and By the end of 2017, we had trained actions they’re taking to support workers’ rights. Monitoring system at factories in Thailand, should not include overtime. Global brands can over 90 people and a further 320 or which allows employees to raise concerns unintentionally make it less likely that workers will more will complete the training in 2018, through a multilingual hotline and get living wages, for instance by paying suppliers including all factory-facing staff. We’re smartphone app too slowly. using an online training course to reach the rest of our employees across Informing homeworkers of their rights We’re a board member of the ACT Foundation, Pentland Brands worldwide. to bargain collectively to negotiate better which is working to negotiate living wages for working conditions with employers workers at industry level. We’re benchmarking our and agents purchasing practices against our peers to spot Gathering data on union representation at areas for improvement. We have also developed our tier 1 suppliers, to help us identify where a questionnaire to get a clearer picture of member workers may not have the freedom or support brands’ planning, sourcing and buying practices, to speak out known as purchasing practices. Exploring how we can extend our revised internal whistleblowing process for people employed in the factories we source from. 23 2.5 Supporting Treating people with respect our people We care about people. Our standards aren’t just for our Paying a living wage suppliers, they’re for us and our And that starts with own people too. They set out our In 2017, we committed to pay everyone at Pentland Brands in the UK the Living Wage, our own employees. commitment to treat everyone as defined by the Living Wage Foundation. fairly, with dignity, honesty and Pentland Brands This goes beyond the statutory National respect – and the expectation for employs around 1,700 our people to do the same. Living Wage and minimum wage to pay an people globally and hourly amount that better reflects the cost We want our people to know they belong of living. We brought this in for all Pentland we want each and to a company that puts them and their Brands employees in the UK from August every one of them to interests at the heart of all it does. 2017 and we will reflect any increases in the Feeling valued is an important part living wage in our pay rises in April thrive working with us. of this. We aim to create an inclusive each year. workplace and help people develop We’re also supporting the ACT Foundation’s their skills and careers with us. efforts to negotiate industry-wide living wages for workers in our supply chain. We listen to our people to understand how we can do better and we encourage them to speak up if they have any concerns. We provide an independent whistleblowing hotline managed by a third party and we investigate any concerns raised. 24 2.5 Creating an inclusive workplace We want Pentland to be a place where Promoting an inclusive culture Gender pay gap report everyone is welcomed, supported and To promote an inclusive culture, we’ve made Pentland Brands published a report on the comparative pay encouraged to grow and contribute. That’s unconscious bias and inclusivity part of our core between men and women in the UK for the first time in early why we’re creating a culture that celebrates training for Pentland Brands’ managers. More than 2018, in line with new regulations. diversity and inclusion. 100 of them completed this training in 2017. We A snapshot of data from April 2017 showed that women’s In 2017, we introduced a new Diversity and also ran a half day workshop for the executive team hourly rate is 5.9% higher than men’s and women’s bonuses Inclusion (D&I) strategy to tackle unconscious to explore the language they use and address any are 3.7% higher than men’s, based on the median gender pay bias and promote gender diversity, ethnic unconscious bias that could creep in. gap measurement. But this varies widely at different levels of diversity and inclusion. Our D&I steering group, We’ve launched a new D&I employee network the business and there is also a 3% difference in the number chaired by the Pentland Brands CEO, meets at our London headquarters that we plan to of men and women being paid a bonus for their performance monthly to set targets and oversee progress. expand across Pentland Brands globally in 2018. (women 88% vs. men 91%). Our targets focus on improving diversity at the In September 2017, we celebrated Inclusion The mean average shows women’s hourly pay is 18.4% lower top level of the business, as we know this will Week with a Connect for Inclusion event at our than men’s, although we believe the median score is a better drive changes across the organisation. A third headquarters and a global campaign on representation of pay. of Pentland Brands’ senior leaders are social media. women, which is in line with the 2020 goal set We aim to address these disparities through our wider We’ve made progress in improving diversity within for UK boards. But we recognise that diversity diversity and inclusion strategy. the senior leadership community and we aim to within our leadership team is still not further improve gender and ethnic diversity. By representative: two thirds are men and targeting improvements in diversity in our senior 92% are white. leadership community, this in turn will drive Gender diversity at Pentland Brands increased diversity at all levels as we develop future leaders. Women Men Senior leaders 33% 67% Managers 50% 50% Global 54% 46% 25 2.5 Developing talent Managing change Listening to our people Research shows that people learn best During 2017, we took steps to simplify our We want to know how we’re doing as an They also told us that we need to improve through experience, so on the job learning relationships with retailers and suppliers to employer and we listen to our people to find out. the way we make decisions across the makes up 70% of our 70:20:10 development maximise the potential of our current brands and organisation, so we’re taking action in We now run two employee surveys a year to framework. Learning from others and formal pave the way for future investment in new brands. several areas: receive formal feedback. We’re also introducing training makes up the rest, ensuring a diverse As many of our customers deal with multiple new ways to get feedback more often At a strategic level, we’ve introduced a range of options are available for our people. contacts across our brands, we are reorganising throughout the year, including iPads dotted new process for the executive team and More than 240 people have used our new the business to create a single touch point for each around our sites asking for instant opinions on senior leaders, to simplify the strategic MyLearning page to access training resources retailer to improve efficiency and enable greater specific topics. decision-making process online and find out about development alignment across our brands. We consolidated Engagement scores dropped in 2017 as At a commercial level, we’re introducing opportunities since its launch in July 2017. It our UK operations as part of this transition, which expected during a period of change and an integrated business planning includes training exercises and development resulted in the closure of two offices in early 2018. transformation in the business. Our focus this process to support better decision plans, as well as videos to help people think We engaged with our people about the changes year has been on supporting people through making, bringing the divisions together about how they can get the most out of that and conducted a collaborative consultation process that change, re-engaging teams and individuals. to track and monitor commercial all-important on-the-job learning experience. during 2017. Our aim was to minimise the impact progress on a monthly basis 72% of Pentland Brands employees responded Through our Power Hour learning sessions, on our people as much as possible, exploring to our latest employee survey and they made At an operational level, we’re planning employees get the chance to learn about alternative roles and flexible working options such over 2,000 comments. Although the level of a series of workshops to develop a set different topics or functions from colleagues as working from home, working across sites and engagement dropped, they told us that their of recommendations aimed at improving in other parts of the business. In 2017, more working remotely, when possible. For those who managers supported them well through the the decision-making process across our than 340 people took part, either in person or were made redundant we have made every effort changes and that as an organisation we treat global teams. online. We also run a mentoring programme to support them with outplacement support and people fairly, regardless of their background. to connect mentees with appropriate mentors, redundancy packages. based on their development needs. A big focus of our formal training this year was on managing change. Over 110 managers attended workshops to better understand how to lead their teams through change. 26 3.1 Environment JD Sports Fashion JD embraces its responsibility to manage the impact that its businesses have on the plc (JD) reports on its environment and is committed to carrying corporate responsibility out its activities with due consideration for the potential environmental impact, both approach and activities in now and in the future. its own Annual Report. JD is investing in projects to reduce its environmental footprint, including reducing As majority shareholders, its carbon footprint, using energy and raw we share a summary here. materials efficiently, maximising waste recycling and sourcing renewable energy. All JD’s material, component and product suppliers take part in compliance and testing programmes to ensure chemicals are used responsibly and products are safe. In 2017, it established links with second-tier factories, mills and dye houses. This is enabling the company to 3.0 assess risks and work more closely with suppliers to protect the environment and people from risks with using chemicals in manufacturing. Corporate responsibility at JD Sports Fashion plc 27 3.2 3.3 Ethical sourcing People JD Foundation: changing lives, saving lives JD uses more than 290 factories in 17 JD aims to recruit the very best talent, including Since it was established in 2015, the JD Foundation has raised countries around the world. The countries it through its internships and graduate schemes, and £1.9 million to support charities working with disadvantaged young sources most from (by value) include China, to empower its employees to be the very best at people in the UK. It supported 10 charities in 2017, including: Vietnam and Turkey. what they do. The company provided over 5,000 Giving young people not in education or employment a step into hours of face-to-face training in 2017 and over 200 JD is working hard to map its full supply chain the world of work to boost their skills and confidence with the e-learning modules are available for employees to and is building longer term relationships Salford Foundation ‘Aspire to Inspire’ mentoring programme improve and refresh their knowledge base. with suppliers, as well as regularly visiting Screening nearly 500 young people for undetected heart factories. All suppliers must comply with its The company offers a range of channels to keep defects with the Cardiac Risk in the Young – Aaron James Dixon Code of Conduct to protect workers and the employees informed about the business and Memorial Fund environment and the company works with give them an opportunity to provide feedback. Its suppliers to improve working conditions. longstanding Employee of the Month programme Brightening the holiday season for families battling illness in In 2017, 87% of the factories it used were recognises outstanding efforts from team members Birmingham, by donating presents for terminally ill children with audited by a third party. across all areas of the business. the Smiling Families Christmas Appeal. JD is working to ensure no exploitation takes JD is committed to ensuring the health, safety place in the procurement of workers at home and wellbeing of its people and promoting equal or abroad. It is widening the scope of ethical opportunities regardless of gender, marital status, audits to include modern slavery indicators. Its sexual orientation, age, race, religion, ethnic or own procurement staff have been trained on social origin or disability. modern slavery risks and it is working together with its third-party auditor to train more than 170 auditors across Asia and Turkey. 28 Pentland Group plc 8 Manchester Square London W1U 3PH For further information about CR at Pentland Group, contact: corporateresponsibility@pentland.com www.pentland.com © Pentland Group plc 2018. All rights reserved. No Ordinary Shoes Limited is the worldwide Licensee for footwear under licence from Ted Baker plc and No Ordinary Designer Label Limited. Airborne Footwear Limited is the UK licensee for footwear under licence from Kickers International B.V. Pentland Chaussures Limited is the worldwide licensee for footwear under licence from Lacoste S.A. and its associated companies. BERGHAUS and are registered trade marks of Berghaus Limited. BOXFRESH and are registered trade marks of Boxfresh International Limited. CANTERBURY and are registered trade marks of Canterbury Limited. ELLESSE and are registered trade marks of Ellesse International S.p.A. KANGAROOS and are registered trade marks of Asco Group Limited. KICKERS is a registered trade mark of and used under licence from Kickers International B.V. LACOSTE and are registered trade marks and used under licence from Lacoste S.A. and its associated companies. MITRE and are registered trade marks of Mitre Sports International Limited. RED OR DEAD is a registered trade mark of Red or Dead Limited. SeaVees and is a registered trade mark of SeaVees, Inc. SPEEDO and are registered trade marks of Speedo Holdings B.V. TED BAKER is a registered trade mark of and used under licence by Ted Baker plc and No Ordinary Designer Label Limited. PENTLAND is a registered trade mark of Pentland Industries Limited.
