Integrated Report 2018 Annual Review April 2017 – March 2018 Mizuho Financial Group Our Corporate Philosophy Mizuho, the leading Japanese financial services group with a global presence and a broad customer base, is Providing customers worldwide with the highest quality financial services with honesty and integrity; Anticipating new trends on the world stage; Expanding our knowledge in order to help customers shape their future; Growing together with our customers in a stable and sustainable manner; and Bringing together our group–wide expertise to contribute to the prosperity of economies and societies throughout These fundamental commitments support our primary role in bringing fruitfulness for each customer and the Corporate Philosophy: Mizuho’s fundamental approach to business activities, based on the Mizuho’s Corporate Identity raison d’être of Mizuho Vision: Mizuho’s vision for the future, realized through the practice of the Corporate Philosophy The Mizuho Values: The shared values and principles of Mizuho’s people, uniting all executives and employees together to pursue our Vision Customer First: Innovative Spirit: Team Spirit: Speed: Passion: The most trusted partner Progressive and Diversity and Acuity and Communication and lighting the future flexible thinking collective strength promptness challenge for the future 1 Mizuho Financial Group committed to: the world. economies and the societies in which we operate. Mizuho creates lasting value. It is what makes us invaluable. 2018 Integrated Report 2 Editorial policy Contents This Integrated Report includes financial information as well as non-financial information on such subjects as ESG. The report presents information on Mizuho’s efforts related to strategies, governance, and other subjects along with information on how those activities are leading to the creation of value for our customers, society, and Mizuho over the short, medium, and long terms. It was edited with the intention of providing stakeholders with concise and clear explanations in a story-like form. The content of this Integrated Report was reported to the Audit About Mizuho Committee of Mizuho Financial Group, and, after verification of 5 appropriateness by the Disclosure Committee, the report was given final approval by the President & Group CEO. We hope this report will further improve understanding of Mizuho and its goal of being “the most trusted financial services group with a global presence and a broad customer base, contributing to the prosperity of the world, Asia, and Japan.” Guidelines referred to International Integrated Reporting Council’s “International Integrated Reporting Framework” Our goals (published on December 2013) 17 Scope of the report Period covered: From April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018 Also includes some information after April 2018 Scope covered: In principle, Mizuho Financial Group and its subsidiaries and affiliates Publication information Date of issue: September 2018 Definitions MHFG: Mizuho Financial Group MHBK: Mizuho Bank MHTB: Mizuho Trust & Banking Our strategies for MHSC: Mizuho Securities TCSB: Trust & Custody Services Bank creating value 31 MHRI: Mizuho Research Institute MHIR: Mizuho Information & Research Institute MHPW: Mizuho Private Wealth Management All figures contained in this report are calculated using accounting principles generally accepted in Japan (“Japanese GAAP”). Forward-Looking Statements This Integrated Report contains statements that constitute forwardlooking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including estimates, forecasts, targets and plans. Such forward-looking statements do not represent any guarantee by management of future performance. Foundations for In many cases, but not all, we use such words as “aim,” “anticipate,” our corporate value 71 “believe,” “endeavor,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “probability,” “project,” “risk,” “seek,” “should,” “strive,” “target” and similar expressions in relation to us or our management to identify forward-looking statements. You can also identify forward-looking statements by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. These statements reflect our current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions. We may not be successful in implementing our business strategies, and management may fail to achieve its targets, for a wide range of possible reasons, including, without limitation: incurrence of significant creditrelated costs; declines in the value of our securities portfolio; changes in interest rates; foreign currency fluctuations; decrease in the market Financial and liquidity of our assets; revised assumptions or other changes related to our pension plans; a decline in our deferred tax assets; the effect corporate data 99 of financial transactions entered into for hedging and other similar purposes; failure to maintain required capital adequacy ratio levels; downgrades in our credit ratings; our ability to avoid reputational harm; our ability to implement our Medium-term Business Plan, realize the synergy effects of “One Mizuho,” and implement other strategic initiatives and measures effectively; the effectiveness of our operational, legal and other risk management policies; the effect of changes in general economic conditions in Japan and elsewhere; and changes to applicable laws and regulations. Further information regarding factors that could affect our financial condition and results of operations is included in “Item 3.D. Key Information—Risk Factors,” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” in our most recent Form 20-F filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and our report on Form 6-K furnished to the SEC on July 30, 2018, both of which are available in Appendix 110 the Financial Information section of our web page at www.mizuho-fg. com/english/ and also at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. The contents of this Integrated Report were prepared prior to the announcement of our financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2018. We do not intend to update our forward-looking statements. We are under no obligation, and disclaim any obligation, to update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required by the rules of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 3 Mizuho Financial Group 1 Our Corporate Philosophy Index by purpose 5 Mizuho’s journey Our performance 7 Business domain 9 Value creation process 11 Principal financial and 11 Principal financial and non-financial data non-financial data 15 Mizuho in fiscal 2017 15 Mizuho in fiscal 2017 99 Six-year major financial data (FY2012-2017) 17 Message from the Group CEO 25 Message from the Group CFO 29 Communication with shareholders and investors Business strategy 7 Business domain 31 Medium-term business plan 31 Medium-term business plan Business strategies by company/unit progress progress 43 Retail & Business Banking Company 33 Our fundamental structural reforms 47 Corporate & Institutional Company 33 Our fundamental structural 35 Changing the future of financial 51 Global Corporate Company reforms services through digital innovation 55 Global Markets Company 59 Asset Management Company 43 Business strategies by 37 Sustainability 63 Global Products Unit company/unit 67 Research & Consulting Unit 71 Corporate governance 89 IT strategy ESG information 72 Interview with the Chairman of the 91 Corporate culture and employee Board of Directors (environmental, social engagement 75 Board of Directors 96 Compliance with international and governance) 79 Risk governance financial regulations 37 Sustainability 85 Compliance 97 Stakeholder communication 88 Fiduciary duties 71 Corporate governance 91 Corporate culture and employee engagement 99 Six-year major financial data 105 Office network (FY2012-2017) 107 Corporate profile 100 Review and analysis for fiscal 2017 108 Group companies 110 Compliance contacts 125 Business continuity management 140 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial 111 Support for SMEs and regional 126 Senior executives Group, Inc. [Under Japanese GAAP] revitalization 128 Location of offices outside Japan 232 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements 112 Internal audit structure 131 Investor information of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 113 Risk management structure 132 Financial Analysis [Under Japanese and Three Subsidiaries [Under GAAP] Japanese GAAP] 246 Basel Regulatory Disclosures 322 Disclosure Policy 2018 Integrated Report 4 About Mizuho Mizuho’s journey DNA Always standing at the forefront of our time, trailblazing is in our Mizuho’s history 2002 1873 The Dai-ichi Kangyo Bank 1999 Divided the organization based on customer 1873 Establishment of Establishment of a segments through a The Dai-ichi Bank 1971 financial services split-off and merger Establishment of the group Dai-ichi Kangyo Bank First in Japan The Dai-ichi Bank (photo: National Diet Library) through a merger with Nihon Kangyo Bank First in Japan 1880 The Fuji Bank 1880 Establishment of Yasuda Bank, 1948 Changed to The Fuji 2002 Bank Yasuda Bank (photo: National Diet Library) Establishment 1902 The Industrial Bank of Japan of Mizuho Bank and Mizuho Corporate Bank Establishment as a public-sector bank that not only offers longterm funding but also 1999 Merger of our three securities and trust (photo: The Mainichi) banking services predecessor banks History of the financial industry Phase I (1980s and prior) Phase II (1990s) Phase III (2000s) Commercial banks, securities companies and Era of conglomerates and Era of investment banks and insurance companies coexisted independently mega banks proprietary trading 1992 1996 Financial system Japanese “Big Bang” reform financial reform 5 Mizuho Financial Group About Mizuho Mizuho’s journey 2016 2014 Introduced an “in-house company system” Transition to a Company 2012 with Committees model of First as a corporate governance Japanese bank Operations based on groupFirst as a Japanese wide collaboration among banking, trust banking, and megabank securities functions De facto “One Bank” model in preparation for merger 2013 2014 2011 Strengthening functions Merger of of the holding company banks and merger Mizuho Trust & Banking and of securities Mizuho Securities become companies wholly-owned subsidiaries of Mizuho Financial Group 2006 2016 Introduction of in-house company system Listed on NYSE Phase IV (2010s and onward) Pursuit of the new frontier of finance Pursuit of ideal model for finance 2008 2010 2013 Global financial US Dodd-Frank Act Phase-in introduction of Basel III Tightening of regulations crisis 2018 Integrated Report 6 About Mizuho Business domain The Mizuho group is composed of Mizuho Financial Group Co., Ltd. (the holding company), its consolidated subsidiaries, and affiliates accounted for under the equity method. As a financial services group, our business domains include banking, trust banking, securities, and other financial services. Under a holding company, the group has five in-house companies, which determine and promote strategies group-wide across banking, trust banking, securities, and other business areas according to the attributes of customers, and two units that support all of the in-house companies. Mizuho Financial Group Banking Trust banking Securities Retail & Business Banking Company Corporate & Institutional Company Global Corporate Company Mizuho Mizuho Trust Mizuho Global Markets Company Bank & Securities Banking Asset Management Company (MHBK) (MHTB) (MHSC) Research & Global Consulting Products Unit Unit Other core group companies * US Bank Holding Company, which is one of MHFG’s core group companies and MHBK’s subsidiaries Mizuho Americas* 7 Mizuho Financial Group About Mizuho Business domain (group aggregate, management accounting, rounded figures) (¥ billion) Reference Net Business Profits by in-house company FY2017 results FY2018 targets Retail & Business Banking Company 14 31 Corporate & Institutional Company 229 244 Global Corporate Company 92 123 Global Markets Company 186 285 Asset Management Company 17 18 In-house company total 538 701 Consolidated Net Business Profits 538 700 1. Recalculated the FY2017 results based on the FY2018 management accounting rules 2. The Global Markets Company’s Net Business Profits include Net Gains Related to ETFs and MHFG’s Consolidated Net Business Profits include Net Gains Related to ETFs (MHBK + MHTB) + Net Gains on Operating Investment Securities (MHSC consolidated) Asset Research & Other core group management consulting companies Customers Mizuho Individual customers / SMEs / Private Wealth middle-market corporations Management (MHPW) Large corporations / financial institutions / public-sector entities Americas / EMEA / East Asia / Asia & Oceania Investors Asset Investors Management One Mizuho Research Institute (MHRI) Trust and Custody Services Bank Mizuho (TCSB) Information & Research Institute (MHIR) 2018 Integrated Report 8 About Mizuho Value creation process Mizuho’s Corporate Philosophy, which is at the core of our Corporate Identity, states “These fundamental commitments support our primary role in bringing fruitfulness for each customer and the economies and the societies in which we operate. Mizuho creates lasting value. It is what makes us invaluable.” To realize our Corporate Philosophy, we are drawing on our strengths, taking account of changes in the business environment in Japan and overseas, and seeking to establish a new business model with the objective of becoming a “financial services consulting group” by taking the One Mizuho Mizuho’s Corporate Identity Mediumto longterm CSR policy Mizuho’s strategy Medium-term Mediumto longobjective A financial services consulting group term changes in the business environment Fully implement the “customer first Pursue operational excellence Rising global political and principle” (customer-focused) economic uncertainty (Spread of protectionism, geopolitical risk, etc.) One Mizuho strategy Retail & Business Banking Company Provide services for each Japan’s aging society and customer segment on a groupCorporate & Institutional Company declining birthrate and wide basis under the in-house Global Corporate Company population company system As customer needs become more Global Markets Company Rapid advances in digital complex, develop strategies based on technology Asset Management Company customer attributes Deploy the consulting capabilities of Global economic growth, Global Products Unit the group’s asset management and especially in Asia research & consulting functions in Research & Consulting Unit addition to our banking, trust banking, Finding solutions to social and securities functions issues, such as climate In-house companies and units P43-70 change and growing inequality Corporate Governance Risk Governance Mizuho’s strengths Risk-taking capabilities Strong workforce Human and N o. 1 in industrial expertise Social and B  road customer intellectual among Japanese banks relationship base Sophisticated product E ‌ xtensive network capital capital and digital channels capabilities Principal financial and non-financial indicators P11-14 9 Mizuho Financial Group About Mizuho Value creation process strategy to the next stage. Specifically, with the “customer first principle” (customer-focused perspective) and operational excellence as the foundations of our efforts, we will draw on our sophisticated risk-taking capabilities and financial intermediary functions, in order to thoroughly align with our customers’ needs and be their best financial solutions partner, thus shaping the future of the economies and communities we serve. We are seeking to establish competitive advantage and to increase our corporate value by securing sustainable and stable profits, and therefore fulfill an even greater social mission. Increase corporate value and fulfill even greater social mission Unchanging value as a financial institution Our customer’s best financial solutions partner, contributing to the sustainable growth of our customers and the communities we serve Address customers’ issues and contribute to their Provide superior consulting services sustainable growth and optimal solutions Contribute to sustainable Customers economic and social development Individuals, small and medium-sized enterprises, middle market firms Promote industrial development that Large corporations, financial institutions, public-sector takes into consideration global issues Americas, Europe, East Asia, Asia & Oceania Revitalize regional economies Investors Encourage household financial asset growth Investors in Japan by fulfilling our fiduciary duties Support business/asset succession and Business domains innovative companies P78 Create/revolutionize businesses using new technology Promote responsible investment and financing O  ur strategies for value creation Financial intermediary functions P31-70 Further enhancing Mizuho’s strengths S  table funding Financial structure Sound credit capital portfolio Strong capital base 2018 Integrated Report 10 About Mizuho Principal financial and non-financial data Financial data Historical data (¥ billion) Consolidated gross profits Profits (losses) attributable to owners of parent 2,171.7 2,247.7 2,221.6 1,996.6 2,025.3 2,003.0 2,035.2 1,806.9 560.5 688.4 611.9 670.9 413.2 484.5 239.4 (588.8) FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Proportion of non-interest income* (gross profits)  oan balance1 L (Group aggregated, management accounting) Non-performing In Japan Outside Japan (¥ trilNon-interest Net interest Non-interest Net interest 2 income income income income JPY/USD 112.69 54% 46% 58% 42% 19.2 FY2015 FY2017 53.9 1.00 FY2018 target approx. 60% FY2015 * The scope of companies aggregated under management account has been changed since 1Q of 1 Excluding loans to MHFG, Banking FY2017 account Expense ratio (group aggregated)* J  apanese stock (%) portfolio* (¥ billion) 72.1 FY2018 target Higher end of the 60-70% range 1,962.9 1,847.1 Original target 60.0 approx. 60% FY2015 FY2017 FY2018 March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 * The scope of companies aggregated under management accounting has been changed since Q1 * Other securities which have readily of FY2017 11 Mizuho Financial Group About Mizuho Principal financial and non-financial data Common equity tier 1 capital ratio* (%) 2,092.7 1,915.3 10.15 8.77 9.27 603.5 576.5 FY2016 FY2017 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 * Basel III fully-effective basis (based on current regulations), excluding net unrealized gains on other securities (Period-end balance), MHBK + MHTB Consolidated ROE* loan (NPL) ratio (%) lion) Non-performing Loan (NPL) Ratio (%) 112.20 106.27 10.0 19.1 19.4 8.5 54.8 53.8 7.7 1.00 0.66 FY2016 FY2017 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 2 Foreign exchange rate (TTM) at the respective * Excluding net unrealized gains on other securities period end Consolidated Acquisition cost basis  ash dividend per share of common stock, C dividend payout ratio Compared with March 31, 2015 Cash dividend per share (¥) Dividend payout ratio (%) -¥398 billion 7.5 7.5 7.5 1,687.5 1,564.8 31.4 33.0 27.8 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 determinable fair values 2018 Integrated Report 12 About Mizuho Principal financial and non-financial data Non-financial data Our customer base generates our competitive advantage Individual customers  ME, middle market, S C  overage of listed  overage of Forbes C and business owner companies in Japan Global 200 (non-Japanese borrowers corporations) 24 million 100,000 70% 80% Stable global presence Syndicated loans  ssets under management by A Asset Management One Underwriting amount No.1 in Japan About Largest scale ¥8.9 trillion ¥57 trillion (9 consecutive in Asia years) Standings in major league tables US bond (DCM) ranking* Source: Dealogic 2015 2016 2017 ($ million) Ranking (share) Gross profits Market share 10th Total equity underwriting worldwide No. 3 No.4 No.4 12.7% 13th 9th (3.5%) 9th (4.8%) (3.6%) Market share (2.9%) Total Japan publicly 172 166 offered bonds No.3 No.1 No.2 18.9% 94 130 Market share ABS lead manager No.1 No.1 No.1 33.0% FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 * Bonds worth $250 million or more, issued by investment grade US corporations M&A advisory for announced deals Industry top-level net inflow of client assets (Japanese corporations) (Mizuho Securities) (Number of deals) 2nd ($ trillion)  Mizuho Independent firm A Independent firm B 1st 1st 1.7 1.7 218 1.4 169 182 0.7 0.7 0.3 0.0 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 (0.3) (0.4) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 13 Mizuho Financial Group About Mizuho Principal financial and non-financial data ESG-related data P  roject finance deals arranged for renewable Number of people provided financial education energy divisions Source: Bloomberg New Energy Finance (Number of people) ($ million) 15,147 2nd 12,859 2,417 8,015 1,907 6,763 1,560 1,607 5,386 1,432 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 P  ercentage of management positions filled by P  ercentage of management positions filled by women* Figures as of July employees hired outside Japan* (%)  General manager equivalent Manager equivalent and above (%) * Ratio at Mizuho Bank outside Japan Supervisor equivalent and above 24 27 22 40 43 33 12 15 10 4 4 5 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 *T  otal for four group companies in Japan: Mizuho Financial Group, Mizuho Bank, * As of July in FY2015 and as of March in FY2016 and subsequent years Mizuho Trust & Banking, and Mizuho Securities Social responsibility indices which include Mizuho (as of June 2018) 2018 Integrated Report 14 About Mizuho Mizuho in fiscal 2017 Strategy June 2017 June 2017 Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, and Cooperating with Wil Group, Mizuho Securities have each transitioned we established Blue Lab for to a Company with Audit and Supervisory the purpose of creating new Committee model of corporate governance in businesses by making the order to further enhance Mizuho’s corporate best use of various advanced governance on a group basis. technology. July 2017 September 2017 Started preparations for establishing a new company J.Score, our joint venture with Softbank, to engage in securities business in Frankfurt, launched the first AI score-based lending service Germany in the process of assessing the impact of in Japan. the UK’s withdrawal from the EU. October 2017 October 2017 Mizuho Financial Group issued its first Green Bond to In view of rising interest among the general public and the Practical provide finance for environmentally friendly projects. Guidelines for Corporate Governance Systems issued by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in March 2017, Mizuho announced our advisor system in advance of the commencement of the disclosure requirements for advisors/consultants coming into effect. December 2017 December 2017 Held the Second Global Council Meeting to provide a venue for To accelerate collaboration between our banking, the exchange of opinions among business leaders regarding trust banking, and securities entities in the United the political and economic outlook and its impact on business States and improve convenience for clients, we strategy and digital innovation. merged the operations of Mizuho Bank (USA) and Mizuho Trust & Banking (USA). March 2018 Our consolidated subsidiary, Trust & Custody Services Bank, signed a management integration agreement with Japan Trustee Services Bank. 15 Mizuho Financial Group About Mizuho Mizuho in fiscal 2017 External recognition “Customer first principle” September 2017 Mizuho received the Award for Excellence in the Service & Hospitality Awards given by the Japan Institute of Information Technology, in recognition of the faceto-face systems we developed, including tablets for filling in forms, as part of our efforts to be a leading provider of in-branch financial services. Financial innovation April 2017 November 2017 Mizuho received the grand prize at the Celent Received the Information Technology Model Bank 2017 in the category of consumer Award from the Japan Institute of banking channel innovation. We were recognized Information Technology in recognition for creating a unique customer experience by of our acting as a driving force in utilizing the humanoid robot Pepper and providing advancing the digital revolution in new services for checking one’s balance directly financial services. from the messenger app Line. May 2018 Mizuho was selected as a Competitive IT Strategy Company Stock for the third consecutive year by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. We were recognized for our active efforts to strengthen our competitiveness and create new value through technological innovation. Encouraging the active participation of our workforce February 2018 March 2018 Mizuho was selected under the 2018 Mizuho was recognized as Health & Productivity Stock Selection, being actively engaged in which is jointly administered by the promoting the participation Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. of our female employees, and received We were recognized for our approach to employee health and wellbeing by Nadeshiko Brand designation, conferred jointly putting into practice strategic workforce health management initiatives. by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Disclosures November December 2017 Mizuho received a number of awards and prizes in recognition of our proactive and advanced online disclosure practices. Our website was recognized for containing in-depth information and being easy to use and understand. 2018 Integrated Report 16 Our goals Message from the Group CEO Establishing a stronger and more resilient financial group which our customers can depend on in the coming era The past fiscal year has been an eventful one for the Mizuho group as well as the world at large. In April 2018 I was appointed as the President & CEO of Mizuho Financial Group (“Group CEO”). Some of Mizuho’s strengths and unique characteristics are our long history, broad customer base and network in Japan and around the world, and our strong presence in global financial markets. While fully drawing on these strengths, we are aiming to make Mizuho into a stronger and more resilient financial group which our customers can depend on in the coming era. Our customers’ needs are evolving along with changes in the economy, society, and people’s lifestyles. As new fields gain relevancy for our customers, we must be always a step ahead, cementing these new fields as significant strengths for Mizuho. To our stakeholders, I ask for your continued understanding and support to help Mizuho succeed in this endeavor. On the other hand, individual savings and other household financial assets which were mostly accumulated during Japan’s Business environment: Changes in the period of high growth now amount to over ¥1.88 quadrillion, a economic/social structure and cyclical factors number three times that of Japan’s current GDP, and are expected to further increase going forward. Before I go into the details of the direction I would like to pursue Japan typically ranks first or second globally in terms of the rate as the new Group CEO, I would first like to provide an overview of that the population is aging, and therefore it is crucial that the what we perceive to be our mediumto long-term business massive amount of household financial assets which the Japanese environment. population has accumulated are invested in areas of high growth potential. This will not only contribute to the development of First of all I would like to discuss the structural changes occurring industries both in Japan and abroad, but also promote stable in the economy and society. As you know, the world is at a wealth formation for the Japanese public, therefore playing a key historical turning point. The basic world order in which capitalism role in achieving sustainable growth for the Japanese economy supports economic growth around the world, which has been in going forward. place in the decades following World War II, is being challenged by anti-globalization sentiment, social divisions, and other Also, advancements in technology have enabled substantial movements. increases in productivity. Coupled with the emergence of new industries, this is leading to increased industry shake-ups globally. At the same time, the growth of overseas economies continues to People’s lifestyles are being transformed as well with the rapid surpass that of Japan, and Asian countries in particular are adoption of smartphones and other consumer technology. This is expected to lead global economic growth over the next 30 years also leading to a change in the way that people use financial or so, making Asia an increasingly important region. services. Therefore, while challenges to the world order must be observed Cyclical factors, of course, also have a significant impact. with caution, it is essential that we find the best ways to benefit According to research conducted by the International Monetary from global economic growth, particularly the strong growth Fund (IMF), the global economy expanded at a rate of 3.8% in expected in other Asian countries. 2017, the highest level since 2011. The IMF projects a growth rate of around 3.9% in 2018 and 2019, and considering the expansion As for Japan, the nation reached peak population in 2008 and has in structural demand resulting from technological progress, the now entered an era of declining population. As of January 2018, world economy is expected to follow a very positive trajectory. It Japan’s population is around 127 million, but is expected to be is important to note, however, that the world has tended to reduced by around 30% in 50 years’ time. Due to the declining experience a financial crisis every ten years or so, and it has birthrate, the working age population is projected to decrease by already been ten years since the previous financial crisis. We at 40% while the portion of the population that is aged 65 or over Mizuho are keenly aware of the importance of knowing where we will remain around the same, creating an aging society. are in the credit cycle and being always on the lookout for warning signs. 17 Mizuho Financial Group Our goals Message from the Group CEO Tatsufumi Sakai Member of the Board of Directors President & Group CEO Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 18 Our goals Message from the Group CEO The excess liquidity produced by the ultra-loose monetary policies Not only do our retail and wholesale businesses complement one implemented by a number of countries following the global another, but they are also highly integrated in areas such as financial crisis has raised the value of assets such as stocks, capital raising and investment or securities distribution and bonds, and real estate. However, the US and European countries underwriting. This provides an opportunity for us to enhance are beginning to seek an exit from their monetary easing and we business literacy in both retail and wholesale and strengthen are also starting to see a market correction for certain asset prices. collaboration between the two, thus creating synergy. We do not know whether this correction is temporary or a sign Next I would like to explain the areas where we are looking to that the next crisis is imminent, but it seems likely that enhance growth potential for both our retail and wholesale competition will only become fiercer and that financial institutions businesses. will struggle to increase their earnings. The first area is our securities, trust banking, and asset In consideration of these changes, we must monitor market trends management businesses, which have significant room to grow with caution and take on appropriate risk in light of what we and which are a key source of differentiation for Mizuho. Going expect the future to bring. In other words, the current situation forward, we will work to further strengthen and expand these will test our true worth as a financial institution. business areas. To do this, we will need to fully draw on Mizuho Bank’s robust customer base, capital strength, and other advantages. The direction of our business transformation: Another area we will focus on is our business outside Japan, Cultivating a resilient business portfolio with particularly in Asia where we will look to take advantage of the high growth in the region. Compared to the period immediately built-in growth potential following the global financial crisis, Japanese banks have less of a comparative advantage, as Western banks have recovered and the In light of the business environment described above, I would like competition has become more fierce. However, Japan is the to discuss the direction of Mizuho’s business transformation. world’s third largest economy, and Mizuho’s strong foundations in the Asia region as a whole, which is expected to lead global Firstly, if we consider our earnings and business portfolio from an growth going forward, will be a source of competitiveness for us investor’s perspective, as a listed company, while our high level of when we go up against Western banks. liquidity and our dividends would be viewed favorably, our earnings power and growth potential would be seen as in need of improvement. Strategies in each business field In order to meet the high expectations of investors, we need to work to improve upon this assessment. To do this, we not only need to improve our fundamental earnings power but also ensure Having explained our thinking in terms of our overall business that our business portfolio has built-in growth potential. In other portfolio, I would now like to take a closer look at the strategies words, the combination of a stable earnings base and a number we will pursue in each business field. of additional fields with up-side potential is the key to ensuring mediumto long-term built-in growth potential and therefore Japanese retail business cultivating a resilient business portfolio. The first area we will focus on in our Japanese retail business is helping individuals to shift their assets to more growth-focused In terms of a stable earnings base, further strengthening our portfolios. Japanese retail business is crucial for ensuring Mizuho’s sustainable growth. Our Japanese retail business is a part of the Over the past 20 years, the average rate of return on household economic and social infrastructure in the country and is the face financial assets was 6.6% in the US but less than 0.8% in Japan, of our brand, enhancing our presence by building public proving the need to encourage a shift from savings to investment familiarity. Additionally, our retail business is a stable earnings / wealth formation, which will help individuals achieve more base for us, due in part to being composed of a diverse range of growth-focused portfolios. This not only addresses one of Japan’s small-value accounts. Although the fixed costs associated with key economic issues but is also a prime business opportunity for our retail operations are significant, this part of our business is Mizuho. the most important source of liquidity for us as a financial institution. Additionally, establishing a stable earnings base in By leveraging our strengths such as our broad customer base and other areas such as our lending and transaction banking network, we can identify the shift in customers’ needs at different businesses is important. life stages or life events and provide optimal consulting services, drawing on the capabilities of not only our banking, trust banking, As for our wholesale business, which is targeted at large and securities entities but also our asset management and corporations and institutional investors, this part of our business research & consulting entities (what we refer to as the fourth and not only establishes a presence for Mizuho in global financial and fifth pillars of our One Mizuho strategy). This will allow us to capital markets, but also has a significant impact on our profits fundamentally strengthen our business related to assets under and is an area with high up-side potential. Also, the products and management. functions provided by our markets and investment banking businesses are essential to our operations as a whole. 19 Mizuho Financial Group Our goals Message from the Group CEO The structure of our business portfolio Areas to address Positioning Growth Business areas strategies S  hift household Stable wealth Stable earnings base Securities, trust banking, asset management formation Retail assets to more business Source of liquidity growth-focused Aging population/ portfolios Outside Japan (especially Asia) declining birthrate Transform our Need to reduce fixed Shift to digital costs customer channels and payment Complementary services synergy Capital markets Need to pursue  trengthen markets S expansion upside potential business (primary, Companies aiming for Source of growth secondary) debt-free operations Wholesale  espond to clients’ R business Companies’ Need to address international international expansion earnings volatility expansion The second area we will focus on is transforming our customer as a whole, in addition to supplying liquidity. Additionally, each channels and payment services. We continue to see a decrease in market is interconnected with others around the world and the number of visitors to our branches while experiencing a rapid changes day-by-day in part in reaction to one another. increase in online banking users. The majority of this increase is mobile banking. It is investors’ decisions that ultimately shape the markets and therefore, as we promote the shift from savings to investment / The movement to standardize the QR codes used for mobile wealth formation in Japan, the role of investors and capital payments in the banking industry is also contributing to the markets will become more central to Japan’s economy. At Mizuho, transition to a cashless society, a trend that is likely to truly take our sales & trading business still has significant room for growth. off in Japan in the near future. Additionally, the key to establishing competitive advantage in our business targeting issuers is to enhance our market literacy so With consideration of how an increasingly large portion of that we can better take advantage of the abovementioned shift. transactions are taking place online or through smartphones, and with the aim of directly advancing the movement towards Until recently, we have grown our corporate financing business cashless payments, we will transform our customer channels and with a focus on meeting demand for funding, but currently around payment services by strategically shifting resources from branch 60% of listed companies in Japan are running debt-free and ATM channels to online and mobile channels. At the same businesses. Therefore, increasing our market literacy is essential time, this will shift the role of branches to one more focused on as client needs are shifting. In addition to the above, we will financial consulting, an area where a human touch is essential. As pursue fees-based business such as advisory services. This, along this shift occurs, we will work to further enhance the added value with the effective use of capital (one of Mizuho’s strengths), and we provide in face-to-face customer interactions. taking on risk appropriately based on our insight into the markets, will enable us to increase our earnings power. Wholesale business In wholesale, Mizuho’s strength has been our industry and Another important point to note is that our corporate clients are business insight, and going forward we will focus on our markets increasingly drawing on their technology and capital strength in business and further globalization. order to expand their businesses globally. Among companies listed in Japan (which are required to disclose earnings broken Of course, capital markets are a central pillar of any capitalist down by business segment), the average portion of their sales economy and while reflecting the domestic and global political originating from outside Japan is around 50%. It is therefore and economic situation, they set interest rates, stock prices, and imperative that we enhance our ability to assist Japanese other values which have a major impact on the financial system companies with their international expansion. Also, we will use 2018 Integrated Report 20 Our goals Message from the Group CEO our presence throughout the Asia region as an advantage and At Mizuho, we are proactively working in partnership with major provide cross-regional solutions as a means of enhancing our vendors and Fintech companies with the aim of creating new support framework for a range of clients, including Asian business and providing highly convenient services which are companies and European or American multinationals. more closely aligned to customers’ needs. In summary, in our wholesale business, to complement our Going forward, we will incorporate technology more directly into existing strength in industry/business insight, we will aim to our business strategies and aim to cultivate it as a pillar of our enhance our financial and capital markets literacy and then further business. To accelerate these efforts, we will need to enhance IT strengthen both these capabilities from a global perspective. At literacy on the business side of our organization and enhance the same time, we need to increase collaboration between our business literacy on the IT side of our organization. corporate finance and institutional investors businesses as well as further globalize them. This is only the start of our push into the technology field. As new fields gain relevancy for our customers, we must be always a step ahead, cementing these new fields as significant strengths for Establishing competitive advantage: Mizuho. To achieve this goal, we must urgently pursue a new finance business model which is technology-driven and more Customer-driven and technology-driven effective, efficient, and more convenient for customers. Next I would like to discuss two concepts which are key to determining how much of a competitive advantage we can Fundamental structural reforms establish in each business field. The first is that we must ensure our operations are customerdriven, and therefore strengthen our implementation of the One Reflecting on fiscal 2017 Mizuho strategy. Mizuho is the only financial group in Japan to I would next like to reflect on some of the issues that we need to offer a full line-up of banking, trust banking, and securities address in order to achieve the business transformation we are functions through wholly owned subsidiaries, enabling us to aiming for. respond seamlessly to customers’ needs and to implement the One Mizuho strategy of group-wide collaboration that is one of Reflecting back on fiscal 2017, the business environment proved to our greatest strengths. be challenging as the Bank of Japan continued to implement a negative interest rate policy and the period between US interest In order to further enhance this strength, we must not only rate hikes was longer than anticipated. However, we were able to increase collaboration within the group but also ensure that each achieve Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent of ¥576.5 billion, pillar of our business (banking, trust banking, securities, asset surpassing our fiscal year target of ¥550 billion, due to factors management, etc.) are a formidable presence in their respective such as increased fee-related revenue (non-interest income) in industries. customer divisions, a reversal of credit related costs, and profit from the sale of cross share-holdings. On the other hand, Through a combination of intra-group collaboration and strengthening our earnings power is a remaining issue we must competitiveness in each industry, we can enhance the One Mizuho address, as evidenced by other results such as the decline in strategy to a level where it cannot be replicated by our Consolidated Net Business Profits. competitors. Given the challenging environment in terms of revenue growth, Some of the other ways that we will seek to enhance the One and considering the major structural changes occurring in the Mizuho strategy are to improve business literacy throughout the economy and society, we announced in November 2017 a plan for group and to make our strategies and initiatives more transparent implementing fundamental structural reforms with a view to and qualitative, ensuring that we have a firm grasp on the true securing competitive advantage in the future and ensuring the nature of situations. group’s sustainable growth over the next ten years and beyond. As part of these reforms, we will aim to further develop the One The second concept that is key to establishing competitive Mizuho strategy by incorporating powerful, advanced technology advantage is to be technology-driven. There is a lot of untapped into our business through open innovation. For example, we will growth potential in the finance industry in terms of adopting new aim to increase Gross Profits by actively pursuing collaborative technologies. Finance connects people’s lifestyles with broader partnerships with other companies, including those outside the global economic activity, and therefore there are significant financial industry, to create new business opportunities. Secondly, potential applications for the data and information resources we will optimize our organizational structure and staffing levels as which financial institutions handle on a day-to-day basis. When well as restructure our customer channels as a means of adopting new technologies, not only should they provide our strengthening cost competitiveness and enhancing productivity. customers with enhanced convenience and higher added value, (For an overview of the fundamental structural reforms, see page but we also must consider how the technology specifically ties 33). into our business and how to monetize it. I want to emphasize that decreasing expenses through a reduction Technology is also the key to improving the efficiency of in the number of personnel and branches is not the objective of traditional finance industry elements such as operations, these fundamental structural reforms, but rather we must branches, and staffing. undertake these reforms in order to strengthen our fundamental 21 Mizuho Financial Group Our goals Message from the Group CEO earnings power. What kind of financial group we are seeking to introduction of the next-generation IT system, the three legacy become by implementing these fundamental structural reforms, systems we currently use in Japan will become unified under a or in other words, what our vision is for Mizuho at the end of this single system which is leaner and more efficient. This new IT process, is something that we must clearly define and system is structured by operation/function type, which will lead to communicate to our customers, shareholders, employees, and reduced development periods and costs following the migration, other stakeholders. Their understanding and support of this in addition to improving processing times by utilizing a cuttingprocess is essential. edge core banking system. The system migration will cause some inconvenience to customers, including eight scheduled periods of In fiscal 2017, we made headway on a number of initiatives, downtime for online services in 2018, but the next-generation IT including shifting personnel in Japan from Head Office to the system will form a crucial part of our business foundations and frontlines, and expanding our scope of risk-taking. In the second better enable us to implement the fundamental structural reforms. half of the fiscal year, we began to see results, such as improved Therefore, we have set it as a top management priority and are performance year-on-year, primarily in customer divisions. To approaching the migration with significant care. In addition to the maintain this momentum, we will include specific initiatives and next-generation IT system, we will centralize or integrate other IT numerical targets in the next medium-term business plan and systems and revise system development processes with the aim fiscal year business plans. of increasing efficiency. Initiatives for fiscal 2018 In terms of restructuring our customer channels, in addition to the Fiscal 2018 marks the official start of the fundamental structural 11 branches already closed prior to fiscal 2018 we plan to close reforms, and we are looking to make a strong start on the reforms another 8 during the fiscal year, for a total of 19 towards our target which can be implemented immediately. of 100 as part of the fundamental structural reforms (a 20% progress rate). In terms of optimizing our organizational structure and staffing levels, we will aim to eliminate or reallocate around 1,300 In order to strengthen our earnings power, we will shift risk assets positions, primarily at Head Office (including Head Office from areas we are scaling back from and plan on allocating ¥1.8 departments located outside Japan) and group companies. Of trillion in risk assets to focus areas. While remaining cautious of those positions, around 600 will be shifted to the front office or volatility in the global economy, we will aim to proactively take on other priority areas, and around 700 will be eliminated through appropriate risk. Technology and data can also be leveraged both methods including limits on hiring based on a mediumto longto enhance operational processes, and therefore increase term perspective. productivity, as well as for the creation of new business. We will develop specific initiatives for achieving these aims and preparing As for IT system transformation, our top priority is ensuring a for what the future may bring, including by working in partnership stable migration to our next-generation IT system. With the with external organizations. Fundamental structural reforms to be started/implemented in fiscal 2018 1 Optimize our organizational structure and staffing levels 2 Transform IT systems Eliminate or Shift positions to Eliminate reallocate around the front office 1 positions Migration to the next-generation IT system 1,300 positions 1 around 600 around 700 (Fiscal 2018 target) (Starts from June 2018) C  onsolidate back office operations and streamline Head Office C  onsolidate and integrate IT systems (information systems, operations in and outside Japan treasury & capital markets systems, etc.) R etrain and shift personnel to the front office Transform IT operational processes (e.g. automate system Put limits on hiring based on a mediumto long-term perspective operations and tests) 3 Restructure customer channels 4 Strengthen earnings power Combine branches Reduce network Merge or of different group Shift Scale back areas Focus areas by close companies resources ¥-400 billion ¥+1.8 trillion 19 branches 10 branches 9 branches (risk assets) (Total for fiscal 2017 and 2018) (Fiscal 2018 target) Launch a hub-and-spoke model pilot program  xpand the scope of risk-taking (PI 2, US non-IG 3, etc.), focus E on areas with growth potential (asset/business succession, Initiate or further develop business partnerships with local S&T 4, etc.) banks Balance risk-taking and credit management 1. Total for fiscal 2017 and 2018 2. Principal investment 3. Non-investment grade 4. Sales and trading 2018 Integrated Report 22 Our goals Message from the Group CEO In fiscal 2018, not only will we implement these fundamental With this in mind, as we pursue our vision for Mizuho going structural reforms, but as the final fiscal year of the current forward, everyone throughout the group will need to think beyond medium-term business plan, we will also work to complete the their current role, consider what role they should fulfill in order to measures outlined in the plan. In order to ensure the long-term ensure that Mizuho thrives in the coming era, and be passionate stability of our business and enable us to “go on the offensive” , about doing what is necessary in order to fulfill that role. As the we must achieve the targets set out in our medium-term business world changes, we want our people to meet these changes plan concerning our Consolidated Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) head-on and be motivated and passionate about taking on new Capital Ratio and reduction in cross-shareholdings, both challenges. Just as importantly, we must cultivate a corporate indicators of financial soundness. However, unfortunately we culture where everyone is encouraging and supportive of those anticipate not being able to meet some of the targets in the plan, with the courage to try something new. such as the group expense ratio target, due in part to changes in the business environment beyond the scope considered likely at I believe that communication is the key to achieving this. No the time the plan was formulated. This is one reason why we view matter how large an organization is, people must be able to increasing our fundamental earnings power as a crucial endeavor. connect with others outside of their direct area of work and have constructive discussions and open exchanges of ideas and opinions. These daily interactions create a spirit of camaraderie. That is what makes an organization truly strong. We need to transform our corporate culture We will seek to make further progress on the fundamental reforms in HR management which we introduced, including HR management which respects the individual; promoting the active In order to achieve the fundamental structural reforms and realize participation of women, non-Japanese nationals, and other our vision for Mizuho, we must become an organization that is members of our diverse workforce; and work style reforms which capable of reaching such ambitious goals. enable more diverse and flexible work arrangements. Additionally, we are committed to transforming Mizuho’s corporate culture, Reflecting on current corporate culture in the Japanese finance including by changing employee mindsets and encouraging industry, perhaps due in part to the highly regulated nature of the people to take on new challenges. industry, or perhaps because organizations tend to go on the defensive when faced with a challenging business environment, we are often not forward-looking, and as a result, have a tendency to be overly orthodox and risk-adverse. Continually pursuing effective corporate governance At the same time, the industry is undergoing major structural changes and the competition is becoming fiercer, so business opportunities are more contingent than ever on taking on risk. We In order to meet the expectations of our many different must enhance our business/market literacy and ability to obtain stakeholders and to sustainably enhance Mizuho’s corporate relevant information, determine which risks we should take as a value, it is essential that we continually pursue effective corporate financial institution, and be proactive and committed to taking on governance. those risks. In that sense, what we truly need to do to become more competitive is to transform employee mindsets and our In fiscal 2014, Mizuho transitioned to a “company with corporate culture. committees” model of corporate governance, and by separating 23 Mizuho Financial Group Our goals Message from the Group CEO supervision and business execution roles, we were able to speed These expectations are in line with those we already hold up the decision-making process. Additionally, this has enabled ourselves to, as outlined in our Corporate Philosophy. We aim to more effective supervision of executive management, including interpret these changes occurring in the economy and society in more transparent and fair executive compensation and the context of mediumto long-term risk and opportunity. We appointments as the Nominating Committee and other proactively work towards solving social issues by drawing on our committees, which are primarily composed of independent unique capabilities as a financial group, and we ensure that our directors, are responsible for these decisions. In fiscal 2017, we business activities are environmentally responsible and respectful made a number of enhancements to our corporate governance of human rights, all of which ultimately enhances our corporate framework. In addition to the Chairman of the Board of Directors value. being an independent director, we have now appointed an independent director to the chairman positions for the three Our efforts in these areas have been recognized in a number of legally required board committees. Also, our three core group ways, including through selection for multiple sustainability companies transitioned from a “company with a board of indices. We are keenly aware of the importance of having the company auditors” to a “company with an audit committee” finance industry actively involved in solving social issues, model of corporate governance. including those identified in the SDGs, and we plan on further incorporating these objectives into our business strategies as a Going forward, we will continue to be a model of strong corporate means of proactively contributing to the sustainable development governance in Japan in addition to proactively implementing of society. global best practices, making every effort to continually pursue *The SDGs were announced in September 2015 as part of the United Nation’s effective corporate governance as befitting a global financial “Transforming our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development”, group. composed of goals that the world should aim to address between 2016 and 2030. Contributing to the sustainable development of society Conclusion Our Corporate Philosophy, which forms the basis of Mizuho’s corporate activities, articulates our commitment to creating In Mizuho’s long history spanning over 100 years, we have been lasting value for our customers and the economies and an integral part of economies and communities around the world, communities in which we operate. contributing to their development. As a united group, we will aim to continue to contribute to the sustainable and stable growth of We established this Corporate Philosophy in 2013 and at the time our broad customer base and sound economic and social we considered Mizuho’s history, the feedback of internal and development throughout the world. To do so, every member of external stakeholders, and the elements that we believed would Mizuho must be aware of our proud history and be committed to be necessary for thriving in the finance industry going forward. ensuring that Mizuho continues to fulfill our important role in the We reaffirmed that one of Mizuho’s most valuable assets is our coming era, as well as make every effort to provide the highest long history of contributing to the cultivation of Japanese industry quality financial services. and the sound development of the economy and the communities in which we operate. Therefore, our Corporate Philosophy We are committed to making Mizuho a stronger and more resilient embodies our commitment to continuing to contribute to the financial group by ensuring that our shareholders, customers, the sound development of economies and communities around the local communities in which we operate, and our many other world. stakeholders, understand and support our vision and initiatives, and ensuring that we are an organization which people can trust Additionally, in the annual survey of employees that we conduct, and depend on. a consistently high number of respondents select “cares about what is best for society/the public” to describe Mizuho’s corporate We appreciate your continued support and will do everything in culture, showing that many of our employees feel that this is a our power to exceed your expectations. priority for us as an organization. As I mentioned at the beginning of this message, as the economy and society undergo structural changes, a variety of social issues are materializing. In Japan, the need to respond to population decline and revitalize local economies, and on a global scale, the July 2018 need to respond to climate change and human rights issues, are pressing concerns. The United Nations has developed the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)* to address such issues, and is calling on not only governments but also companies and investors around the world to work towards realizing these goals. Tatsufumi Sakai Additionally, investors are showing an increasing interest in Member of the Board of Directors environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors. Therefore, expectations are higher than ever regarding companies’ President & Group CEO contribution to society’s sustainable development. Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 2018 Integrated Report 24 Our goals Message from the Group CFO Establishing a stable profit structure and robust financial base, taking appropriate risks, and providing optimal solutions in order to contribute to the sustainable growth and development of our customers and society as a whole Member of the Board of Directors Makoto Managing Executive Officer Umemiya Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group (Group CFO) Mizuho’s financial management principles Overview of fiscal 2017 At Mizuho, as a financial services consulting group, we aim to In fiscal 2017, the global economy and the Japanese economy contribute to the sustainable growth of our diverse range of both experienced steady growth. However, Mizuho’s Consolidated stakeholders, particularly our customers, the economies and Gross Profits of ¥1.9153 trillion represent a decrease of 8% yearindustries of Japan and countries around the world, and our on-year, due in part to factors such as a reduction in Net Interest shareholders. Income as a result of continued negative interest rates in Japan, a reduction in non-Japanese bond carry income, which is reliant on To achieve this, our fundamental approach to financial US rate hikes, and the need to take additional steps to ensure the management is to establish a stable profit structure and a soundness of our bond portfolio by eliminating a certain amount robust financial base that can withstand changes in the business of unrealized losses. environment, and to fulfill our sound risk-taking function to help our customers, local economies, and industries realize growth. Also, although we enhanced our expense discipline, we experienced about a 1% increase in General and Administrative Expenses, amounting to ¥1.4889 trillion. As a result, our Consolidated Net Business Profits, which represent our fundamental earnings power, have declined around 30% yearon-year to ¥457.8 billion. As we expect this challenging business environment to continue, strengthening our earnings power is essential. 25 Mizuho Financial Group Our goals Message from the Group CFO At the same time, in terms of Credit-Related such as increasing Non-interest Income through  Y2017 Profit Attributable to F Costs, we achieved ¥156.3 billion in profit as our One Mizuho strategy, enhancing our riskOwners of Parent a result of a reversal of Reserves for Possible taking capabilities, and increasing productivity Losses on Loans. As for Net Gains/Losses Related to Stocks, we achieved ¥272 billion in profit by promoting the disposal of cross-shareholdings by optimizing operational processes. Our goal is to achieve Consolidated Net Business Profits (including Net Gains Related to ETFs) of ¥700 ¥ 576.5 billion and by booking Net Gains Related to ETF in the billion, a year-on-year increase of ¥160 billion, as markets division. As a result of these efforts, we an indicator of our earnings power. achieved Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent of ¥576.5 billion, surpassing our projection of As for Credit-Related Costs, in fiscal 2017 we -¥26.9 billion (year-on-year) ¥550 billion, although representing a reduction booked significant profit from temporary factors, of around 4% year-on-year. and in fiscal 2018 we expect a reduction in profit in these areas, resulting in around ¥20 billion Our Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) Capital Ratio1, in expenses. We will therefore aim to achieve a  Y2017 Consolidated Net F which is one of the key indicators of capital similar level of Profit Attributable to Owners of Business Profits adequacy, was 10.15%, displaying a steady Parent as in fiscal 2017 (¥570 billion). 457.8 increase and meeting our medium-term business plan target (approx. 10% as of March 2019) a The current operating environment is more year ahead of schedule. challenging than what we anticipated when ¥ billion formulating the current medium-term business plan, and therefore we are aiming to “go on the Outlook for fiscal 2018 and offensive” in fiscal 2018, working to steadily increase our earnings power. Unfortunately, progress on the medium–term given the current situation it will be difficult -¥205.5 billion (year-on-year) business plan for us to achieve certain targets, such as profit targets and expense ratio targets. However, As the negative interest rate environment is likely we are on track to achieve our targets in terms to continue in Japan throughout fiscal 2018, of CET1 Capital Ratio1 and disposal of crosswe expect a further reduction in domestic Net shareholdings, which are central to our strategy Interest Income. However, we will aim to make of going on the offensive. up for this decrease through a number of efforts Financial targets for FY2018 FY2018 target Group Initial target Higher end of the expense ratio3 around 60% 60 70% range Disposal of crossCET1 Capital Ratio1 shareholding ¥550 billion4 Approx.10% Fiscal year progress towards medium-term business plan targets FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 1 CET1 Capital Ratio 8.77% 9.27% 10.15% Consolidated ROE2 10.0% 8.5% 7.7% RORA (Profit Attributable RORA (Profit Attributable Consolidated ROE2 to Owners of Parent) to Owners of Parent) 1.0% 0.9% 0.9% Approx. 8% Approx. 0.9% Expense ratio3 60.0% 66.0% 72.1% Cross-shareholdings ¥115.7 billion ¥275.3 billion ¥398 billion disposal4 reduction reduction reduction 1. Basel III fully-effective basis (based on current regulations), excluding Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities 2. Excluding Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities 3. Group aggregated 4. Shares listed on the Japanese stock markets, acquisition cost basis, cumulative amount from FY2015 to FY2018 2018 Integrated Report 26 Our goals Message from the Group CFO Establishing a stronger financial position Fundamental structural reforms Controlling the balance sheet strategically The objective of the fundamental structural reforms which we We have achieved a CET1 Capital Ratio of 10.15%, meeting the announced in November 2017 is to secure competitive advantage target set in our current medium-term business plan a year in in the future and ensure the group’s sustainable growth over the advance. However, based on the finalized Basel III reforms which next ten years and beyond. As mentioned in the Message from include revisions to the risk measurement method and other the Group CEO, these reforms are not merely a cost-cutting rules, published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision measure, but rather a plan for enhancing our earnings power. in December 2017, our estimated* CET1 Capital Ratio will be in However, as the CFO, my focus will be on the expense discipline the 8 to 8.5% range, and therefore we need to continue to aspects of these reforms. By optimizing our organizational accumulate capital. In light of this situation, it is essential that we structure and staffing levels, transforming our IT systems, and utilize the balance sheet efficiently and increase our profitability. restructuring our customer channels, we aim to reduce our Specifically we need to flexibly reallocate assets from low-return expense level by around ¥100 billion by the end of fiscal 2021, to high-return areas and from areas we are scaling back or and by around ¥150 billion by the end of fiscal 2024 (excluding eliminating to areas we want to focus on, with the aim of creating amortization expenses related to the next-generation IT system). a more robust and profitable business portfolio. Fiscal 2018 marks the start of these fundamental structural * Fully-effective basis. When calculating the estimated CET1 Ratio based on the reforms and we intend to make a strong start on those which can new regulations, risk-weighted assets associated with Net Unrealized Gains on be implemented immediately. (See page 33 “Fundamental Other Securities (stocks) are excluded. structural reforms”). Balance sheet control initiatives for fiscal 2018 Strengthen balance sheet control to enhance resilience toward changing external environment and tightening regulations Consolidated Total Assets As of March 2018: ¥205 trillion ( ) represent changes from March 2017 Improve risk-return Yen Reduce low-profitability assets Accelerate the shift from  savings to investment/wealth formation Loans: Increase investment products ¥79 trillion balance and accelerate groupwide integrated business (+¥1 trillion) promotion Deposits: Non-yen ¥136 trillion Enhance focus on non-yen  (+¥5.7 trillion) funding costs including customer deposits Securities: Accumulate customer deposits systematically ¥34 trillion (+¥1.8 trillion) Stocks P  romote cross-shareholdings  teadily accumulate Retained S disposal to achieve the Earnings in order to achieve disposal target on an CET1 Capital Ratio of approx. acquisition cost basis 10% Bonds Other Assets:  ully instill early warning F ¥91 trillion Other Liabilities: system reflecting the external (+¥1.6 trillion) ¥58 trillion Net Assets: environment conditions (-¥1.8 trillion) ¥9 trillion Identify the timing to reconstruct bond portfolio (+¥0.5 trillion) 27 Mizuho Financial Group Our goals Message from the Group CFO Financial management to support sustainable growth Disposal of cross-shareholdings Regarding cross-shareholdings, we assess the meaning of holding Capital adequacy and return to shareholders based on criteria such as profitability in light of capital costs, and A stable and sufficient level of equity capital is essential to unless we consider these holdings to be meaningful, Mizuho ensuring Mizuho’s sustainable growth and our ability to meet the Financial Group and our core subsidiaries will not hold the shares expectations of stakeholders by maintaining our financial of other companies as cross–shareholdings. In order to maintain a soundness and fulfilling our role as a financial intermediary even stable financial base, it is essential that we reduce share price during times of economic downturn. At the same time, we fluctuation risk to an appropriate level as it has a significant understand the importance of our obligation to provide returns to impact on our financial situation. For the period from March 31, our shareholders and investors. Therefore, Mizuho continues to 2015 until March 31, 2019 (the end of the current medium-term carry out a disciplined capital management policy which maintains business plan), our target is a reduction of ¥550 billion in the book the optimal balance between ensuring capital adequacy and value of cross-shareholdings. In fiscal 2018 we plan to dispose of providing steady returns to shareholders. the remaining ¥152 billion in cross-shareholding required for meeting our target. To strengthen Mizuho’s capabilities for coping with changes in the business environment, including trends in global financial regulations, we will work to build a stable capital base to a level that is comparable with competing financial groups. Progress towards cross-shareholdings disposal targets1 As for our policy to return profits to shareholders, we have (¥ billion) implemented a steady dividend payout policy setting a dividend Reduction amount payout ratio on a consolidated basis of approximately 30% as a as of March 2018 guide for our consideration. Based on this policy, we have decided to make cash dividend payments ¥7.50 for fiscal 2017. Going ¥398 billion forward, we will continue to aim to realize steady returns to shareholders. 1,962.9 Reduction target 1,687.5 by March 2019 1,564.8 ¥550 billion Steady return to shareholders Cash Dividend per Share of Common Stock (¥) Dividend payout ratio (%) 31 33 332 30 28 March 2015 March 2017 March 2018 March 2019 23 1. Shares listed on the Japanese stock markets, acquisition cost basis 7.5 7.5 7.5 7.5 7.5 6.5 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 estimates 2. Assuming Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent for FY2017 of ¥570 billion 2018 Integrated Report 28 Our goals Message from the Group CFO Communication with shareholders and At Mizuho, disclosing information to our shareholders and investors in a fair, timely, and appropriate manner is a top priority. In line with our Disclosure Policy, we actively promote dialogue with our shareholders and investors. We aim to provide many opportunities for shareholders and investors to learn more about our management strategy, corporate governance, and other relevant topics directly from Mizuho’s management. Such opportunities include the General Meeting of Shareholders and a variety of informational sessions and IR briefings. We are also actively promoting dialogue with our investors outside Japan by providing timely information in English, holding IR briefings outside Japan, having a dedicated IR representative located in New York, and implementing a number of other initiatives. Continued dialogue Initiatives in fiscal 2017 General Meeting of Shareholders Visits to investors General Meeting of Shareholders Institutional outside Japan IR investors IR Day briefings and analysts Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Redesigned Individual website aimed Online IR investors at individual briefings investors Every year we hold the General Meeting of Shareholders in late June, selecting Institutional investors a date that does not overlap with other major events in order to make it as easy We hold an online conference, IR briefing, and other informational sessions as possible for shareholders to attend. after announcing our financial results and these explanations are also available in video format on our website. Additionally, the meeting invitation IR Day, our briefing for investors about our business strategies in each includes a business report (in both division/in-house company, is a regular event we have been holding since Japanese and English) and is posted 2012. In Japan, Mizuho was the first in the industry to hold this type of event. Based on requests from investors, from 2015 we also added an explanation more than a month in advance of from independent directors and a question & answer session to this event. the date of the General Meeting of From 2015 to 2017 the presenter was Hiroko Ota, the Chairman of the Board of Shareholders. Directors, and in 2018 it was Tetsuo Seki, the Chairman of the Audit Committee. Please see our website for a summary of the presentation and the question In 2018 we held the 16th regular General & answer session. We also provide a range of other opportunities for sharing Meeting of Shareholders on June 22 at information and creating dialogue, including regularly hosting “IR Select” Tokyo International Forum and 2,246 events which cover specific topics that are of interest to investors. people attended. A video summary of the General Meeting of Shareholders is IR briefings IR Day available on our website. 29 Mizuho Financial Group Our goals Message from the Group CFO investors Constructive dialogue In addition to opportunities such as the General Meeting of Shareholders and IR briefings, we hold direct meetings with investors to discuss our business strategy, corporate governance, General Meeting of Shareholders agenda items, and a range of other topics. Business strategy As part of the process for formulating the fundamental structural reforms which we announced in November 2017, we collected feedback from investors at (total number, rounded) IR briefings, direct meetings, and other By senior forums and shared this feedback with Direct meetings 700 management 220 (60 investors outside Japan) Mizuho’s executive officers and senior with institutional (260 investors management for their consideration. investors outside Japan) By IR Dept. 480 (200 investors outside Japan) Also, after announcing the structural reforms we initiated dialogue with Visits to investors investors to explain our rationale for outside Japan these reforms and to collect additional IR feedback. briefings Appointment of the new Group CEO Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar An explanation of the process for selecting the new Group CEO (announced in January 2018), including the recommendations of the Nominating Committee, was provided in the following materials. (An explanation is also included in this Integrated Report. See page 77 “Succession planning”.) Invitation to the General Meeting of Individual investors Shareholders We are working to make our website targeting individual investors easy to Corporate Governance Report navigate and understand, having made a number of changes to enhance easeof-use and simplify information such as adding a one-click chart generator that Proposals by shareholders at the General illustrates financial results. Meeting of Shareholders In 2015, we became the first Japanese megabank to provide online IR briefings At the General Meeting of Shareholders where investors can communicate directly with the CFO and we continue to held in June 2017, shareholder offer these opportunities. In fiscal 2017, around 3,000 individual investors in proposals which our Board of Directors total viewed these sessions (including live and recorded viewings). voted against but which received a high percentage of votes in favor at the General Meeting of Shareholders were delegated for further deliberation by the Board of Directors and their thinking on these matters was then publically disclosed. Additionally, the letter to shareholders sent after the announcement of first-half financial Website targeting individual investors Online IR briefings results was designed in a question & answer format in order to make the explanation easier to understand. In fiscal 2018, we will aim to further engage investors in dialogue in order to reflect their feedback into our business, including into the formulation of our next medium-term business plan. We truly appreciate your continued support and guidance. 2018 Integrated Report 30 Our strategies for creating value Medium-term business plan progress In fiscal 2016, Mizuho began to implement its three-year medium-term business plan, entitled Progressive Development of “One Mizuho”—The Path to a Financial Services Consulting Group. Under the medium-term business plan, we will perfect the One Mizuho strategy by creating a new business model as a financial services consulting group. The two foundations for this effort will be the full implementation of the “customer first principle” promoted in the previous medium-term business plan and the pursuit of operational excellence. Mizuho has also defined 5 basic polices and 10 basic strategies with regards to business strategies, financial strategy, and management foundations. Fiscal 2018 will be the final year of our current medium-term business plan, but, as the business environment is becoming increasingly challenging, it will be difficult to attain the Gross Profits target laid out in the plan. Also, our expense ratio target for fiscal 2018 is in the higher end of the 60 70% range, and therefore we expect to exceed our medium-term business plan target (approx. 60%). However, we are on track to achieve our targets regarding our Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital ratio, reducing cross-shareholdings, and other key indicators. Mizuho’s objectives Financial services consulting group The most trusted partner in solving problems and supporting the sustainable growth of customers and communities Fully implement the “customer first principle” Pursue operational excellence (customer-focused) 5 basic Introduction of the Selecting and Establishment of Embedding a corporate culture that in-house company focusing Proactive involvement in a resilient financial financial innovation encourages the active participation of our policies system of business areas base workforce to support a stronger Mizuho 1 Strengthening our model for non-interest income 4 Responding to Fintech Business business on a global basis 5 Promoting the Area One Mizuho strategy strategies 2 Responding to the shift from savings to investment 3 Strengthening our research and consulting functions 10 basic Financial 6 Controlling the balance sheet strategically and 7 Disposing of cross-shareholdings strategies strategy reforming the cost structure 8 Completing implementation of the next-generation 10 ‌Continued initiatives towards embedding Management IT system a corporate culture to support a strong foundations 9 Fundamental reforms in HR management organization Financial targets Targets for FY2018 in the FY2015 results FY2016 results FY2017 results medium-term business plan CET1 Capital Ratio1 approx. 10% 8.77% 9.27% 10.15% 2 Consolidated ROE approx. 8% 10.0% 8.5% 7.7% RORA (Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent) approx. 0.9% 1.0% 0.9% 0.9% Cross-shareholdings disposal3 ¥550 billion ¥115.7 billion ¥275.3 billion ¥398.0 billion Proportion of Non-interest Income4 approx. 60% 54% 54% 58% Expense Ratio5 approx. 60%6 60.0% 66.0% 72.1% 1. Basel III fully-effective basis (based on current regulations), excluding Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities 2. Excluding Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities 3. Shares listed on Japanese stock exchanges, acquisition cost basis, cumulative amount from FY2015 to FY2018 4. The scope of companies subject to aggregated management accounting has been changed since FY2017 (FY2015 results are unchanged) 5. Group aggregated 6. Our expense ratio target for fiscal 2018 is in the higher end of the 60 70% range, and therefore we expect to exceed our medium-term business plan target (approx. 60%). 31 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Medium-term business plan progress Fully implementing the “customer first principle” introduction of the in-house company system To thoroughly strengthen our “customer first principle” expertise and promote utilization across all the in-house approach and to realize our goal of becoming a financial companies. services consulting group, we have introduced a new in-house company system. With the in-house company system as our base, we will work to strengthen relationships with our customers, and, by gaining Specifically, Mizuho has established five in-house companies a thorough understanding of their needs, we will proceed with that formulate and implement group-wide strategies across the implementation of our One Mizuho strategy. By finding banking, trust banking, securities, and other group entities, for solutions to the issues confronting our customers, we will work each customer segment. Product and research functions have to strengthen our earnings power. been reorganized into two independent units to enhance Pursuing operational excellence In addition to differentiating our strategies through a focus on the “customer first principle”, we are pursuing operational excellence as a means of strengthening strategy Strengthen implementation. Improve costTransform customer competitiveness mindsets To accomplish this, we will thoroughly review our existing service business processes, consolidate common operations and incorporate technological innovation (such as Fintech) and new ideas. In this way, we are aiming to improve operational efficiency and to enhance the value of our services by raising the sophistication of our operations. FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Impact on We made steady progress on streamlining Head Office expense Results Results Target functions, improving operational processes using digital reduction technology such as robotic process automation, and transforming employee mindsets. Going forward, we will (compared to FY2015) ¥12 ¥38.5 ¥70 fundamentally revise our business processes and change the billion billion billion way we go about our work. Selecting and focusing of (rounded figures, ¥ billion) business areas FY2018 business strategy • ‌Expand assets under management by strengthening our customer-focused business As we determine which areas to focus on operations Retail & Business and which to streamline, we are flexibly Banking Company • ‌Strategically allocate RWA to focus areas such as customers’ growth strategy and allocating resources to targeted clients and business succession RWA Streamline -30 Focus +510 markets, aiming to use our limited resources as effectively as possible, which will lead to • Expand scope of risk-taking (mezzanine ‌ / equity investment, asset finance) Corporate & improvement in earnings power. Institutional Company • ‌Strengthen investment banking (ECM1, M&A) and real estate-related business RWA Streamline -320 Focus +870 In our areas of focus, we will expand our • ‌Enhance the Global 3002 strategy and enhance our standing, focus on transaction scope of risk-taking and our depth of Global Corporate banking commitment as we also begin to strengthen Company • Expand‌ scope of risk-taking (US non-IG3 strategy, expand base of non-Japanese clients in Asia) our position in new business and growth RWA Streamline -50 Focus +460 domains. Global Markets • ‌‌Optimize portfolio utilization by enhancing markets monitoring Company • ‌Allocate resources for sales & trading through collaboration between Mizuho Bank and Mizuho Securities Asset Management • ‌Develop asset management products that contribute to the shift from savings to investment/asset building and support investment product vendors Company • ‌Provide comprehensive pension consulting services 1. equity capital markets 2. Group of approximately 300 blue-chip companies around the world that Mizuho focuses on 3. Non-investment grade Please see the following pages: P27 28 Establishment of a resilient financial base P35 36 Proactive involvement in financial innovation P91 95 Embedding a corporate culture that encourages the active participation of our workforce to support a stronger Mizuho 2018 Integrated Report 32 Our strategies for creating value Our fundamental structural reforms The business environment continues to be challenging for financial institutions, and major structural changes to the industry are on the horizon. With this in mind, we are committed to implementing fundamental structural reforms with a view to securing competitive advantage in the future and ensuring the Mizuho group’s sustainable growth over the next ten years and beyond. As part of these reforms, we will aim to further develop the One Mizuho strategy by incorporating powerful, advanced technology into our business through open innovation. For example, we will aim to increase Gross Profits by actively pursuing collaborative partnerships with other companies, including those outside the financial industry, to create new business opportunities. Secondly, we will optimize our organizational structure and personnel levels as well as restructure our customer channels as a means of strengthening cost competitiveness and enhancing productivity. The objectives of our fundamental structural reforms are not limited to reducing costs, but we are implementing measures to strengthen our fundamental earnings power. These reforms fall into four basic categories: (1) optimize organization & personnel, (2) structurally reform IT systems, (3) revisit channel strategy, and (4) strengthen earnings power. We will outline the specific measures and numerical goals in our medium-term business plan and in business plans for each fiscal year as we move forward with implementing the reforms. Overview of the fundamental structural reforms Technology utilization Open innovation (such as alliances with other companies) Global perspective Direction Mizuho’s vision (“Financial Services Consulting Group”) and One Mizuho strategy stay unchanged Continuous fundamental structural reform in order to Structural reforms achieve sustainable growth and secure competitive advantage for the group as a whole in ten years’ time Detailed measures and numerical targets will be Framework reflected in each medium-term business plan (MTBP) Medium-term business plan Current MTBP Next MTBP FY2018 FY2021 FY2024 FY2026 1 Optimize organization & personnel 2 Structurally reform IT systems Streamline the number of personnel to align with ‌ the business strategy Integrate our various IT systems  Improve the quality and quantity of front-office staff ‌ Implement the next-generation IT system to  Utilize technology to reduce and streamline working ‌ strengthen Mizuho’s IT platform processes Pillars 3 Revisit channel strategy 4 Strengthen earnings power Close, merge, and co-join branches in Japan, ‌ Reform  gross profits structure following the hub-and-spoke model Lower  the burden at front offices and increase the Create omni-channel network to match the next‌ number of people with sales and marketing skills generation finance industry model and increase customer convenience utilizing technology Revisit business management 33 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Our fundamental structural reforms Optimize organization & personnel As the adoption of new technology has made our operational processes more efficient, we are planning to reduce the number of personnel to a level that is the right fit for implementing Mizuho’s strategies. We will achieve this by taking into account expected retirement and turnover in light of our current workforce composition, and taking measures such as optimizing hiring to achieve the right balance for the group as a whole. At the same time, we will seek to increase the number of front office personnel and enhance their capabilities through talent acquisition and development as well as by shifting personnel from the back office and Head Office to the front office. Revisit channel strategy We are working to build an optimal and efficient office network, based on the hub-and-spoke model, by grouping offices into about 120 areas nationwide in Japan and designating some offices in core areas as “hub” offices and other offices as “spoke” offices with more focused offerings and lighter staffing. In parallel with this, we are also closing some offices and combining others for joint operations as appropriate. At the same time, with an eye to next-generation financial services, we are working to streamline our service channels by using technology to enhance both face-to-face and digital channels and increase convenience for customers. Structurally reform IT systems As we endeavor to integrate and consolidate IT systems, we are moving ahead with creating a strong IT base through the introduction of our next-generation IT system. By consolidating our legacy systems, we are reducing the cost of new system development and increasing the speed with which we can bring new products and services to market, as well as ensuring a more equal level of service at all offices/branches. Strengthen earnings power As we expand our initiatives in growth domains and expand our scope of risk-taking, we are also working to revise our gross profits structure by utilizing advanced technology and pursuing collaborative arrangements with other companies outside the financial services industry. Another key objective is to streamline our Head Office organizational structure and business processes. We will achieve this by reducing the burden placed on the frontlines through the delegation of authority, speeding up credit screening, and other means, while also expanding the number of front office personnel and simplifying business processes. Through these efforts, we are transforming our revenue structure and strengthening earnings power. Quantitative image of the structural reforms FY2017 FY2021 FY2024 FY2026 Decrease by approx. Approx. Decrease by Decrease by Decrease by Staff 19,000 people 80,000 people 8,000 people 14,000 people 19,000 people (compared to March 2017) Decrease by approx. Locations in Approx. Decrease by Decrease by Japan 100 locations 500 locations 50 locations 100 locations (compared to March 2017) Depreciation related to the next-generation IT system Reduction excluding Expense reduction Approx. ¥100 billion Around depreciation related to ¥150 billion the next-generation IT ¥1.45 trillion Reduce expenses Expenses system by FY2021 or as Around early as possible ¥150 billion (Group aggregate, compared to FY2017) 2018 Integrated Report 34 Our strategies for creating value Changing the future of financial services through digital innovation Mizuho is using cutting-edge technology and collaborating with external organizations to provide more convenient services for our customers. Mizuho’s initiatives Establishment of Blue Lab As a megabank, Mizuho has built a robust customer base and To help develop and commercialize next-generation business wealth of industry information and worked to develop strength models based on both Fintech and IoT technologies, we in the areas of financial knowledge and technology. In the past, established Blue Lab with the WiL Group, a venture capital Mizuho’s business has not always been viewed as strong when firm, and other partners in June 2017. it comes to innovation, advanced technology, and assessment of a field’s future business potential. In today’s business Mizuho’s Chief Digital Innovation Officer (CDIO) was appointed environment, however, by collaborating with Fintech as president of Blue Lab, and employees from our Digital companies and major vendors that possess these strengths, Innovation Department were seconded or transferred to Blue Mizuho is working to create new business and provide more Lab to create new platforms based on the concept of open convenient services for our customers, and to enhance our innovation. This environment enables an agile management brand image as a financial institution. style which is particularly conducive to global expansion. Establishment of Blue Lab Expected role for Blue Lab Itochu Open innovation Sompo Japan Collaborate flexibly Nipponkoa Insurance with other industries The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company Group CEO CDIO Digital Innovation Dept. The Norinchukin Bank Create platform Dedicated Approx. Marubeni executive Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Create a platform officer 40 staff Bank that is beneficial for and other companies all participants Less than 15% share Secondments / Investment Investment Global expansion (not consolidated or affiliated) concurrent posts Co-creation and information Employees Employees Employees of gathering on a CEO (Mizuho (Mizuho partner global basis generalists) specialists) companies Agile management style IoT incubator company Thinking on the Established June 2017 Business area: Finance Agriculture Tourism … move 35 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Expected effects Creating new business Expanding profits Principal initiatives Activities to develop new Examples of Mizuho’s initiatives business and optimize business processes, Checking account balances through Line messenger app Mizuho Wallet including building settlement platforms covering overseas transactions, developing of software for automating business tasks using Lending artificial intelligence (AI) and Asset management support Big Data, and applying blockchain with the aim of Business areas increasing operational efficiency in supply chain management (SCM) and Asset management / Asset management investment support Lending trade finance. Transfers / payments Financial information Digital currency Utilizing technology Blockchain Other collaborative business operations Artificial intelligence Trade finance using blockchain Use of blockchain technology in technology supply chain management Big Data Automatic entry of data into business forms using AI Robotics and other technology Increasing sophistication of business processes Cost reduction Case 1 Case 2 J.Score Pilot test of cashless payments in Fukushima J.Score was set up in November 2016 as a joint Beginning in June 2018, Mizuho and Toho Bank started pilot testing the venture by Mizuho and Softbank, and was launched to provide the first AI score-based Pring payments app in Fukushima Prefecture with the aims of revitalizing consumer lending as a Fintech service in Japan. the regional economy and promoting wider use of cashless payments to increase convenience for residents of the region. In the six months since the beginning of operations, business has expanded steadily and 1 2 3 J.Score has provided about Deposits into smartphone QR code-based payment Settlement of accounts 130,000 scores. Loans apps via accounts of with smartphones based on payment data outstanding resulting from partner banks these scores total approximately ¥3.5 billion, as of the end of March 2018. Information sharing In addition, J.Score has Charge Payment continued to expand its cutting-edge services, Settlement including a tie-up with Yahoo! Japan for usage of information services (in June 2018), and release of a mobile application (in July 2018). Collaborating banks Pring users Members (shops) Pring Co., Ltd. 2018 Integrated Report 36 Our strategies for creating value Sustainability In order for Mizuho to increase its corporate value and fulfill its public mission, in addition to strengthening our financial base, it is indispensable for us to maintain and strengthen our business foundations, which include our brand, our people, and our relationships of trust with our customers and local communities. To do this, we position corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives as key corporate activities and we manage our business with consideration for the creation of value for a variety of stakeholders. In addition, we strive to ensure that each of our staff carries out his/her day-to-day work with an awareness of our social responsibilities and public mission. Also, we are seeking to address environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues as part of our CSR initiatives. We view the changes taking place in the economy and society in terms of mediumto long-term risks and opportunities and prioritize the issues we will address. We then incorporate initiatives to address these issues into our corporate strategy, and draw on the collective capabilities of the Mizuho group to provide solutions to social issues, including those identified in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in order to contribute to the development of a sustainable society and ultimately increase our corporate value. For more details on these initiatives, please see our website: https://www.mizuho-fg.com/csr/ Mediumand Principal issues that Mizuho is addressing to achieve sustainable development Long-term CSR Social needs that are linked to the risks and SDGs related to Issues Initiative Policy opportunities we have identified these issues ‌ Returning to fiscal soundness and revitalizing regional Core business Sound economic areas ‌Building resilient infrastructure growth ‌Increasing productivity through the application of new Strengthen efforts to technology and innovation promote businesses ‌Business succession, technology succession that contribute to Declining birthrate Asset ‌ formation for individuals and transfer of assets to and aging of the the next generation the sustainable ‌Securing a sufficient labor force population, health ‌Dealing with expansion in expenditures for medical development of and lengthening treatment and care for the elderly society lifespans ‌Lengthening of the healthy lifespan Securing access to necessary services ‌ Using technological progress to transform existing Foundations business and create new business Innovation ‌Nurturing innovative companies and those with new technologies Reinforce the group’s ‌Dealing with cyber attacks foundations that ‌ Promoting diversity and inclusion, and adopting Japan’s underpin activities Making work more work style reforms worthwhile/fulfilling ‌Talent development amid a changing operating in line with society’s environment expectations Ensuring ‌ a stable energy supply and preserving the environment Energy and the Responding to the transition to a carbon-free society Social contributions environment Preserving biodiversity Securing a stable food supply Promote social contribution activities Preventing/reducing ‌ negative impacts on human rights Respect for ‌Creating an inclusive society that take into human rights ‌Preventing money laundering and the financing of terrorism consideration the needs of local regions Alliances and Creating ‌ alliances and collaborative relationships with a collaboration diverse range of stakeholders and society 37 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Sustainability Initiatives in FY2017 Priority initiatives in FY2018 Environment/energy, 1 Promote initiatives which take into infrastructure Case examples P 40,41,70 consideration structural changes* which impact our clients and society as a whole *United Nations sustainable development goals; low birthrate, aging society, and declining population; globalization; technological Health Case examples P 41,66 revolution; climate change, etc.  rovide products and services which contribute to solving P environmental and social issues Revitalizing regional areas Solve issues through open innovation and partnerships and economies Case examples P 50 with companies outside the financial sector Create new business and transform existing business by adopting new technologies Strengthening our stance on responsible Business succession Case examples P 46 2 investment and financing 3 Strengthen our business foundations on a Support innovative companies Outline P 45 group–wide and global basis E  nhance our corporate governance Establish a stronger corporate culture Support the shift from savings Enhance our risk governance to investment in Japan Case examples P 62 Build a robust compliance framework Strengthen our IT governance and system development framework Enhance our response to human rights concerns Create business and innovate P 35,36,46, Case Promote the development and active by using new technology examples 58,62,70 4 participation of our diverse workforce Promote diversity and inclusion Responsible investment and ‌Proactive approach to promoting the health and wellbeing financing Outline P 42 of employees, as well as creating a healthy work environment 5 Promote customer protection management Risk governance Outline P 79-84 and financial crime prevention 6 Efforts to reduce the environmental impact Promoting employee of our business operations engagement Outline P 91-94 7 Continuous initiatives to promote financial literacy/education Financial education Results P 14 8 Promotion of activities that consider the needs of the local community 2018 Integrated Report 38 Our strategies for creating value Sustainability Environmental and social initiative highlights Environment-related efforts Addressing issues related to the global environment, starting with climate change, is a pressing challenge for all of humankind, and since the Paris Agreement, activities directed toward a carbon-free society are accelerating. We have established Policies for Environmental Initiatives and Environmental Targets, and are promoting environmental businesses and seeking to reduce the environmental impact of our business activities to support both economic development and environmental protection. Response to climate change We support the intent and aims of the Task Force on Climate–related Financial Disclosures* (TCFD)’s proposals and will conduct initiatives based on the TCFD framework and work toward more advanced disclosure. *A task force led by representatives of the private sector, established in December 2015 based on recommendations from the Financial Stability Board in order to enhance the availability of corporate information related to climate change; issued final report in June 2017. In formulating our FY2018 business plan (resolved by the Board of Directors), we have analyzed opportunities and risks related to social issues, including climate change, and planned out initiatives, and we continue to monitor and manage our Governance progress on a regular basis. In April 2018, following deliberations by the Executive Management Committee, we established Policies on Specific Industrial Sectors for sectors such as coal-fired power generation. A report was also made in June 2018 to the Audit Committee on strengthening management systems for responsible investment and financing. Mizuho recognizes the following risks, opportunities, and impacts on business activities related to climate change, and based on this will actively promote financial products and services that help mitigate climate change, or facilitate adaptation to it, including financing for renewable energy projects and issuance of green bonds to transition to a carbon-free society, and we will conduct appropriate risk management based on international concerns, trends, and other factors. ‌ Increased business opportunities, including provision of solutions that support customers in Opportunities transitioning to a carbon-free society, such as financing for renewable energy projects ‌Improvement of capital markets and social reputation through appropriate initiatives and disclosure Increased credit risk from reduced asset value for fossil fuels Strategy Increased reputational risk from supporting financing of companies and projects with high Risk environmental impact Increased costs to comply with stronger environmental regulations and address natural disasters ‌Business opportunities increasing, centered on consulting services Impacts Though ‌ there’s been no noteworthy deterioration in credit risk short-term, reputational risk increasing Credit exposure specification, impact assessment, and disclosure related to carbon-related assets will be considered as a future issue. We recognize the physical and transition risks associated with climate change and have constructed a system for addressing these risks through a comprehensive risk management framework that includes credit risk management and operational risk management. Risk Management Additionally, to mitigate negative impacts on society and the environment, we apply the Equator Principles to large-scale development projects in which we are involved. For sectors such as coal-fired power generation, we take potential environmental and social impacts and efforts to address these into account when making our credit decisions (Refer to page 42). Mizuho sets environmental targets and manages indicators as follows and will continue to consider establishing sciencebased targets (SBT). Targets CO2 emissions basic unit: CO2 emissions / total floor area (electricity usage at Japanese facilities of Mizuho Indicators and Financial Group and core group companies) targets Long–term target Reduce by 19.0% from FY2009 levels by the end of FY2030 Medium–term target Reduce by 10.5% from FY2009 levels by the end of FY2020 Indicators ‌ Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) CO2 emissions and energy usage ‌Scope 3 Environmental impact related to new large-scale power generation projects (CO2 emissions and CO2 emission reductions) 39 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Sustainability Environmental business Environmental business in India In response to the trend toward the use of clean energy and the development of “smart” cities as well as other related initiatives, we are working to contribute to development in India and provide assistance from a financial perspective to assist Japanese companies in expanding their businesses outside Japan and to help Japanese industries implement their growth strategies. 1 F  irst project finance by a Japanese commercial bank for photovoltaic electric power, generating business in India Mizuho Bank is providing project finance for the photovoltaic power generating facility (with a capacity of 350MW) that will be built, owned, and operated by a subsidiary of the Softbank Group in Andhra Pradesh State in south India. The project finance loan is co-financed with the Japan Bank for International Cooperation, and Mizuho Bank signed the financing arrangement contracts in September 2017. This photovoltaic power facility will be the first such project finance deal to be syndicated by a Japanese bank. Going forward, Mizuho will work to contribute to the development of the Indian economy and to the transition to clean energy sources through financing of clean energy projects. 2 Gujarat State 2 “Smart City” development initiative in Gujarat State In December 2 017, a consortium with the participation of Mizuho Bank and Mumbai Mizuho Information and Research Institute was selected by Japan’s Ministry Chennai of the Environment, Trade, and Industry (METI) to conduct a feasibility study for creating a smart city development in India’s Gujarat State. This project has Bangalore been designated as an advanced model, going forward, for the development 1 Andhra Pradesh State of a Japanese-affiliated industrial concentration, centering around the automobile industry, for urban development planning in Gujarat State. The project will be used for consideration of a mediumto long-term vision and will involve research on smart infrastructure in which Japanese companies can participate. Mizuho will be responsible for the planning and operating of this project in its entirety. Encouraging sustainable finance that can meet the needs of investors and corporations We are providing full support for companies raising capital in order to address environmental and social related issues and encourage ESG investments in the bond markets. In FY2017, Mizuho Securities strengthened its ESG bond issuance framework by setting up a sustainable finance desk and concluding a partner contract with the Climate Bond Initiative. Through these and other activities, as an ESG structuring agent, we actively supported capital raising through issuing ESG bonds, including syndication of Mizuho Financial Group’s first green bonds and financing for the first model pilot project for green bond issuance promoted by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment. These activities were recognized and Mizuho Securities received the Rising Star award as an SRI Dealer in the Asia/Pacific region from mtn-i*. *mtn-i operates an information platform, based in the United Kingdom that issues market analyses and market information. 2018 Integrated Report 40 Our strategies for creating value Sustainability Addressing social issues In addition to harnessing our broad financial service functions to support the real economy from a mediumand long-term perspective, we are working to strengthen our efforts to promote business that contributes to the sustainable development of society in response to the renewed expectations of stakeholders. As a financial services consulting group, Mizuho offers solutions that draw on the unique qualities of our business, and we are working to contribute to the solution of social issues by reflecting concern regarding human rights and the environment into our business activities. Establishment of a human rights policy In consideration of the global nature of our business operations, and in order to fulfill our responsibilities in terms of respecting human rights, Mizuho endeavors to prevent or minimize any negative impact that our activities may have on human rights and take other measures as needed. In view of changes in the business environment and the expectations of society, in order to strengthen initiatives related to human rights through our business activities, the Board of Directors decided on measures and prepared a Human Rights Policy in accord with the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights in April 2018. When formulating the policy, to fulfill our responsibilities in the area of respecting human rights, we sought the advice of various outside specialists and experts in the field of human rights and reviewed the issues involved to decide on specific actions and priority initiatives. Participation in Japan’s first social impact bond project To address social issues, Mizuho public and private sector collaboration, drawing on each sector’s strengths. A key example of this social impact bonds (SIBs) as a new approach to investment. In August 2017, Mizuho Bank, as part of a project led by Hachioji Project outline City in Tokyo prefecture aiming to increase the percentage of persons being tested for colon cancer, participated in the Intermediary support Financers syndication of a full-scale SIB project, which was Japan’s first organization multi-year, performance-linked SIB project, and provided a portion Hachioji City Mizuho Bank 1 2 of the funds invested in a blind partnership. This project was Private-sector and other aimed at extending the healthy lifespans of citizens and improving businesses organizations the quality of life as well as encouraging the more optimal 4 5 medical costs through the early detection of cancer. The project Reports on screening was targeted at citizens of a city where the ratio of persons recipients, cancer 3 1 Performance-linked undergoing colon cancer tests was low, and offered tailor-made patients diagnosed, etc. payment contract screening based on AI. Going forward, Mizuho will continue to Screening 2 Provision of funds 3 Encouraging cancer use our financial strengths to contribute to the solution of social Healthcare Payment recipients screening issues through the issuance of SIBs and other methods. providers 4 5 Payment linked to results Mizuho signs an advisory service agreement with the National Water Company of Saudi Arabia Through cooperation in projects for the privatization of a Saudi Arabian water utility, we are helping to address the issues related to privatization and safe operation of water treatment facilities, and thereby contribute to Saudi Arabia’s development. Mizuho Bank signed an advisory service agreement in February 2018 with the National Water Company (NWC) of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, concerning the privatization of water distribution services. Saudi Arabia has been promoting industrial diversification and privatization with the goal of reducing its dependence on fossil fuel and other mineral resources. In the water sector, stable operation of water treatment facilities has become an urgent issue due to the rapid growth in population, especially in urban areas. Based on the agreement, Mizuho, acting as advisor, will provide NWC with insights and know-how on public-private partnerships, industrial development, finance, and other areas as it considers the best model for privatization. 41 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Sustainability Responsible investment and financing Mizuho has always proactively promoted responsible investment and financing, and as part of our commitment to further strengthening our stance, we established Policies on Specific Industrial Sectors, which affirm our commitment to considering risks such as environmental and social risks when engaging in business with clients in certain industries (such as weapons, coal-fired power generation, palm oil, and lumber) where there is a high possibility that our involvement with the client could contribute to adverse environmental or social impacts. Based on an awareness of environmental and social risks in a wide range of industries, Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, Mizuho Securities, and Mizuho Americas will determine whether to extend credit or assist with capital raising for clients in certain industries after confirming the measures which the client is taking to avoid or mitigate such risks, and other due diligence as appropriate based on the characteristics of the services we are providing. For further information, please visit: https://www.mizuho-fg.com/csr/business/investment/index.html Consideration for the environment and society in our lending activities In order for us to promote the sustainable development of society and the economy as well as contribute to the solution of environmental and social issues through our lending activities, our lending criteria include determining whether the extension of credit will contribute to the sound development of the economy and the communities we serve. We recognize that large-scale development projects may have adverse impacts Number of projects for which contracts have been signed and the Equator Principles applied2 on the environment and local communities. Mizuho Bank works together with Europe, the Middle East, and Africa Asia and Oceania the project proponents (clients) to identify and conduct appropriate environmental Americas and social risk assessments and due diligence for management, as required 47 48 under the Equator Principles.1 8 7 30 17 29 2 20 1. Financial industry standards for identifying, assessing, and managing environmental and social risks related to 22 12 projects that are being financed. 8 2. The items in this graph are those guaranteed by third parties. FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Promotion of responsible and ESG investing By conducting our activities with appropriate attention to our stewardship responsibilities and promoting the increase in corporate value and sustainability of the companies being invested in, we contribute to the prosperity and sound development of Japan’s economy and society. Mizuho Trust & Banking and Asset Management One are fulfilling their stewardship responsibilities and promoting ESG investing. Asset Management One, our primary asset management subsidiary, performs many functions in addition to proxy voting. These include active ongoing engagement, principally regarding the environment, society, and corporate governance (ESG), for those companies it has selected for investment. These activities are also conducted with the aim of raising the overall level of the market and promoting the mediumto long-term growth of the companies. Moreover, to offer investment products for a wide range of investors with a focus on ESG, we introduced a new fund, “One ETF ESG”, and offered private placements of investment trusts for institutional investors. Asset Management One’s responsible investing framework ‌ ngagement activities E (passive investment) Clients and beneficiaries (investment trusts, pension funds, etc.) Sustainable increase in Investing, Reporting monitoring corporate value Active accounts in FY2017: 159 Asset Management One Stewardship activities Share of TOPIX: 30%. Responsible Chairman Head of Investment Division Investee companies Investment Members Deputy-Head of Investment Division, Head and Committee Companies considered for Deputy-Head of Risk Management Division Engagement engagement activities constructive, Selected giving consideration Responsible Investment Department Equity Investment Group to profitability and degree of purposeful dialogue  ngagement (Passive investment) E Engagement influence from among stocks Exercise of voting rights (Active investment) included in the TOPIX 500 Exercise of voting rights ESG analysts Sector analysts Conducted discussions to Persons exercising voting rights Fund managers Investment encourage efforts to increase corporate value Asset Management One Corporate Governance Code Japan’s Stewardship Code 2018 Integrated Report 42 Our strategies for creating value Retail & Business Banking Company Individual customers SMEs Middle market corporations We aim to work seamlessly our customers’ needs and Our goals The operating environment for the Retail and Business Banking Company in Japan is characterized by a declining birth rate, demographic aging, and a decline in the population. As a result of the acceleration of globalization and digital innovation, SME and middle-market corporations confront increasingly diverse and complex challenges. Major structural changes are also underway. In today’s extended period of low interest rates, financial institutions’ key earnings source, interest income, has declined. What is more, companies in other industries are moving into business domains that had traditionally been the province of financial institutions. However, we see these changes as an opportunity and are seeking to transform our business model based on a long-term perspective. In order to pursue a new retail business model, we are working on providing individual customers, SMEs, and middle market corporations with consulting services which draw on our full range of group capabilities including banking, trust banking, and securities. Additionally, we are adopting Toshitsugu Okabe Head of Retail & Business Banking Company 1. Current environment Economic/social environment, customer characteristics Opportunities Our perception of opportunities and risks • Bank of Japan continues negative interest rate policy Use our strong customer base to offer financial consulting • Declining birth rate, demographic aging, and decline in through integrated group functions population in Japan • Expand scope of asset management business (promote • About 50% of total household financial assets of about shift from saving to investments/asset building) ¥1,800 trillion concentrated in deposits • Expand business succession consulting in view of External environment • Trend toward reviewing corporate strategies to take changes in the tax system account of structural changes in the economy and society • Develop new business by utilizing digital innovation • Aging of SME/middle market corporation owners and • Expand business domains through open innovation shortage of successors (collaboration with other companies) • Rapid progress of digital innovation Risks Competitive & regulatory environment • Gradual decrease in interest income due to continuing • Competitors moving in similar strategic directions negative interest rates • Emergence of paradigm shift as companies in other • Deterioration in business base due to stagnation in industries enter the financial sector Japan’s economy and society • Intensifying competitive environment as companies in other industries enter the financial sector 43 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Retail & Business Banking Company with the entire Mizuho group to accurately understand offer them tailored consulting services. innovative technology and partnering with other companies in banking, and securities entities are working together to launch order to offer customers highly convenient services. initiatives in different regions throughout Japan which aim to address local issues and contribute to regional economic and First of all, we are aiming to transform our business with a social revitalization. focus on non-interest income, ensuring that we are thoroughly aligned with our customers’ needs and providing financial In these priority domains, we are concentrating resources services that present solutions to the issues they face. In an era through the reassignment of personnel on a cross-group basis, where many of our customers will live to be a 100 years old, strengthening our talent development programs, and taking supporting the shift from savings to investment as a means of steps to boost service quality and productivity. promoting stable asset formation is a core aspect of conducting customer-focused business operations. We are also working on Further, we are taking advantage of the dramatic advances in expanding our product line-up and improving our customers’ digital innovation to develop highly-convenient customer financial literacy. services and to expand our customer base and earnings. Another area we are focusing on is providing services tailored We are working on a fundamental change in business structure to the needs of SMEs and middle market corporations, to enhance customer convenience while controlling costs. Our including the formulation of growth strategies, business initiatives include the development of new business areas succession plans, and accessing sources of risk capital. By fully utilizing AI and automation, and boosting operational efficiency drawing on the group’s capabilities, we are able to provide by utilizing our next-generation IT system. optimal solutions for both corporations and individuals. Moreover, through the One Mizuho Project, our banking, trust 2. Value creation Value for customers Value for society • Optimal solutions for a wide range of customer needs via • Facilitate asset building for individuals and the circulation of financial services consulting that integrates our banking, trust funds which promotes sustainable growth for the Japanese banking, and securities functions economy • High-quality, customer-focused services with a superior level • Contribute to sustainable growth in the Japanese economy by of expertise and professional ethics offering support for the growth strategies of SMEs and middle market corporations • Creating new value through services such as remittances, payments, and asset management by utilizing advances in • Adopt an integrated approach that combines our banking, digital innovation trust banking, and securities functions to confront local challenges, and implement initiatives aimed at resolving • Sophisticated business and asset succession solutions for issues in alliance with local businesses and citizens SMEs and middle market corporations confronting such issues as aging top executives and insufficient human capital 2018 Integrated Report 44 Our strategies for creating value Retail & Business Banking Company FY2017 results and FY2018 focus Results Reflecting on our performance in FY2017, the operating Additionally, we strengthened both our business growth and environment was challenging as interest income declined as a business succession consulting capabilities, focusing on SMEs result of the Bank of Japan’s negative interest rate policy and and middle market corporations, as well as provided support adverse trends in the financial markets. While we were unable for innovative companies with outstanding proprietary to attain our Net Business Profits target, profits nonetheless technology and ideas. As a result, in FY2017 our share as lead rose year-on-year, and our performance was positive overall as underwriter of Japanese IPOs rose to 20%, which was two a result of group-wide collaboration. percentage points higher than in the previous fiscal year. Specifically, to support our efforts to encourage individual Other accomplishments in FY2017 included the development of customers to shift from savings to investment, we allocated new types of branches that make use of digital technologies, more personnel to customer-facing positions and put increased enhancement of our online and mobile banking services, and emphasis on our integrated banking, trust banking, and other innovations. These initiatives represented further securities consulting services. Due in part to these efforts, fully progress in our drive to enhance the convenience of our 2.58 million customers utilized our investment products in services for customers. FY2017, demonstrating a steady expansion of 30,000 individuals year-on-year. Total asset inflows at group securities companies ranked No. 1 in Japan’s securities industry. Future direction In FY2018, we are further accelerating our strategy of groupso that we can further evolve our consulting-based support for wide collaboration and have formulated priority strategies their growth strategies and guide them through major events based on identified customer needs. We are working to make such as M&As, IPOs, and business succession. progress toward enhancing the sophistication of our traditional face-to-face channels and strengthening the services available We also plan to accelerate our initiatives related to digital through our digital channels. innovation. In FY2017 we launched a new affiliate, J.Score, and we will seek to expand this business going forward, in addition For individual customers, we will enhance our consulting to making progress on other digital business initiatives services to better meet their needs regarding the shift from developed with alliance partners or by finding new applications savings to investments and asset succession. We will also for Big Data. further promote iDeCo1 and NISA2 as a means of assisting customers’ long-term asset building while placing greater In addition, we will promote “operational excellence”, revise focus on enhancing customers’ financial literacy. work processes such as making operations of branches and Head Office more efficient by utilizing technical innovations, For our corporate clients, especially SMEs and middle market and take action to cut costs. corporations, we will upgrade our solutions functions and strengthen collaboration with the Research & Consulting Unit 1. iDeCo: Individual-type defined contribution pension plan 2. NISA: Small-lot, tax exempt investment accounts 3. Business plan Trends in risk appetite Action plan • Promote initiatives to establish and embed customer• Implement sophisticated consulting services that will focused business operations contribute to the asset building of our individual customers • Proactively invest resources in key sectors aimed at augmenting non-interest income • Provide optimal solutions that support the growth strategies of our SME and middle market clients • Make efficient use of resources and establish a low-cost business model by utilizing digital innovations and • Make our online and mobile services even more userexternal alliances friendly by utilizing new digital technology • Boost efficiency and productivity by revising operational processes 45 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Retail & Business Banking Company 2017 highlights Trends in performance (¥ billion) (Group aggregate, management accounting, rounded figures) For reference: FY20161 FY2017 FY2018 targets2 Items Compared to Performance Targets Performance Year-on-year Year-on-year targets Gross Profits 717.2 — 726.2 — +9.0 — Net Business Profits 12.4 42.0 15.6 -26.4 +3.2 +17.0 Profits 28.7 27.0 26.4 -0.6 -2.3 +4.0 1. FY2016 results recalculated based on FY2017 management accounting 2. Comparison of FY2017 results recalculated based on FY2018 management accounting Major KPIs Balance of assets under management, Asset inflows at group securities companies* Number and share of IPOs in which number of investment product users Mizuho was the lead underwriter* ¥ trillion million users ¥ trillion FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Number Share 2.58 1.7 18 19 18 2.55 2.53 20% 41 0.9 0.7 18% 37 14% 35 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Mizuho Securities (Retail & Business (0.4) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Banking Division) Competitor A Competitor B Competitor C results results results *Prepared based on financial results disclosures of *Prepared based on data from Capital Eye and the respective companies includes co-lead underwriter positions, but excludes REITs and global offerings. Solutions supporting sustainable growth for our customers and society Using digital technology to enhance the convenience of in-branch services In our branches, we have newly set up Mizuho Digital Corners where customers can use or learn about our digital services. In these corners, we have provided tablet devices and interactive monitors. Customers can also use their smartphones to access a range of services, including opening an account, making transfers, and completing procedures or registering account information. In this way, we are integrating our digital channel with our in-branches services. Going forward, in addition to using digital technology to improve the convenience of our services, we will continue to assist customers in selecting optimal—primarily digital—transaction methods, including by making digital consultants available. Strengthening our ability to meet business succession needs The lack of qualified successors for the current management of SMEs and middle market companies, which account for creation of about 70% of jobs in Japan, is one of the major issues confronting Japan today. In April 2018, a special act was passed related to the business succession tax system. With this increased government support for business succession, we are strengthening our integrated banking, trust banking, and securities functions to facilitate smooth business succession for our clients by holding forums related to this issue, establishing a business succession fund, and other undertakings. 2018 Integrated Report 46 Our strategies for creating value Corporate & Institutional Company Large corporations Financial institutions Public-sector entities Mizuho aims to serve as our strengths and providing Our goals To explain our goals for the Corporate and Institutional Company, let us first examine the operating environment we confront today. During FY2017, the global economy and Japan’s economy both showed steady growth. On the other hand, movements toward protectionism in the United States, the persistence of geopolitical risk, and other factors resulted in the continuation of considerable uncertainty regarding future conditions. In addition, the monetary policies of central banks in Japan and abroad, and the trend toward tighter regulations regarding the balance sheets of financial institutions, continue to give rise to concerns. On the other hand, the trend among corporate clients in recent years has been to place substantially greater emphasis on increasing corporate value and return on equity (ROE). These and other trends, beginning with further globalization of business activities, and following on to realignment of business activities across industry lines, M&A, and the movements toward focusing on core competencies when allocating corporate resources, are expected to continue. Moreover, client needs are becoming more diverse and sophisticated due to accelerated digital innovation spurred by advances in technology, and changes in social and industrial structures. Akira Nakamura Head of Corporate & Institutional Company 1. Current environment Economic/social environment, client characteristics Opportunities • Increasing uncertainty in the global economy Offering integrated group-wide consulting capabilities Our perception of opportunities and risks • Continuing negative interest rate policy by the Bank of based on strong relationships with clients Japan • Further expansion of securities businesses, including • Further acceleration of globalization cross-border M&A External environment • Increasing emphasis from corporate management on • Expansion of asset business opportunities through review enhancing corporate value and ROE of business portfolio • Rising need for revitalization of regional areas in Japan • Increasing public and private sector collaboration in areas • Rapid progress in digital innovation such as agriculture and the revitalization of regional economies Competitive & regulatory environment • Competitors moving in similar strategic directions Risks • Tightening of international financial regulations • Decline in profits due to slow growth in interest income • Decline in added value provided by existing finance business • Further restrictions on balance sheet management 47 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Corporate & Institutional Company clients’ most trusted global partner, focusing our collective solutions for increasingly diverse and sophisticated requirements Next I would like to take a closer look at the strengths of our is to continue to grow together with our clients by creating in-house company and the issues we must address going business value chains offering solutions to the wide range of forward. Our strengths include the strong relationships and issues our clients face in terms of business and financial client base that we have built among large corporations, strategy. financial institutions, and public sector entities. Another area of strength, arising from our drive to meet client needs, is our To do this, we must cultivate a talent pool that can provide capability for sophisticated risk-taking cultivated through the solutions to clients’ specific issues while taking a long-term development of new financial business. Our approach to view, responding agilely to changes in the social and business developing business, through formulation of comprehensive environments, and, based on a real, in-depth understanding of proposals based on the integrated capabilities of our banking, client issues, commit themselves to increasing clients’ trust banking, and securities functions, has become the corporate value. standard throughout our organization. Moreover, we will work to realize the full potential of our On the other hand, although the real estate sector of our trust in-house company system, and will reallocate corporate banking operations shows real potential, we are still in the resources, including human capital and other assets, process of consolidating our position to become the No.1 strategically and promptly, while continuing to adapt our company in this field. We are also aware that we must further business model. enhance our capabilities to gain an advantage over other major securities companies and compete effectively for major crossThrough these initiatives, we will support the sustainable border M&A and equity-related deals. growth of our clients, contribute to increasing corporate value, and, in the face of major, rapid change in the operating Based on this analysis of the operating environment and the environment, we will work to increase our own earnings power strengths of our in-house company, let us highlight what we and strengthen our financial position with the objective of are aiming to accomplish. continuing to be a valued partner for our clients. Under our business model, which leverages our integrated banking, trust banking, and securities functions, our objective 2. Value creation Value for clients Value for society • Provide optimal solutions and respond quickly to clients’ • Contribute to Japanese and global economic growth by diverse issues and needs providing a stable and steady flow of funds to large corporations, financial institutions, and public sector entities • Continue to provide support for enhancing our clients’ corporate value via the value chain business model • Contribute to the revitalization of the Japanese economy by fostering new industries, reorganizing existing industries, and • Provide risk capital based on our sophisticated risk-taking revitalizing regional economies capabilities • Contribute to the development of infrastructure via PPP/PFI 2018 Integrated Report 48 Our strategies for creating value Corporate & Institutional Company FY2017 results and FY2018 focus Results FY2017 marked the second year since the introduction of our advantages of our in-house company system, achieving both in-house company system. Although there were challenges to our ROE and staffing level targets for FY2017. overcome, such as prolonged negative interest rates, thanks to continuing progress on our One Mizuho initiatives, Net Reducing cross-shareholding is one of our key management Business Profits and Net Income exceeded our targets. In fact, priorities. Although we did not meet our targets in this area we came close to the target levels for the final year of our during the fiscal year, on an agreements basis, which includes current Medium-Term Business Plan about one year ahead of the amount of shareholdings we will be able to sell next fiscal schedule. In addition to an increase in loans outstanding, as a year, our ratio of progress toward the goal in our Medium-Term result of the positive impact of asset rebalancing, we achieved Business Plan is generally on target. a positive reversal in interest income, as well as growth in non-interest income, due in part to our efforts regarding On the other hand, in the securities field, we have reported business value chains. steady progress improving sales frameworks by strengthening global sector collaborations, developing talent, and developing Also, by reallocating our resources, including assets and global business. However, we have yet to secure our target personnel, we were able to consistently demonstrate the share of major deals, indicating we must take further measures to strengthen our securities business. Future direction Currently, due to accelerated implementation of global are seeking to expand internationally. At Mizuho Bank, we strategies aimed at increasing corporate value, the earnings appointed executive officers to manage our relationship with power of Japanese companies has steadily improved, and the selected global corporations last year and expect this to number of companies that are debt-free is increasing. substantially strengthen our sales in this area. Our third Moreover, clients are revising their business models in strategy is to tackle white spaces, which are untapped business preparation for coming structural changes in society and areas relevant to our core business, and to expand our scope industries, such as advances in digital innovation and progress of risk-taking. By gaining a solid understanding of changes in toward a carbon-free society. society and in industry structures, and proactively developing new business in response, we will work to develop new In light of this environment, we will pursue the following four sources of earnings. The fourth strategy is to reformulate an strategies in FY2018 with the objective of fulfilling our mission asset strategy for our in-house company. By drawing on our of helping clients increase their corporate value and credit screening capabilities and strengthening our investment contributing to the growth of the Japanese economy. management functions, we will enhance our risk-taking capabilities and become better positioned to promote a The first strategy is strengthening our securities business. In number of initiatives, address the increasingly diverse needs equities, we are working to realign our organizational and issues of our clients, and expand the scope of our riskframework to enhance collaboration between the front office taking. and product development sections. In terms of M&A, we are working to strengthen the relationship between the front office By implementing these strategies, we will accelerate initiatives and advisory functions from the origination stage. Our second to transform our business model and build a robust business strategy is to boost our support for Japanese companies that portfolio. 3. Business plan Trends in risk appetite Action plan • Invest resources strategically and agilely in key sectors • Strengthen cross-border M&A business via global sector collaborations • Rebuild our business portfolio by selecting and focusing on sectors in which we will take on risk • Expand into white spaces • Thoroughly enforce the compliance system underpinning • Cultivate new financial needs based on technological our business model progress • Reinforce asset controls • Optimize our sales and business processes 49 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Corporate & Institutional Company 2017 highlights Trends in performance (¥ billion) (Group aggregate, management accounting, rounded figures) For reference: FY20161 FY2017 FY2018 targets2 Items Compared to Performance Targets Performance Year-on-year Year-on-year targets Gross Profits 434.1 — 433.0 — -1.1 — Net Business Profits 241.1 218.0 236.3 +18.3 -4.8 +15.0 Profits 218.1 231.0 272.3 +41.3 +54.2 +33.0 1. FY2016 results recalculated based on FY2017 management accounting 2. Comparison of FY2017 results recalculated based on FY2018 management accounting Major KPIs Proportion of non-interest income* FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 results results results targets Bookrunner for domestic Non-interest Interest 1 syndicated loans 1st 1st 1st 1st income income 56% 44% Total equity underwriting 2 worldwide (underwriting 3rd 4th 4th 2nd amount) FY2017 Domestic straight bonds 3 (underwriting amount) 1st 1st 2nd 1st FY2018 target M&A (deals related to 4 Japanese companies) 7th 1st Top 5 Top 5 58% * Management accounting, rounded figures Solutions supporting sustainable growth for our clients and society Contributing to the revitalization of regional areas in Japan and the Japanese economy as a whole Drawing on our extensive expertise, we have provided many forms of support to government agencies, regional governments, and organizations, with the aim of solving social issues and revitalizing local areas in Japan. In FY2017, we aimed to provide substantially more innovative support, including undertaking new advisory positions in new infrastructure fields. Regional revitalization in Japan is also a policy promoted on the national level through public and private sector collaboration. In this area we are continuing to provide high quality services for concession projects, such as airports, water supply systems, and waste treatment systems, covering the full process from the early consideration stages through to project syndication. In this way, we are aiming to contribute to the further development of the Japanese economy. Creating value chains through collaboration among Cultivating business value chains through the progressive development of banking, trust banking, and securities functions the One Mizuho strategy Mizuho Bank In response to increasing demand to take companies private, we have arranged Mizuho Securities Business strategy discussion Mizuho Securities de-listings for major companies using private equity funds, with Mizuho Securities acting as financial adviser and Mizuho Bank providing fund raising support. These IPO FA* deals are very good examples of what we can do based both on our in-depth Delisting discussions with clients over many years and our understanding of their business (taking companies private) strategies. These deals succeed and are highly regarded because of our willingness to Mizuho Bank Mizuho Bank take on the risk associated with unprecedented deals and our ability to provide Mizuho Trust & Banking seamless solutions through group-wide collaboration. Looking ahead, we will continue Corporate consulting Mizuho Securities Bridge loans Mizuho Bank to offer creative solutions tailored to the issues our clients face and, thereby contribute to increasing corporate value. Permanent finance * FA: Financial advisor 2018 Integrated Report 50 Our strategies for creating value Global Corporate Company Americas EMEA East Asia Asia & Oceania Aiming for sustainable understanding of our clients’ Our goals In terms of the operating environment for the Global Corporate Company, while the global economy is continuing to expand, we remain concerned about the spread of protectionism, political developments in Europe, and geopolitical risk in East Asia, the Middle East, and elsewhere. Moreover, markets are in the process of undergoing major changes along with interest rate hikes and tax reform in the US, structural economic reforms in China, and other developments. Amid this operating environment, we at the Global Corporate Company aim to become a highly trusted, long-term partner of Japanese companies entering new markets overseas as well as non-Japanese companies, based on our ability to provide solutions that reflect a deep understanding of the businesses of our clients and our strength in corporate finance. First, for Japanese corporations, we aim to provide seamless services in Japan and elsewhere to support their business expansion overseas by offering optimal financial solutions and reliable consulting advice ranging from providing information for clients considering entry into overseas markets to support in crafting business and financial strategies. Seiji Imai Head of Global Corporate Company 1. Current environment Economic/social environment, client characteristics Opportunities • Increasing uncertainty in the world economy (spread of Offering solutions that integrate group strengths and draw Our perception of opportunities and risks protectionism, political turmoil in Europe, geopolitical on our in-depth understanding of businesses and risk, and other factors) capabilities in corporate finance • Further progress in globalization of Japanese companies • Expansion of global financial needs among Japanese External environment • Asian economies representing a greater share of the companies world economy • Acceleration of entry into Asia by European, US, and • US interest rate hikes and tax reform other non-Japanese companies • Structural economic reforms in China • Stimulation of investments under US tax reforms Competitive & regulatory environment • Growing sophistication of the financial needs of Chinese • Japanese megabanks accelerating development of corporations overseas operations Risks • Major European and US banks moving toward • Stagnation in financial markets due to increased uncertainty differentiation of their strategies by drawing on their respective strengths • Growing scarcity of market liquidity and capital due to tightening of regulations • Strengthening of liquidity and capital adequacy • Rise in dollar funding costs due to increase in US interest rates requirements 51 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Global Corporate Company growth by offering solutions that draw on our in-depth businesses and our strengths in corporate finance For non-Japanese companies, we are implementing our Global bond underwriting, and other securities-related products as 300 Strategy which involves focusing on a group of about 300 well as transaction banking and other services. By enhancing blue-chip companies around the world. Under this strategy, we our ability to offer solutions based on our integrated banking, adopt an industry/sector-based approach, focusing on sectors trust banking, and securities functions and by strengthening where we have an in-depth understanding and a proven track our transaction banking services, including deposits, record, and develop close relationships with company settlements, and trade finance, we will work to meet our management. Through this strategic approach, we can build clients’ broad business and financial strategy needs. By long-term relationships with leading non-Japanese companies strengthening our product and service offerings as a financial and grow together with them in a mutually sustainable manner. services consulting group, we will be able to boost our earnings power. As liquidity and capital become scarcer, it is essential for us to build a powerful financial base to develop long-term Moreover, to ensure a sustainable business and management partnerships with these companies. To do this, our initiatives foundation, we will continue to pursue operational excellence include revising our business portfolio by reviewing and seek to enhance our non-yen currency funding capabilities. profitability and restructuring our assets. Specifically, we will To achieve operational excellence, we will optimize our move forward with shifting assets to Global 300 and other organizational structure and business processes on a group high-profitability segments, along with downsizing lowbasis. To strengthen our non-yen currency funding capabilities, profitability assets and reducing the portion of our portfolio we will continue to take steps to increase non-yen currency requiring high levels of liquidity. deposits and diversify our funding sources through the issuance of non-yen currency denominated bonds. In addition, we will offer a diverse range of financial services, including not only credit transactions but also M&A services, 2. Value creation Value for clients Value for society • Provide diverse solutions such as M&A, DCM, and transaction • Contribute to global industry realignments and the economic banking through collaboration among banking, trust banking, development of emerging economies and securities entities • Contribute to further development of financial markets and • Provide support for Japanese companies entering new talent development around the world markets through collaboration with government agencies around the world and with local financial institutions • Provide the latest information on global political and economic trends through collection and analysis of information on international strategies 2018 Integrated Report 52 Our strategies for creating value Global Corporate Company FY2017 results and FY2018 focus Results Focusing next on performance in FY2017, the business To establish an even stronger foundation and provide in-depth environment continued to be challenging as economic growth support to companies entering new markets and expanding in China slowed, the number of major M&A deals decreased, their businesses abroad, we are continuing to augment our and competition in Asia became more intense. Amid this global office network. In FY2017, we established the Mizuho operating environment, our in-house company’s Net Business Bank Phnom Penh Branch; Washington, DC Representative Profits decreased—slightly below the target for the fiscal year; Office; Dallas Representative Office; León Office in Mexico; however, we undertook a range of initiatives to improve our Mizuho Securities Asia Seoul Branch; and Mizuho International service offering capabilities and strengthen our earnings power. DIFC Branch. In addition, we proactively concluded cooperative arrangements with government agencies, financial institutions, For non-Japanese companies, we steadily expanded our and non-Japanese companies around the world. business through continued implementation of our Global 300 strategy. We focused especially on taking an industry/sectorWe also took further initiatives in the pursuit of operational specific approach and increasing the sophistication of excellence. These included optimizing our branch network and collaboration between our banking and securities functions. As giving consideration to personnel assignments with the aim of a result, our accomplishments included becoming the only maximizing group-wide productivity. In the United States, to Japanese bank to secure a position within the top 10 in the enhance the efficiency of business operations and provide a Americas for three consecutive years. These and other higher level of service nation-wide, we began preparations for accomplishments demonstrated an expanded market presence, transferring IT system operations and branch support functions particularly in the United States. In addition, we strengthened from the Los Angeles Branch to the New York Branch in order our capabilities for delivering solutions by upgrading our to concentrate these functions in a central location. organizational framework for transaction banking and enhancing our product lineup. As a result, we are generating steady profits in these fields. Future direction In FY2018, we will continue to implement our Global 300 of both improving services for clients and revising our business strategy and give consideration to expanding operations into structure. Along with these initiatives we are also continuing to new risk domains as part of our drive to invest resources in implement measures to establish a stable funding base, mainly high-margin segments. While enhancing our fundamental for non-yen currencies. earnings power, we will also further strengthen our capabilities for providing services, including the full use of our analysis and As we steadily implement these strategies, we will also accelerate proposal functions for each industry sector. This will enable us measures to expand our business, strengthen our earnings to offer a wide range of solutions to meet diverse client needs power, and upgrade our business portfolio structure. By for securities products, transaction banking, and other services. continuing to offer services that are in line with client needs, in the years to come we will realize sustainable growth working In addition, to tighten cost controls, we are working to optimize in partnership with our clients. our organizational structure and staffing levels as well as increase operational efficiency through the use of RPA*, while *Robotic process automation: Software for automating business processes and pursuing greater operational excellence—all with the objective operations, automatically conducting tasks that would have previously been done manually by a person using a computer. 3. Business plan Trends in risk appetite Action plan • Focus on deepening relationships with blue-chip non• Shift resources from low-profitability to high-profitability Japanese companies, especially the Global 300 segments • Allocate capital and liquidity from low-profitability • Promote cross-selling between transaction banking and securities/market products segments to high-profitability segments with prospects for business expansion • Promote operational excellence through integrated operations on a group-wide basis, optimize business • Expand volume of non-yen currency deposits and work processes, and other measures to increase quality • Secure high-quality non-yen currency deposits and diversify non-yen currency funding sources 53 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Global Corporate Company 2017 highlights Trends in performance (¥ billion) (Group aggregate, management accounting, rounded figures) For reference: FY20161 FY2017 FY2018 targets2 Items Compared to Performance Targets Performance Year-on-year Year-on-year targets Gross Profits 358.3 — 352.6 — -5.7 — Net Business Profits 115.0 125.0 100.2 -24.8 -14.8 +31.0 Profits 83.7 77.0 69.0 -8.0 -14.7 +10.0 1. FY2017 results recalculated based on FY2018 management accounting 2. Comparison of FY2017 results recalculated based on FY2018 management accounting Major KPIs Non-interest income outside Japan Non-JPY deposits1 US bond underwriting (DCM) ranking* ($ billion) ($ billion) ($ million) Ranking (share) Net Business Profits Increase of 30 % from FY2015 Increase of 10 % from FY2015 9th 10th 13th (3.5%) 9th (3.6%) 172.7 161.6 1.3 146.3 (2.9%) (4.8%) 1.4 1.4 172 166 130 94 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 results results results targets results results results targets2 results results results results 1. Mizuho Bank and principal subsidiaries, including *Bonds worth $250 million or more, excluding central bank deposits. Global Corporate Company off-shore issuance management accounting basis. Source: Dealogic 2. Change from FY2015 estimates. Solutions supporting sustainable growth for our clients and society Example of the Global 300 strategy in action For one of our Global 300 clients, we provided support as lead arranger for the largest MBO* financing to date in Southeast Asia. Subsequently, we substantially raised our Offering integrated underwriting share in a public offering for a J-REIT on behalf of the same client. group solutions Global Underwriting This financing is representative of the solutions provided through banking and 300 Loans bonds for securities collaboration under our Global 300 strategy. Going forward, we will clients M&A deals significantly raise our profile as a global player. *Management buyout: The acquisition of a controlling share in a company by management and/or investment Transaction banking funds. Mizuho Bank issues onshore RMB-denominated bonds In December 2017, Mizuho became the first Japanese bank to receive approval from the People’s Bank of China to issue Panda Bonds, which are onshore RMB-denominated bonds issued in the Chinese interbank bond market. These bonds were issued in January 2018. We will use the expertise gained from this issuance to provide greater support than previously, including advisory services for clients interested in issuing Panda Bonds and for mediumto long-term financing in renminbi. 2018 Integrated Report 54 Our strategies for creating value Global Markets Company Investors Aiming to become a top-class capabilities tailored to each Our goals The Global Markets Company engages in sales and trading in order to provide clients with market product-based solutions, and we also conduct banking operations, including asset management and capital raising, securities investment, and other related activities. In 2017, the global economy continued to expand, and according to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), favorable economic conditions are likely to continue in 2018. On the other hand, political turmoil resulting from the emergence of populism; geopolitical risk linked to the Middle East, North Korea, and elsewhere; rising protectionism; and other factors are continuing to create uncertainty. In addition, the rate of technological progress in AI and other fields has been astonishing, and signs are appearing that society will likely undergo major changes going forward. Amidst the beginnings of major social change, clients’ needs in terms of hedging and asset management are expected to become increasingly diverse. However, this trend is expected to bring major business opportunities for our sales and trading business. Additionally, our ability to provide sophisticated banking services differentiates our offerings from competitors. Junichi Kato Head of Global Markets Company 1. Current environment Economic/social environment, client characteristics Opportunities • Global political uncertainty remains high. Offering integrated group solutions leveraging our global Our perception of opportunities and risks • Progress toward normalization of central bank monetary network policies in the United States and other major countries • Strengthen our capabilities to respond to client needs through early application of advanced technologies • Growing diversity of investors’ asset management needs • Improve competitiveness through efficient portfolio External environment • Increase in cross-border transactions management, including strict adherence to early warning • Rapid advances in AI and other cutting-edge technology controls and meticulous allocation • Differentiate services through careful responses to stricter, Competitive & regulatory environment more-complex regulatory requirements • Competitors moving in similar strategic directions Risks • Transition to the implementation phase of various • Possibility of a slowdown in the global economy and financial markets as a result of the acceleration of financial regulations normalization/tightening of monetary policy by the central banks of major countries • Potential market turmoil accompanying increasing geopolitical risk • Possibility of declining competitiveness due to delays in responding to technological progress 55 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Global Markets Company global markets player in Asia by strengthening our product client segment As we seize these opportunities, we are aiming to become a In our banking business, we will work to maintain stability in top-class global markets player in Asia. our foreign currency liquidity management in order to support our clients’ global operations. In addition, we will work to Looking ahead in our sales and trading business, in addition to secure stable earnings by maintaining our early warning continuing the collaboration among our banking, trust banking, controls to capture nascent changes in the market and securities functions, our policy will be to work closely in environment, and manage portfolios by efficiently making initiatives with other Mizuho in-house companies and units so quick decisions and precise allocations. as to advance the implementation of our One Mizuho strategy. Specifically, we will draw on our high-level professional To continue to offer clients the highest quality of services, our expertise in financial markets and market products and work IT systems must meet global standards by incorporating with other Mizuho in-house companies and units to provide advanced technology and we must make ongoing upgrades to seamless banking, trust banking, and securities solutions. In our operational infrastructure. We are proactively incorporating this way, we can offer the best market products in a timely both AI and other digital innovations by working to enhance fashion and respond to clients’ specific requirements. our digital platforms, applying AI to our early warning systems, Moreover, we are committed to continuing our efforts to and utilizing Big Data. As a global markets player, we are contribute to market stability, and through participation in committed to continually upgrading our infrastructure to industry associations, work toward contributing to the sound maintain and strengthen our competitiveness. development of financial markets. 2. Value creation Value for clients Value for society • Offer optimal solutions that make use of market products to • Contribute to society and the economy through skillfully meet a wide range of clients’ risk hedging and asset responding to client hedging and asset management needs management needs • As global markets professionals, continuously provide liquidity in offering a wide range of market products • Offer information on market trends based on our access to information through our global network and our analytical • Contribute to the development of sound financial markets by capabilities complying with regulations and participating in industry associations • Contribute to the sustainable development of society through continuing initiatives such as the issuance of green bonds 2018 Integrated Report 56 Our strategies for creating value Global Markets Company FY2017 results and FY2018 focus Results Net Business Profits for the Global Markets Company were As these observations suggest, fiscal 2017 presented a ¥38.2 billion below our target and amounted to ¥180.8 billion, challenging business environment, but in order to bring about which was ¥165.3 billion below the level of fiscal 2016. A return a V-shaped recovery in revenue in fiscal 2018, as interest rates to normalcy in monetary policy is occurring, especially in the rose, mainly in the United States, we worked to maintain the United States, and the differential between longand shortsoundness of our banking portfolio and increased the term rates is expected to diminish. In addition, the Bank of competitiveness of our banking business by making our early Japan’s efforts to control the yield curve have led to historically warning systems more sophisticated using AI and other low yen interest rates and Japanese government bond yields. methods. In addition, to advance the integration of our banking Against this backdrop, we expected banking operations to and securities operations, we moved ahead with the creation show a marked decline in profitability compared to fiscal 2016, of a common derivatives platform globally to increase the but actual performance in fiscal 2017 was close to target levels. profitability of our sales and trading business. In fact, in our On the other hand, sales and trading, where we had expected Asia/emerging markets currency business, where we were an increase over the previous fiscal year, showed weak growth strengthening our efforts, our volume of transactions expanded in profits, and revenue fell below target levels as a low interest significantly and we achieved favorable results. As we rate and low volatility environment prevailed, mainly in the implement these initiatives, we are forecasting an increase in Japanese markets. Net Business Profits of ¥99.0 billion as part of our business plan for fiscal 2018. Future direction Fiscal 2018 will be the final year of our current medium-term company as a whole and through increasing the sophistication business plan, and to ensure that we reach our revenue targets of our early warning systems, we will aim to secure stable for the fiscal year, it will be critical to implement our mediumrevenue streams in the midst of a fast-changing environment. to long-term initiatives in preparation for the next mediumAmong our mediumto long-term initiatives as preparation for term business plan. In our sales and trading business, we must our next medium-term business plan, we are working to move ahead with integrated banking and securities activities allocate resources strategically with the aim of building nextglobally in the fields of foreign exchange, bonds and generation trading rooms, markets IT systems, and back offices derivatives, and equity products. Especially in those market with a focus on incorporating advances in technology so that businesses where there is room for further development, such we can offer our clients high-quality services and solutions. as investment funds, we want to strengthen our fundamental earnings power by developing new relationships with Japanese and foreign investors and expanding our Asia and emerging markets currency business. In our banking business, by determining the optimal portfolio allocation for our in-house 3. Business plan Trends in risk appetite Action plan • In our sales and trading business, strengthen earnings • In our sales and trading business, promote the global power through seamless collaboration between our deployment of integrated banking and securities for banking and securities functions foreign exchange, bonds and derivatives, and equity products • In our banking business, implement accurate portfolio • In our banking business, continue to raise the management by upgrading the sophistication of our early sophistication of our early warning system which will be warning system the basis for optimal portfolio management for the in-house company as a whole • Accelerate planning for the construction of new trading rooms, markets IT systems, and back offices that • Allocate resources strategically with the aim of building new trading rooms, markets IT systems, and back offices incorporate advances in technology that incorporate advances in technology 57 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Global Markets Company 2017 highlights Trends in performance (¥ billion) (Group aggregate, management accounting, rounded figures) For reference: FY20161 FY2017 FY2018 targets2 Items Compared to Performance Targets Performance Year-on-year Year-on-year targets 3 Gross Profits 539.9 — 381.7 — -158.2 — 3 Net Business Profits 346.1 219.0 180.8 -38.2 -165.3 +99.0 Profits 224.2 147.0 120.2 -26.8 -104.0 +69.0 1. FY2016 results recalculated based on FY2017 management accounting 2. Comparison of FY2017 results recalculated based on FY2018 management accounting 3. Including ETFs Major KPIs Sales & trading-related revenue* Volume of Asian/emerging market currency transactions (¥ billion) (in comparison with FY2015) (%) 9.1 352.8 345.0 307.8 5.9 300.0 (3.8) FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 results results results targets results results targets *Global Markets Company management accounting basis Solutions supporting sustainable growth for our clients and society Our in-house company’s AI and digital innovation initiatives We are working to improve services for our clients by applying the rapidly advancing field of AI and other digital innovations. Specific examples include offering algorithmic equity trading making use of AI, joint research on increasing the sophistication of foreign exchange trading undertaken with the research group of Associate Professor Yutaka Matsuo of Tokyo University Graduate School, and the development of market early warning tools with IBM Japan. In addition, Mizuho Securities held the Mizuho Trading Conference for institutional investors, which focused on the topic of trading using AI. Mizuho Investment Conference Mizuho Securities held the Mizuho Investment Conference (MIC) not only in Tokyo but also in overseas locations, including New York and London. MIC has been wellreceived globally by many investors. In fiscal 2017, to inform global investors about promising SMEs and attractive regional enterprises in Japan, we held the Japan Opportunities 2017 MIC SME-Class Growth Stock Conference, which was the largest conference of its type, aiming to encourage investment in Japanese enterprises. 2018 Integrated Report 58 Our strategies for creating value Asset Management Company Investors Contribute to growth in to long-term asset building Our goals Some aspects of the operating environment for the asset management business are challenging, such as the continuation of negative interest rates and the entry of new competitors. However, from a mediumto long-term perspective, I am confident that the direction of events is moving in our favor. With the arrival of an era where many of our customers will live to be 100 years old (a so-called “age of longevity”), it will become even more important for individuals to prepare for retirement by engaging in asset building to supplement employer or government pensions. Moreover, as a result of the work style reforms promoted by the Japanese government, such as extension of the age for retirement, the need for corporations to review their pension plans is increasing. Within our in-house company, Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, Mizuho Securities, and Asset Management One work together with the other in-house companies to meet the needs of a wide range of customers from institutional investors (pensions, financial institutions, corporations, etc.) to individual investors. Also, we will continue to shift household assets to more growth-focused portfolios by providing products and solutions backed by our sophisticated investment capabilities. Katsunobu Motohashi Head of Asset Management Company 1. Current environment Economic/social environment, customer characteristics Opportunities • Increased convenience and greater need for asset We are responding to expanding asset management needs by drawing Our perception of opportunities and risks on our strong investment management, product development, and management as a result of NISA and iDeCo regulatory pension solutions capabilities backed by a top-class level of assets reform under management in Japan and Asia as a whole • Deterioration in the asset management environment due • In this age of longevity, there is an expansion in the demographic External environment interested in asset-building spurred by the acceleration of the shift to negative interest rates from savings to investment • Increased adoption of passive investment and ETFs • Growing need for review of the pension system in light of the trend • Technological innovation (AI, robo-advisors, etc.) toward postponing the retirement age and greater diversity in work arrangements • Increased emphasis on social contribution • Rising interest, mainly among institutional investors, in ESG criteria Competitive & regulatory environment Risks • Increased competition in Japan and overseas because of • Decline in profitability because of increased competition for business, trends toward passive investing and ETFs, and other the rise in Fintech companies newly entering the market factors • Greater emphasis on fiduciary duties • Outflow of investments from investment trusts paying monthly distributions • Decline in institutional investor management needs caused by market uncertainty 59 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Asset Management Company Japan’s financial assets by supporting customers’ mediumwhile fulfilling the highest level of fiduciary duties Also, our aim is to increase productivity through mediumto Also, by offering services as the manager and administrator for long-term initiatives, create a robust business base, and defined contribution pension plans for individuals (iDeCo), we establish our asset management business as a fourth pillar of work to provide our customers with access to a broader range Mizuho’s earnings base along with banking, trust banking, and of methods for building assets. Through these activities, our securities. aim is to increase assets under management. The engine of our asset management business and its source For institutional investors who manage pension funds, there is of long-term growth are our investment capabilities. In today’s a growing need for consulting that takes into account the financial markets, the demand for traditional active investing is overall amount of pension stipends in consideration of gradually diminishing, and the trend is toward strengthening employees’ after-retirement life as well as the implications of alternative investment and gatekeeping capabilities. Therefore, Japan’s work style reforms. In addition to offering investment we must work to make active use of leading-edge technologies strategies, we are accelerating our efforts to provide such as AI and Big Data to provide our clients with high added comprehensive consulting and solutions such as building value on a continual basis. pension portfolios, ALM analysis, and pension governance support. For our individual customers, we make use of the advanced investment expertise we have cultivated through our pension Moreover, we want to substantially strengthen our initiatives to business to provide investment trust and other products (such deal with social issues through our asset management as fund wraps) that are useful for mediumto long-term asset business. We are incorporating non-financial information, building. In addition, with respect to investment trust sales including environmental, social, and corporate governance companies (e.g. banks and securities companies) in direct (ESG) information, in our investment criteria. We are also contact with customers, we make full use of one of Japan’s working to improve portfolio performance through assessment largest marketing systems. We are also proceeding to upgrade of ESG integration, and the sustainability of the companies we our investment education website, while also working to invest in, and promoting engagement to bring improvement in deepen customers’ understanding of asset management. corporate value. 2. Value creation Value for customers Value for society • Individuals: In this age of longevity, we will respond to the • Support individuals to invest over the medium to long term as ever-growing need for steady mediumto long-term asset a means of supplementing corporate/government pensions, building as people prepare for retirement thereby contributing to the shift of household assets to more growth-focused portfolios • Institutional investors: Respond to the need for comprehensive pension consulting, portfolio diversification • Contribute to solving social issues through engagement with and stable returns, and investment alternatives to Japanese the companies we invest in government bonds in the negative interest rate environment • Increase future national wealth and provide companies with growth capital, thereby contributing to a virtuous cycle for the Japanese economy 2018 Integrated Report 60 Our strategies for creating value Asset Management Company FY2017 results and FY2018 focus Results In FY2017, funds continued to flow out of publicly traded investment publicly traded fund making use of advanced “deep learning” AI trusts paying monthly distributions. However, our balance of assets technology, the Global Stock Fund Managed with Artificial under management rose ¥4 trillion over the previous fiscal year, to Intelligence (AI). In addition, we introduced a new ETF-specific ¥57 trillion, due to demand for asset-building investment products brand, One ETF, and have listed three new ETFs. and private placements of investment trusts with institutional investors. As a result, we were able to achieve our in-house In the field of pension funds, we are further expanding our company’s Net Business Profit target. comprehensive pension consulting services. We were the first to launch a risk-sharing corporate pension in Japan, which are In the field of investment trusts, we have built a strong reputation attracting attention as the “third type of pension fund.” In addition, as a result of our focus on providing support, including information, in 2017 we began marketing defined contribution pension plans for by convening roughly 8,000 seminars and informational sessions individuals (iDeCo), which are now available to a wider customer each year. As a result of these and other activities, we were ranked base. For iDeCo, we have expanded sales channels through a tie-up No. 1 in the Asset Management Brand Survey*, which is based on with AEON Bank, and the number of participants/investors rose questionnaires submitted by companies marketing investment 30% over the previous year, to 79,000. trusts and other investment products. From a product perspective, we are strengthening our investment capabilities by incorporating *Results from the 11th asset management company brand survey, “Nikkin Investment advanced methodologies. We newly established Japan’s first Trust News”, The Japan Financial News Co. Ltd. Future direction In the field of investment trusts, currently the demand among additional customer needs at the branch level, we are introducing investors for investment trusts that pay monthly distributions is customers to ways to combine long-term asset-building products diminishing, and, as a result, funds are also flowing out of Asset that take advantage of preferential tax treatment such as Management One’s major funds. In FY2018, one of our most Installment-type Nippon Individual Saving Account (NISA) and important initiatives was to stem the tide of assets leaving monthly iDeCo. distribution type funds and raise our assets under management mainly through offering asset-building products. Initiatives have We are also aiming to substantially enhance our investment included expanding the support we provide for investment product capabilities in response to increasingly diverse customer needs, sales companies, including offering useful information for assetincluding strengthening our in-house alternative investment building to individual customers through seminars and other capabilities and our gatekeeping functions. means, and working to increase convenience for customers. In terms of investment products, we have newly introduced low risk Similarly, at Asset Management One, we plan to complete the investment trusts aimed at first-time investors. We are also working post-merger integration of business processes and IT systems to to expand our base of investors and are focusing on products that achieve integrated organization management within the current will give additional impetus to the shift from savings to investment. fiscal year, and thereby establish the foundations for increasing productivity. As for pensions and other related fields, Mizuho Trust & Banking has launched comprehensive pension plan consulting services with Through these various activities, we are working to steadily to a view to the full range of corporate retirement benefits. Mizuho strengthen our earnings power, and, at the same time, make a Trust & Banking, Mizuho Bank, and other group companies are strong start in FY2018, the first year for implementing our working together to accelerate this marketing approach. To discover fundamental structural reforms. 3. Business plan Trends in risk appetite Action plan • View asset management business as a growth area • Strengthen our investment capabilities, which are the contributing to the expansion of Mizuho’s non-interest engine driving our asset management business and the source of long-term growth income and to balance sheet control, and therefore allocate business resources to investment, investment • Taking into account the shift from savings to investment/ asset building, allocate more business resources to trusts, and pensions investment trusts • Accelerate the offering of comprehensive pension consulting/solutions • Strengthen initiatives to solve social issues through stronger focus on ESG investing 61 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Asset Management Company 2017 highlights Trends in performance (¥ billion) (Group aggregate, management accounting, rounded figures) For reference: FY2018 FY20161 FY2017 targets2 Items Compared to Performance Targets Performance Year-on-year Year-on-year targets Gross Profits 48.9 — 50.2 — +1.3 — Net Business Profits 20.0 24.0 25.7 +1.7 +5.7 +1.0 Profits 9.6 11.0 13.5 +2.5 +3.9 -0.0 1. FY2016 results recalculated based on FY2017 management accounting 2. Comparison of FY2017 results recalculated based on FY2018 management accounting Major KPIs Assets under Management Defined contribution pension plan (corporate-type & individual-type) (¥ trillion) Pensions Investment trusts participants 52 53 57 (thousand) 1,175 1,122 13 14 15 1,064 995 39 42 39 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 May 2014 May 2015 May 2016 May 2017 year-end year-end year-end Solutions supporting sustainable growth for our customers and society Responding to new regulations affecting pension plans: Comparison of risk-sharing corporate pension plans and defined Mizuho entrusted with Japan’s first risk-sharing corporate pension benefit/contribution plans Defined benefit Risk-sharing corpoDefined contribuAs the operating environment for corporate pensions undergoes pension plan rate pension plan tion pension plan change, Mizuho Trust & Banking has developed and launched a risk-sharing corporate pension*, which is referred to as the “third type Corporate Premium Variable Fixed Fixed of pension plan” and is the first plan in Japan that features risksharing. This new pension plan aims for fairer sharing of risk between finances Entered unNecessary Unnecessary Unnecessary der liabilities employees and corporations. Employees bear the burden when the investment performance of pension assets weakens and pension In case of Receivable upon Receivable upon Not receivable until payments are reduced, but on the other hand, corporations bear more early retireHR systems retirement retirement 60 years of age ment of the premium (contribution) compared with the current defined benefit pension plans. This new pension plan has drawn attention as a Reduction if leaving solution for structuring a sustainable and stable pension system. company for personal Possible Possible Not possible Mizuho continues to be a leader in fulfilling fiduciary duties, and we reasons are enhancing our consulting capabilities to better meet our Asset customers’ needs and always be their number one choice. manageInvested Company (or fund) Company (or fund) Employees principal ment *Pension plan established in January 2017 following legal and other reforms Investment trust using cutting-edge AI (deep learning) launched At Asset Management One, we used deep learning, a cutting-edge AI technology, to select stocks for a new investment trust, which in September 2017 was the first of its kind to be issued publicly in Japan. In preparing this investment vehicle, the AI system used about 20 years of stock price and financial data to rank the level of attractiveness of various stocks, and then made determinations and selected candidate stocks for the investment trust. Next, fund managers used their judgment, combined with an analyses of fundamentals and other criteria, to make the final selection of the stocks with upside potential. We will continue to use digital innovation to strengthen our asset management performance and offer support to our customers in their asset-building activities. 2018 Integrated Report 62 Our strategies for creating value Global Products Unit Transaction banking Investment banking We aim to improve our ability consulting unit” delivering a Our goals As uncertainty grows in the global economy, price fluctuation risk for stocks, bonds, real estate, commodities, and other assets is continuing to rise. Client needs are becoming increasingly sophisticated and diverse as corporations expand globally. The operating environment is moving at an ever-faster pace in parallel with technological progress, as typified by Fintech. Amid these conditions, we at the Global Products Unit are aiming to demonstrate our specialized capabilities by ascertaining changing trends in the environment surrounding our clients and offering a broad range of solutions. Our activities are primarily divided into two areas: investment banking and transaction banking. Our role is to act as a platform for financial products that support the Mizuho group’s activities. The unit’s strengths are our strong collaboration with group companies such as our banking, trust banking, and securities entities, and our financial product expertise. By substantially increasing the sophistication of our operating framework on a global basis, we are demonstrating these strengths. To be sure, drawing on these strengths to the fullest extent possible to enhance our risk-taking capabilities is an issue that we must address going forward. Goji Fujishiro Head of Global Products Unit 1. Current environment Economic/social environment, client characteristics Opportunities • Rising number of companies aiming to globalize their Demonstrating strong collaboration among group companies Our perception of opportunities and risks business activities and a high level of knowledge and expertise regarding products • Increase in the influence of external shareholders on • Increasing need for Japanese companies to enter corporate management overseas markets and review their business portfolios • The management of SMEs and middle market companies • Growing need for business and asset succession External environment are aging, and there is a shortage of successors • Expansion in demand for real estate investments among • Expansion in investments in real estate and other such global investors, including Japanese investors assets in today’s negative interest rate environment • Rising need for support related to infrastructure • Continuing high price volatility of stocks, bonds, investment and concessions real estate, commodities, etc. • Rising potential for offering new solutions through • Increase in social welfare costs as the population ages in inter-industry collaboration Japan and resulting pressure on fiscal resources • Innovation and technological progress, as typified by Fintech Risks • Deterioration in the operating environment accompanying Competitive & regulatory environment the decline in interest income • Commoditization of many financial products • Intensifying competitive environment accompanying the entry • Increasing number of companies from other industries of companies from other industries into the financial sector entering the financial sector • New and stricter laws and regulations 63 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Global Products Unit to respond to client needs and to become a “products high level of expertise on a global basis By drawing on our strengths, which include strong group As for our newest initiatives, we believe that to meet the collaboration and sophisticated professional capabilities, we increasingly diverse needs of our clients, we must not hesitate are working to enhance our risk-taking capabilities while taking to go well beyond existing product domains and to create the perspectives of investors into account. Our aim is to dynamic new solutions. By utilizing our unit’s knowledge and become a “products consulting unit” providing sophisticated expertise, we are taking the initiative to develop solutions that expertise and delivering optimal solutions to meet our clients’ better match client needs. In addition, by using RPA* and other needs. technologies to increase internal business process efficiency, we can focus on enhancing our ability to offer services and As for our specific initiatives, we are responding seamlessly to develop our capabilities to better respond to client needs. our clients’ needs and supporting their corporate growth by offering a wide range of products and solutions that are In implementing these initiatives, we intend to become a appropriate for each specific company’s development stage “products consulting unit” and to contribute to greater and requirements. In this, we will fully draw on the banking, convenience for our clients and to social progress. trust banking, and securities functions of the group—not only in our advisory and financing business in the M&A sector and *Robotic Process Automation: A type of software that makes it possible to input, when serving as an intermediary in the real estate sector, but process, collect, and check data accompanied by simple decision making. also in foreign exchange transactions and when we serve as the IPO bookrunner or transfer agent when a company becomes listed on a stock exchange. In addition, we will contribute to the growth of industries and meet societal needs by providing support on a global basis in each sector, supporting companies’ globalization efforts and working to make renewable energy more widespread by backing the solar and wind power industries. 2. Value creation Value for clients Value for society • Value chains that combine multiple solutions through • Contribute to companies’ globalization via support in sectors collaboration among group companies such as M&A and transaction banking • Contribute to the growth of various industries by providing • Optimal solutions for clients’ needs, such as M&A and IPOs solutions that respond to such policy trends as infrastructure exports and concession projects • Support for clients’ global expansion via collaboration among our offices in Japan and overseas in a wide range of product • Provide solutions that respond to transformations in the social structure by developing new products based on technological areas innovation • Assist the spread of renewable energy through means such as supporting the solar and wind power industries 2018 Integrated Report 64 Our strategies for creating value Global Products Unit FY2017 results and FY2018 focus Results In fiscal 2017, we reported generally favorable results in both branches. By offering carefully tailored services in various areas, investment banking and transaction banking, and were therefore including custody, cash management, and trade finance, we able to contribute to the performance of each of Mizuho’s in-house received No. 1 rankings from external assessment organizations. companies. In addition to these activities, we undertook new initiatives by For example, in the syndicated loan sector, for the ninth drawing on our strengths, which include close and strong consecutive year we placed No.1 as the market leader for collaboration with our group companies in banking, trust and syndicated loans in Japan, based on our ability to respond banking, securities, and other businesses as well as our product promptly to a range of client needs. knowledge and expertise. In addition, in the real estate field, we identified the needs of the For example, one of the ways in which we demonstrated our unit’s market and investors, and together with Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust product knowledge was by investing in Japan’s first Social Impact & Banking, Mizuho Securities, Mizuho Real Estate Sales, Mizuho Bonds* business. We also provided funds for environmentallyRealty One, and other members of the group, we compiled an friendly projects that involved Mizuho issuing its first Green Bonds, extensive track record, including the conclusion of major projects, offered investment opportunities for ESG investors, and other new and reported favorable results for the fiscal year. initiatives that made available additional opportunities for solving the problems facing society. As for transaction banking, we worked to make client services more convenient, including upgrading features that allow clients to *Social Impact Bonds: A results-linked framework that enables the public sector to open accounts online rather than having to visit one of our make use of private funds Future direction In fiscal 2018, our objective will be to continue to provide a wide In today’s environment where the fiscal positions of local variety of effective products and solutions that are appropriate for governments are tightening and the demand for making more the stage of development of our clients and the issues they efficient use of real estate assets is rising, we will offer an organic confront. To do this, we will substantially increase collaboration combination of multiple solutions available from group companies with Mizuho group companies in the banking, trust and banking, and provide support for the transition to new concession* and securities businesses and draw even more than before on the arrangements that make use of private-sector funds. products and high-level specialized expertise of our unit. We will prioritize initiatives to help meet rising needs for services related to For regional financial institutions in Japan that are confronted with business and asset succession, solutions for the tight fiscal deterioration in their interest income, we will work closely with positions of local governments owing to rising welfare costs, and them and collaborate in offering financial products to retail other social problems as well as issues faced by our clients in customers as well as work to contribute to regional areas. today’s environment. Through these various initiatives, we will support Mizuho as a In terms of business succession and M&A needs arising from financial services consulting group from the financial product clients’ business strategy considerations, we will offer support for perspective and thereby contribute to solving a wide range of clients’ business succession to non-family interests using the issues faced by our clients and society as a whole. Mizuho Business Succession Fund and other optimal solutions to meet needs related to restructuring and realigning business *Arrangements where ownership of public facilities remains with the public sector, portfolios. but operation of the facility is subcontracted to the private sector 3. Business plan Trends in risk appetite Action plan • Offer product functions for each of Mizuho’s in-house • Respond to a wide range of client needs by seamlessly companies and entities with the aim of expanding our offering diverse products that integrate our group non-interest income business companies’ banking, trust banking, and securities functions • Maintain asset rotation readiness with a focus on ultralong-term assets and non-yen currency assets based on • Strategically reduce risk assets to generate new asset investment reserves and achieve a high ROE regulatory and market trends • Leverage our product expertise and market sensitivity to • Take up the challenge of new business areas by open up new domains of business developing products that are based on technological • Further boost productivity, via applications of technology innovation and transcend existing domains and organizational reform 65 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Global Products Unit 2017 highlights Principal accomplishments in investment banking Principal accomplishments in transaction banking FY2017 results FY2017 results Syndicated loans (Japan) No. 11 Custody No. 14 ABS lead underwriter No. 12 CMS No. 15 Project finance (Japan) No. 13 Trade Finance No. 16 1. Amount basis, bookrunner basis 4. Mizuho won first place in custody bank survey rankings (in the Japanese market) in 2. Amount basis, asset-backed securities Global Custodian magazine. 3. Amount basis, bookrunner basis 5. Mizuho won first place in the Cash Management Service (CMS) ranking survey of Euromoney magazine (in the Japanese market). 6. Global Trade Review awarded Mizuho the “Best trade finance bank in East Asia & the Pacific” award. Solutions supporting sustainable growth for our clients and society Received award for best trade finance bank in East Asia and the Pacific Mizuho Bank won the award for best trade finance bank in East Asia and the Pacific among Global Trade Review’s (GTR) choice of Leaders in Trade. GTR is one of the major magazines in the industry which is read by financial institutions, regulators, traders, and manufacturers in over 90 countries. We were selected for this award because of GTR’s high evaluation of our strengths in trade finance, such as a broad network and quality of services, including supply chain finance, and our track record in customized product offerings for leading companies around the world. We will continue pursuing excellence with the goal of being our clients’ most trusted financial services consulting group. Healthcare bond issue, with Mizuho Securities as sole lead underwriter, wins Deal of the Year Award In 2017, Mizuho Securities acted as sole lead underwriter for the healthcare bonds of Groupe BPCE and received the Deal of the Year Award from mtn-i*. BPCE is a leading financial group based in France, and the proceeds of the bond issue were made available for BPCE’s clients in the healthcare industry, mainly in the form of loans. Just before this bond issue, Mizuho Securities acted as joint bookrunner for BPCE’s inaugural social bonds too, which were also the first Samurai social bonds in the finance industry. These initiatives were timely and coincided with the rising interest in and demand for ESG bond investments among Japanese investors. Mizuho will continue to contribute to the sustainable development of society through our financing activities. *mtn-i, Ltd. is an information platform based in the UK that issues market analyses and market information. 2018 Integrated Report 66 Our strategies for creating value Research & Consulting Unit With Mizuho’s One Think Tank proactively to develop solutions Our goals Although the global economy is moderately expanding, in the current environment we must note rising uncertainties, including geopolitical risk. In addition, since climate change, growing wealth inequality, and other issues are becoming more serious, there is increasing interest in the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs*) and other social issues. Given this operating environment, requirements for high-quality research and consulting among our clients and society at large are growing stronger and stronger. Mizuho’s Research & Consulting Unit brings together the research and consulting capabilities of the Mizuho group in what we refer to as One Think Tank, which works to address the issues confronted by clients in terms of corporate management, finances, and strategy as well as in business/ asset succession, and IT systems. One Think Tank also seeks to offer effective solutions in areas such as the natural environment, energy, infrastructure, and healthcare. Motonori Wakabayashi Head of Research & Consulting Unit 1. Current environment Economic/social environment, client characteristics Opportunities Our perception of opportunities and risks • Increasing uncertainty in the global economy Deploy the group’s research and consulting functions to provide seamless services to clients • Rising interest in addressing social issues, including • Growing need for top-quality research and information on climate change and wealth inequality the macro-economy and industrial trends • Increasing business succession related needs at SMEs in • Widening requests for consulting related to ESG and External environment Japan other non-financial indicators to contribute to solving social issues • Exponential progress in digital innovation • Increasing need for consulting related to business • Growing number of initiatives through public and private succession and asset succession sector collaboration • Expanding need to develop new business utilizing AI, Big Data, etc. Competitive & regulatory environment • Growing need for advisory services related to the expanding range of PPP and PFI projects • Competitors moving in similar strategic directions Risks • Unbundling of research fees under the EU’s MiFID II • Intensified competition leading competitors to adopt regulations regarding securities research similar strategies • Changes in business structures along with reviews and revisions of regulations 67 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Research & Consulting Unit as a key source of our value creation process, we work regarding the issues facing our clients and society as a whole Over the two years since our unit was formed in April 2016, we for creating new value by developing our IT and digital edge in have endeavored to build strong foundations for One Think new growth fields. Tank that can function as a resource for our clients and Mizuho’s in-house companies alike. Accordingly, we have built By positioning One Think Tank as a source of value creation, we a framework to share One Think Tank’s functions seamlessly will contribute more to strengthening Mizuho’s earnings power. throughout the group with the aim of developing To do this, an essential element will be collaboration with comprehensive solutions. Mizuho’s in-house companies. By sharing our knowledge and expertise with the frontlines of our business, we can further Our objective is to become our clients’ best partner, providing enhance collaboration with each in-house company. solutions to support the sustainable growth of our clients and society. This is the objective of Mizuho as a whole, and One As a unit of specialists, we are working to cultivate many new Think Tank is positioned as the fifth pillar of our business business domains, and by substantially strengthening our strategy for realizing this objective. Looking ahead, we will collaboration within Mizuho, we are working to contribute to work even more proactively to contribute to the development the development of our clients and society as a whole, thereby of our clients and society as a source of value creation. fulfilling One Think Tank’s role as a source of value creation. The numerous specialists in our unit give us an edge in terms *The international goals stated in the “2030 Agenda for Sustainable of being a source of value creation. We have further sharpened Development” that were adopted at the United Nations Summit held in September 2015 are for achievement between 2016 and 2040 our industry and solutions expertise, which has given us a competitive advantage. We are also broadening opportunities 2. Value creation Value for clients Value for society • Offer upstream and downstream comprehensive solutions • Against the backdrop of Japan’s declining birthrate and encompassing macroeconomic, industrial, and digital demographic aging of the population, contribute to regional revitalization and nurture next-generation industries by technology factors to help clients implement their growth offering policy proposals and consulting based on a strategies combination of One Think Tank’s specialized areas of expertise • Contribute to the improvement of social infrastructure and • Strategically reorganize Mizuho’s corporate membership environmental issues in Japan and around the world through organization, which is the largest among Japanese banks, and PPP/PFI advisory services, drawing on our public policy expertise provide extensive expertise to a wide range of clients including SMEs and middle market corporations, as well as • Offer useful information related to solving social issues based on reports and forums held with the objective of sharing our business owners high-level expertise regarding a range of areas from economic/ social trends to structural changes in industries and individual fields such as the environment, social security, and IT 2018 Integrated Report 68 Our strategies for creating value Research & Consulting Unit FY2017 results and FY2018 focus Results Fiscal 2017 was the second year since the formation of the Research among SMEs and middle market companies become more diverse & Consulting Unit. By consolidating the group’s research and and complex, we have substantially increased the number of consulting functions within this unit, we are developing solutions consulting professionals providing advice on growth strategies and of greater depth and breadth, and through collaboration with business succession. We have also upgraded our talent Mizuho’s in-house companies, we are helping to expand Mizuho’s development practices and taken other measures to expand our business. response capabilities. Such steps have clearly enhanced our ability to respond to a broader range of needs. For example, the One Think Tank Forum and One Think Tank Report present our ultra-long-term vision of Japan’s future through 2050 Among other results, we have cultivated leading-edge advances in and demonstrate One Think Tank’s considerable expertise and IT and digital fields, including verification tests making use of insights. These activities have significantly boosted Mizuho’s brand personal information conducted through collaboration among image and have provided assistance to clients in formulating their government organizations and private entities, which is known as mediumto long-term strategies. the Information Bank Project. We have also worked to develop AI image analysis technology and RPA* adoption support as well as These activities have markedly increased collaboration with support for business matching through our ability to assess the in-house companies. We are providing our large corporate clients potential applications of new technologies. not only with strategic planning and hypothetical scenario proposals for the Japanese market, but are also increasingly *RPA stands for robotic process automation. For example, software that “learns” and presenting proposals that are global in scope. As client needs automates business processes, completing tasks that previously were done manually by computer users. Future direction As uncertainty in the economy and society grows, and the business and expertise, but also to provide relationship managers at our and social issues confronting our clients become more diverse, branches with this information to help them enhance the proposals there is increasing need for the unique capabilities that One Think they make to clients, both remotely and face-to-face. In this sense, Tank can offer. we are working toward building a community that generates In fiscal 2018, we are working to further develop our business information and business opportunities, truly enabling Mizuho and based on One Think Tank’s specialized professional capabilities. For its clients to continue to grow and succeed together. example, we are establishing stronger links with Mizuho’s investment banking business by developing proposals for the Moreover, we are working to accelerate our efforts to find solutions further expansion of clients’ global business activities. In addition, for social issues. These activities include providing advisory using our business succession consulting as a base, we are also services for the growing PPP/PFI market (projects involving public working to expand our real estate intermediary, finance, and assets and private sector collaboration), developing products and services in custody businesses. Through these activities, we are endeavoring based on the RPA software introduced by Mizuho, and addressing to provide one-stop support for our clients, ranging from strategy new and challenging domains in the ESG* area. formulation to implementation, and implementing initiatives to increase our fundamental earnings power. Through these various initiatives, One Think Tank is becoming even more proactive, and is taking on the challenge of helping to address In April 2018, we merged Mizuho’s various membership services client and social issues as well as evolving toward our goal of being and membership organizations for corporations to create a single a strong source of value creation. service, Mizuho Membership One (“MMOne”). MMOne provides expanded content as well as improved convenience and *ESG stands for environment, social, and corporate governance. In recent years, these functionality for clients using our membership services. The three aspects of corporate activities have come to be recognized as having an impact objective is not only to offer clients high-value-added information on corporate sustainability. 3. Business plan Trends in risk appetite Action plan • Provide optimal solutions based on the risk appetite • Structure Mizuho’s value chain with One Think Tank as the policies of our in-house companies and address foundation increasingly diverse and sophisticated client needs • Strategically strengthen the functions within the unit and • As a result of the consolidation of Mizuho’s research and operate as a unified organization in order to meet consulting functions within the unit, use the One Think expanding client needs effectively and efficiently Tank competitive edge to attain greater depth and breadth to our capabilities, and collaborate with the • Pursue additional development of MMOne as a in-house companies to a higher degree in order to community that generates information and business become a source of value creation and contribute to the opportunities with the goal of having Mizuho grow development of our clients, society, and Mizuho as a together with our clients whole 69 Mizuho Financial Group Our strategies for creating value Research & Consulting Unit 2017 highlights Solutions supporting sustainable growth for our clients and society Established and expanded Mizuho Membership One (MMOne) MMOne framework In April 2018, we integrated the group’s corporate membership systems and services, including the corporate membership service of Mizuho Research MMOne members Use of digital Mizuho Institute, Forum-M, which was the largest of its kind among Japanese banks, technology and established Mizuho Membership One (MMOne). MMOne Providing information Seminars MMOne will offer one-stop, online and offline access to the wide range of Business advisory information services that Mizuho can offer, which will be useful to clients when Browse and formulating their business strategies. consult Reports Web Moreover, going forward, we plan to introduce digital technology to further Video streaming etc. develop the services of MMOne as a core element of our self-service offerings. Collaboration As a result of the value MMOne can offer, One Think Tank, and Mizuho as a Consulting whole, will better be able to contribute solutions for a wider range of clients. Branches and offices One Think Tank Forum held as part of the Tokyo 2020 Nationwide Participation Program Mizuho is one of the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Gold Banking Partners, and together with Nihon Keizai Shimbun, which is a Tokyo 2020 Olympic Official Partner in the newspapers category, we held the Mizuho One Think Tank & Nikkei 2020 Forum for the second consecutive year. This year’s theme was “A Giant Leap Forward from 2020: An Ultra Long-term Vision of Japan’s Future.” Presentations at the forum offered insights into Japan’s economic growth going forward 10 years, 20 years, and 30 years from 2020, the year of the upcoming Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020. A key topic was what will be the “innovation” that will be needed to ensure a bright economic future for Japan. Representatives from One Think Tank gave presentations, along with other knowledgeable experts, and participated actively in the discussions while giving their own sharply honed views regarding “Japan’s Ultra Long-term Vision.” Contributing to clients’ adoption of Japan’s workstyle reforms by providing support for RPA* implementation Mizuho Information & Research Institute (MHIR) launched nationwide support services for financial institutions, corporations, government agencies, and local government organizations looking to implement RPA. In order to adopt the workstyle reforms promoted by the Japanese government and adapt to the decline in the working population and other developments in the business environment, greater attention is being given to RPA, which makes it possible to automate certain processes that were formerly completed manually. Based on MHIR’s experience and expertise gained through introducing RPA within Mizuho, we provide a comprehensive range of support, from making plans to introduce RPA, offering various kinds of templates needed for the system, and offering advice on the choice of products, to the development of RPA systems as well as their operation and maintenance. Through these activities, MHIR contributes to clients’ efforts to increase operational efficiency and raise productivity by providing both IT solutions and consulting. *RPA: Robotic process automation Supporting the Osaka Municipal Subway to become incorporated Mizuho Research Institute (MHRI) became the first company in Japan to sign a contract for assisting with the incorporation of a subway operating company. MHRI obtained this mandate by emphasizing our collective group capabilities, which include strict process management and the ability to provide a full range of related services. In Japan, maintaining the stable operation of the urban transport infrastructure has become an issue because of the decline in the birthrate and the aging of the population, which may lead to a decline in subway users in the years ahead. MHRI pioneered the implementation of PFI projects in Japan, and to date has made arrangements for more than 400 such projects. In recent years, MHIR has strengthened its capabilities in this area and has performed the role of acting as a bridge between public and private sectors to promote economically viable PPP/PFI* projects and expand the market for PPP arrangements, mainly in infrastructure development. *PPP: Public private partnership; PFI: Private finance initiative 2018 Integrated Report 70 Foundations for our corporate value Corporate governance Mizuho Financial Group, as the group’s holding company, is pursuing a vision regarding the shape and role of our Board of Directors and corporate governance. To fulfill our social role and mission by creating value for shareholders and other stakeholders, realizing improved corporate value through continuous and stable corporate growth, and contributing to economic and industrial development and the prosperity of society inside and outside of Japan, we have established our corporate governance system with the Board of Directors at its core, and are working to further enhance our corporate governance. Basic policy regarding Mizuho Financial Group’s corporate governance system Ensuring the separation of supervision and management Effectiveness Secure the effectiveness of corporate governance by ensuring the separation of supervision and management and making supervision of the management, such as the execution of duties by executive officers, the primary focus of the Board of Directors Delegating decisions on business execution to the executive officers Speed Make it possible for the management to make swift and flexible decisions and realize expeditious corporate management by enabling the Board of Directors to delegate decisions regarding business execution to the executive officers Securing independence of management supervision Transparency and Utilize committees and other forms of oversight, comprised mainly of outside directors who are not members of the management of Mizuho, and fairness secure transparency and fairness in decision-making processes regarding the appointment and dismissal of, and compensation for, the management as well as ensure effective supervision of the management Adopting global standards Global perspective Establish a governance structure appropriate for a global financial group by actively adopting operations and best practices that are recommended at a global level Principal features of Mizuho Financial Group’s corporate governance system The majority of the Board of Directors shall be comprised of non-executive directors. In light of the role of the Board of Directors to supervise the management, the number of non-executive directors (outside directors and internal nonComposition of the executive directors) shall comprise a majority of the directors in the Board of Directors. Meanwhile, we appoint a sufficient number of internal directors Board of Directors for the purpose of ensuring quality, including expertise, in decision making and effective supervision by directors who are familiar with financial businesses and regulations as well as Mizuho’s business model. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall, in principle, be an outside director. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall, in principle, be an outside director (or at least a non-executive director) in light of the role of the Board of Chairman of the Board Directors to supervise the management. of Directors The Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be selected from among the internal non-executive directors and shall assist the Chairman in the performance of his or her duties. Composition of the Nominating The members of the Nominating Committee and the Compensation Committee shall all be outside directors. Committee and The members of the Nominating Committee and the Compensation Committee, including the Chairman, shall be appointed from among the outside Compensation directors (or at least non-executive directors) to ensure objectivity and transparency in the process of appointment of, and compensation for, directors. Committee Chairmen of the Nominating, The Chairmen of the Nominating, Compensation, and Audit Committees shall be outside directors. Compensation, and Audit Committees Progress on strengthening First as a Japanese bank Filed our Corporate Governance Report in compliance with the Corporate Governance Code corporate governance Disclosed our Policy Regarding Cross-holdings of Shares of Other Listed Companies and our Standards Regarding the Exercise of Voting Rights Associated with Cross-shareholding First as a Japanese megabank First as a Japanese bank • Transition to a company with three committees model of corporate governance Introduced a group-wide in-house company system • Disclosed Corporate Governance Guidelines 1999 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 First as a Japanese bank Established a strategy of group-wide First as a Japanese bank An outside director was appointed as Chairman of the Board collaboration among banking, trust of Directors as well as the Chairman of each of the three Announcement of establishing a banking, and securities functions legally required committees financial services group Announced our advisor system prior to the beginning of Merger of banks and merger of securities companies the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) disclosure system Compliance with Japan’s Corporate Governance Code Our Corporate Governance Guidelines set out the fundamental perspectives regarding corporate governance at Mizuho, and the framework of the corporate governance system, including the roles, composition, and governing policies regarding the Board of Directors, executive officers, Nominating Committee, Compensation Committee, and Audit Committee for Mizuho Financial Group as a Company with Three Committees. In addition, the Corporate Governance Report, which sets out the status of the corporate governance system of the group, is submitted to the TSE and posted on the websites of the TSE and Mizuho Financial Group. Advisor system In some cases, Mizuho group companies appoint personnel, who have previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer or in other senior positions, as senior advisors or honorary advisors (“Advisors”). These Advisors are responsible for assisting the company and its subsidiaries in fulfilling their social responsibilities and contributing to the further development of these activities. For this purpose, Advisors oversee the activities of economic organizations and activities that contribute to society. Agreements with these Advisors stipulate that they will not be involved in corporate management. Corporate Governance Guidelines Corporate Governance Report https://www.mizuho-fg.com/company/structure/governance/pdf/g_guideline.pdf https://www.mizuho-fg.com/company/structure/governance/pdf/g_report.pdf 71 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Corporate governance Interview with the Chairman of the Board of Directors Mizuho is building an advanced corporate governance system with the aim of increasing our corporate value. How the Board of Directors meetings are conducted One of Mizuho’s most important tasks is increasing our earnings power. During the 14 meetings of the Board of Directors held in FY2017, the most time was devoted to cost structure reform and identifying the issues that must be addressed to make the in-house company system a success. Since a new medium-term business plan will be prepared during the current fiscal year, the results of these Board meetings will be reflected in the plan, and we will do our utmost to attain our objectives. My focus as the Chairman of the Board of Directors For the past four years, I have focused on raising the quality of discussions in the Board of Directors meetings. By having an outside director serve as the Chair of the Board, the sense of counterbalance with the members responsible for execution of business policies is maintained, and this is very important for effective corporate governance. However, in addition to having a sense of counterbalance in the meetings, we also need to foster trust between management and the outside directors. This is why we make arrangements frequently for discussions outside the regular Board of Directors meetings where management and the outside directors can exchange opinions in a more informal setting. Going forward, I will continue to work together with the Board members to ensure that the Board of Directors truly fulfills its role. What is most important for increasing Mizuho’s corporate value Mizuho is definitely undergoing change, but our governance system can be said to have been successful only when we achieve a substantial increase in profitability. This means we must work much harder and implement further reforms. In addition to making fundamental structural reforms, we must clarify our business portfolio, implement our branch transformation strategy, and take other initiatives. Moreover, other issues going forward include the need to go much deeper in terms of efforts to raise productivity and make major improvements in our fundamental earnings power. We at Mizuho have a broad customer base as well as top-class talent. How we can draw on these resources to demonstrate our potential strengths will hold the key to success. A key element will be our personnel evaluation system; we have changed this system by going beyond deducting evaluation points for mistakes that may have been made and now give credit for accepting and tackling challenges even if the attempt ends in failure. I know it will not be easy to change the mind-set of each and every employee in this regard. It will take time to show results, but doing so will make Mizuho an open and strong organization. This fiscal year is the final year of our current medium-term business plan, and we must be accountable for results over the past three years under the plan. I would like to conduct the Board of Directors so that outside directors and management will share a sense of urgency and a drive to get things done. What we expect to accomplish under the new corporate governance system In April 2018, we were off to a new start under the leadership of our CEO, Tatsufumi Sakai. As a member of the Nominating Committee, I was involved in his selection as the CEO. I am looking forward to Mr. Sakai’s strong energy as well as his capabilities for dealing with difficult issues to see us through this period of rapid change. We will aim to have the business execution side led by Mr. Sakai and the outside directors share a common vision and support Mizuho’s transformation. Hiroko Ota Chairman of the Board of Directors 2018 Integrated Report 72 Foundations for our corporate value Corporate governance Corporate governance system We have adopted a Company with Three Committees model of corporate governance with the belief that, under the current legal system, this model is the most effective as a means of realizing the objectives of our basic policy regarding Mizuho Financial Group’s corporate governance system.  omposition of the Board of C General Meeting of Shareholders Directors N  on-executive directors Determines the content of proposals regarding the appointment shall comprise a majority of Appointment of directors the directors in the Board of Supervision and dismissal of directors Note: The persons appointed as chairs of the Nominating, Directors. Compensation, and Audit Committees are outside directors. Determines the content of Board of Directors proposals for the General  hairman of the Board of C Nominating Chairman Meeting of Shareholders regarding Directors Committee the appointment and dismissal Outside of directors The  Chairman shall, in directors: All members, in principle, shall be outside directors. principle, be an outside Chairman Human Resources Review Meeting director. Determines Internal non-executive compensation Determines the compensation  omposition of the C directors: Compensation Chairman for each individual director Nominating Committee and Committee and executive officer Compensation Committee Internal directors who Audits the All members, in principle, shall be outside directors. In  principle, all members shall concurrently serve as execution of executive officers: duties Audits the legality and be appointed from among the appropriateness of the Audit Chairman outside directors. The Chairman shall, in principle, be an outside director. Committee execution of duties by directors Non-executive directors shall comprise a majority of and executive officers the directors. The majority of members shall be outside directors  hairmen of the Nominating C Committee, Compensation Outside Director Session Risk Committee Committee, and Audit Appoints and dismisses executive officers Committee Delegates decisions on business execution The  chairman of each Supervises the execution of duties Audits the execution of duties Determines the compensation by executive officers for executive officers committee shall be an outside director. Executive President & Group CEO  valuating the effectiveness E Management officers Makes decisions on business execution, based on delegation from the Board of Directors, and implements business execution of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors shall perform an analysis and evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors as Directors a whole each year and shall disclose a summary of the results. Based on such analysis Appointment of directors and evaluation of effectiveness, in order for the Board of In the course of appointing directors who Directors to exercise its concurrently serve as executive officers, accounting, internal control, macroeconomic management oversight role to the maximum extent, the Board candidates to be appointed as directors are policy (including finance and industry), considers and implements personnel who satisfy matters such as the organizational and cultural reform, or global necessary measures. For further appointment policy set out by the Nominating management. details, please refer to our Committee, and executive officers such as the (2) The candidate has the ability to obtain an website: https://www.mizuho-fg. Group CEO and others who have been overview and understanding of the overall com/company/structure/ appointed to roles (CFO, CRO, CCO, CSO, etc.) management of Mizuho, the ability to grasp governance/structure.html where their duties include carrying out checks essential issues and risks, and the ability to and balances with respect to the management. appropriately interview management and  verview of Independence O express opinions to and persuade Standards Each candidate to be appointed as an outside management. For Mizuho Financial Group’s director must satisfy the following in order to (3) It is recognized that the candidate is Overview of Independence Standards of Outside Directors, fully exert his or her supervisory function. independent from the management of the please refer to our website: (1)The candidate has deep insight and group in light of the Independence https://www.mizuho-fg. knowledge and extensive experience in Standards of Outside Directors of Mizuho com/company/structure/ areas such as corporate management, risk Financial Group. governance/pdf/o_director. pdf management, compliance with laws and regulations, crisis management, financial 73 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Corporate governance Outside directors 1. Offering all directors opportunities for acquiring knowledge and self-improvement Outside directors and reason for their appointment  raining is provided for newly appointed directors, mainly regarding the duties and T responsibilities of directors, and is conducted by an outside instructor (lawyer). Name Reason for appointment as an outside director T  raining is also held and conducted by an outside instructor regarding compliance Expected to contribute to (i) strengthening the effectiveness of both the and customer protection and awareness of human rights/LGBT related issues. decision-making and supervisory functions of Mizuho Financial Group’s D  irectors gain an overall perspective of the management of the group by discussing Tetsuo Seki Board of Directors and (ii) Mizuho Financial Group’s effort to further various proposals, reports, and other activities in the Board of Directors’ meetings enhance internal control systems and group governance, leveraging  hen necessary for the performance of duties, directors in charge of various areas W his extensive experience and deep insight as a top executive. make individual presentations; advice and instruction is provided by external specialists, and training is provided (at the company’s expense). Expected to contribute to (i) strengthening the effectiveness of both the decision-making and supervisory functions of Mizuho Financial Group’s Board of Directors and (ii) Mizuho Financial Group’s effort to enhance Takashi Kawamura group governance, leveraging his extensive experience and deep 2. Opportunities to acquire and improve knowledge for outside insight as a top executive who has implemented bold management directors and corporate governance reforms. Expected to contribute to (i) strengthening the effectiveness of both At the time of appointment the decision-making and supervisory functions of Mizuho Financial Group’s Board of Directors and (ii) the further enhancement of the Acquiring an understanding of the group’s financial and other businesses Tatsuo Kainaka corporate governance, compliance, and risk management system of Intensive explanation at the time of appointment will be conducted individually for Mizuho Financial Group, leveraging his extensive experience, deep each newly appointed outside director. insight, and high level of expertise as a prosecutor, judge, and attorneyExplanations from executive officers in charge of different business areas, the at-law. Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors, and the General Manager of the Corporate Secretariat regarding Mizuho’s Corporate Identity, business domain, Expected to contribute to strengthening the effectiveness of both business strategy, medium-term business plan, annual business plan, organizational the decision-making and supervisory functions of Mizuho Financial Hirotake Abe structure/authorities, finances, risk/compliance management, human resources, Group’s Board of Directors, leveraging his extensive experience, deep IT systems/operations, internal audits, corporate governance system, etc. insight, and high level of expertise as a certified public accountant. Expected to contribute to strengthening the effectiveness of both the decision-making and supervisory functions of Mizuho Financial Group’s Board of Directors, leveraging her extensive experience, deep Post-appointment (the examples below were conducted for fiscal 2017) insight, and high level of expertise as a university professor and a Hiroko Ota Minister of State for Economic and Fiscal Policy of the Cabinet Office, Strengthening ties with the frontlines of the business which includes, among other things, the ability to see things from a  rranging for opportunities for workplace visits, including Head Office departments, A macroeconomic perspective (e.g., from a public policy and economic trading rooms, and Asset Management One policy perspective) as well as a high level of awareness of the problems Sitting in on meetings of the general managers of the Three Core Companies* that must be resolved for the revival of the Japanese economy. Deepening understanding of Board of Directors’ proposals Expected to contribute to strengthening the effectiveness of both P  roviding for thorough explanations of Board of Directors’ proposals in advance the decision-making and supervisory functions of Mizuho Financial and follow-up (after each Board meeting) Izumi Kobayashi Group’s Board of Directors, leveraging her extensive experience and Improving communication at times other than the Board of Directors’ meetings deep insight as a top executive who has served both in and outside Off-site meetings regarding business operations Japan. F  or holding open discussions among outside directors, heads of in-house companies, and President & CEOs of the Three Core Companies* L  unches following the Board of Directors meetings and receptions and dinners for outside directors and executive officers Director training M  eetings to exchange information with the internal directors and opportunities to acquire other necessary knowledge and share information about financial We provide our directors with opportunities to acquire and innovation and other topics Outside director session improve knowledge that is necessary to fulfill their expected T  hese meetings are held to exchange opinions regarding dealing with shareholder roles and duties, at the time of appointment and continuously proposals and the operations and effectiveness of the Board of Directors. thereafter. *Three Core Companies: Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, Mizuho Securities 2018 Integrated Report 74 Foundations for our corporate value Corporate governance Board of Directors  omposition of the Board of C Directors 6 outside 5 directors directors who concurrently serve as h i j executive officers 9 non-executive 8 internal directors directors  rea of expertise of A a b outside directors Corporate c management: 3 directors Law: 1 director Finance/ accounting: 1 director Economic and fiscal policy: 1 director Tenure of directors less than 3 years: 6 directors Positive and trustworthy public image 3 years or more but 7 directors less than 6 years: 6 or more years: 1 director a Hisashi Kikuchi b Hiroko Ota c Ryusuke Aya Member of the Board of Outside director Member of the Board of Directors Chairman of the Board of Directors / Directors Managing Executive Officer / Head Member of the Nominating Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors Definition of terms of Strategic Planning Group (Group Committee Member of the Audit Committee / Member FG: Mizuho Financial Group CSO) of the Risk Committee (Chairman) BK: Mizuho Bank TB: Mizuho Trust & Banking Career highlights Career highlights (year of appointment) Career highlights SC: Mizuho Securities (entity / year of appointment) M  inister of State for Economic and (entity / year of appointment) CB: Mizuho Corporate Bank G  eneral Manager of Tokyo Corporate Fiscal Policy (2006) H  ead of Risk Management Group Banking Division (BK/2013) Professor, National Graduate Institute (FG, BK/2013) The former Mizuho Bank and General Manager of Corporate for Policy Studies (current) Member of the Board of Directors the former Mizuho Corporate Secretariat (FG, BK/2015) (Audit & Supervisory Committee Bank conducted a merger Member) (BK/2017) on July 1, 2013, whereby the former Mizuho Corporate Bank was the surviving company in an absorption-type merger h Takashi Kawamura i Yasuyuki Shibata j Hirotake Abe and changed its trade name to Outside director Member of the Board of Outside director Mizuho Bank. Member of the Nominating Directors Member of the Compensation Committee (Chairman) / Member Managing Executive Officer / Head Committee / Member of the Audit For further details on the of the Compensation Committee of Risk Management Group (Group Committee backgrounds of directors, CRO) please refer to our website: Career highlights (year of appointment) Career highlights Career highlights (year of appointment) https://www.mizuhoRepresentative Executive Officer, (entity / year of appointment) CEO, Tohmatsu & Co. (2001) fg.com/company/info/ Chairman, President and Chief G  eneral Manager of Americas Treasury Certified Public Accountant (current) executives/index.html Executive Officer, Hitachi (2009) Division (BK/2014)  hairman of the Board of Directors C General Manager of Risk Management (Outside director), Tokyo Electric Power Department (FG, BK/2016) (current) 75 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Corporate governance k l m n d e g f  Internal director Outside director Director who concurrently serves as an executive officer Non-executive director d Takanori Nishiyama e Makoto Umemiya f Tatsufumi Sakai g Izumi Kobayashi Member of the Board of Member of the Board of Member of the Board of Outside director Directors Directors Directors Member of the Nominating Managing Executive Officer / Head Managing Executive Officer / Head President & Group CEO Committee / Member of the Risk of Compliance Group (Group CCO) of Financial Control & Accounting (Representative Executive Officer) Committee Group (Group CFO) Career highlights Career highlights Career highlights Career highlights (year of appointment) (entity / year of appointment) (entity / year of appointment) (entity / year of appointment)  resident and Representative Director, P  eneral Manager of Omiya Branch G  eneral Manager of Osaka Branch G  ead of Investment Banking Unit H Merrill Lynch Japan Securities (2001) (BK/2014) (BK/2012) (FG, BK, CB/2013) Executive Vice President, the Executive Officer in charge of Corporate General Manager of Financial Planning Head of International Banking Unit Multilateral Investment Guarantee Banking (BK/2015) Division (FG, BK/2014) (FG, BK/2014) Agency, the World Bank Group (2008) Executive Officer in charge of Banking President & CEO (SC/2016) (BK/2016) k Tetsuo Seki l Yasuhiro Sato m Nobukatsu Funaki n Tatsuo Kainaka Outside director Member of the Board of Member of the Board of Outside director Member of the Nominating Committee / Directors Directors Member of the Nominating Committee / Member of the Compensation Committee / Chairman* Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Compensation Committee Member of the Audit Committee *Chairman Sato engages in the (Chairman) / Member of the Audit (Chairman) company’s external activities, but does Committee not chair the board meetings Career highlights (year of appointment) Career highlights Career highlights Career highlights (year of appointment) Representative Director and Executive (entity / year of appointment) (entity / year of appointment)  uperintending Prosecutor of the Tokyo S Vice President, Nippon Steel (2000) President & CEO (CB/2009, BK/2013) Audit & Supervisory Board Member High Public Prosecutors Office (2002) President (Representative Director), President & Group CEO (FG/2011) (CB/2010, FG/2013) Justice of the Supreme Court (2002) Shoko Chukin Bank (2008) Audit & Supervisory Board Member Attorney-at-law (current) (outside auditor) (SC/2013) 2018 Integrated Report 76 Foundations for our corporate value Corporate governance Operation of the Board of Directors and each committee Board of Directors Nominating Committee Hiroko Ota Board/Committee Chairman Takashi Kawamura Chairman of the Board of Chairman Directors The main roles of the Board of Directors are making decisions on The Nominating Committee is comprised mainly of outside business execution such as the basic management policy, which directors who are sufficiently independent from the management are matters to be determined solely by the Board of Directors of the group, and the role of the Nominating Committee is ensuring under laws and regulations, and supervising the execution objectivity and transparency in the process of appointing executives. of duties by directors and executive officers as defined in the The Committee determines the content of proposals regarding Companies Act. The Board of Directors has delegated decision the appointment and dismissal of directors of Mizuho Financial making, in principle, to the President & Group CEO for matters Group to be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders and other than those to be determined solely by the Board of exercises the approval rights held by Mizuho Financial Group with Main roles Directors under laws and regulations. The Chairman of the Board respect to the appointment and dismissal of directors of each of of Directors plays a central role in narrowing down the agendas the Three Core Companies and exercises the approval rights held to concentrate on truly necessary proposals and, regarding by Mizuho Financial Group with respect to the appointment and proposals associated with core management issues, the Board removal of representative directors and senior directors of the Three of Directors promotes comprehensive discussions of essential Core Companies. Also, the Nominating Committee deliberates on points in an open and vigorous manner with the inclusion of succession planning for the Group CEO. expert opinions and suggestions from outside directors. T  he Chairman is an outside director. T  he Chairman is an outside director. Composition The majority of the Board of Directors is comprised of nonThe members are outside directors. executive directors. The Board of Directors held 14 meetings during fiscal 2017, and The committee held 14 meetings in fiscal 2017 and, among during the meetings, in-depth discussions were held regarding other decisions, decided on the director candidates for Mizuho the overall concept of the fundamental structural reforms that Financial Group, including the new Group CEO, and approved the Mizuho should be implementing as well as individual topics selection of directors and representative directors of the Three Operation related to these reforms and issues linked with our next mediumCore Companies. term business plan. Meetings also included reports covering the current state of risk governance, risk management, compliance, and internal control. Number of meetings in fiscal 2017 14 meetings (98%) 14 meetings (100%) (average attendance) In the preparation of the fiscal 2018 business plan, Board of Directors’ discussions Initiatives related to planning for the were held from an early stage and directors were deeply involved in each process. next Group CEO (succession planning) The executive officers and outside directors collaborated on the preparation of the basic strategy framework embodied in the basic management policies. Since adopting a Company with Three Committees model of corporate governance Reflected opinions of Reflected opinions of Reflected opinions of in 2014, the Nominating Committee began outside directors outside directors outside directors succession planning for the Group CEO. In fiscal year 2017, the Nominating Committee held a number of meetings and made their December January February March examination from various angles ranging from the timing of the succession of Group CEO Yasuhiro Sato to the decision on the candidate Macro-environment to be appointed as a director on the premise that Group-wide basic Basic policies of Business plan the next Group CEO would assume his office. policy in-house companies decisions Key management For more information on succession planning issues and the process for the committee’s decision on the succession of the Group CEO in April 2018, Discussion of issues As part of the As part of the related to profitability formulation of the formulation of the please refer to the following report: and financial position group-wide basic basic policies of inin the current policy, discussed house companies, Corporate Governance Report macroeconomic basic policies, priority discussed each inenvironment and strategies that should house company’s https://www.mizuho-fg.com/company/structure/ sharing of information be formulated by annual operating governance/pdf/g_report.pdf on the direction management, etc. policy, earnings plan, of business plan etc. preparation. 77 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Corporate governance Risk Committee Compensation Committee Audit Committee The Risk Committee advises the Board of Directors regarding decision-making and supervision relating to risk governance and Tatsuo Kainaka Tetsuo Seki supervision of matters such as the status of risk management. In Chairman Chairman principle, the committee consists of three or more persons who may be non-executive directors or external experts, and their mandate The Compensation Committee is comprised mainly of outside The main roles of the Audit Committee are auditing the legality is to evaluate the consistency of directors who are sufficiently independent from the management of and appropriateness of the execution of duties by directors the group management policies, the group, and the role of the Compensation Committee is to ensure and executive officers as defined in the Companies Act. For this basic risk strategies, and the objectivity and transparency in the process of deciding on executive purpose, the Audit Committee obtains timely and appropriate compensation. implementation of this strategy. reports and explanations from directors, executive officers as They are also responsible for defined in the Companies Act, employees, and the independent evaluating the risk profile of the The Compensation Committee determines the compensation for each individual director and executive officer, as defined in the Companies auditor and gives instructions and recommendations when group and the appropriateness of Act of Mizuho Financial Group, exercises the approval rights held by necessary. In addition, the Audit Committee ensures the risk management and reporting Mizuho Financial Group regarding compensation of each individual effectiveness of its audits by confirming the processes on these matters to the Board of director of the Three Core Companies, and determines the basic and content of decision making by the business execution Directors. policy and executive compensation system for Mizuho Financial departments through measures by the full-time Audit Committee Group and the Three Core Companies. The committee considers such members such as arranging for the attendance at important factors as Mizuho Financial Group’s mediumto long-term business  uman Resources Review H meetings held by the business execution departments, performance and examples of other companies, including those in Meeting examining important decision-related documents, and the same industry as well as economic and social circumstances, The Human Resources Review coordinating operations with the Internal Audit Group and other and engages in repeated deliberations regarding the compensation group units. Meeting is responsible for system based on the role and responsibility assigned to each officer, deliberating on the proposals and makes necessary revisions. and requests to be decided by T  he Chairman is an outside director.  he Chairman is an outside director. T the Board of Directors for the The members are outside directors. The majority of the Audit Committee is comprised of outside appointment or dismissal of Mizuho directors. Financial Group executive officers as defined in the Companies Act, The committee held 9 meetings in fiscal 2017, and discussions In fiscal 2017, the Audit Committee held 17 meetings and and the appointment, removal, and covered the executive compensation system for Mizuho Financial received reports regarding the state of performance of duties by assignment of Mizuho Financial Group and the Three Core Companies. The Committee also the directors and executive officers as defined in the Companies Group executive officers as defined decided on the compensation of individual Mizuho Financial Act, including as pertains to the management of group in the Companies Act with special Group directors and executive officers as defined in the companies. The committee also confirmed the effectiveness titles and executive officers as Companies Act and approved the compensation of the individual of different auditing practices particularly that of the internal defined in our internal regulations directors of the Three Core Companies. control system, and provided advice on a range of topics as with special titles. The Human needed. Resources Review Meeting is also responsible for deliberating on 9 meetings (97%) 17 meetings (100%) the proposals and requests to be approved by the Board of Directors for the appointment, removal, and assignment of executive officers as defined in our internal regulations Compensation Policy with special titles at the Three Core Companies. To secure transparency and fairness in the appointment of executive officers, the committee The Mizuho Financial Group Compensation Policy stipulates items concerning the determination of is comprised of members of the compensation for each individual director, executive officer, and specialist officer of Mizuho Financial Nominating Committee, members Group as well as the Three Core Companies. of the Compensation Committee, Compensation Policy https://www.mizuho-fg.com/company/structure/governance/pdf/compensation.pdf and the Group CEO. Officers responsible for business execution Non-executive officers responsible for management supervision Outside Director Sessions Outside Director Sessions are held, Stock  he basic compensation system T Stock F  ixed compensation, in principle, in which only the outside directors Compensation (I, II) Base shall consist of a Base Salary, Compensation I Base shall consist of Base Salary and Performance Payment, and Stock Stock Compensation I. are present, for the purposes 32.5% Salary Compensation I and II. 15% Salary Stock Compensation I shall be of exchanging information and 50% The Performance Payment and 85% paid at the time of retirement, and reaching a common understanding Stock Compensation II shall be depending on the performance from an objective and frank within the range of 0% to 150% of the company or the individual of the standard amount for each and other factors, a portion of the outsider’s perspective. These position, and the system enables deferred compensation may be meetings are held two times or a certain amount of deferred reduced or forfeited. more each year, and topics include payments of the performance management issues, the operation payments to be paid over three Performance years, as well as a decrease or of the Board of Directors, and how Payment forfeiture of the deferred amount the corporate governance system 17.5% depending on performance of the should be maintained. Reports company or the individual and on the meetings are presented as other factors. necessary to the Group CEO. 2018 Integrated Report 78 Foundations for our corporate value Risk governance Risk governance is a part of Mizuho’s corporate governance framework, centered on our risk appetite framework (RAF). The Board of Directors determines fundamental matters regarding the RAF, along with its management systems and specific risk appetites, and incorporates these in document form as the risk appetite statement (RAS). At Mizuho, we also work to foster and promote a sound risk culture to support this risk governance framework. The effective administration of the RAF leads to the creation of a sound risk culture, and at the same time, cultivating a sound risk culture creates a foundation for the disciplined risk-taking and risk communication which are promoted as part of the administration of the RAF. To ensure strong risk governance, we maintain a risk management and compliance structure that operates in accordance with the principles of the “three lines of defense.” Risk culture We foster a sound risk culture in which all executive officers and of not simply avoiding risk, but rather taking appropriate risk. These employees maintain a high level of awareness regarding risk, and guidelines provide a foundation for the appropriate values and endeavor to make proper judgements and take appropriate actions courses of action for Mizuho’s executive officers and employees to rooted in good sense and ethical standards. Such judgement and take when approaching risks. The guidelines are aligned with the actions allow us to achieve our risk appetite and enhance our five Mizuho Values that form a part of Mizuho’s Corporate Philosophy, corporate value. and executive officers and employees can refer to them when they are unsure of a judgement that needs to be made in their daily We have also established Behavioral Guidelines for a Sound Risk work. Putting these guidelines into practice improves our ability to Culture, and work to ensure that executive officers and employees address and counter risks, and fosters a sound risk culture. understand these principles through messages from senior management, training sessions and other measures. For Mizuho These initiatives are also important from the standpoint of internal to put the “customer first principle” into practice and enhance our control, ultimately helping to prevent inappropriate behavior by corporate value, it is essential that all members maintain an attitude executive officers and employees. Risk appetite framework (RAF) The purpose of our RAF is to maximize our corporate value by we will accept in order to implement our business and financial securing sustainable and stable profits, and to fulfill our social strategies. We will further concretely define our risk appetite in responsibilities. Based on such purpose, our core risk appetite our medium-term and fiscal year business plans. The risk is to take appropriate risk and provide solutions based on our appetite forms the basis for establishing our business strategy, customers’ actual needs, establishing our competitive advantage resource allocation, and earnings plans as well as monitoring against our peers. the operating status, thus integrating risk management, business strategy, and profits in order to achieve disciplined We have positioned the RAF as the corporate management risk-taking that achieves an optimal balance of risk and return. framework to support taking the types and levels of risk that Mizuho’s RAF Control Structure Supervision Management Board of Directors President & Group CEO  etermines basic matters regarding RAF D Executive Management Committee and RAS F  ormulates risk appetite policy  onducts business operations C Supervises business execution by the Establishes risk appetite metrics/level consistent with the risk appetite management based on the above determinations Formulates RAS Embeds a sound risk culture in each Audit Committee line of business  udits the execution of duties by the executive A Risk Management Committee (Chairman: Group CRO1) officers and the management regarding RAF Monitors the operation of RAF Risk Committee Balance Sheet Management Committee (Chairman: Group CFO2)  dvises the Board of Directors and makes A  ormulates and promotes balance sheet management-centered strategies F proposals to the management regarding related to risk control and risk-taking risk governance 1. Group Chief Risk Officer 2. Group Chief Financial Officer 79 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Risk governance Systems for operating the risk appetite framework Our risk appetite consists of a risk appetite policy that serves as the On the other hand, to implement the RAF in the course of business fundamental policy regarding our risk-taking activities, and risk operations, the Group CRO, Group CFO, and Group CSO provide appetite metrics that serve as a means of quantifying the level of assistance overseen by the Group CEO, and implement business risk-taking based on the risk appetite policy. strategy, financial strategy, and risk management from an overall perspective. Also, heads of in-house companies, units, and groups In implementing the RAF, the Board of Directors decides on basic are responsible for planning and implementing strategies based on matters, including the risk appetite policy, metrics, and levels of risk appetite, and as the individuals in charge of risk-taking, conduct risk, and operations are supervised based on the Board’s decisions. operations. Note that the Internal Audit Group provides objective In addition, the Risk Committee, which advises the Board of and comprehensive assessments of the effectiveness of the RAF Directors, provides advice regarding risk governance and offers from an independent perspective and offers advice and suggestions to management. recommendations for addressing any issues that arise. Formulation and monitoring of risk appetite Risk appetite is determined through management discussions on the effectiveness of the RAF.The in-house companies in turn formulate outlook for external factors such as the macroeconomic, regulatory, individual risk appetite policies to implement the group’s overall and competitive environment, along with potential risk events such policy, and set risk appetite metrics and levels to meet group metrics as economic slowdown and turbulence in financial markets.These and levels. are then incorporated into main and risk scenarios that are shared internally. Monitoring of the operational status for the established risk appetite is conducted by the Risk Management Committee (Chairman: Group We then formulate a group-wide risk appetite policy based on our CRO) on a quarterly basis and as necessary. As part of this process, awareness of these external environments, create specific strategies the Group CRO and each in-house company work to identify issues and measures according to this policy, and determine corporate related to risk and share information on these issues.This monitoring resource allocation and earnings plans. Our risk appetite metrics are enables timely and appropriate actions, including flexible revisions expressed in terms of capital strength, profitability, and liquidity, to our risk appetite and strategies, to be discussed and carried out in utilizing measures such as CET1 Capital Ratio, ROE, and LCR. the event of changes in the external environment that increase risk or Further, the risk appetite for the entire group is shared with the impede our risk appetite and strategies. in-house companies that implement strategies, to ensure the Three lines of defense In accordance with the “three lines of defense” approach in the line), along with an independent third line of internal auditing of Corporate Governance Principles for Banks released by the Basel the first two functions. In addition, Mizuho Financial Group sets Committee on Banking Supervision, we ensure appropriate and group strategies and allocates resources, monitoring the effective risk governance through a check-and-balance system autonomous controls in the first line at core group companies in with autonomous controls (first line) and monitoring (second order to strengthen the system providing appropriate responses. Our definition of the three lines of defense Our risk management and compliance framework Autonomous control function Mizuho Financial Group Core group companies* The first line-of-defense involves daily operations based on Basic policies 3rd line 3rd line First line the rules, procedures, and risk appetite, and has a primary Internal Audit Group Internal Audit Group Submit/report responsibility for risks and compliance matters accompanying Internal Internal the conduct of business as a risk owner, and for performing audit audit autonomous control activities (to identify, assess, and manage/control risks and compliance matters).  epartment(s) in D D  epartment(s) in 2nd line 2nd line charge of risk Internal Basic policies charge of risk Internal Risk management and compliance function management/ audit Submit/report management/ audit Second line The second line-of-defense oversees (monitors), measures, compliance compliance and assesses the first line’s autonomous control activities for risk management and compliance, and is responsible Monitoring Monitoring for establishing and implementing basic policies for risk Report regarding the management and compliance. In-house companies/units first line-of-defense Divisions/units 1st line 1st line autonomous control First line-of-defense First line-of-defense Internal audit function Formulate strategies, autonomous control autonomous control Third line allocate business The third line-of-defense is independent of the first and resources, etc. second lines and involves assessment and examination of the operations of the first and second lines, and is responsible for * Of the core group companies, Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, Mizuho Securities, and Trust & Custody Services Bank conduct risk management and providing advice and guidance to settle issues. compliance based on the “three lines of defense” concept. 2018 Integrated Report 80 Foundations for our corporate value Comprehensive risk management Basic approach For the group as a whole, in order to ensure Mizuho Financial Group (the holding company) sound and stable corporate management and has established basic policies for risk management enhance our corporate value, appropriately that are applicable to the group as a whole. In managing risk and controlling risk are key line with these basic policies, as a group we  or more information on our F issues relating to overall management, and analyze risk comprehensively from multiple risk management, please visit our website. therefore we are working to put in place risk perspectives and adopt a variety of measures management systems. to strengthen and enhance the sophistication of our risk management system. https://www.mizuho-fg.com/ investors/financial/edtf/ Comprehensive risk management systems Amid the growing diversity and complexity of The Group CRO reports the risk management banking operations, financial institutions are situation to the Board of Directors, the Risk exposed to various risks, including credit, Committee, and the Executive Management market, information technology, legal, and Committee regularly and as necessary. In settlement risks. We recognize that conducting addition, Mizuho Financial Group receives operations tailored to the risks and managing reports and applications for approval concerning such risks is a key issue relating to overall the risk management situation from our core management. In order to implement our group companies and gives them appropriate business strategies while maintaining our instructions concerning risk management as financial stability, we maintain comprehensive necessary. risk management and control measures. Each core group company maintains its systems Mizuho Financial Group maintains basic for managing various types of risk, receiving policies for risk management established by reports on the status of risk at their respective the Board of Directors that are applicable to subsidiaries, and gives them appropriate the entire group. These policies clearly define instructions concerning risk management as the kinds of risks to be managed, set forth the necessary. organizational structure, and provide for the employee training necessary for appropriate We classify and manage the risks that arise in levels of risk management. The policies also our businesses according to the various kinds provide for audits to measure the effectiveness of risk, including credit risk, market risk, liquidity and suitability of the management structure. In risk, and operational risk. Moreover, in each of line with these basic policies, we maintain our group companies we adopt the same various measures to strengthen and enhance approach of managing risks, such as settlement the sophistication of our risk management risk, trust banking operations risk, and other system. risks appropriately given their nature. Each of our subsidiaries adopts appropriate In addition to managing each type of risk risk management measures in line with their individually, we have established a risk business domains and the scale and conditions management structure to identify and evaluate of the associated risks, while Mizuho Financial overall risk and to keep risk within limits that Group controls risk management for the group are acceptable. as a whole. In line with the basic policies relating to overall The Risk Management Committee chaired by the risk management established by Mizuho Group CRO provides integrated monitoring and Financial Group, we are working to take even management of the overall risk for the group. more proactive and sophisticated approaches to risk management. 81 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Risk governance Mizuho Financial Group Supervision/Audit Management Departments responsible for risk management Executive Management Credit risk Comprehensive risks Committee Business policy committees Market risk/Liquidity risk Risk Management Department (e.g. Risk Management Committee) Operational risk Credit risk Credit Risk Management Department President & Group CEO Officers responsible Information technology risk IT & Systems Planning Department (e.g. Group CRO) Board of Directors Operations risk Operations Planning Department for risk management Operational risk Legal risk Legal Department Global Talent Planning and Human capital risk Management Department Risk Committee Tangible asset risk Facility Management Department Regulatory risk Strategic Planning Department Corporate Communications Reputational risk Department Set risk management policies Report the risk management situation Give instructions and approval concerning risk management Submit applications concerning risk management MHBK MHTB MHSC Mizuho Americas Other core group companies Supervision/Audit Mizuho Bank Mizuho Trust & Banking Management Departments responsible for risk management Comprehensive risks Operational risk Regulatory risk Information Operations risk Human capital risk Tangible asset risk Reputational risk Market risk/ Credit risk Liquidity risk technology risk Legal risk Risk capital Allocation We endeavor to obtain a clear grasp of the group’s overall risk basis does not exceed our financial strength. To ensure the exposure and implement measures to make sure this exposure is ongoing financial soundness of Mizuho Financial Group and our within limits that are acceptable and are in accordance with the core group companies we regularly monitor the manner in which risk capital allocation framework. risk capital is being used in order to obtain an accurate grasp of the risk profile within this framework. Reports are also submitted More specifically, we allocate risk capital to our core group to the Board of Directors and other committees of each company. companies (including their subsidiaries) to control risk within the Risk capital is allocated to Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, limits set for each company. We also control risk within acceptable Mizuho Securities, and Mizuho Americas by risk category, and is limits by working to ensure that the overall risk on a consolidated further allocated within their respective business units. 2018 Integrated Report 82 Foundations for our corporate value Framework for allocating risk capital Mizuho Financial Group (holding company) Examples Financial strength of Risk exposure of the group Mizuho Bank the group Setting of upper limits based on risk capital and exercise of control over various risks Allocated risk capital Credit risk Mizuho Bank Risk exposure of core group Market risk Allocated to Mizuho Trust & Banking Stock price risk operating units Operational risk Mizuho Securities Group companies companies* Capital Mizuho Americas Mizuho Trust & Banking Mizuho Securities Other risks Mizuho Americas *Includes the risk exposure of group companies that are managed by core group companies Risk Category Definition The group’s exposure to the risk of losses that may be incurred due to a decline in, or total loss of, the value Credit risk of assets (including off-balance-sheet instruments), as a result of deterioration in obligors’ financial position. The risk of losses incurred due to fluctuations in interest rates, stock prices, and foreign exchange rates. Our definition includes the risk of losses incurred when it becomes impossible to execute transactions in Market risk the market because of market confusion or losses arising from transactions at prices that are significantly less favorable than usual. The risk of losses arising from funding difficulties due to a deterioration in our financial position that makes it difficult Liquidity risk for us to raise necessary funds or that forces us to raise funds at significantly higher interest rates than usual. The risk of losses that may be incurred resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, or systems, human error, or external events. Operational risk consists of several components such as information Operational risk technology risk and operations risk. Refer to page 15 of Risk Management Structure in the Appendix for specific components of operational risk. Top risks For risks that are recognized to have a major potential impact For the top risks that are identified, the status of controls is on the group, we specify these as “top risks” and have confirmed, and, when deemed necessary, consideration is introduced top risk management methods. given to additional risk controls. In addition, by reflecting these considerations in stress test scenarios, we can verify using Based on assessments of the likelihood, impact, and other quantitative analysis the appropriateness of business operation characteristics of monitored risks, and after careful deliberation plans and confirm the adequacy of capital. by management, top risks are designated and managed accordingly. Through this approach, we endeavor to deepen Furthermore, when deciding on top risks, we consider the communication regarding risks, seek to create common timing and probability of the emergence of such risks in a time perspectives regarding risks, and work to secure consistency in frame of about one year, and review these considerations awareness of various types of risks. every six months. 83 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Risk governance Top risks Examples  udden deterioration in the credit standing of obligors where we are heavily exposed and in credit S Rebound in credit standing of major clients related costs Deterioration in regional economies/turmoil in financial markets due to geopolitical factors Slowdown in the Chinese economy and detrimental impact on emerging countries in neighboring areas  ise in European/US interest rates, adjustments in stock and real estate prices in reaction to R Sudden drop in the overheated market conditions, and resulting negative wealth effects value of assets Decline in stock prices, fluctuations in currency values, drying up of liquidity due to turmoil in financial markets Destabilization of U  nexpected outflows of funds, deterioration in liquidity conditions due to turmoil in financial markets, foreign currency and accompanying rise in funding costs procurement Major system Emergence of costs due to IT system failures, government fines, etc., and damage to reputation failure  mergence of additional costs and damage to reputation due to suspension of services as a result of E Cyber attacks cyberattacks, data falsification, information leakage, improper funds transfer, etc. Money laundering/  overnment fines/penalties and damage to reputation because of flaws in policies to prevent money G provision of funds laundering and supplying funds for terrorism for terrorism Improper market  overnment fines/penalties and damage to reputation because of market manipulation or other G transactions compliance violations Note: T he risks described here are only some of the possible risks we are aware of. For more comprehensive information on the group’s risks, please refer to our Securities Report, Form 20-F, and other related documents. Stress testing We assess the suitability of our risk appetite and the validity of Note that scenarios are formulated taking into consideration our business plans through stress testing of Mizuho Financial Mizuho’s vulnerabilities and other factors, including the current Group’s entire portfolio by calculating and assessing the status of the economy and economic outlook. financial effect on our capital adequacy ratio and on business of the main and risk scenarios we have determined. Furthermore, to structure robust risk management systems, stress testing is also used to manage risk in various risk Using stress testing, we can confirm whether our capital categories, such as market risk. adequacy ratio, performance, and other indicators are sufficient in the event that scenarios actually materialize. If the capital Our stress testing also serves as a foundation for understanding adequacy ratio and results fall below the necessary level, we the characteristics of our business portfolio and enables reconsider and revise our risk appetite and business results if planning in advance regarding the course of action which necessary. In addition, we calculate the impact to risk capital, should be taken if the risk scenario occurs, and is conducted including interest rate risk in the banking book and we use regularly to enhance our risk management capabilities. post-stress risk capital to assess the adequacy of the capital level when a risk scenario emerges. Mizuho’s stress testing 1. Preparing scenarios 2. Calculation of risk impact 3. Analysis and use of results  urrent economic conditions and C  alculation of the impact on the group C  ppropriateness of risk-taking and A future outlook when the risk scenario materializes verification of suitability of the Vulnerabilities of the group’s business Main items to calculate: Capital adequacy business plans and financial structure ratio, losses, VAR, etc. Assessment of capital adequacy Preparation of scenarios common across the group 2018 Integrated Report 84 Foundations for our corporate value Compliance Compliance As a leading Japanese financial services group with a global presence and a broad customer base, we remain conscious at all times of the importance of our social responsibilities and duty to the public. We define compliance as the strict observance of all laws and regulations and the pursuit of fair and honest business operations that conform to socially-accepted norms, and we view ongoing compliance as one of the basic principles of sound business management. Each of our group companies maintains their own compliance structure in line with the basic policies established by Mizuho Financial Group. Compliance structure The President & CEOs of Mizuho Financial Group, Compliance structure Internal control and audit Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, and Mizuho hotline Securities each generally oversees compliance Mizuho Financial Group matters for their respective company, and important Supervision/ Mizuho Financial Group has matters concerning compliance are discussed at established a hotline run by an Board of Directors Audit Committee external law office to receive the Compliance Committees chaired by the relevant audit reports from in and outside the President & CEO. company in connection with Executive Management problems concerning internal The four core group companies also have President & Group CEO Committee control and audits of accounts individual compliance departments overseen by and financial reports. Compliance Committee a Chief Compliance Officer. These departments (Chairman: President & Group CEO) Management See our website for contact are responsible for compliance planning and implementation and control overall compliance Group Chief Compliance Officer information to make a report: (Department in charge: Compliance Department) https://www.mizuho-fg.com/ management at each company. At each company/internal/compliance/ organizational unit (such as branches and Every organizational unit departments) within the four core group companies, Head of each organizational Compliance officer/compliance the head of the organizational unit is responsible unit administrator for guidance and implementation related to compliance matters, and the compliance officer or compliance administrator at each organizational unit reviews the status of compliance. Core group companies (e.g. MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC) Mizuho Financial Group monitors the status of compliance of the group through reports submitted Subsidiaries of the above group companies by our core group companies and adopts appropriate responses when necessary. Compliance at subsidiaries of our core group companies is monitored and managed by their respective parent company. Compliance practices The Mizuho Code of Conduct sets forth clear and We monitor the status of compliance levels concrete standards of ethical behavior, and is through self-assessments by each department distributed to all executive officers and employees and monitoring conducted by the compliance of the group. Furthermore, each of our group department of each company. In addition, every companies has also prepared a compliance manual, fiscal year, each of our group companies establishes which serves as a practical guidebook for rigorous a compliance program which contains concrete compliance enforcement and clarifies the laws and measures for compliance enforcement such as regulations that we must observe in regards to our compliance framework management, training, and business operations and the compliance practices assessments. Progress on the compliance program we are required to follow. Each group company also is monitored every six months. conducts compliance training for executive officers and employees so that they are fully acquainted with the content of the compliance manual. 85 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Compliance Preventing money laundering and financing of terrorism In response to an increase in international demand in recent years global basis, such as performing customer due diligence (Know for the implementation of measures to prevent money laundering Your Customer (KYC) practices) when establishing business and terrorism financing, we have made anti-money laundering relationships, preventing transactions with organizations or and countering terrorism financing a top management priority, individuals that are subject to an asset freeze due to suspected and we are implementing measures based on common policies links to terrorism, and using monitoring systems and other means throughout the group. We implement various measures on a to detect and report suspicious transactions. Our stance towards organized crime In order to prevent organized crime from influencing the on suspicious transactions and to prevent transactions with management of our clients and to avoid any association with parties who are subject to Mizuho’s asset freeze criteria. the harm caused by organized crime, the Mizuho Code of Conduct includes a policy covering our zero-tolerance stance These matters are also discussed and reported on at meetings on business relationships with individuals or organizations that of the compliance committees of Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust are in any way associated with organized crime and therefore & Banking, and Mizuho Securities, which are chaired by the threaten the rule of law, public order, and safety. President & CEOs or other senior management members of these group companies. We have also formed an Anti-Organized Crime Committee which includes external experts in industry-specific, in-depth Furthermore, core group companies maintain centralized discussions on this subject, in addition to other initiatives we departments or appoint an officer to manage anti-organized are implementing on a group-wide basis to ensure that we crime efforts and to maintain effective frameworks, for example, have no direct or indirect associations with organized crime. by establishing a manual on how to manage such issues and Moreover, drawing on the discussions in this committee, we conducting training sessions. If required, we consult with thirdare implementing a range of policies on a global basis to utilize party experts and authorities on the handling of specific cases. IT systems and other advanced methods to detect and report Measures for ensuring compliance Main training topics Fiduciary duties At Mizuho, compliance-related education and training are key Management of customer information (e.g. firewall regulations) measures for ensuring appropriate compliance. Preventing relationships with organized crime Compliance-related points for financial groups (preventing During fiscal 2017, Mizuho provided effective training tailored misuse of superior bargaining position, managing conflicts to employees working in a broad range of roles within the of interest, etc.) organization. We conducted 13 training sessions in total, including mandatory compliance training sessions for all In addition to training sessions and other programs designed employees; role-specific training for executive officers, to promote compliance, we are also dedicated to detecting general managers, deputy general managers, compliance potential compliance issues at the earliest stage possible and officers, and other senior management members; and taking appropriate action. When we become aware of potential e-learning training sessions on specific compliance topics. compliance issues, such matters must be reported immediately to department and branch managers in accordance with our In addition, for executive officers, members of the compliance manual. Furthermore, each group company has Compliance Group, and other positions that require established a hotline which employees can call in order to particularly high levels of compliance-related knowledge, we speak with someone within the Compliance Division or an provide more extensive training sessions, including sessions external law office or compliance professional. taught by outside experts on topics related to the role of compliance in light of changes in the economic and social For matters related to inappropriate accounting, internal control environment. on financial reporting, and auditing, an internal control and auditing hotline, which connects to an external law office, is available to receive reports from both in and outside the company. Internal reporting systems (Compliance hotline) We have a robust internal reporting system in place, and are working to further increase its effectiveness by establishing groupwide reporting channels outside the workplace that are available in the evenings, on Saturdays and Sundays, and also by making such services available in foreign languages. In order to ensure that employees at each group company are fully acquainted with these systems, hotline numbers and other relevant information is included on posters within each workplace and distributed to all employees on wallet-sized cards. In fiscal 2017, Mizuho Financial Group and our core group companies received a total of 144 reports through our hotlines from both inside and outside the group, with the response status reported to our Audit Committee. Internal control and audit hotline Our audit hotline, which connects to an external law office, is available to receive reports from both in and outside the company in connection with concerns regarding accounting and financial reports. 2018 Integrated Report 86 Foundations for our corporate value Customer protection management We give first priority to our customers, and we believe that earning their trust is the basis for ensuring sound management and therefore earning the trust of other stakeholders as well. With this in mind, a core part of our compliance is to continuously seek to monitor and improve the operations of the group from the perspective of what is in the best interests of our customers in order to ensure that our operations are appropriate and to improve customer convenience. We manage customer protection uniformly throughout the group in order to achieve this objective. Customer protection management structure At Mizuho, customer protection management refers to of the efforts we make to improve the protection of our customers and Mizuho Financial Group improve customer convenience from the following perspectives: Supervision/ 1. Ensuring the appropriateness and sufficiency of explanations Board of Directors Audit Committee provided to customers prior to conducting transactions, audit purchasing products, etc. as well as the provision of information (e.g. product explanations) to customers. Executive Management 2. Ensuring the appropriateness and sufficiency of the handling President & Group CEO Committee of customer inquiries, complaints, and other communications Compliance Committee (customer service). (Chairman: President & Group CEO) Management 3. Ensuring the appropriateness of the management of customer information (customer information management). Officers responsible for the general management of customer protection 4. Ensuring the appropriateness of customer interaction and (Department in charge: Compliance Department) the handling of customer information in cases where group operations are outsourced (outsourcing management). 5. Ensuring the appropriateness of the management of measures Divisions in charge Customer protection management to be taken in order to address conflicts of interest arising from Explanation of products Outsourcing management transactions with customers (conflict of interest management). Customer service management Conflict of interest management Our President & Group CEO generally oversees the management of customer protection, and also heads the Compliance Committee in which related important matters are discussed. At our core group companies, the division responsible for each area of management described above also provides centralized monitoring Core group companies (e.g. MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC) and implementation of customer protection management. Core group companies oversee customer protection management at their own subsidiaries. Subsidiaries of the above group companies Information management Customer service management As advances have been made in information technology, At Mizuho, we engage in business with a wide range of the potential uses for data have expanded, but at the same customers, and we put a strong emphasis on responding time, cyberattacks have risen in number. This has led to appropriately to feedback, complaints, or other communication closer public scrutiny of the methods companies use to from customers in addition to our efforts to offer customers protect personal information. As a financial services provider stronger protections and higher convenience. operating globally, Mizuho is aware of the vital importance of managing information in a way that ensures appropriate In the case of receiving a complaint or other critical feedback, protection and use of information assets. We are constantly we not only emphasize the importance of responding quickly working to strengthen our information management practices. and politely, but also require reports to be drawn up in order to For example, we aim to ensure that our management systems monitor these situations. for information assets, security management measures, and information administration methods are clear and straightforward. Furthermore, we regard all customer feedback as an important Also, we implement training and awareness-building exercises to asset and work continuously to improve our operations and ensure that each and every employee has a firm understanding prevent the recurrence of issues with the aim of increasing regarding the proper protection of information assets. customer satisfaction. For more information on Mizuho’s customer protection measures, please see our website: https://www.mizuho-fg.com/company/internal/customer/ 87 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Fiduciary duties* *F  iduciary duties is a general term for the broad range of various roles and responsibilities that fiduciaries are expected to fulfill when engaging in certain business activities in order to live up to the trust that is placed in them by their customers. Mizuho’s Corporate Identity includes our central values—the Mizuho Values—starting with putting our customers first, and these values are shared by everyone at Mizuho. As a team of financial professionals providing a broad range of financial services, we are committed to providing the best, most appropriate solutions in response to our customers’ diverse needs. As a long-term partner providing optimal products and services that are in our customers’ best interests, and in seeking to continue to be our customers’ most trusted financial services group in respect to our asset management–related business, Mizuho has established and disclosed our group-wide Policies Regarding Mizuho’s Fiduciary Duties*. In addition, at the holding company and relevant group companies, we have established and made public specific action plans for ensuring we are always aligned with customers’ best interests. Our commitment to performing our fiduciary duties leads to the creation of shared value with our customers Through the performance of our fiduciary duties, we endeavor This level of customer satisfaction and trust enables us to to grow customers’ financial assets over the medium-to-long expand our business base and strengthen our brand, paving term and to ensure a high degree of customer satisfaction and the way for our mediumto long-term growth. In this way, we trust. are aiming to create shared value with our customers. Creating shared value with our customers Performing our fiduciary duties Positive and trustworthy public image Results Mizuho Customers Mizuho Increase in financial assets over the medium-to-long term Mediumto long-term growth Creating Providing optimal financial products and services shared value Pursuing what is in our customers’ best interests Expanding customer base Enhancing customer satisfaction and trust Strengthening our brand Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) In addition, with the objective of creating shared value with our performance of our fiduciary duties, and we announce them customers, we have established KPIs to confirm our level of periodically along with the status of initiatives under our Action Plan. Policies 1. Performing our fiduciary duties 2. Positive and trustworthy public image 3. Results Group management policies ‌Number of participants in financial education courses ‌Balance of assets under management Sales —Increase in assets under management Mizuho Bank due to new investors ‌Number of certified personnel ‌Customer satisfaction survey ‌Number of customers using our investment products Policies by function Mizuho Trust & Banking Mizuho Securities —Number of customers using our long-term investment focused products Asset management and product development ‌Number of products developed or improved ‌Balance of pension trust assets ‌Number of fund awards ‌Balance of funds in publicly offered and Mizuho Trust & Banking ‌Number of companies involved in our ‌Survey of satisfaction among privately placed investment trusts Mizuho Securities engagement activities investment trust companies ‌Balance of funds invested in DC specialized Asset Management One ‌Total number of seminar attendees funds and long-term investment focused funds Asset administration ‌Number of improvements made ‌Balance of funds in new publicly Mizuho Trust & Banking to back office operations offered investment trusts Trust & Custody Services Bank ‌Number of training sessions ‌Balance of assets under management 2018 Integrated Report 88 Foundations for our corporate value IT strategy IT systems are crucial to financial institutions’ management and business strategies, and highquality IT strategies are key means of differentiation and establishing competitive advantage. Declaration of Cybersecurity Management We aim to have strong IT systems in place that are efficient and stable and which support our One Mizuho strategy. We will continue to develop IT systems that draw on the group’s full capabilities https://www.mizuho-fg. as a means of establishing competitive advantage and meeting customer needs, as well as responding to advances in digital technology, tighter financial regulations, and other trends, while com/company/strategy/it/ also providing global IT services in an integrated manner among our banking, trust banking and cybersecurrity/index.html securities entities. To do this, we are promoting IT system transformation and group-wide data management and cyber security, as we also continue to strengthen IT governance. Selected as Competitive IT IT system transformation Strategy Company 2018 (for the third consecutive year) In view of the overwhelming advances in centralizing systems and using the cloud. technology and recent changes in the internal We are also replacing legacy IT systems with and external environments, we are seeking to next-generation IT systems. Moreover, we transform our IT systems and IT operations are using digital technologies such as AI and as one aspect of our fundamental structural RPA to improve productivity in the system reforms. Specifically, we are proceeding with development process and enhance the structural improvements by integrating and efficiency of operations and administration. IT system transformation timeline Apr. 2010 to Apr. 2002Dec. 2004 Mar. 2013 Apr. 2013Apr. 2016Merger of Integration Mizuho’s Transformation Previous medium-term Current medium-term Integrated System predecessor banks of systems Program business plan business plan Thorough system risk management/ Improvement of system risk assessment system quality management for stable system operation Improvement of response capabilities to cyberattacks Further improve system security Upgrade services and functions and stability Integrate legacy Strategic Common infrastructure Improve systems rebuilding Replace IT legacy Cost reduction functions systems Next-generation IT system Rebuild peripheral Introduce common Introduce hub & IT systems in IT business platform spoke system stages Offer innovative Enhance infrastructure financial services Public cloud Hybrid cloud Private cloud Improve productivity in IT development High-speed development tools RPA¹, AI, etc. Use of digital technology Alliances with outside partners Open innovation Strengthen API2, ASP3, etc. cost competitiveness 1. Robotic Process Automation Increasing efficiency 2. Application Programming Interface of IT operations 3. Application Service Provider RPA1 89 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value IT strategy Cyber security Mizuho-CIRT Collaborate External organization Integrated Forensics Rescue/support To ensure that our customers feel secure when using our financial SOC services and to fulfill our duty to contribute to the stable operation Gather information/implement Monitor/respond and sustainable development of the financial infrastructure, we countermeasures/investigate have positioned cyberattacks as one of our top management risks Multilayer defense systems ! Attacker Assets/services to be protected and have prepared cyber security strategies under the supervision of senior management. With Mizuho-CIRT1 taking the lead, we have Targeted cyberattack Protect assigned high-level professionals and are drawing on intelligence Website alteration DDoS attack Information assets and cutting-edge technology developed in collaboration with Hacking Customer information external specialist organizations, while we are also taking Illegal money transfer initiatives to strengthen our resilience capabilities. These include monitoring via integrated SOC2, analyzing computer viruses, developing multilayer defense systems, and other measures. Also, we are placing emphasis on employee training with a view to the mediumto long-term needs of the organization. 1. Cyber Incident Response Team 2. Security Operation Center Coordination Mizuho’s customers Social media Online Bank Trust bank Securities Data management banking Accounting systems Bank, Internet Branches trust bank, ATMs securities Treasury systems As data management for data collection and analysis to be Website Call Information systems used in management and business becomes more important Credit centers card to respond to global financial regulations and sophistication of MIS3, we have prepared a database to centralize management of Data analysis platform Corporate information database collected and analyzed data relating to risks and profits, etc. In addition, with the aim of using big data for more sophisticated Marketing data Risk/revenue data marketing, we are promoting the development of a data analysis platform that can process large volumes of data at high speeds. Improve marketing using Appropriately respond to Upgrade corporate 3. Management Information System big data global financial regulations dashboard/MIS Migration to the next-generation IT system The next-generation IT system will replace Mizuho’s current three core banking systems, allowing us to downsize and streamline our IT systems. Also, developing independent components by business and function will enable flexible adaption to new services and shorten the lead time and reduce costs for new development. By adopting a cutting-edge core banking system, we will strengthen our infrastructure for providing services and improve operation processing speed. When we migrate to the next-generation IT system, we will proceed with caution, placing emphasis on a stable and steady migration process. Existing systems One of the most advanced bank IT systems in Japan Integration of legacy core banking systems from Outline of the next-generation IT system MHBK, MHCB, and MHTB Mizuho Bank Information manageCore banking • Downsize and streamline the IT systems Externally connected Online banking Branch terminals • Improve response to potential system failures systems MHBK legacy banking system IT system integration Customer channels Independent components by business and function Common business platform (since FY2013) • Improve flexibility through a simplified structure • Enable flexible adaptation to new services MHCB legacy banking system ment systems system Component systems • Shorten the lead time and reduce costs for new development Credit Foreign Trust Deposits Remittances transactions exchange business Cutting-edge next-generation core banking systems Mizuho Trust & Banking … •S  trengthen infrastructure for providing services • Improve operations processing speed System platform for banking business Core information management systems 2018 Integrated Report 90 Foundations for our corporate value Corporate culture and employee engagement Employee engagement In order to realize the tenets of Mizuho’s Corporate Identity, we have established an HR Vision to encourage all employees to take initiative and develop themselves. HR Vision Mizuho Financial Group firmly believes that the personal development of individual employees contributes to the stable and sustainable growth of Mizuho as a whole. Mizuho recognizes those employees who make an effort to put the Mizuho Values into practice and helps employees to create a more fulfilling life through their work. M  izuho encourages employees to utilize their strengths, and provides opportunities for them to use their skills and to develop their abilities. Mizuho encourages employees who differ in terms of gender, country of origin, cultural background, and values to understand, respect, and inspire each other. Mizuho works with its employees to create a corporate culture that encourages people to be passionate about and to take pride in their work. One of the basic policies in our medium-term business plan is to “embed a corporate culture that encourages the active participation of our workforce to support a stronger Mizuho”. With this in mind, we are working towards achieving a competitive advantage for Mizuho in terms of our workforce by implementing fundamental reforms in HR management. Fundamental reforms in HR management Our fundamental reforms in HR management are aimed at In order to clearly communicate to all employees and executive enabling us to continually enhance employee engagement, officers the principles that will be applied to Mizuho’s HR ensuring that all employees can achieve continual growth, strategies, HR systems, and HR management, we established reach their full potential, and enjoy long and fulfilling careers “Mizuho’s HR Policy”. Additionally, we released a “Diversity and at Mizuho. As we implement each of the key strategies under Inclusion Statement” to affirm our commitment to promoting these reforms, we are seeking to move away from traditional the professional growth and active participation of our diverse “one-size-fits-all” HR management and the inflexible promotion workforce. Both of these documents have also been made system based on the year one joined the company. Our focus publically available. is on drawing out the capabilities of each individual and motivating them to reach their full potential. Mizuho’s HR strategies and employee satisfaction Key strategies Employee satisfaction1 Voluntary employee turnover rate (%)2 Mizuho’s HR strategies Revisions to the HR system 1. HR management that respects employees’ individuality Revisions (flexible work arrangements and expanded Fundamental reforms to the HR Vision support for employees who are caregivers) in HR management Development-focused HR management aimed at enhancing employees’ strengths 3.67 3.71 3.71 3.43 Multi-track HR management that responds to the 3.59 career goals of a diverse workforce 2.98 Promoting the health and wellbeing of employees 3.46 2.71 2.74 2.52 and maintaining a healthy work environment 2. Strategic employee rotation 3. Development of future executive leaders FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 4. Globalization of Mizuho’s talent and HR management 1. Average response on a scale from 1 to 5 in the category of “satisfaction with the company” on the annual Staff Survey. 5. Promotion of diversity and inclusion 2. From fiscal 2017 the calculation method has been changed—results from past years are calculated using this new method retroactively. Primary initiatives in fiscal 2017 We have continued to implement and enhance a number of HR management, for example by providing more opportunities initiatives for promoting HR management which respects for employees on fixed-term contracts. We have also promoted employees’ individuality (development-focused HR management), the globalization of our talent and HR management, accelerated future leader development programs, strategic development of initiatives under the Japanese government’s “Work Style female employees, and diversity and inclusion. Additionally, from Reforms” such as remote work options, and strengthened fiscal 2017 we have enhanced our efforts to provide multi-track employee health and wellness management. 91 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Corporate culture and employee engagement Talent development  R management that respects employees’ H qualities, evaluating employees based on the individuality growth in their abilities rather than results  rofessional development P We will transition to a more developmentalone, ensuring that employees have seminars (FY2017) focused HR management which focuses on the opportunities for dialogue with their  Number of seminar participants inherent qualities of each individual and supervisors regarding their career path and that they receive sufficient feedback, providing 70,730 participants develops their strengths by encouraging them (+821 year-on-year) to proactively take on challenges. growth opportunities through job rotations and professional development seminars, and We will seek to bring out each diverse ensuring that promotions are not denied based individual’s potential through work experience solely on an employee’s number of years at which is beneficial based on their inherent the company or years of experience. Strategic job rotation Strategic rotations Through job rotations across in-house In-house company/unit/entity Employees leading our companies, units, and entities we develop employees strategically in line with both their A development seminar individual career aspirations and their potential In-house company/unit/entity business strategies to lead our business strategies. Group-wide strategic rotation In-house company/unit/entity Development of future executive leaders Overview of Mizuho’s Executive Leader High potential employees are identified and Development Program Work style reforms (FY2017) selected from a diverse pool of candidates 1st cycle 2nd cycle 3rd cycle Remote work system users on a group-wide and global basis, and their Deputy general manager and General Around 1,300 Next generation of executive leadership capabilities (what we categorize joint general manager level manager level (+1,000 year-on-year) as “ability to initiate”, “ability to achieve”, and “integrity”) are strategically developed through Stretch job assignments Employees (those legally executive leader development programs. We subject to work hour Leadership training programs management) in any given seek to cultivate leaders who can define and leadership month who worked more articulate Mizuho’s future vision and direction, Assessment & feedback than 60 hours of overtime corporate identity, and strategies; and who can drive growth and change, without being bound Coaching by external specialists 1.7% (-1.2% year-on-year) by precedent; and who do not give up when The candidate pool is not fixed. faced with a variety of difficulties or crises, but Candidates may be replaced or added based on periodical assessment.  taff Survey responses S instead tackle them head-on and mitigate risk related to work style reforms and damage to the organization. (average response on a scale of 1 to 5) Adopting Japan’s Work Style Reforms Q1: I have a healthy balance between my work and my personal/family life. By encouraging the use of more flexible work We are also focusing on initiatives for Q2: Mizuho’s work environment enables arrangements such as flextime and staggered eliminating overwork, and as a result the diverse and flexible work working hours, we were able to reduce percentage of employees in any given month arrangements. overtime work hours by 10% over the past two who worked more than 60 hours of overtime 3.94 3.86 years (compared to fiscal 2015). Additionally, decreased from 2.9% to 1.7% (annualized) 3.77 3.69 we are aiming to increase productivity by compared to the previous fiscal year. Also, we providing more flexibility in terms of where are working with industrial physicians to employees work. Around 1,300 employees are develop more detailed labor management using our remote work system, an increase of practices. FY2016 FY2017 1,000 compared to the previous fiscal year. 2018 Integrated Report 92 Foundations for our corporate value Promoting employee health and wellness By promoting employee health and wellness, health checks. In fiscal 2017, 99% of employees Mizuho was selected we are aiming to enhance the performance of took an annual medical exam and 94% took a under the 2018 each individual and increase the productivity stress assessment. Additionally, Mizuho was Health & Productivity Stock of the organization as a whole. We are working recognized under the 2018 Health & Selection, which is jointly administered by the to cultivate a healthy work environment and to Productivity Stock Selection based on having Ministry of Economy, Trade and promote employee awareness regarding put in place a number of strategies, including Industry and the Tokyo Stock health, for example by providing subsidies that those aimed at reducing overtime work and Exchange. encourage employees to undergo preventative preventing and controlling lifestyle diseases. Diversity and inclusion Numerical targets (MHFG, MHBK, MHTB, and MHSC) In recognition of our efforts Numerical to promote women’s Area Initial target Current target (to be empowerment in the workplace, achieved by) Mizuho received Nadeshiko Outside Percentage of management positions filled by employees hired 33% 43% 50% Brand designation for fiscal Japan outside Japan FY2017 (Mizuho 2017, conferred jointly by the Bank) Percentage of management positions filled by women 7% July 9% 10% July Tokyo Stock Exchange and General manager equivalent 3% 2016 5% 10% 2019 Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Percentage of management July Manager equivalent and above 10% 15% 20% Trade and Industry. positions filled by women 2018 Supervisor equivalent and above 22% 27% 30% Percentage of new graduates hired for management track jobs FY2016 FY2018 FY2019 34% 36% 30% Japan* who are female intake intake intake Percentage of paid annual leave taken by employees 64% 73% 70% FY2015 FY2017 FY2018 Percentage of eligible male employees who take childcare leave 1.5% 79% 100% March March June Percentage of employees who are individuals with disabilities 2.2% 2.2% 2.3% 2016 2018 2019 *total for the above noted 4 companies We aim to proactively incorporate the ideas identify as LGBT, employees who are balancing and opinions of our diverse workforce into our childcare or aging family member care with Mizuho received Platinum everyday work, strategic planning, and their work, and other diverse groups. We are Kurumin certification in recognition of our significant decision-making in order to create new value promoting diversity and inclusion in order to efforts to implement and and innovations. We are committed to valuing ensure that each employee can feel motivated maintain systems that assist the voices of women, non-Japanese nationals, and proud to be working at Mizuho and enjoy workers in balancing work and individuals with disabilities, individuals who long and fulfilling careers. childcare. Promoting women’s empowerment in the workplace In order to better support women’s career developing women leaders by providing advancement, we are strengthening and strategic assignments and professional growth expanding our strategic development opportunities from the early stages of their programs and putting a particular focus on careers. Strategic development programs for female employees Mizuho was recognized on the 2018 Bloomberg Financial Cultivate an executive management General manager perspective in prospective Strategic assignments M-WIN Services Gender-Equality Index. equivalent candidates for the Executive Leader Coaching Development Program A network for Aim to accelerate professional women working Manager  areer development support C growth by transforming participants’ at Mizuho equivalent seminars mindsets regarding their careers Supervisor While cultivating their career  R management tailored to the H Network expansion equivalent perspective, enhance each individual (including transformAccess to role individual’s strengthens through ing management mindsets) Mizuho received the top rating (under Supervisor Meetings with female career models evaluations and assignments equivalent) advisors of “Gold” on the PRIDE Index which evaluates LGBT-related Employee-led initiatives. Company-led initiatives initiatives 93 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Corporate culture and employee engagement Connectivity and employee resource groups (ERGs) ERGs enable employees to connect across organizational, Key ERGs at Mizuho national, gender, and cultural boundaries and to collaborate Mizuho Women’s Initiatives Network (M-WIN) while maintaining a strong sense of mutual trust and respect. Mizuho LGBT+ & Ally Network (M-LAN) This results in the sharing of knowledge and experience as well as increased motivation, which in turn leads to opportunities Mizuho Global Communication & Connectivity Club (MGCC) for each individual to achieve professional growth as well as Collaboration, Creation, Relation, Evolution (CocreA) encourages new ideas and discoveries which benefit our A network whose mission is to effect change within Mizuho business. through co-creation using technology. Globalization of Mizuho’s talent and HR management Mizuho’s business strategies are increasingly global in nature are aiming to accelerate the development and promotion to and therefore we are focused on developing global talent and management roles of employees hired outside Japan as well ensuring the right person is in the right position on a global as provide more opportunities for Japanese employees to gain basis by standardizing HR management for all employees international experience. regardless of which country they were hired in. In particular we Our HR strategy Mizuho aims to continuously increase employee engagement, and our HR management is designed to encourage employees to exercise their abilities to their maximum potential, and to continuously expand their capabilities and expertise and enjoy long and fulfilling careers at Mizuho. By ensuring that there are no barriers to advancement and providing equal opportunities to all employees regardless of characteristics such as nationality, ethnicity, gender, or values, employees are motivated to both advance their own careers and contribute to the organization. As part of the fundamental reforms in HR management which we have introduced, we are aiming to transition away from a “one-size-fits-all” style of HR management and eliminate outdated practices and unwritten rules. Our objective is to implement development-focused HR management which respects employees’ individuality and to promote diversity and inclusion as a means of achieving higher engagement in our diverse workforce, particularly Shuji Kojima for demographics underrepresented in leadership such as non-Japanese nationals and Group Chief Human women. We are also strengthening our employee health management which is key to Resources Officer ensuring that employees can enjoy long and fulfilling careers at Mizuho. Approach to structural reforms In addition to our goals of strengthening our workforce’s capabilities as part of the fundamental reforms in HR management, we are also working towards achieving the optimal staffing levels outlined in the structural reforms and therefore, maximizing each individual’s productivity is key. To optimize staffing levels, we will slim-down our workforce in areas where technology and increased operational efficiency has reduced the workload, shift personnel from back office and corporate positions to the front office, and enhance the capabilities of our workforce through professional development and by acquiring talent with the skills required for developing new business fields. These steps will enable us to achieve an optimal talent portfolio. In order to achieve this, we are fundamentally revising our strategies concerning hiring, development, and long-term employment. In terms of hiring, we will focus on acquiring people with creative thinking and problem-solving skills. Additionally we will strengthen our efforts to acquire talent from STEM backgrounds as well as non-Japanese nationals with the aim of achieving the objectives under the structural reforms related to technology, open innovation, and globalization. As for development, in addition to strengthening all employees’ digital literacy, we are encouraging a change in mindsets and a willingness to seek selftransformation, and aiming to facilitate the shift of personnel to front office positions by providing opportunities for employees to develop the required skillsets. We are also expanding opportunities for retraining and offering other recurrent education as a means of supporting long-term employment. 2018 Integrated Report 94 Foundations for our corporate value Embedding a strong corporate culture One of the 10 Basic Strategies set in Mizuho’s medium-term business plan calls for continued initiatives toward embedding a corporate culture to support the creation of a stronger organization. Basic approach We are working to embed a robust corporate culture, which is indispensable for building a strong organization to realize our Corporate Philosophy aim of being a financial services consulting group. Mizuho’s fundamental approach to business activities, based on the raison d’être of Mizuho Our corporate culture is cultivated through the actions of each and every employee based on their awareness of the Mizuho Values. With the One Mizuho Promotion Project Team taking Mizuho’s Vision the lead, we are working to encourage the development of a Corporate Mizuho’s vision for the future, realized through the practice of shared understanding of the Mizuho Corporate Identity and Identity the Corporate Philosophy our medium-term business plan among all members of the group. Specific activities include strengthening our initiatives at the departmental and branch levels aimed at having each Mizuho Values The shared values and principles and every employee put the Mizuho Values into practice and of Mizuho’s people, uniting promoting stronger internal communication. all executives and employees together to pursue our Vision Common culture throughout the group Putting the Mizuho Values into practice Promoting stronger internal communication All Mizuho offices around the world hold One Mizuho Day at We have put in place a number of initiatives for encouraging some point in the year to discuss the initiatives they should communication among employees and fostering a sense implement to achieve their individual office visions. Other of unity. For example, special events exclusively for group ways in which we promote dialog are off-site meetings for employees, the One Mizuho Culture Prize awarded to those general managers and executive officer visits to branches who put the Mizuho Values into practice in an outstanding or departments. These visits are held in a roundtable format way, and a system for sending thank you cards to other and enable direct discussions between employees and senior employees which is easily accessible on company tablets and management, which leads to a greater sense of unity and smartphones. higher motivation. Thank you card logo One Mizuho Culture Prize trophy 95 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Compliance with international financial regulations The Basel Accords, an international regulatory framework for ensuring the soundness of banking institutions, were first created in 1988 (and now referred to as Basel I). As the financial services industry has developed, this framework has seen new iterations. At the time of the financial crisis in 2008, new issues related to the stability of the financial system became evident. In response, in 2010, capital ratio requirements were tightened in both quantitative and qualitative terms, and a new framework (Basel III) was announced that included restrictions on financial leverage and liquidity requirements. Since 2013, regulations based on these additional rules have gradually come into effect. After discussions regarding banking regulations, in December 2017, an agreement was reached regarding Basel III, mainly related to revision of risk asset calculation, bringing to an end certain regulatory reforms following the financial crisis. Global 1982 Latin American Increase in trading Increasing diversity and 2008 Global Financial Crisis debt crisis activity complexity of financial systems More sophisticated risk developments management systems 1988 1996 2004 2009 2010 2017 Basel I Basel I Basel II Basel 2.5 Final agreement on Basel III Basel Introduction of the  arket risk M U  se of banks’ internal T  ightening of regulations on  eview and revision of R first capital ratio incorporated into risk credit ratings in risk asset securitized products, increased risk asset calculation regulations (numerator = asset calculation calculation capital ratio (denominator of the capital shareholders’ equity; Operational risk ratio) denominator = credit incorporated into risk Basel III risk assets) asset calculation  tronger qualitative and quantitative regulations on capital / S shareholders’ equity (numerator of the capital ratio) Introduction of leverage ratio restrictions and liquidity restrictions Principal restrictions under Basel III and state of compliance Capital ratio This rule requires that the ratio of capital to risk assets (which method for calculating risk assets has been reviewed and are calculated by taking account of risks) must be maintained revised, and the required ratio will be increased in stages above a specified level. Since Mizuho Financial Group is between 2022 and 2027. designated as a G-SIB*, it must maintain a relatively higher *Global Systemically Important Bank capital ratio. With the finalization of the Basel III framework, the Leverage ratio This rule will require that the ratio of capital to risk exposure supplementary requirement to the risk-based capital ratio. (calculated without regard for the risk of assets held) must be Mizuho, as a G-SIB, will be required to meet a relatively higher maintained above a specified level. This ratio is positioned as a leverage ratio. Liquidity The liquidity rules specify both a liquidity coverage ratio and a compliance will be required from 2019. For the stable funding stable funding ratio. For the liquidity coverage ratio, banks are ratio, banks are required to secure stable coverage of their required to hold a high-quality portfolio of liquid assets that long-term assets and to curb inconsistencies between fund exceeds the estimated amount of funds that would flow out procurement and fund management structures. The minimum under severe stress conditions over a specified short-term coverage will be 100% from the time this rule is imposed. period (30 days). This rule will be phased in, and 100% Mizuho Financial Group maintains all of these ratios at steadily increasing our accumulation of capital and practicing sufficient levels. We are also responding to these regulations by proper balance sheet control. Future trends and compliance requirements Under the current schedule, compliance with the final ensures consistency of the content and the timing of the agreement on Basel III will be required beginning in 2022, introduction. Moreover, it will be necessary to verify that the after Basel Committee member countries have considered requirements introduced so far will not have an adverse their own domestic regulations. Based on confirmation of the impact on real economies and liquidity in financial markets, content of the regulations, we are moving steadily forward and it may be necessary to make adjustments. Regarding with putting the necessary internal systems in place. To these points, we at Mizuho will continue to express our views ensure fairness in international competition, it is important and make contributions at home and abroad. that the Basel regulations are introduced in a manner that 2018 Integrated Report 96 Foundations for our corporate value Stakeholder communication In addition to articulating our commitment to maintain an ethical stance towards our stakeholders within the Mizuho Code of Conduct, we aim to communicate with our stakeholders proactively and we strive to ensure that our corporate activities are aligned with social expectations as well as fair and transparent. Our stakeholders We communicate with our broad base of stakeholders using a wide range of communication tools and channels and aim to reflect their opinions and ideas into our corporate activities. Stakeholders Principal communication channels Customer feedback cards, customer satisfaction surveys, call centers, and our website customer Customers Customers feedback forms for gathering opinions or complaints  P97 Government General shareholders’ meetings, Shareholders authorities Shareholders investor briefings P29 Mizuho Employees Employee opinion surveys, formal discussions between employee representatives and management P91 Social contribution activities, support for Regional/local financial education  Suppliers/ communities Employees competitors https://www.mizuho-fg.co.jp/csr/ Suppliers/ Purchasing activities and outsourcing Regional/local competitors contracts communities  overnment G Policy recommendations, participation in industry groups, authorities appropriate responses to supervisory authorities A closer look at our communication with customers In our Vision, we at Mizuho have adopted a goal of being our customers’ best financial services provider and we have put a number of initiatives in place in order to achieve this objective. Using a range of communication channels, we actively stay abreast of the constantly changing needs of our customers and strive to improve the level of services that we can offer. Customer satisfaction improvement cycle Customers Providing attractive products Customer feedback systems and services Providing recommendations and Identification of each customer’s information promptly needs and expectations Customer feedback cards Consulting services which draw Call centers on our advanced expertise Customer satisfaction surveys Enhancement of our solution functions Group companies Mizuho Financial Group (holding company) Increase customer satisfaction (CS) awareness throughout the Group Construction of a group-wide CS promotion system Application of common CS improvement tools across the group Enhancement of CS education and training 97 Mizuho Financial Group Foundations for our corporate value Stakeholder communication Systems to capture customer feedback Customer feedback cards Satisfaction surveys Customer feedback cards are distributed and otherwise made We regularly conduct satisfaction surveys targeting our available in retail branches. We have also installed “customer individual and corporate customers globally. The results of feedback boards” where cards which have been submitted are these surveys are reported directly to management and used displayed along with the branch’s response. to improve our products and services. Call centers Website feedback forms Our call centers are available for responding to customer The feedback forms available on our website are another opinions and requests and data collected from these centers is method we use to field comments and requests directed at a valuable resource. In fiscal 2016, we received approximately Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, and Mizuho Securities. 2.33 million phone inquiries for Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, and Mizuho Securities combined. Reflecting customer feedback into Customer feedback our corporate activities For matters that At the branch level, we Customer opinions, requests, At Mizuho Bank, we draw on the opinions cannot be addressed respond when we can complaints and other feedback expressed by customers in discussions held by our immediately, we immediately, and received at our branches or via devise and implement announce results on the Customer Satisfaction and Protection Promotion other channels such as surveys improvement plans on Customer Feedback Board Committees within our branches, as well as at and our website. a group-wide basis. and other locations. management level meetings, including those of the Executive Management Committee. When we have made improvements based on customer feedback, Branches: Customer Satisfaction and Protection Promotion Committees we post this information on our Customer Feedback Boards located in our branches. Head Office: Executive Management Committee and other venues 2018 Integrated Report 98 Financial review Six-year major financial data (FY2012-2017) Summary of consolidated performance (¥ billion) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Consolidated gross profits 2,171.7 2,035.2 2,247.7 2,221.6 2,092.7 1,915.3 Net interest income 1,075.8 1,108.3 1,129.4 1,003.6 867.8 807.3 Fiduciary income 48.5 52.0 52.6 53.4 50.6 55.4 Credit costs for trust accounts — — — — — — Net fee and commission income 507.3 560.7 593.3 607.5 603.5 614.3 Net trading income 215.0 187.4 262.9 310.5 325.3 275.7 Net other operating income 324.8 126.7 209.3 246.4 245.4 162.4 General and administrative expenses (1,244.6) (1,258.2) (1,351.6) (1,349.5) (1,467.2) (1,488.9) Consolidated net business profits* 912.1 744.2 876.9 852.8 663.4 457.8 Credit-related costs (111.8) 112.8 (4.6) (30.4) (47.5) 156.3 Aggregate figures for the 2 banks (114.1) 116.6 (7.8) (26.7) (49.3) 153.2 Net gains (losses) related to stocks (82.9) 77.0 131.9 205.6 242.1 272.0 Net gains (losses) on sales of stocks 46.6 81.5 143.7 225.3 261.1 288.3 Losses on impairment (devaluation) of stocks (125.8) (5.3) (5.3) (10.3) (4.8) (5.1) Equity in income from investment in affiliates (11.1) 15.4 15.0 24.2 18.8 21.4 Other 29.2 5.1 (27.5) (74.0) (101.5) (93.7) Ordinary profits 750.3 987.5 1,010.8 997.5 737.5 782.4 Net extraordinary gains (losses) (32.5) (2.2) (20.2) 10.7 46.6 17.5 Income taxes – current (50.4) (137.0) (260.2) (213.2) (196.5) (190.1) – deferred (7.4) (77.9) (44.7) (69.2) 58.8 (1.4) Profit 659.9 770.3 685.6 725.7 646.4 608.3 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests (99.4) (81.9) (73.7) (54.7) (42.9) (31.7) Profit attributable to owners of parent 560.5 688.4 611.9 670.9 603.5 576.5 *Consolidated gross profits – G&A expenses (excluding non-recurring losses) + Equity in income from investments in affiliates and certain other consolidation adjustments Summary of consolidated balance sheet (¥ billion) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Assets 177,411.0 175,822.8 189,684.7 193,458.5 200,508.6 205,028.3 Loans and bills discounted 67,536.8 69,301.4 73,415.1 73,708.8 78,337.7 79,421.4 Securities 53,472.3 43,997.5 43,278.7 39,505.9 32,353.1 34,183.0 Liabilities 169,674.8 167,518.3 179,884.2 184,105.3 191,235.2 195,207.0 Deposits 84,241.9 89,055.5 97,757.5 105,629.0 120,045.2 125,081.2 Negotiable certificates of deposit 15,326.7 12,755.7 15,694.9 11,827.5 10,631.2 11,382.5 Net assets 7,736.2 8,304.5 9,800.5 9,353.2 9,273.3 9,821.2 Total shareholders’ equity 5,174.6 5,676.2 6,131.1 6,559.9 7,001.2 7,388.3 Retained earnings 1,814.7 2,315.6 2,769.3 3,197.6 3,615.4 4,002.8 Total accumulated other comprehensive income 752.5 781.0 2,029.9 1,607.8 1,520.9 1,677.5 Non-controlling interests 1,806.4 1,844.0 1,635.5 1,182.6 749.3 754.2 Financial indicators (%) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio (consolidated) 8.16 8.80 9.43 10.50 11.34 12.49 Tier 1 capital ratio (consolidated) 11.03 11.35 11.50 12.64 13.30 15.44 Total capital ratio (consolidated) 14.19 14.36 14.58 15.41 16.28 18.24 Net assets per share (yen) 229.70 253.25 322.86 322.46 335.96 357.41 Profit attributable to owners of parent per share (yen) 22.96 28.18 24.91 26.94 23.86 22.72 Net return on equity (consolidated) 10.99 11.65 8.60 8.37 7.27 6.55 99 Mizuho Financial Group Financial review Review and analysis for fiscal 2017 Financial and economic environment GDP of major countries US Eurozone Japan China Reviewing the economic environment over the fiscal year ended 8.0 (Annual % rate change from previous year) (Annual % rate change from previous year) 8.0 March 31, 2018, the global economy has continued on a path of 6.0 7.8 gradual recovery backed by factors such as the rally in the Chinese 4.0 7.6 7.4 economy, improvements related to the IT cycle, and improvements 2.0 7.2 in business confidence, predominately in major industrialized 0.0 7.0 countries. (2.0) 6.8 (4.0) 6.6 In the United States, continued recovery has been underpinned by (i) 6.4 (6.0) continued strong consumer spending resulting from improvements 6.2 (8.0) in the employment and income environment and wealth effects due 6.0 to a surge in stock prices and (ii) capital investment that began to 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 increase as a result of expectations over the Trump administration’s (Source: Prepared by Mizuho Research Institute based on the data of Japan’s Cabinet tax reduction measures. Under such circumstances, the Federal Office) Reserve Board (FRB) pursued an exit strategy from monetary easing whereby, among other measures, the FRB raised interest rates in June 2017, September 2017, and March 2018 and began shrinking its Policy interest rate balance sheet in October 2017. Bank of Japan (BOJ) unsecured overnight call rate Federal funds rate European Central Bank Report In Europe, despite downward pressure from the further appreciation of Euro, the economy has continued to recover, backed by the 7.0 (%) continued expansion of consumer spending due to an increase in 6.0 employment, in addition to the actualization of demand for capital 5.0 investments that had been put off due to political uncertainty 4.0 surrounding the presidential election in France. Given these 3.0 conditions, the European Central Bank (ECB), while leaving key 2.0 interest rates unchanged, determined in October 2017 to decrease 1.0 monthly asset purchases by half and steered itself in the direction of 0.0 pursuing an exit strategy from monetary easing. (1.0) In Asia, the Chinese economy remained strong, despite continued 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 sluggishness in capital investment due to tighter financial regulations Note: and policies to control real-estate speculation, supported by such BOJ: After introduction of negative interest rates, interest rate applied to balances factors as strong consumer spending and an expansion of exports, carrying the policy interest rates which were backed by income growth and governmental policies to (Source: Prepared by Mizuho Research Institute based on the data of Bloomberg) support the economy adopted in preparation for the National Congress of the Communist Party of China in fall 2017. The Trends in stock prices economies of emerging countries continued on a recovery trend, due to such factors as the steadiness of China’s economy and Nikkei Stock Price Average US Dow Average expansion of exports. 30,000 (Yen, US dollar) In Japan, the economy continued on a recovery trend, benefiting 25,000 from overseas economic expansion and strong domestic demand. Regarding domestic demand, the improvement of the inventory 20,000 cycle, the rise of capital investment related to the 2020 Tokyo 15,000 Olympic Games, and productivity improvements, as well as the implementation of public investment in connection with Japan’s 10,000 economic stimulus measures, served to bolster growth. Consumer spending has maintained its recovery due to the replacement of 5,000 durable goods and the effect of wage increases especially in small 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 and medium-sized enterprises. Under such circumstances, stock prices trended upward and the exchange rate continued to trend (Source: Prepared by Mizuho Research Institute based on the data of Bloomberg) sideways; however, since February 2018, stock prices have entered a ©Nikkei correction phase with a stronger yen due to the rise in the long-term interest rates in the United States and concerns regarding the Trends in exchange rates protectionist policies of the Trump administration. On the other hand, long-term interest rates continued to remain low, at around 0%, US dollar/Yen Euro/US dollar under the Bank of Japan’s “Quantitative and Qualitative Monetary 130 (Yen, US dollar) (Euro, US dollar) 1.5 Easing with Yield Curve Control.” 120 1.4 As for the future direction of the global economy, recovery is 1.3 110 expected to continue to be centered on the United States, but it 1.2 remains necessary to further monitor downward risks such as the 100 United States’ governmental policies, political concerns in Europe, 1.1 the economic outlook for China, and heightening geopolitical risks. 90 1.0 As for the future direction of the Japanese economy, it is expected to continue on its gradual recovery path, supported by the effects of 80 0.9 government economic measures and growth in consumer spending 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 and capital investment. However, the potential impact of increasing uncertainty in overseas economies on Japan requires monitoring. (Source: Prepared by Mizuho Research Institute based on the data of Bloomberg) 2018 Integrated Report 100 Financial review Summary of consolidated performance Historical data (¥ billion) FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Consolidated gross profit 1,806.9 1,996.6 2,025.3 2,003.0 2,171.7 2,035.2 2,247.7 2,221.6 2,092.7 1,915.3 Consolidated net business profit1 622.6 702.6 741.7 719.1 912.1 744.2 876.9 852.8 663.4 457.8 688.4 611.9 670.9 603.5 576.5 484.5 560.5 413.2 239.4 Net income (losses)2 (588.8) 1. Consolidated gross profits – G&A expenses (excluding non-recurring losses) + Equity in income from investments in affiliates and certain other consolidation adjustments 2. Profit attributable to owners of parent Consolidated (¥ billion) Consolidated net business profits Change from FY2017 FY2016 FY2016 We recorded consolidated gross profits of ¥1,915.3 billion for fiscal Consolidated gross profits 1,915.3 2,092.7 (177.3) 2017, decreasing by ¥177.3 billion from the previous fiscal year. Gross profits of the aggregate figures for Mizuho Bank and Mizuho Consolidated net business profits* 457.8 663.4 (205.5) Trust & Banking (the Two Banks) on a non-consolidated basis Credit-related costs 156.3 (47.5) 203.8 decreased by ¥148.1 billion on a year-on-year basis to ¥1,293.3 Net gains (losses) related to stocks 272.0 242.1 29.8 billion, reflecting the decline in income, etc., of market divisions Ordinary profits 782.4 737.5 44.9 due mainly to internal and external conditions, etc. Profit attributable to owners of parent 576.5 603.5 (26.9) General and administrative expenses of the Two Banks increased by ¥17.6 billion on a year-on-year basis to ¥964.7 billion. *Consolidated gross profits – G&A expenses (excluding non-recurring losses) + Equity in income from investments in affiliates and certain other consolidation Net operating revenues of Mizuho Securities on a consolidated adjustments basis decreased by ¥59.9 billion on a year-on-year basis to ¥306.0 billion in part due to a decline in the gain from trading and the M  izuho Bank + Mizuho Trust & Banking* impact of a decrease in the number of consolidated subsidiaries (Aggregate figures on a non-consolidated basis) as a result of corporate restructuring in the group companies and (¥ billion) other factors. SG&A expenses decreased by ¥27.5 billion on a Change from year-on-year basis to ¥263.4 billion. As a result, consolidated net FY2017 FY2016 FY2016 business profits decreased by ¥205.5 billion on a year-on-year basis Gross profits 1,293.3 1,441.4 (148.1) to ¥457.8 billion. G&A expenses (964.7) (947.1) (17.6) (excluding non-recurring losses) Net business profits 328.5 494.3 (165.7) Profit attributable to owners of parent Credit-related costs 153.2 (49.3) 202.5 Net gains (losses) related to stocks 266.3 210.5 55.8 Consolidated credit-related costs amounted to a gain on credit Ordinary profits 616.5 522.8 93.6 recoveries of ¥156.3 billion. Net income 493.1 388.0 105.1 Net gains (losses) related to stocks increased by ¥29.8 billion on a *the Two Banks year-on-year basis to ¥272.0 billion. As a result, ordinary profits increased by ¥44.9 billion on a year-onMizuho Securities (consolidated) year basis to ¥782.4 billion. (¥ billion) Net extraordinary gains (losses) decreased by ¥29.1 billion on a Change from year-on-year basis to net gains of ¥17.5 billion due to reporting of FY2017 FY2016 FY2016 gains on the return from the cancellation of employee retirement Net operating revenues 306.0 365.9 (59.9) benefit trust on the one hand and the completion of special gains accompanying group corporate realignments. SG&A expenses (263.4) (290.9) 27.5 Income taxes increased by ¥53.8 billion on a year-on-year basis to Ordinary income 43.2 75.8 (32.5) ¥191.6 billion. Profit attributable to owners of parent 35.7 188.5 (152.8) As a result, profit attributable to owners of parent for FY2017 decreased by ¥26.9 billion on a year-on-year basis to ¥576.5 billion. This result shows a 104% achievement against the earnings plan for FY2017 of ¥550.0 billion. 101 Mizuho Financial Group Financial review Review and analysis for fiscal 2017 Summary of consolidated balance sheet Consolidated (¥ billion) Securities Change from March 31, March 31, 2018 2017 March 31, Securities were ¥34,183.0 billion, increasing by ¥1,829.8 billion 2017 from the end of the previous fiscal year due to an increase in JGBs Assets 205,028.3 200,508.6 4,519.6 and other factors. Securities 34,183.0 32,353.1 1,829.8 Japanese government bonds 15,292.0 13,324.3 1,967.6 JGB balance (MHBK + MHTB)1 (Acquisition cost basis) Japanese local government Mediumand long-term bonds2 Floating-rate notes Treasury discount bills 239.3 284.4 (45.1) bonds  (¥ trillion) Japanese corporate bonds 2,964.2 2,696.3 267.8 and short-term bonds Japanese stocks 3,952.7 3,958.4 (5.6) 17.2 15.6 Other 11,734.6 12,089.5 (354.8) 2.6 13.3 0.7 0.5 10.2 Loans and bills discounted 79,421.4 78,337.7 1,083.6 0.6 1.7 3.4 Loans 13.8 14.4 0.6 0.6 (MHBK+MHTB, banking 75,201.7 75,416.0 (214.2) 7.8 9.2 account + trust account) Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Domestic total 55,729.0 56,288.5 (559.5) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Loans to SMEs and 32,740.4 32,500.8 239.6 Average remaining period3 individual customers (Housing loans for 2.6 years 2.5 years 2.4 years 2.5 years owner’s residential 9,136.8 9,497.5 (360.7) housing) 1. Other securities which have readily determinable fair values 2. Including bonds with remaining period of one year or less Overseas total 19,472.7 19,127.5 345.2 3. Excluding floating-rate notes Liabilities 195,207.0 191,235.2 3,971.8 Deposits 125,081.2 120,045.2 5,036.0 Domestic deposits Japanese stocks (consolidated)* (¥ billion) (Acquisition cost basis) 96,788.3 92,744.3 4,044.0 (MHBK + MHTB) Individual deposits 42,861.9 41,381.9 1,479.9 1,962.9 Corporate deposits 47,109.9 43,941.2 3,168.6 1,847.1 Financial/government 6,816.5 7,421.1 (604.5) institutions 1,687.5 Negotiable certificates of deposit 11,382.5 10,631.2 751.3 1,564.8 Net assets 9,821.2 9,273.3 547.8 Total shareholders’ equity 7,388.3 7,001.2 387.0 Common stock and preferred 2,256.5 2,256.2 0.2 Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, stock 2015 2016 2017 2018 Capital surplus 1,134.9 1,134.4 0.5 *Other securities which have readily determinable fair values Retained earnings 4,002.8 3,615.4 387.3 Treasury stock (5.9) (4.8) (1.1) Total accumulated other 1,677.5 1,520.9 156.5 comprehensive income Net unrealized gains (losses) 1,392.3 1,289.9 102.4 on other securities Deferred gains or losses on (67.5) 10.1 (77.7) hedges Revaluation reserve for land 144.2 145.6 (1.3) Foreign currency translation (85.0) (69.6) (15.4) adjustments Remeasurements of defined 293.5 144.8 148.6 benefit plans Stock acquisition rights 1.1 1.7 (0.5) Non-controlling interests 754.2 749.3 4.8 2018 Integrated Report 102 Financial review Loans Total net assets The combined total of loans for the Two Banks was ¥75,201.7 Net assets amounted to ¥9,821.2 billion, increasing by ¥547.8 billion billion, a decrease of ¥214.2 billion from FY2016. For our loan from FY2016 due to an increase in retained earnings by recording balance in Japan, while the balance of large, medium, and small profit attributable to owners of parent, an increase in accumulated businesses increased, that of personal loans and that such as adjustment amounts related to retirement benefits, and other factors. Japanese government loans decreased, resulting in an overall decrease of ¥559.5 billion (including ¥1,115.9 billion loans to the Japanese government, etc.). Our loan balance outside Japan (including loans booked offshore) increased by ¥345.2 billion, Non-performing loans (NPLs) mainly due to an increase in loans in Asia. The combined NPL balance of the Two Banks was ¥558.7 billion, Loan balance (MHBK + MHTB, banking account + trust account) a decrease of ¥281.2 billion from FY2016, and the NPL ratio was Loan balance in Japan Loan balance outside Japan (¥ trillion) 0.66%. We maintained a good credit portfolio, with both the NPL 74.9 74.7 75.4 75.2 balance and ratio remaining stable in a low position. 18.4 19.2 19.1 19.4  isclosed claims under the FRA* D 56.4 55.5 56.2 55.7 (MHBK + MHTB, banking account + trust account) Claims for special attention (¥ trillion) Claims with collection risk (¥ trillion) Claims against bankrupt and substantially bankrupt obligors (¥ trillion) Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, NPL ratio (%) 2015 2016 2017 2018 1.20 1.00 1.00 1.0 0.66 0.8 0.8 Deposits 0.5 The combined deposits in Japan of the Two Banks increased by Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, ¥4,044.0 billion from FY2016 due to factors such as an increase in 2015 2016 2017 2018 corporate deposits. *Financial Reconstruction Act Deposits in Japan (MHBK + MHTB)  isclosed claims under the FRA D Individuals Corporations Financial/government institutions (¥ trillion) (MHBK + MHTB, banking account + trust account) 96.7 (¥ billion) 88.0 92.7 81.8 7.4 6.8 Change from 7.1 March 31, March 31, 5.8 2018 2017 March 31, 2017 40.6 43.9 47.1 36.5 Claims against bankrupt and 76.6 82.7 (6.1) Substantially bankrupt obligors 39.4 40.2 41.3 42.8 Claims with collection risk 284.2 390.0 (105.7) Claims for special attention 197.8 367.2 (169.4) Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, 2015 2016 2017 2018 Subtotal 558.7 840.0 (281.2) Normal claims 83,644.2 82,716.4 927.8 Total 84,203.0 83,556.4 646.5 NPL ratio 0.66% 1.00% (0.34%) 103 Mizuho Financial Group Financial review Review and analysis for fiscal 2017 BIS capital BIS capital BIS capital ratio Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio (consolidated) (%) Tier 1 capital ratio (consolidated) (%) Total capital ratio (consolidated) (%) The Common Equity Tier 1 capital was ¥7,437.0 billion, an increase of ¥435.3 billion from FY2016, due to the increase in retained 18.24 earnings by recording profit attributable to owners of parent. 16.28 15.41 15.44 12.64 13.30 12.49 10.50 11.34 Risk assets Mar. 31, Mar. 31, Mar. 31, The risk-weighted assets were ¥59,528.9 billion, a decrease of 2016 2017 2018 ¥2,188.1 billion from FY2016, due to a decrease in credit risk related assets Mizuho continues to perform disciplined capital management policy which maintains the optimum balance between strengthening of the stable capital base and steady returns to shareholders. BIS capital ratio Under our current medium-term business plan, we aim to achieve a Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio of approximately 10% by the end The Common Equity Tier 1 ratio increased by 1.15% from FY2016 of the final year (FY2018) (fully effective basis* based on current to 12.49%. regulations), excluding net unrealized gains on other securities). This ratio is steadily increasing and stood at 10.15% on March 31, BIS capital ratio (consolidated) 2018, thus attaining the target level one year ahead of schedule. (¥ billion) * Calculated on a Basel III fully effective basis at the end of FY2018. Change from March 31, March 31, March 31, 2018 2017 2017 Common Equity Tier 1 capital Dividend policy 7,437.0 7,001.6 435.3 (CET1) Capital stock, surplus, and As for our policy to return profits to shareholders, we have 7,387.8 7,000.6 387.1 retained earnings implemented a steady dividend payout policy setting a dividend Additional Tier 1 capital 1,755.1 1,209.8 545.3 payout ratio on a consolidated basis of approximately 30% as a Additional Tier 1 capital guide for our consideration. 1,220.0 760.0 460.0 instruments Eligible Tier 1 capital instruments Based on this policy, we made cash dividend payments on common 577.5 577.5 — subject to phase-out arrangements stock of ¥7.50 (¥3.75 for interim dividends and ¥3.75 for year-end Tier 2 capital 1,668.1 1,839.4 (171.2) dividends) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, the same Tier 2 capital instruments 988.1 852.4 135.6 amount as the annual dividend of the previous fiscal year. The Board Eligible Tier 2 capital instruments 674.8 842.1 (167.3) of Directors of Mizuho Financial Group has considered thoroughly subject to phase-out arrangements and decided it by taking into account our business environment Total capital 10,860.4 10,050.9 809.4 comprehensively such as the financial results for FY2017 in which Risk-weighted assets 59,528.9 61,717.1 (2,188.1) profit attributable to owners of parent achieved earnings estimates, Credit risk assets 53,647.3 56,060.0 (2,412.7) future earnings forecasts, profit base, status of capital adequacy, Market risk equivalent assets 2,470.3 2,282.8 187.4 and domestic and international regulation trends such as the Basel framework. Operational risk equivalent assets 3,411.2 3,374.2 37.0 Total capital ratio (consolidated) 18.24% 16.28% 1.96% Tier 1 capital ratio (consolidated) 15.44% 13.30% 2.14% Cash dividend per share of common stock ( ¥ ) Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio 7.5 7.5 7.5 7.5 12.49% 11.34% 1.15% (consolidated) Status of capital adequacy FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Dividend payout ratio The total capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio, and Common Equity Tier 1 30% 28% 31% 33% capital ratio at the end of March 2018 were 18.24%, 15.44%, and 12.49%, respectively. 2018 Integrated Report 104 Company information Office network We utilize our office network, which covers every prefecture in Japan as well as major cities outside Japan, to respond to our customers’ diversified and globalizing financial needs while supporting their economic activities. Europe, the Middle East, and Africa Asia and Oceania Mizuho Bank 17 offices Mizuho Bank 44 offices Mizuho Trust & Banking 1 office Mizuho Securities 9 offices Mizuho Securities 4 offices Asset Management One 2 offices Asset Management One 1 office Amsterdam Brussels Düsseldorf London Frankfurt Tianjin Beijing Moscow Dalian Luxembourg Qingdao Paris Vienna Nanjing Seoul Wuxi Istanbul Hefei Madrid Suzhou Wuhan Zurich Tehran Xiamen Milan Bahrain Shanghai New Delhi Shenzhen Riyadh Guangzhou Taipei Dubai Hanoi Taichung Ahmedabad Kaohsiung Mumbai Hong Kong Bangalore-Devanahalli Manila Chennai Yangon Thilawa Bangkok Labuan Eastern Seaboard Phnom Penh Ho Chi Minh City Johannesburg Kuala Lumpur Singapore Sydney Jakarta 105 Mizuho Financial Group Company information Office network International network (As of June 30, 2018) Mizuho Bank: 89 offices Mizuho Trust & Banking: 1 office Mizuho Securities: 24 offices Asset Management One: 4 offices Branch or equivalent 42 Subsidiary 1 Representative office 2 Subsidiary 4 Representative office 6 Subsidiary 22 Subsidiary 41 Note: Subsidiaries include head offices, branches or relevant offices, and representative offices of overseas subsidiaries. Americas Mizuho Bank 28 offices Mizuho Securities 11 offices Asset Management One 1 office Calgary Chicago Toronto • In April 2017, Mizuho Bank Phnom Penh Boston Representative Office (opened July 2013) became Mizuho Bank Phnom Penh Branch San Francisco New York Iselin (under the Bangkok Branch). Atlanta Philadelphia • In October 2017, Mizuho Bank opened Washington, DC Mizuho Bank Mexico, SA, León Office. Los Angeles • In October 2017, Mizuho Bank opened Nassau Washington, DC Representative Office. Dallas Cayman • In March 2018, Mizuho Bank opened the Houston Dallas Representative Office in Texas (USA). Mexico City León • In October 2017, Mizuho Securities opened Mizuho Securities Asia Limited, Seoul Branch. Network in Japan (As of June 30, 2018) • In January 2018, Mizuho Securities opened Mizuho Bank Mizuho International plc (DIFC* Branch) in Head office and branches: 421 Dubai. Sub-branches: 44 *DIFC: Dubai International Financial Centre Mizuho Trust & Banking • In April 2018, Mizuho Securities opened São Paulo Mizuho Securities Asia Limited (Sydney Head office and branches: 36 Sub-branches: 24 Office). • In June 2018, Mizuho Securities established Mizuho Securities Santiago Mizuho Securities Europe GmbH in Tokyo head office and regional head offices: 3 Frankfurt, Germany, and is in the process of Branches: 105 Planet Booths*: 153 obtaining a license for securities business. Sales office: 1 • In December 2017, Mizuho Trust & Banking *Planet Booths are the consulting booths Co. (USA) merged and became part of of Mizuho Securities located in Mizuho Bank’s branches Mizuho Bank (USA). 2018 Integrated Report 106 Corporate profile Corporate profile (As of March 31, 2018) Company name: Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Rating information (As of June 30, 2018) Stock listing (code): Tokyo Stock Exchange (8411) R&I JCR Moody’s S&P Fitch New York Stock Exchange (MFG) Location of head office: 1-5-5, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Mizuho Financial Group A+ AAA1 AA100-8176, Japan Representative: Tatsufumi Sakai, President & Group CEO Mizuho Bank AAAA A1 A A(Appointed on April 1, 2018) Capital: ¥2,256.2 billion Mizuho Trust & Banking AAAA A1 A AIssued shares: 25,389,644,945 shares Number of employees: 1,526 Mizuho Securities AAAA A1 A — (Total number of employees on a consolidated basis: 60,051) (Reference) AA+ AAA A1 A+ A Japanese Government Date of establishment: January 8, 2003 Shareholders (common stock) Historical data of stock price Foreign investors Mizuho Financial Group Nikkei Index 23.39% Individuals and others 160 National & municipal government 31.29% 140 0.03% 120 Other domestic companies 100 12.68% 80 Securities Financial institutions companies 60 4.56% 28.05% March 2016 September 2016 March 2017 September 2017 March 2018 The graph showing Mizuho Financial Group’s stock price and the Nikkei stock price average has been prepared as an index with the closing prices on March 31, 2016 as 100. ©Nikkei Website Our website provides additional information regarding the business operations of Mizuho Financial Group and our group companies. Sections covering IR, financial information, and our products and services are available in addition to in-depth industry and economic reports. Additionally, you can sign up for our News Release E-mail Distribution Service to receive updates by email. ‌www.mizuho-fg.com/ Corporate responsibility Investor relations Gain insights into our approach to CSR. Access reports, presentations, news, and other investor resources and get details on upcoming events. ‌‌www.mizuho-fg.com/csr/ ‌‌www.mizuho-fg.com/investors/ 107 Mizuho Financial Group Company information Group companies (As of March 31, 2018, except for each company’s network, which is as of June 30, 2018) Mizuho Bank Mizuho Trust & Banking Date of establishment July 1, 2013 Date of establishment March 12, 2003 Capital ¥1,404.0 billion Capital ¥247.3 billion Location of head office 1-5-5, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Location of head office 1-2-1, Yaesu, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 100-8176, Japan 103-8670, Japan Representative Koji Fujiwara, President & CEO Representative Tetsuo Iimori, President & CEO Number of employees 30,301 Number of employees 3,415 Network in Japan 465 Network in Japan 60 Network outside Japan 89 Network outside Japan 1 Website www.mizuhobank.com/ Website www.mizuho-tb.co.jp/english/ Mizuho Securities Date of establishment January 4, 2013 Capital ¥125.1 billion Location of head office Otemachi First Square, 1-5-1, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan Representative Koichi Iida, President & CEO (Appointed on April 1, 2018) Number of employees 7,554 Network in Japan 262 Network outside Japan 24 Website www.mizuho-sc.com/english/ 2018 Integrated Report 108 Company information Mizuho Research Institute Mizuho Information & Research Institute Mizuho Research Institute is one of Japan’s leading think tanks With IT as its core technology, Mizuho Information & Research providing research, consulting, and corporate memberships. In Institute is a professional organization with more than 4,000 addition to providing high-value-added information and preparing employees that provides assistance to corporations in increasing policy proposals, Mizuho Research Institute offers highly actionable their corporate value through its consulting, system integration, and consulting advice to assist the Japanese national government, local outsourcing services. governments, and private corporations in addressing the issues they confront. Mizuho Research Institute has the largest number of corporate membership subscribers of any bank-affiliated research institute in Japan. Date of establishment October 1, 2002 Date of establishment October 1, 2004 Capital ¥900 million Capital ¥1,627 million Location of head office 1-2-1, Uchisaiwaicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Location of head office 2-3 Kanda-Nishikicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Representative Hideyuki Takahashi, President & CEO Representative Junichi Nishizawa, President & CEO Number of employees 322 Number of employees 4,283 Website www.mizuho-ri.co.jp/english/ Website www.mizuho-ir.co.jp/english/ Asset Management One Trust & Custody Services Bank Asset Management One is an asset management company in which As Mizuho’s trust bank specializing in asset administration, Trust Mizuho and Dai–ichi Life Holdings both have equity holdings. Asset & Custody Services Bank provides high-quality, high-value-added Management One collaborates with its offices in Europe, the US, and trust and custody services to clients, including large institutional Asia to offer investment trust products to individuals and investors. As of March 31, 2018, the balance of assets under custody corporations, as well as provide investment advisory services to and administration exceeded ¥380 trillion, one of the largest such customers including Japanese and overseas pension funds. balances in Japan. Date of establishment October 1, 2016 Date of establishment January 22, 2001 Capital ¥2,000 million Capital ¥50,000 million Location of head office Tekko Building, 1-8-2 Marunouchi, Location of head office Tower Z, Harumi Triton Square, 1-8-12, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Harumi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo Representative Akira Sugano, President & CEO Representative Nobumitsu Watanabe, President & CEO (Appointed on April 1, 2018) (Appointed on June 14, 2018) Number of employees 908 Number of employees 668 Network outside Japan 4 Website www.tcsb.co.jp/english/ Website www.am-one.co.jp/english/ Mizuho Private Wealth Management Mizuho Americas Mizuho Private Wealth Management offers consulting services Mizuho Americas was established as a US bank holding company tailored to the needs of its customers. These services range with Mizuho’s primary US-based banking, trust banking, and from consulting on customers’ financial matters such as wealth securities entities under it to meet the US regulations governing the management, arranging for business inheritance to advice on operations of foreign banks. To further increase its competitiveness customers’ individual matters, including health of the customers in the US, which is the world’s largest financial market, Mizuho themselves as well as family members and children’s education. Americas is proactively strengthening its governance framework, and, while promoting the collaboration of its banking, trust banking, and securities operations, it is conducting management and other activities that are necessary for expanding its profit base. Date of establishment October 3, 2005 Date of establishment June 20, 2016 Capital ¥500 million Capital $3,820 million Location of head office 1-1-5, Uchisaiwaicho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Location of head office 1251 Avenue of the Americas, New York, Representative Takeru Watanabe, President NY 10020, USA Number of employees 37 Representative Teiji Teramoto, CEO (Appointed on April 1, 2018) Website www.mizuhoamericas.com/ Notes: 1 .The representatives of each company have representation rights. 2. The number of employees does not include each company’s employees dispatched outside each company while it includes employees dispatched to each company from other organizations. This figure also includes overseas local staff but excludes executive officers and temporary employees. 3. Mizuho’s network consists of our Head Office and branches in Japan, and branches, representative offices and overseas subsidiaries outside Japan. 109 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Compliance contacts Internal control and audit hotline —A system designed for reporting questionable accounting or auditing matters— Reporting items: Mizuho Financial Group has established a When a report is received concerning the reporting items hotline to receive reports from in and outside stipulated on the left, Mizuho Financial Group will make a the company in connection with problems reasonable effort to investigate the facts behind the information concerning internal control and audits of received and report back on the results. accounts and financial reports. Anonymous tips are also acceptable, but there are cases where it Contact point: This hotline has been established within an external will not be possible to fully satisfy the intentions behind such tips law office. Reports can be made via postal mail or owing to constraints on investigations and the inability to report email. back. Postal mail: 12th Floor, Kasumigaseki Bldg., Information on persons making such reports is not disclosed to Kasumigaseki 3-2-5, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo third parties other than the group companies except in cases 100-6012 where the assent of the person in question has been obtained or Mizuho Accounting Hotline, c/o Daiichi such disclosure is required under laws and ordinances. Fuyo Law Office Email: kaikei-mizuho@daiichifuyo.gr.jp Approaches to financial alternative dispute resolution (ADR) In order to deal expeditiously, fairly, and appropriately with The designated dispute resolution institution as defined in Japan’s complaints and other feedback from customers, Mizuho Bank Banking Act which Mizuho Bank and Mizuho Trust & Banking have and Mizuho Trust & Banking have concluded a contract for the contracted implementation of dispute resolution procedures with the Japanese The Designated Dispute Resolution Institution:  Bankers Association, which is a designated dispute resolution Japanese Bankers Association institution as defined in Japan’s Banking Act. Mizuho Trust & Contact: Advisory Center of Japanese Bankers Association Banking has also concluded a contract for the implementation of Tel: +81-(0)3-5252-3772 dispute resolution procedures with the Trust Companies Association of Japan, which is a designated dispute resolution institution The designated dispute resolution institution as defined in Japan’s as defined in Japan’s Trust Business Act and Act on Concurrent Trust Business Act and Act on Concurrent Operation of Trust Operation of Trust Business by Financial Institutions. Business by Financial Institutions which Mizuho Trust & Banking has contracted The designated dispute resolution institution takes the steps The Designated Dispute Resolution Institution:  toward resolution from a fair and neutral perspective in cases Trust Companies Association of Japan where the solutions to customers’ complaints adopted by the two Contact: Trust Consultation Center of the Trust Companies banks are not accepted. Association of Japan Tel: +81-(0)3-6206-3988 2018 Integrated Report 110 Appendix Support for SMEs and regional revitalization Support for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) Mizuho provides information to clients which is relevant to their particular needs and challenges at each stage in their development, and we propose solutions and provide support for the implementation of these solutions. By drawing on our consulting capabilities to provide proposals and support the growth of innovative companies with exceptional solutions that address the issues SMEs face, we ensure that clients’ technologies or ideas. perspectives are prioritized when providing support for business expansion, succession, reorganization, and other client needs. Furthermore, a specialized business reorganization section within We also believe that proactively supporting SMEs is a key part of the Head Office provides support for SMEs’ business improvement fulfilling our social responsibility as a financial institution. and reorganization needs. In addition, our Head Office collaborates with frontline offices to provide consultations and support for clients In particular, by providing consulting and support for SMEs’ growth through partnerships with external organizations, external specialists, strategies, we can introduce clients to potential M&A opportunities and other financial institutions. from the standpoint of business expansion and succession, and Regional revitalization initiatives In Japan, as a result of the trend toward concentration of businesses Utilizing our office network in Japan, we are striving to promote and other economic activity solely in Tokyo, rural populations are the revitalization of regional economies by providing our clients expected to decline and regional economies are expected to shrink with funding, supporting the operations of local businesses, and in the future. As a nation, Japan must look for ways to revitalize collaborating with regional governments. regional areas through a virtuous cycle in which jobs draw people back to local areas and population growth creates more jobs. Case example Business reorganization using an RCC We believe that we can contribute to the healthy development of regional economies and securing jobs through assisting businesses to reorganize. In fiscal 2017, for the first time we assisted a client with voluntary liquidation using a resolution and collection corporation (RCC). In voluntary liquidations, fairness with and transparency to the many claimants, including regional financial institutions, should be maintained, while prompt responses are also required. Building on Mizuho’s expertise in business reorganization and the trust we have earned in regional areas, we will continue to assist clients with business reorganization to help revitalize regional economies. Finance facilitation and response to the Guidelines for Personal Guarantee Provided by Business Owners Finance facilitation  uidelines for Personal Guarantee Provided by Business Owners G Mizuho works to promote finance facilitation in accordance with We are committed to establishing and maintaining good relationships group-wide fundamental policies. This includes ensuring that we with our clients in line with the Guidelines for Personal Guarantee respond appropriately to requests for new loans or loan condition Provided by Business Owners established by the Japanese Bankers adjustments, and provide tailored consulting. Association and the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry. We provide the option for a joint guarantee with a termination clause and other alternative lending methods allowing for a personal guarantee provided by business owners. Also, we have established a structure for cooperation between our frontline offices and Head Office to encourage the utilization of these methods. 111 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Internal audit structure Basic approach Internal audits are designed as an integrated process, independent group companies to fulfill their managerial duties efficiently and from other business operations, for evaluating the extent to which effectively. internal control achieves its objectives in key areas, including appropriate risk management; efficient and effective business In line with the Basic Policy for Internal Audit established by Mizuho operations; reliable financial reporting; and compliance with laws, Financial Group, our core group companies conduct internal audits, regulations, and internal rules. We conduct internal audits from an which include the auditing of their respective subsidiaries. In objective and comprehensive standpoint, independent of operational addition, with respect to the management of risks applicable across reporting lines, and offer advice and remedial recommendations in the group, we coordinate internal audits throughout the group to connection with any problems that may be identified. Through this assess the risk management status of the group as a whole. process, internal audits assist the Boards of Directors of each of our Internal audit management structure Mizuho Financial Group Internal audit management structure Our Internal Audit Committee, which determines all important Mizuho Financial Group matters concerning internal audits, is chaired by the President & Supervision, Group CEO and is independent of our other business operations. The Committee monitors and manages internal audits at our core Board of Directors Audit Committee audit group companies based on internal audit reports submitted by the companies. President & Group CEO Internal Audit Committee Our Internal Audit Committee discusses and makes decisions (Chairman: President & Group CEO) regarding internal audits at our core group companies and submits these decisions, together with the results of their examination of Management Internal Audit Group the internal audit reports, to the Audit Committee and our Board of Directors. Internal Audit All organizational Internal Audit Department units Mizuho Bank and Mizuho Trust & Banking Mizuho Bank and Mizuho Trust & Banking have also established Internal Audit Committees that are independent of their other business operations. The two banks have established internal audit departments to conduct internal audits at their respective domestic and overseas offices, head office departments, and group companies. Advice, guidance Management by Mizuho Report the results and remedial Specifically, we assess the suitability and effectiveness of business Financial Group of internal audits recommendations activities associated with compliance and risk management. Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, Mizuho Securities and other core group companies Other core group companies Other core group companies have also established effective and efficient internal audit structures adapted to the Subsidiaries of the above group companies characteristics of their respective businesses. (As of June 22, 2018) 2018 Integrated Report 112 Appendix Risk management structure Credit risk management Basic approach We define credit risk as the group’s exposure to the risk of losses Mizuho Financial Group manages credit risk for the Group as a that may be incurred due to a decline in, or total loss of, the value whole. Specifically, Mizuho Financial Group establishes the group’s of assets (including off–balance–sheet instruments), as a result of fundamental credit risk policy to manage major group companies, deterioration in obligors’ financial position. We have established the and monitors and manages the credit risks of the group as a whole. methods and structures necessary for grasping and managing credit risk. Credit risk management structure Our Board of Directors determines the group’s basic matters The Balance Sheet & Risk Management Committee and the Credit pertaining to credit risk management. In addition, the Risk Committee, each of which is a Business Policy Committee of our Management Committee of Mizuho Financial Group discusses principal banking subsidiaries, are responsible for discussing and coordinates matters relating to basic policies and operations and coordinating overall management of their individual credit in connection with credit risk management and matters relating portfolios and transaction policies towards obligors. The respective to credit risk monitoring for the group. Under the control of the Chief Risk Officers of our principal banking subsidiaries are Group CRO of Mizuho Financial Group, the Credit Risk Management responsible for matters relating to planning and implementing Department and the Risk Management Department jointly monitor, credit risk management. The credit risk management departments analyze, and submit suggestions concerning credit risk and formulate of our principal banking subsidiaries are in charge of planning and and execute plans in connection with basic matters pertaining to administering credit risk management and conducting credit risk credit risk management. measuring and monitoring. The departments regularly present reports regarding their risk management situation to Mizuho Our principal banking subsidiaries and other core group companies Financial Group. The credit departments of our principal banking manage their credit risk according to the scale and nature of their subsidiaries determine policies and approve/disapprove individual exposures in line with basic policies set forth by Mizuho Financial transactions in terms of credit review, credit management and Group. The Board of Directors of each company determines key collection from obligors in accordance with the lines of authority set matters pertaining to credit risk management. forth respectively by our principal banking subsidiaries. In addition, our principal banking subsidiaries have established internal audit groups that are independent of the business departments in order to ensure appropriate credit risk management. Method of credit risk management We have adopted two different but mutually complementary client. Through this process, we curb losses in the case of a credit approaches to credit risk management. The first approach is event. The second is “credit portfolio management,” in which we “individual credit management,” in which we manage the process utilize statistical methods to assess the potential for losses related to for each individual transaction and individual obligor from execution credit risk. Through this process, we identify credit risks and respond until collection, based on our assessment of the credit quality of the appropriately. Individual credit management 1. Credit code 2. Internal rating system The basic code of conduct for all of our executive officers and One of the most important elements of the risk management employees engaged in the credit business is set forth in our credit infrastructure of our principal banking subsidiaries is the use of code. Seeking to fulfill our mission and social responsibilities, our an internal rating system that consists of credit ratings and pool basic policy for credit business is determined in light of fundamental allocations. Credit ratings consist of obligor ratings which represent principles focusing on public welfare, safety, growth, and profitability. the level of credit risk of the obligor, and transaction ratings which represent the possibility of ultimately incurring losses related to each individual claim by taking into consideration the nature of any collateral or guarantee and the seniority of the claim. In principle, obligor ratings apply to all obligors and are subject to regular reviews at least once a year to reflect promptly the fiscal period end financial results of the obligors, as well as special reviews as required whenever an obligor’s credit standing changes. This enables our principal banking subsidiaries to monitor both individual 113 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk management structure obligors and the status of the overall portfolio in a timely fashion. based on obligor specific characteristics such as type of business Because we consider obligor ratings to be an initial phase of the (corporation or individual) and geography (in Japan or outside self-assessment process regarding the quality of our loans and offJapan). We categorize our rating models for companies in Japan balance-sheet instruments, such obligor ratings are closely linked into those for large companies and those for small and mediumto the obligor classifications and are an integral part of the process sized companies. The former consist of 13 models according to for determining the provision for loan losses and charge-offs in our industry-specific factors, while the latter consist of three models. For self-assessment of loans and off-balance-sheet instruments. (Please companies outside Japan, we utilize nine models. refer to the chart below regarding the connection between obligor ratings, definition of obligor classifications of self-assessments, These were developed by the Credit Risk Management Department claims disclosed under the FRA and non-accrual, and past due & based on a statistical methodology and approved by the Chief Risk restructured loans). Officer. To assign obligor ratings, we have a quantitative evaluation system Pool allocations are applied to small claims that are less than a (rating model) in place to enable proper assessment of an obligor’s specified amount by pooling obligors and claims with similar risk credit standing. The system gives a quantitative rating to an obligor characteristics and assessing and managing the risk for each such Connection between obligor ratings, definition of obligor classifications of self-assessments, claims disclosed under the FRA and non-accrual, past due & restructured loans Definition Obligor Non-accrual, Category I Category IV Claims of obligor ratings past due & Definition of ratings (nonCategory II Category III (nondisclosed classifications of (major restructured categorized) collateralized) under the FRA self-assessment category) loans Obligors whose certainty of debt A1—A3 fulfillment is very high, hence their level of credit risk is excellent. Obligors whose certainty of debt fulfillment poses no problems for the B1—B2 foreseeable future, hence their level of credit risk is sufficient. All credit given Normal Obligors whose certainty of debt to normal obligors fulfillment and their level of credit risk obligors. C1—C3 Normal claims pose no problems for the foreseeable future. Obligors whose current certainty of debt fulfillment poses no problems, however, D1—D3 their resistance to future environmental changes is low. E1 Obligors who require close watching going forward because there are problems with their borrowings, such as Credit given to reduced or suspended interest payments, watch obligors Restructured Watch problems with fulfillment such as de other than loans obligors Claims for facto postponements of principal or those included E2 R interest payments, or problems with their in category I. special Loans past due financial positions as a result of their attention for 3 months poor or unstable business conditions. or more Obligors who are not yet bankrupt but are Credit given in financial difficulties and are deemed to intensive to be very likely to go bankrupt in the control future because they are finding it difficult Intensive control Credit to obligors other Claims with F1 to make progress in implementing obligors obligors which than those collection risk their management improvement plans has pledged included in (including obligors who are receiving collateral or category I and ongoing support from financial is covered by category II. Non-accrual institutions). guarantees, delinquent considered loans Credit to The difference of high obligors which between the Obligors who have not yet gone legally quality, such Credit to is covered assessed Substantially or formally bankrupt but who are as deposit bankrupt and by general value and bankrupt G1 substantially bankrupt because they are collateral. substantially collateral, market value obligors in serious financial difficulties and are not bankrupt such as real of collateral deemed to be capable of restructuring. obligors, other Claims against estate and on credit to guarantees. than those bankrupt and bankrupt and in category substantially substantially I, category II bankrupt bankrupt and category obligors, and obligors (i.e., III (credit that equivalent the portion of Obligors who have already gone is judged to be Loans to Bankrupt loans for which H1 bankrupt, from both a legal and/or formal unrecoverable bankrupt obligors final collection perspective. or without obligors problems or value). losses are anticipated). 2018 Integrated Report 114 Appendix pool. Our principal banking subsidiaries efficiently manage credit extended to watch obligors when the following conditions are met: risk and credit screening by dispersing a sufficient number of small we are aiming for business reconstruction or financial support; claims within each pool. Our principal banking subsidiaries generally and lending conditions were amended favorably to the client such review the appropriateness and effectiveness of our approach to as allowing interest rate reduction, postponement of principal obligor ratings and pool allocations once a year in accordance with repayment/interest payment, debt forgiveness, etc. predetermined procedures, which is audited by the Internal Audit Group. An overdue loan is defined as a loan for watch obligors of which the loan principal or interest is overdue for three months or more Mizuho Financial Group defines a restructured loan as a loan following the contractual payment date. Methods for reserves and write-offs Normal Calculate the value of estimated loss based on the probability of failure over the coming year for loans by obligor rating and appropriate it for the obligors General reserve for possible losses on loans. Calculate the estimated loss on loans based on the probability of failure over the next three years and appropriate it for the general reserve for Watch possible losses on loans. Further, in regard to special attention obligors, for obligors with large claims more than a certain amount, if the cash obligors flow from the return of principal and interest payments can reasonably be estimated, set up a reserve under the DCF method. Provide an amount for specific reserve for possible losses on loans as calculated by one of the following methods after deducting amounts anticipated to be recoverable from the sale of collateral held against the claims and from guarantors of the claims: a) an amount calculated based Intensive on the overall ability of the obligor to pay, or b) the estimated loss calculated on the basis of the balance and the probability of failure over the control next three years. obligors Further, for obligors with large claims more than a certain amount, if the cash flow from the return of principal and interest payments can reasonably be estimated, set up a reserve under the DCF method. Substantially bankrupt obligors Provide the entire balance after deducting amounts anticipated to be recoverable from the sale of collateral held against the claims and from guarantors of the claims for specific reserve for possible losses on loans, or write-off the entire balance. Bankrupt obligors 3. Self-assessment, provision for loan losses and off-balance-sheet 4. Credit review instruments, and write-offs Prevention of new impaired loans through routine credit We conduct self-assessment of assets to ascertain the status of assets management is important in maintaining the quality of our overall both as an integral part of credit risk management and in preparation loan assets. Credit review involves analysis and screening of each for appropriate accounting treatment, including provision for loan potential transaction within the relevant business department. In losses and off-balance-sheet instruments and write-offs. During the case the screening exceeds the authority of the department, the process of self-assessment, obligors are categorized into certain credit department in charge at Head Office carries out the review. We groups taking into consideration their financial condition and their have specialized credit departments for different industries, ability to make payments, and credit ratings are assigned to all business sizes, and regions, which carry out timely and specialized obligors, in principle, to reflect the extent of their credit risks. The examinations based on the characteristics of the client and their related assets are then categorized into certain classes based on the market, and provide appropriate advice to the business department. risk of impairment. This process allows us to identify and control the In addition, in the case of obligors with low credit ratings and high actual quality of assets and determine the appropriate accounting downside risks, the business department and credit department treatment, including provision for loan losses and off-balance-sheet jointly clarify their credit policy and in appropriate cases assist the instruments and write-offs. Specifically, the credit risk management obligors at an early stage in working towards credit soundness. department of each of our principal subsidiaries is responsible for the overall control of the self-assessment of assets of the respective banking subsidiaries, cooperating with the administrative departments specified for each type of asset, including loan portfolios and securities, in executing and managing self-assessments. In our assessment of the probability of obligor bankruptcy, we deem an obligor that is rated as being insolvent or lower as being bankrupt. 115 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk management structure Credit portfolio management 1. Risk measurement We use statistical methodologies that involve a risk measurement guarantees; deposits and foreign exchange; derivatives including system (enterprise value corporate valuation model, holding period swaps and options; off-balance sheet items including commitments; of one year) to manage the possibility of losses by measuring the and other assets involving credit risk. expected average loss for a one-year risk horizon (“Expected Loss”) and the maximum loss within a certain confidence interval (“Credit In establishing transaction spread guidelines for credit transactions, VAR”). The difference between Expected Loss and Credit VAR is we aim to ensure an appropriate return from the transaction in light measured as the credit risk amount (“Unexpected Loss”). The risk of the level of risk by utilizing credit cost data as a reference. Also, measurement system covers the following account items reported by we monitor our credit portfolio from various perspectives and set each Mizuho Financial Group company: credit transactions including guidelines noted below so that losses incurred through a hypothetical loans and discounts; securities; clients’ liabilities for acceptances and realization of the full Credit VAR would be within the amount of risk capital and loan loss reserves. Loss distribution 2. Risk control methods Frequency Our principal banking subsidiaries recognize two types of risk arising from allowing Unexpected Loss to become too large. One type is “credit concentration risk,” which stems from granting excessive This amount depends on Average credit to certain individual counterparties or corporate groups. the confidence interval. For example, if the confidence The other type is “chain-reaction default risk,” which arises from interval is set at 99%, it is granting excessive credit to certain areas, industrial sectors, and the 9,900th smallest loss figure out of 10,000 trials. other groupings. Our principal banking subsidiaries manage these risks in line with our specific guidelines for each. (Please refer to the chart below regarding the allocation of risk capital and control of credit risk). Our principal banking subsidiaries also set the credit limit based on verification of status of capital adequacy. In cases where the Loss amount limit is exceeded, our principal banking subsidiaries will formulate a handling policy and/or action plan. In addition to the above, our Credit VAR principal banking subsidiaries monitor total credit exposure, credit exposure per rating, credit concentration per individual company, Expected Unexpected Loss corporate group, geography, country, and business sector to Loss make a periodical report to the Balance Sheet & Risk Management Committee and the Credit Committee. Allocation of risk capital and control of credit risk Allocation of risk capital Credit VAR Credit concentration risk Chain reaction default risk 1 Individual company credit 3 Geographical area/country-based guidelines credit guidelines Control 2 Corporate group-based credit 4 Industrial sector-based credit guidelines guidelines Mizuho Bank: Sets 1 2 3 4 Mizuho Trust & Banking: Sets 1 2 4 Equivalent to credit concentration risk amounts Equivalent to chain reaction default risk amounts 2018 Integrated Report 116 Appendix Market risk management Basic approach We define market risk as the risk of losses incurred by the group due Mizuho Financial Group manages market risk for the Mizuho group to fluctuations in interest rates, stock prices, and foreign exchange as a whole. Specifically, Mizuho Financial Group establishes the rates. Our definition includes the risk of losses incurred when it fundamental risk management policy for the entire group, manages becomes impossible to execute transactions in the market because the market risk of our principal banking subsidiaries and other core of market confusion or losses arising from transactions at prices that group companies, and monitors how the group’s market risk is being are significantly less favorable than usual. managed as a whole. Market risk management structure Our Board of Directors determines basic matters pertaining to market As for the situation of market risk, the Risk Management Department risk management policies. The Risk Management Committee of submits reports to the President and Group CEO on a daily basis Mizuho Financial Group broadly discusses and coordinates matters and to the Board of Directors on a regular basis. For the purpose relating to basic policies in connection with market risk management, of managing the market risk of our principal banking subsidiaries market risk operations, and market risk monitoring. The Group CRO and other core group companies, the Department regularly receives of Mizuho Financial Group is responsible for matters relating to reports from each of them to properly identify and manage their market risk management planning and operations. market risk. These subsidiaries and core group companies, which account for most of the Mizuho group’s exposure to market risk, The Risk Management Department of Mizuho Financial Group is establish their basic policies based on ours, and their Boards of responsible for monitoring market risk, reporting and analysing, Directors determine important matters relating to market risk making proposals, setting limits and guidelines, and formulating and management. implementing plans relating to market risk management. Market risk management method To manage market risk, we set limits that correspond to risk capital strength represented by capital and other indicators. The amount of allocations according to the risk profile of each of our principal risk capital allocated to market risk corresponds to value-at-risk (the banking subsidiaries and other core group companies and thereby “VAR”) and additional costs that may arise in order to close relevant prevent the overall market risk we hold from exceeding our financial positions. Setting limits Monitoring When the above mentioned limits are set, various factors are To provide a system of mutual checks and balances in market taken into account, including business strategies, historical limit operations, we have established middle offices specializing in risk usage ratios, risk-bearing capacity (profits, equity capital, and risk management that are independent of front offices which engage in management framework), profit targets and the market liquidity of market transactions and of back offices which are responsible for the products involved. The limits are discussed and coordinated by book entries and settlements. When VAR is not adequate to control the Risk Management Committee, discussed further by the Executive risk, the middle offices manage risk using additional risk indices, Management Committee and then determined by the President & carry out stress testing, and set stop loss limits as needed. We Group CEO. For trading and banking activities, we set limits for VAR monitor market liquidity risk for individual financial products in the and for losses. For banking activities, we set position limits based market while taking turnover and other factors into consideration. on interest rate sensitivity (10 BPV) as needed. An excess over any of these limits is immediately reported and addressed according to a pre-determined procedure. 117 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk management structure Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s market risk The following graph shows VAR figures of our trading activities for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018: Value-at-risk We use the VAR method, supplemented with stress testing, as our principal tool to measure market risk. The VAR method measures Fiscal 2017 VAR (trading activities) the maximum possible loss that could be incurred due to market (VAR: ¥ billion) movements within a certain time period (or holding period) and 7 degree of probability (or confidence interval). 6 5 Trading activities 4 VAR related to our trading activities is based on the following: • historical simulation method; 3 • confidence interval: one-tailed 99.0%; 2 • holding period of one day; and 1 • historical observation period of three years. 0 The following tables show the VAR related to our trading activities 04/03/2017 04/22/2017 05/11/2017 05/30/2017 06/18/2017 07/07/2017 07/26/2017 08/14/2017 09/02/2017 09/21/2017 10/10/2017 10/29/2017 11/17/2017 12/06/2017 12/25/2017 01/13/2018 02/01/2018 02/20/2018 03/11/2018 03/30/2018 by risk category for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018 and as of March 31, 2016, 2017, and 2018: VAR by risk category (trading activities) The following table shows VAR figures of our trading activities for the (¥ billion) fiscal years indicated: Fiscal 2015 Daily average Maximum Minimum At March 31 VAR (trading activities) (¥ billion) Interest rate 1.8 3.7 0.6 1.1 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Change Foreign exchange 0.9 2.3 0.2 0.3 As of fiscal year end 2.0 2.6 3.0 0.4 Equities 0.6 2.5 0.1 0.3 Maximum 4.5 5.8 6.2 0.3 Commodities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Minimum 1.8 2.3 2.2 (0.1) Total 2.9 4.5 1.8 2.0 Average 2.9 3.3 3.0 (0.3) Fiscal 2016 Daily average Maximum Minimum At March 31 Interest rate 2.0 3.6 1.0 1.0 Foreign exchange 0.5 1.6 0.1 0.1 Equities 0.4 3.2 0.1 0.9 Commodities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 3.3 5.8 2.3 2.6 Fiscal 2017 Daily average Maximum Minimum At March 31 Interest rate 1.7 2.5 1.0 2.2 Foreign exchange 0.4 1.2 0.1 0.1 Equities 0.6 2.4 0.3 0.5 Commodities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 3.0 6.2 2.2 3.0 2018 Integrated Report 118 Appendix Non-trading activities • VAR does not capture all complex effects of various risk The VAR related to our banking activities is based on the same factors on the value of positions and portfolios and could conditions as those of trading activities, but the holding period is one underestimate potential losses. month. In addition, as for risk management of banking activities, it is important to properly measure interest rate risk so that we calculate Cross-shareholdings portfolio management activities interest risk using appropriate methods such as recognizing demand We take the market risk management approach with use of VAR and deposits as “core deposits.” risk indices for cross-shareholdings portfolio management activities to properly manage stock price risk. Specifically, we monitor The following graph shows the VAR related to our banking activities VAR measurements and the state of risk capital on a daily basis. excluding our cross-shareholdings portfolio for the year ended March Moreover, in order to control stock price risk, we are working on the 31, 2018: reduction in cross-shareholdings through careful negotiations with counterparties. Fiscal 2017 VAR (banking activities) Back testing VAR In order to evaluate the effectiveness of market risk measurements (VAR: ¥ billion) Interest rate on five-year government bonds (%) 350 0.4 calculated using the VAR method, we carry out regular back tests to compare VAR with assumptive profits and losses. Assumptive profits 300 0.3 and losses accounts for general market risk. The graph below shows 250 0.2 daily VAR of trading activities for the fiscal year ended March 31, 200 0.1 2018 and the corresponding paired distribution of profits and losses. 150 0.0 We had zero case where losses exceeded VAR during the period. In addition, we conduct evaluations of the assumptions related to 100 -0.1 the VAR models. Based on the number of times losses exceeded 50 -0.2 VAR through back testing and the results of the evaluation of the 0 -0.3 model assumptions, we will make adjustments to the models as appropriate. Changes to fundamental portions of the VAR models are 04/03/2017 04/22/2017 05/11/2017 05/30/2017 06/18/2017 07/07/2017 07/26/2017 08/14/2017 09/02/2017 09/21/2017 10/10/2017 10/29/2017 11/17/2017 12/06/2017 12/25/2017 01/13/2018 02/01/2018 02/20/2018 03/11/2018 03/30/2018 subject to the approval of our Group Chief Risk Officer. Fiscal 2017 back testing Assumed profit or loss (¥ billion) The following table shows the VAR figures relating to our banking 6 activities for the fiscal years indicated: 4 VAR (banking activities) (¥ billion) 2 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Change As of fiscal 321.5 292.7 268.4 (24.3) year end 0 Maximum 360.6 397.5 307.2 (90.2) Minimum 190.0 247.4 210.8 (36.6) (2) Average 284.9 331.0 267.8 (63.2) (4) (6) Characteristics of VAR model 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 VAR is a commonly used market risk management technique. VAR (¥ billion) However, VAR models have the following shortcomings: Note: We conduct our back testing and assess the number of cases where losses exceed VAR based on a 250 business day year. The expected average number of instances • By its nature as a statistical approach, VAR estimates possible where one-day trading losses exceeded VAR at the 99% confidence level is 2.5. losses over a certain period at a particular confidence level using past market movement data. Past market movement, however, is not necessarily a good indicator of future events, Stress testing particularly potential future events that are extreme in nature. Because the VAR method is based on statistical assumptions, we • VAR may underestimate the probability of extreme market conduct stress testing to simulate the levels of losses that could movements. be incurred in cases where the market moves suddenly to levels • The use of a 99.0% confidence level does not take account of, that exceed these assumptions. The stress testing methods we use nor makes any statement about, any losses that might occur include the calculation of losses under scenarios in which stresses beyond this confidence level. are applied to interest rate risk and stock price risk based on current and projected economic conditions, historical market events, etc. 119 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk management structure Liquidity risk management Basic approach We define liquidity risk as the risk of losses arising from funding as a whole. Specifically, Mizuho Financial Group establishes the difficulties due to a deterioration in our financial position that fundamental liquidity risk management policy for the entire group, makes it difficult for us to raise necessary funds or that forces manages the liquidity risk of our principal banking subsidiaries and us to raise funds at significantly higher interest rates than usual. other core group companies, and monitors how the group’s liquidity Mizuho Financial Group manages liquidity risk for the Mizuho group risk is being managed as a whole. Liquidity risk management structure Our Board of Directors determines basic matters pertaining to matters relating to planning and running cash flow management liquidity risk management policies. The Risk Management Committee operations, and the Financial Planning Department is responsible of Mizuho Financial Group broadly discusses and coordinates for monitoring and adjusting the cash flow management situation matters relating to basic policies in connection with liquidity risk and for planning and implementing cash flow management to management, operations, and monitoring, and proposes responses maintain appropriate funding liquidity. Reports on liquidity risk to emergencies such as sudden market changes. The Group Chief management are submitted to the Risk Management Committee Risk Officer of Mizuho Financial Group is responsible for matters and the Balance Sheet Management Committee (each of which is a relating to liquidity risk management planning and operations. business policy committee), the Executive Management Committee The Risk Management Department of Mizuho Financial Group is and the President & Group CEO on a regular basis. responsible for monitoring liquidity risk, reporting and analysing, making proposals, and formulating and implementing plans relating Our principal banking subsidiaries and other core group companies to liquidity risk management. In addition, the Group Chief Financial also establish their basic policies on liquidity risk management to Officer of Mizuho Financial Group is additionally responsible for properly identify and manage liquidity risk. Liquidity risk management method We manage liquidity risk with the use of “liquidity risk management testing to verify the sufficiency of liquidity reserve assets and the indicators” and “liquidity categorization.” The former is determined effectiveness of countermeasures against a possible outflow of funds for the purpose of managing limits on funds raised in the market during a stress event. The results of stress testing are used for cash considering our fund raising capabilities, and the latter is determined flow management operations. based on our funding conditions. We also carry out liquidity stress Liquidity risk management indicators Liquidity stress testing Limits on funds raised in the market are set based on a number of We carry out stress testing regularly based on market-wide factors, time horizons taking into account characteristics and strategies of idiosyncratic factors of the group, and a combination of both types each of our principal banking subsidiaries and other core group of factors to verify the sufficiency of liquidity reserve assets and the companies. Such limits are discussed and coordinated by the effectiveness of our liquidity contingency funding plans. Furthermore, Risk Management Committee, discussed further by the Executive we utilize stress testing for evaluating the appropriateness of our Management Committee, and determined by the President & Group annual funding plan. CEO. An excess over any of these limits is immediately reported and addressed according to a pre-determined procedure. Liquidity categorization We have established a group-wide framework of liquidity risk stages such as “normal,” “anxious” and “crisis,” which reflects funding conditions. In addition, we set early warning indicators (“EWIs”) and monitor on a daily basis to manage funding conditions. The EWIs we use include stock prices, credit ratings, amount of liquidity reserve assets such as Japanese government bonds, and our funding situation. 2018 Integrated Report 120 Appendix Operational risk management Basic approach We define operational risk as the risk of losses that may be incurred reputational risk, we have separately determined the fundamental resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, risk management policies for these different types of risk. We human error, or external events. We control operational risk manage the operational risk associated with our principal banking management for the Mizuho group as a whole. Considering that subsidiaries and other core group companies while monitoring the operational risk includes information technology risk, operations risk, state of group-wide operational risk. legal risk, human capital risk, tangible asset risk, regulatory risk, and Definition Principal risk management methods Identify and evaluate the risk by setting specific standards that need to be complied with and implementing measures tailored based on Information technology risk (“IT risk”) shall refer to the risk evaluation results to reduce the risk. that problems (e.g. malfunctions, disruptions, etc.) with the Ensure ongoing project management in systems development and computer systems or improper use of the computers in these Information quality control. systems, which cause disruptions of the services provided to technology risk Strengthen security to prevent information leaks. customers, or have significant impact on settlement systems, Strengthen capabilities for rapidly and effectively dealing with etc., will result in losses for customers, and the incurrence of cyberattacks. losses (tangible or intangible) by our group companies. Improve effectiveness of emergency responses by improving backup systems and holding drills. Establish clearly defined procedures for handling operations. Risk that customers may suffer service disruptions, as well as Periodically check the status of operational processes. the risk that customers or the group may incur losses because Conduct training and development programs led by Head Office. Operations risk senior executives or employees fail to fulfill their tasks Introduce information technology, office automation, and properly, cause accidents or, otherwise act improperly. centralization for operations. Improve the effectiveness of emergency responses by holding drills.  eview and confirm legal issues, including the legality of material R Risk that the group may incur losses due to violation of laws decisions, agreements and external documents, etc. Legal risk and regulations, breach of contract, entering into improper Collect and distribute legal information and conduct internal training contracts or, other legal factors. programs. Analyze and manage issues related to lawsuits. Risk that the group may incur losses due to turnover or loss Conduct employee satisfaction surveys. of personnel, deterioration of morale, inadequate Understand the status of working hours. development of personnel, inappropriate working schedules, Human capital risk Understand the status of vacation days taken by personnel. inappropriate working and safety environment, inequality or Understand the status of voluntary resignations. inequity in human resource management, or discriminatory Understand the status of the stress check system. conduct. M  anage the planning and implementation of construction projects Risk that the group may incur losses from damage to tangible related to the repair and replacement of facilities. assets or a decline in the quality of the working environment Tangible asset risk Identify and evaluate the status of damage to tangible assets caused as a result of disasters, criminal actions, or defects in asset by natural disasters or other causes, and respond appropriately to maintenance. such damage. U  nderstand important changes in regulations or systems that have significant influence on our business operations or financial Risk that the group may incur losses due to changes in condition in a timely and accurate manner. Regulatory risk various regulations or systems, such as those related to law, Analyze degree of influence of regulatory changes and establish taxation, and accounting. countermeasures. Continuously monitor our regulatory risk management mentioned above. E  stablish framework to identify and manage, on an integrated basis, Risk that the group may incur losses due to damage to our information that may have a serious impact on group management credibility or the value of the “Mizuho” brand when market and respond to such risk in a manner appropriate to its scale and Reputational risk participants or others learn about, or the media reports on, nature. various adverse events, including actual materialization of Swiftly identify rumors and devise appropriate responses depending risks or false rumors. on the urgency and possible impact of the situation to minimize possible losses. We also recognize and manage information security risk and compliance risk, which constitute a combination of more than one of the above components, as operational risk. 121 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk management structure Operational risk management structure Our Board of Directors determines basic matters pertaining to market risk, reporting and analysing, making proposals, setting limits operational risk management policies. The Risk Management and guidelines, and formulating and implementing plans relating to Committee of Mizuho Financial Group broadly discusses and operational risk management. coordinates matters relating to basic policies in connection with operational risk management, operational risk operations, and Our principal banking subsidiaries and core group companies operational risk monitoring. The Group Chief Risk Officer of Mizuho establish their basic policies on operational risk management, and Financial Group is responsible for matters relating to operational their Boards of Directors determine important matters relating to risk management planning and operations. The Risk Management operational risk management. Department of Mizuho Financial Group is responsible for monitoring Operational risk management method To manage operational risk, we set common rules for data gathering sophistication and diversification of financial operations and to develop various databases shared by the group and measure developments relating to information technology by utilizing control operational risk as operational VAR on a regular basis, taking into self-assessments and improving measurement methods. account possible future loss events and changes in the business environment and internal management. Control self-assessments An autonomous method of risk management in which risk inherent We have established and are strengthening management methods in operations is identified and, after evaluating and monitoring and systems to appropriately identify, assess, measure, monitor, risks that remain despite implementing risk control, the necessary and control the operational risks that arise from the growing measures are implemented to reduce risk. Definition of risks and risk management methods As shown in the table on the previous page, we have defined management methods in accordance with the scale and nature of each component of operational risk, and we apply appropriate risk each risk. Measurement of operational risk equivalent 1. Implementation of the Advanced Measurement Approach 2. Outline of the AMA (AMA) Outline of the measurement system  We have adopted the AMA for the calculation of operational risk We have established our model by taking account of four elements: equivalent in association with capital adequacy ratios based on the internal loss data; external loss data; scenario analysis and business Basel Accords. However, we use the Basic Indicator Approach for environment; and internal control factors (BEICFs). We calculate entities that are deemed to be less important in the measurement the operational risk amount by estimating the maximum loss, of operational risk equivalent. Entities within our group that use the using a 99.9th percentile one-tailed confidence interval and a oneAMA include the following: Mizuho Financial Group; Mizuho Bank, year holding period as operational risk equivalent, employing both Ltd., Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd.; Mizuho Securities; Mizuho internal loss data (i.e., actually experienced operational loss events), Information & Research Institute, Inc.; Trust & Custody Services Bank, and scenario data to reflect unexperienced potential future loss Ltd.; Mizuho Operation Service, Ltd.; Mizuho Credit Guarantee Co., events in the measurement. Ltd.; Mizuho Business Service Co., Ltd.; Mizuho Trust Operations Co., Ltd.; Mizuho Trust Systems Co., Ltd.; Mizuho Trust Business In the measurement of operational risk equivalent as of March 31, Operations Co., Ltd.; Mizuho Trust Retail Support Co., Ltd.; Mizuho 2018, we did not exclude expected losses and also did not recognize Bank Europe N.V.; and Mizuho International plc. the risk mitigating impact of insurance. In addition, we did not take into account the events related to credit risk in measuring operational The measurement results under the AMA are used not only as the risk equivalent. operational risk equivalent in the calculation of capital adequacy ratios but also as Operational VAR for internal risk management purposes for implementing action plans to reduce operational risk, and other countermeasures. 2018 Integrated Report 122 Appendix Outline of measurement model  Estimation of Frequency Distribution and Loss Severity Operational risk equivalent is calculated as a simple sum of those risk Distribution  amounts related to the seven loss event types defined in the Capital Frequency Distribution is estimated by applying information on Adequacy Notice from Japan’s Financial Services Agency, large-scale occurrence frequency of both internal loss data and scenario data to natural disasters, and litigation. In the measurement of operational Poisson Distribution. Loss Severity Distribution is generated as the risk equivalent as of March 31, 2018, we did not reflect the correlation result of combining, through a statistical approach (Extreme Value effects among operational risk related to each of the seven loss event Theory), of the actual distribution for the low severity distribution types. portion created by internal loss data and another loss distribution (Log-normal Distribution or Generalized Pareto Distribution) for the Operational risk by loss event type  high severity distribution portion created by scenario data. Loss Distribution (Compound Poisson Distribution) Approach (LDA) is adopted for the calculation of operational risk. LDA is based on the assumption that Poisson Distribution applies to the occurrence frequency of operational risk events, and loss severity is expressed through a separate distribution. Operational risk is calculated for each of the seven loss event types employing both internal loss data, based on our actual experience as operational loss events, and scenario data. Scenario data, expressed as numerical values of occurrence frequency and loss severity, reflects external loss data and BEICFs, in order to estimate unexperienced potential future loss events (of low frequency and high severity). Frequency Distribution and Severity Distribution are estimated employing the above mentioned internal loss data and scenario data, and Monte-Carlo simulations are then applied to these distributions to measure operational risk. The detailed steps of creation of scenario data are explained later in the Scenario Analysis. Outline of measurement model Internal loss data External loss data Business environment and Litigation data internal control factors Scenario analysis Risk amount for litigation risk Large-scale natural Risk amount for large-scale Scenario data disaster scenario data natural disasters Risk amount for internal fraud Risk amount for external fraud Distribution of Distribution of Unified Loss distribution Risk amount for employment internal loss scenario data distribution practices and workplace safety Monte-Carlo simulation Risk amount for customers, Frequency Frequency Frequency products, and business practices distribution distribution distribution Risk amount for damage to information information information physical assets Risk amount Risk amount for business Loss severity Loss severity Loss severity disruption and system failure distribution distribution distribution Calculate risk amount information information information by seven loss event Risk amount for execution, types defined by BIS delivery, and process management Operational VAR (Total operational risk amount) 123 Mizuho Financial Group Appendix Risk management structure Operational risk of large-scale natural disasters  Setting units for scenario analysis  Monte-Carlo simulation is applied to the datasets expressed as a In order to ensure completeness and sufficiency, we set units that combination of the probability of occurrence of large-scale natural are commonly applied across group entities that adopt AMA (the disasters and the probable loss amount in case of such occurrence, “Group Entities”) by referencing and categorizing risk scenarios as opposed to estimating Frequency Distribution and Loss Severity recognized through control self-assessment, internal loss data of Distribution. the Group Entities, external loss data, etc. Then each of the Group Entities selects the unit on which scenario analysis is conducted from Operational risk of litigation  the units established on a group-wide basis in accordance with its Each litigation is converted into data according to the profile of the business activities and operational risk profile. individual litigation to which Monte-Carlo simulation is applied, as opposed to estimating Frequency Distribution and Loss Severity Estimation of occurrence frequency  Distribution. In the measurement process, we assume that final Basic occurrence frequency (once a year) is calculated for each decisions will be made on all litigation within one year. scenario analysis unit. If a certain scenario analysis unit has relevant internal loss data of a pre-determined threshold amount or above, Verification  its basic occurrence frequency is calculated based on such data, and We confirm the appropriateness of the measurement model by if not, the basic occurrence frequency (the occurrence frequency per verifying it, in principle, semi-annually. year of losses at or above a pre-determined threshold) is calculated with reference to the situation of occurrence of internal loss data of 3. Scenario analysis less than the threshold amount and/or external loss data. The basic Outline of scenario analysis  occurrence frequency is then adjusted within a pre-determined range In the process of scenario analysis, scenario data is created as for the purpose of reflecting the most recent BEICFs to determine the numerical values of occurrence frequency and loss severity reflecting final occurrence frequency. external loss data and BEICFs, in order to estimate unexperienced potential future operational risk events (of low frequency and high Estimation of Loss Severity Distribution  severity). In order to estimate Loss Severity Distribution, we use a predetermined series of severity ranges. Basic Loss Severity Distribution As for external loss data, we refer to data publicly reported by is calculated for each scenario analysis unit as an occurrence ratio domestic and overseas media, and such data are reflected in the (in percentile figures) of loss at each severity range when losses estimation of occurrence frequency and Loss Severity Distribution in at or above a pre-determined threshold occurred, with reference the process of scenario analysis. In addition, BEICFs are utilized as to transaction amount data, external loss data, etc. Then the basic indices to adjust occurrence frequency and Loss Severity Distribution severity distribution is adjusted, if necessary, from the viewpoint in the process of scenario analysis. of statistical data processing to determine the final Loss Severity Distribution. We categorize scenario analysis into four approaches in accordance with the characteristics of each loss event type and risk management Creation of scenario data  structures. For each scenario analysis unit, scenario data is generated as a series of combinations of occurrence frequency per year at each severity Approach Loss event type(s) to be applied range, based on the final occurrence frequency and the final Loss Internal fraud / external fraud / clients, products, and business Severity Distribution. A practices / execution, delivery, and process management B Employment practices and workplace safety C Damage to physical assets Example of scenario data D Business disruption and system failure Final loss severity distribution At Mizuho Financial Group, loss event types to which Approach A is Severity range (¥ billion) Total applied account for a considerable amount of operational risk. The 0.1 0.5 1 5 10 detailed process of Approach A is explained here as a typical example Occurrence ratio (%) 40 30 15 10 5 100 of scenario analysis. Occurrence frequency (times) 0.4 0.3 0.15 0.1 0.05 1 Final occurrence frequency (As of July 1, 2018) 2018 Integrated Report 124 Appendix Business continuity management In light of our social responsibility and the important role These offices function as a controller in the event of an Mizuho plays within the social infrastructure as a financial emergency that may materially impact business management, institution, ensuring the continuity of financial settlement by collecting and analyzing information, formulating functions and the swift and efficient recovery of operations in countermeasures, and taking other necessary action. In the event of an emergency is one of our top priorities within addition, their role includes collecting and analyzing signs and the group. indicators of a potential crisis, and reporting their findings promptly to management. To improve business continuity management practices across the group, we assess the potential impact of emergencies Particular focus is placed on strengthening our response to beforehand and formulate necessary countermeasures in order natural disasters, covering not only earthquakes and tsunamis to minimize such impact, and to ensure the swift and efficient but also volcanic eruptions, large-scale wind or water damage, recovery of operations. and facilitating initial responses to acts of terrorism and riots. We also focus on responses to cyberattacks that have been One of the ways in which we are working to achieve this is occurring with increasing frequency around the world. by establishing Crisis Management Offices within Mizuho Financial Group, Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking, and Also, to secure the effectiveness of our measures to deal with Mizuho Securities that are responsible for business continuity emergencies, group-wide practice drills and training sessions management and our responses in the event of emergency. are conducted on an annual basis. 125 Mizuho Financial Group Senior executives Mizuho Financial Group Goji Fujishiro Toshio Sobue Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Members of the Board of Directors Head of Global Products Unit Deputy Head of Risk Management Group and Deputy Head of Compliance Group Executive officers as defined in Shuji Kojima the Companies Act Managing Executive Officer Hiroaki Ehara Head of Human Resources Group (Group CHRO) Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Human Resources Group and Deputy Tatsufumi Sakai Head of Internal Audit Group Member of the Board of Directors Executive officers as defined in President & CEO our internal regulations and Yoshihito Bando (Representative Executive Officer) Managing Executive Officer Group CEO specialist officers Deputy Head of Asset Management Company Takanori Nishiyama Satoshi Miyazaki Masashi Hara Member of the Board of Directors Deputy President & Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer In charge of Western Japan (Kinki, Chugoku, and Deputy Head of Global Products Unit Head of Compliance Group (Group CCO) Shikoku regions) Keisuke Saito Makoto Umemiya Takeshi Watanabe Managing Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors Senior Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Global Products Unit Managing Executive Officer In charge of Specific Duties Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group (Group CFO) Hiroshi Itabashi Daisuke Yamada Managing Executive Officer Yasuyuki Shibata Senior Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Corporate & Institutional Company Member of the Board of Directors Chief Digital Innovation Officer and Deputy Chief Digital Innovation Officer Managing Executive Officer Teiji Teramoto Toshiro Egawa Head of Risk Management Group (Group CRO) Senior Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Hisashi Kikuchi Head of the Americas Deputy Head of Retail & Business Banking Company Member of the Board of Directors Managing Executive Officer Haruki Nakamura Naoyuki Machinaga Head of Strategic Planning Group (Group CSO) Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Joint Head of IT & Systems Group Deputy Head of Research & Consulting Unit Yasuhiro Sato Member of the Board of Directors, Chairman Koji Arita Masao Kanamaru Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Ryusuke Aya Joint Head of Operations Group Deputy Head of Global Corporate Company, Deputy Member of the Board of Directors Head of Global Markets Company and Deputy Head Shingo Asano of Global Products Unit Nobukatsu Funaki Managing Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors In charge of Specific Business of Retail & Business Banking Company Naofumi Fuke Managing Executive Officer Tetsuo Seki Takahiko Yasuhara Deputy Head of Retail & Business Banking Company Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Managing Executive Officer Head of East Asia Atsushi Takahashi Takashi Kawamura Managing Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Koji Yonei Deputy Head of Global Markets Company Managing Executive Officer Tatsuo Kainaka Joint Head of IT & Systems Group and General Toshio Hirota Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Manager of IT & Systems Promotion Department Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Corporate & Institutional Company Hirotake Abe Masatoshi Yoshihara Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Managing Executive Officer Tatsuya Yamada Deputy Head of Global Markets Company Managing Executive Officer Hiroko Ota Deputy Head of Financial Control & Accounting Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Hisaaki Hirama Group and Deputy Head of IT & Systems Group Izumi Kobayashi Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Internal Audit Group Masaya Oishi Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Managing Executive Officer Toshitsugu Okabe Naoto Takahashi Deputy Head of Asset Management Company Deputy President & Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer In charge of Specific Duties of Strategic Planning Taiji Kumagai (Representative Executive Officer) Group and General Manager of Next–Generation IT Managing Executive Officer Head of Retail & Business Banking Company Systems Coordination Project Team Deputy Head of Compliance Group Daisaku Abe Hiroshi Nagamine Kenji Fujii Deputy President & Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Head of IT & Systems Group (Group CIO) and Head Head of Europe, Middle East and Africa Deputy Head of Research & Consulting Unit and of Operations Group (Group COO) Deputy Head of Risk Management Group Riki Shibata Junichi Kato Managing Executive Officer Hideyuki Kawashima Senior Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Global Markets Company Managing Executive Officer Head of Global Markets Company Deputy Head of Internal Audit Group Hidenobu Mukai Katsunobu Motohashi Managing Executive Officer Yuzo Kanamori Senior Managing Executive Officer In charge of Specific Business of Retail & Business Banking Company Managing Executive Officer Head of Asset Management Company Deputy Head of Global Corporate Company, Deputy Hidekatsu Take Head of Global Products Unit, Deputy Head of Akira Nakamura Managing Executive Officer Strategic Planning Group, Deputy Head of Operations Senior Managing Executive Officer Head of Asia & Oceania excl. East Asia Group and Deputy Chief Digital Innovation Officer Head of Corporate & Institutional Company Akihito Mochizuki Yasuto Hamanishi Seiji Imai Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer In charge of Specific Duties of Strategic Planning Group Deputy Head of Global Corporate Company and Head of Global Corporate Company Deputy Head of Global Products Unit Kazuhisa Sawa Tsutomu Nomura Managing Executive Officer Kenji Tsujitsugu Managing Executive Officer Deputy Head of Strategic Planning Group, Deputy Managing Executive Officer Head of Internal Audit Group (Group CA) Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group, Deputy Head of Corporate & Institutional Company Deputy Head of IT & Systems Group and Deputy Motonori Wakabayashi Head of Operations Group Takafumi Matake Managing Executive Officer Managing Executive Officer Head of Research & Consulting Unit Deputy Head of Human Resources Group 2018 Integrated Report 126 Asashi Katou Shigeo Ohara Naofumi Fuke* Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Deputy President General Manager for IT & Systems Group (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Head of Retail & Business Banking Division Eishi Shimizu Toshio Kinoshita Atsushi Takahashi* Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Deputy President General Manager of Channel Strategy Department (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Head of Global Markets Division and Head of Global Markets Bo Kusanagi Seiji Koga Toshio Hirota* Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Senior Executive Managing Director (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) General Manager of Asset Management Coordination Department Head of Global Investment Banking Division Hiroyuki Iijima Executive officers Tatsuya Yamada* Executive Officer General Manager of Retail & Business Banking (Head of each region outside Japan) Senior Executive Managing Director (Representative Director) Coordination Department Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group, Head Teiji Teramoto of IT & Systems Group, Head of Global Finance and Masaomi Takada Senior Managing Executive Officer Head of Global IT Executive Officer Head of the Americas General Manager of Executive Secretariat Masaya Oishi* Takahiko Yasuhara Executive Managing Director Shinya Uda Managing Executive Officer Head of Fund Business Division and In charge of JA Executive Officer Head of East Asia Sales Dept. of Global Markets Division General Manager of Global Talent Planning and Management Department Hiroshi Nagamine Taiji Kumagai* Managing Executive Officer Executive Managing Director Masahiro Kosugi Head of Europe, Middle East and Africa Head of Compliance Group and Head of Global Compliance Executive Officer General Manager of Accounting Department Hidekatsu Take Kenji Fujii* Managing Executive Officer Executive Managing Director Masahiko Kato Head of Asia & Oceania excl. East Asia Head of Research & Consulting Unit, Head of Risk Specialist Officer Management Group, In charge of Due Diligence Dept. General Manager for IT & Systems Group and Head of Global Risk Management Mizuho Trust & Banking Yasumasa Mukai Hideyuki Kawashima* Specialist Officer Members of the Board of Directors Executive Managing Director General Manager for IT & Systems Group Head of Internal Audit Group and SC Group Chief Takeo Nakano Audit Executive Chairman Mizuho Bank Yuzo Kanamori* Tetsuo Iimori* Executive Managing Director Members of the Board of Directors President & CEO (Representative Director) Head of Strategic Planning Group, Head of Operations group, In charge of Investment Dept. and Kazuhisa Sawa* In charge of Markets Strategic Intelligence Dept. Nobuhide Hayashi Deputy President (Representative Director) Chairman Head of Strategic Planning, Financial Control & Tatsufumi Sakai Koji Fujiwara* Accounting Group, Head of IT & Systems Group, Head Member of the Board of Directors of Operations Group and In charge of Executive Secretariat President & CEO (Representative Director) Hidetaka Kawakita Satoshi Miyazaki* Toshio Sobue* Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Executive Managing Director Deputy President (Representative Director) In charge of Western Japan (Kinki, Chugoku, and Head of Risk Management Group and Head of Yasushi Higo Compliance Group Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & Shikoku regions) Supervisory Committee Member) Kiyoshi Miyake* Hiroaki Ehara* Deputy President (Representative Director) Executive Managing Director Hiroki Takeshi Head of Business Promotion Head of Human Resources Group and Head of Internal Audit Group Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Shusaku Tsuhara* Tatsufumi Sakai Member of the Board of Directors Hideo Etani Deputy President (Representative Director) Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Head of Business Promotion Masaru Ono (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Takanori Nishiyama* Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Yuji Yoshimasu Executive Managing Director Eiji Ogawa Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Head of Compliance Group Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Makoto Umemiya* Masato Monguchi Masaru Ono Executive Managing Director Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Head of Financial Control & Accounting Group Supervisory Committee Member) (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Yasuyuki Shibata* Hiroyuki Hatano Executive Managing Director Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & Notes: Head of Risk Management Group Supervisory Committee Member) 1. * indicates directors concurrently serving as Hisashi Kikuchi* Masayuki Satake executive officers. Executive Managing Director Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) 2. E xecutive officers, excluding the directors Head of Strategic Planning Group (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) concurrently serving as executive officers and Tatsufumi Sakai Kiyotaka Fuke executive officers responsible for global regional Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) operations of Mizuho Bank, have not been listed. (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) 3. Executive officers, excluding the directors Masayuki Yonetani Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & Ryuta Nakajima concurrently serving as executive officers of Supervisory Committee Member) Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Mizuho Trust & Banking and Mizuho Securities, (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) have not been listed. Koji Nishiwaki Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & Mizuho Securities (As of June 22, 2018) Supervisory Committee Member) Kazutoshi Narita Members of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) Kosuke Nakamura Chairman Yukio Machida Member of the Board of Directors (Outside Director) Koichi Iida* (Audit & Supervisory Committee Member) President & CEO (Representative Director) 127 Mizuho Financial Group Location of offices outside Japan (As of June 30, 2018) Network of Mizuho Bank Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. India Suzhou Branch Bangalore-Devanahalli Branch Asia and Oceania 17th Floor, Genway Building, 188 Wangdun Road, Suzhou Industrial Park, Suzhou, Jiangsu Province 215123, #462/440/339, 2nd Floor, Near Jain Temple, N.H.7/4-207, (Country/Region) The People’s Republic of China B.B. Road, Vijayapura Cross, Devanahalli Town, TEL 86-512-6733-6888 Bangalore Rural District 562 110, Karnataka, India Australia TEL 91-80-4968-2000 Sydney Branch Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Chennai Branch Level 33, 60 Margaret Street, Sydney, N.S.W. 2000, Australia Tianjin Branch Unit No. 11B, 11th Floor, Prestige Palladium Bayan, TEL 61-2-8273-3888 5th Floor, E2 ABC, East Wing Binhai Finance Zone, Nos. 129 to 140, Greams Road, Chennai – 600 006, No. 20 Xinchengdong Road, TEDA, Tianjin 300457, Tamil Nadu, India Mizuho Australia Ltd. The People’s Republic of China TEL 91-44-4928-6600 Level 33, 60 Margaret Street, Sydney, N.S.W. 2000, Australia TEL 86-22-6622-5588 TEL 61-2-8273-3888 Mumbai Branch Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Level 17 TOWER–A Peninsula Business Park, Cambodia Wuhan Branch Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 400013, India 5th Floor, Tower A, New World Center Tower, Phnom Penh Branch TEL 91-22-4911-2000 634 Jiefang Avenue, Hankou, Wuhan, 13A Floor, Phnom Penh Tower, #445, Monivong Blvd (St. 93/232) Sangkat Boeung Pralit, Hubei Province 430032, New Delhi Branch The People’s Republic of China 1st Floor, DLF Capitol Point, Baba Kharag Singh Marg, Khan 7 Makara, Phnom Penh, Cambodia TEL 86-27-8342-5000 TEL 855-23-964-490 Connaught Place, New Delhi, 110001, India TEL 91-11-3041-0900 Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. China Wuxi Branch Ahmedabad Branch Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. 8th Floor, Wuxi SI Park B, No. 16 Changjiang Road, Office No. 402, 4th Floor, Commerce House–5, 23rd Floor, Shanghai World Financial Center, WND, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province 214028, Nr. Vodafone House, Prahladnagar Corporate Road, 100 Century Avenue, Pudong New Area, Shanghai The People’s Republic of China Prahladnagar Satellite, Ahmedabad–380 051, India 200120, The People’s Republic of China TEL 86-510-8522-3939 TEL 91-79-4014-4666 TEL 86-21-3855-8888 Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Indonesia Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Changshu Sub-Branch PT. Bank Mizuho Indonesia Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone Sub-Branch Room701-704, Kechuang Building, No. 333 Dongnan Road, Changshu New & Hi-tech Industrial Development Zone, Sinar Mas Land Plaza Menara 2, 24th Floor, Room 01, 08, 09, 10, 11, 12, 7F, Shanghai International Jiangsu Province, 215500, The People’s Republic of China Jl. M. H. Thamrin No. 51, Jakarta 10350, Communication and Trade Building, 55 Jilong Road, TEL 86-512-6733-6888 Republic of Indonesia Shanghai 200131, The People’s Republic of China TEL 62-21-392-5222 TEL 86-21-3855-8888 Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Dalian Economic & Technological Korea Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Beijing Branch Development Area Sub-Branch Seoul Branch 8th Floor, West Wing, World Financial Center, 22nd Floor, International Business Building of Gugeng, 19th Floor, Seoul Finance Center, 136, Sejong-daero, No. 1 Dong San Huan Zhong Road, Chaoyang District, No. 81 Hongmei Area, Dalian Economic & Technological Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea Beijing 100020, The People’s Republic of China Development Area, Dalian, Liaoning Province 116600, TEL 822-3782-8500 TEL 86-10-6525-1888 The People’s Republic of China TEL 86-411-8793-5670 Malaysia Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Dalian Branch Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Labuan Branch 23rd Floor, 24th Floor-A, Senmao Building, Kunshan Sub-Branch Level 9 (B) & (C), Main Office Tower, 147 Zhongshan Road, Xigang District, Room D,E, 18th Floor, Dongan Building, Financial Park Labuan, Jalan Merdeka, Dalian, Liaoning Province 116011, No. 258 Chunxu Road, Development Zone Kunshan City, 87000 Federal Territory of Labuan, Malaysia The People’s Republic of China Kunshan, Jiangsu Province 215300, TEL 60-87-417766 TEL 86-411-8360-2543 The People’s Republic of China TEL 86-512-6733-6888 Labuan Branch, Kuala Lumpur Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Marketing Office Guangzhou Branch Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Level 27, Menara Maxis, Kuala Lumpur City Centre, 25th Floor, International Finance Place, No. 8 Huaxia Road, Tianjin Heping Sub-Branch 50088 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Zhujiang New Town, Tianhe District, Guangzhou, Room 1902, Tianjin International Building, TEL 60-3-2070-6880 Guangdong Province 510623, No. 75 Nanjing Road, Heping Area, Tianjin 300050, The People’s Republic of China The People’s Republic of China Mizuho Bank (Malaysia) Berhad TEL 86-20-3815-0888 TEL 86-22-6622-5588 Level 27, Menara Maxis, Kuala Lumpur City Centre, 50088 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Nanjing Representative Office TEL 60-3-2058-6881 Hefei Branch Room 2220, Suning Universal Hotel, 188 Guangzhou Road, Room No. 1902-1907, No. 7 Office Building Wanda Plaza, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province 210024, Myanmar 130 Maanshan Street, Baohe District, Hefei, The People’s Republic of China TEL 86-25-8332-9379 Yangon Branch Anhui Province, The People’s Republic of China TEL 86-551-6380-0690 Sedona Business Suites, Level 4, Xiamen Representative Office No. 1 Ka Ba Aye Pagoda Road, Yankin Township, Yangon, Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Room 2102, The Bank Center, No. 189 Xiahe Road, Republic of the Union of Myanmar Siming District, Xiamen, Fujian Province 361003, TEL 95-1-860-5501 Qingdao Branch The People’s Republic of China 44th Floor, Qingdao International Finance Center, Yangon Branch Thilawa Front Office TEL 86-592-239-5571 59 Hong Kong Middle Road, Shinan District, Qingdao, Room No. 204, Administration Building, Shandong Province 266071, The People’s Republic of China Hong Kong Corner of Thilawa Development Road and Dagon-Thilawa Road, Thilawa SEZ, Thanlyin Township, Yangon, TEL 86-532-8097-0001 Hong Kong Branch Republic of the Union of Myanmar 13/F, K11 Atelier, 18 Salisbury Road Tsim Sha Tsui, TEL 95-1-230-9046 Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. Kowloon Hong Kong, S.A.R., Shenzhen Branch The People’s Republic of China Philippines 30th Floor, Huanggang Business Center Tower1, TEL 852-2306-5000 Jintian Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, Manila Branch Guangdong Province 518046, Mizuho Capital Markets (HK) Limited 25th Floor, Zuellig Building, Makati Avenue corner Paseo de The People’s Republic of China 12/F, K11 Atelier, 18 Salisbury Road, Tsim Sha Tsui, Roxas, Makati City 1225, Metro Manila, Philippines TEL 86-755-8282-9000 Kowloon, Hong Kong, S.A.R., TEL 63-2-860-3500 The People’s Republic of China India TEL 852-2306-5781 2018 Integrated Report 128 Singapore Frankfurt Branch The Americas Singapore Branch TaunusTurm 34th Floor, Taunustor 1, 60310 Frankfurt am (Country/Region) Main, Germany 12 Marina View, #08-01 Asia Square Tower 2, TEL 49-69-29-72-95-0 Bahamas Singapore 018961, Republic of Singapore TEL 65-6805-2000 Iran Mizuho Bank (USA) Nassau Branch 308 East Bay Street, P.O. Box N-7768, Nassau, Bahamas Taiwan Tehran Representative Office 3rd Floor, No. 1, 14th Street, Khaled Eslamboli Avenue, Brazil Kaohsiung Branch Tehran 15117, Iran 12th Floor, No. 2, Chung Cheng 3rd Road, TEL 98-21-8872-6593 Banco Mizuho do Brasil S.A. Kaohsiung 800, Taiwan Avenida Presidente Juscelino Kubitschek, TEL 886-7-236-8768 Italy 2041Torre E7andar, Vila Olimpia, Sao Paulo, SP, CEP. 04543-011, Brazil Taichung Branch Milan Branch TEL 55-11-5504-9844 8th Floor, No. 169, Fuhui Parkway, Taichung 407, Taiwan 6th Floor, Largo Augusto 7, 20122 Milan, Republic of Italy TEL 886-4-2374-6300 TEL 39-02-778-0001 Canada Taipei Branch Saudi Arabia Canada Branch 8-9th Floor, Cathay Landmark Square, 100 Yonge Street, Suite 1102, Toronto, Ontario, 68 Zhong Xiao East Road, Xinyi District, Mizuho Saudi Arabia Company Canada, M5C 2W1 Taipei, Taiwan North Lobby 1st Floor, Al Faisaliah Tower, TEL 1-416-874-0222 TEL 886-2-8726-3000 King Fahd Road, Olaya District, Riyadh 11544, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Calgary Office Thailand TEL 966-11-273-4111 Suite 1000, 888 3rd Street, South West, Calgary, Alberta, Canada, T2P 5C5 Bangkok Branch South Africa TEL 1-403-444-5375 98 Sathorn Square Office Tower 32nd – 35th floor, North Sathorn Road, Silom, Bangrak, Bangkok 10500, Johannesburg Representative Office Cayman Islands Thailand 2nd Floor, West Tower, Maude Street, TEL 66-2-163-2999, 2-002-0222 Nelson Mandela Square, Sandton 2196, South Africa, Cayman Branch P.O. Box 785553, Sandton 2146 P. O. Box 1353, Harbour Place, 5th Floor, Eastern Seaboard Branch TEL 27-11-881-5410 103 South Church Street, George Town, 300/7 ESIE Plaza 2, Unit No. 2-05 Moo 1, Tambol Ta Sit, Grand Cayman KY1-1108, Cayman Islands Amphoe Pluak Daeng, Rayong 21140, Thailand Spain TEL 66-3-899-7000 Mizuho Bank Europe N.V. Chile Vietnam Madrid Branch Santiago Representative Office Calle Orense 34, Planta 6, Edificio Iberia Mart II, Av. Apoquindo 3472, Piso 7, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile Hanoi Branch 28020 Madrid, Spain TEL 56-2-3203-5773 4th Floor, 63 LTT Building, 63 Ly Thai To Street, Hanoi, TEL 34-91-598-2905 Socialist Republic of Vietnam Mexico TEL 84-24-3936-3123/3124 The Netherlands Mexico Representative Office Ho Chi Minh City Branch Mizuho Bank Europe N.V Paseo de la Reforma 342, Piso 10, Colonia Juarez, 18th Floor, Sun Wah Tower, Apollolaan 171, 1077 AS Amsterdam, The Netherlands Delegacion, Cuauhtemoc, 06600, Ciudad de Mexico, Mexico 115 Nguyen Hue Boulevard, District 1, TEL 31-20-5734343 TEL 52-55-5281-5037 Ho Chi Minh City, Socialist Republic of Vietnam TEL 84-28-3827-8260/8292 Turkey Mizuho Bank Mexico, S.A. Europe, the Middle East and Africa Istanbul Representative Office Paseo de la Reforma 342, Piso 10, Colonia Juarez, Office 813, Tekfen Tower 8th Floor, Delegacion, Cuauhtemoc, 06600, Ciudad de Mexico, Mexico (Country/Region) TEL 52-55-5281-5037 Buyukdere Caddesi No. 209, 4. Levent 34394, Istanbul, Turkey Austria Mizuho Bank Mexico, S.A. TEL 90-212-371-8474 Mizuho Bank Europe N.V. Leon Office Vienna Branch UAE Blvd. Paseo de los Insurgentes 3356, Torre 2, nivel 2, Col. San Jose de las Piletas, 37530 Leon, DC Tower 26th Floor, Donau-City-Strasse 7, DIFC Branch-Dubai Guanajuato, Mexico 1220 Vienna, Austria The Gate Building, East Wing, Level 5, Dubai International TEL 52-477-6885-248/249 TEL 43-1-269-1000-00 Financial Centre, P.O. Box No: 506607, Dubai, United Arab Bahrain Emirates USA TEL 971-4-279-4400 Bahrain Representative Office Chicago Branch Suite 201-202, Entrance 4, 2nd Floor, Manama Center, United Kingdom 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 2100, Chicago, IL 60606, USA Manama, Bahrain London Branch TEL 1-312-855-1111 (P.O. BOX 5759, Manama, Bahrain) Mizuho House, 30 Old Bailey, London EC4M 7AU, United TEL 973-17-224522 Kingdom Los Angeles Branch TEL 44-20-7012-4000 350 South Grand Avenue, Suite 1500, Los Angeles, Belgium CA 90071, USA Mizuho Bank Europe N.V. Mizuho Capital Markets (UK) Limited TEL 1-213-243-4500 Mizuho House, 30 Old Bailey, London EC4M 7AU, United Brussels Branch Kingdom New York Branch Avenue Louise 480, 1050 Brussels, Belgium TEL 44-20-3446-4500 1251 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020, USA TEL 32-2-645-5280 TEL 1-212-282-3000 Russia France Park Avenue Branch AO Mizuho Bank (Moscow) Paris Branch 5th floor, 20, bld.1, Ovchinnikovskaya nab., 320 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10022, USA Washington Plaza 40, rue Washington, TEL 1-212-282-3000 115035 Moscow, Russian Federation 75408 Paris Cedex 08, France TEL 7-495-212-0333 TEL 33-1-5383-4000 Atlanta Representative Office 3353 Peachtree Road NE, Atlanta Financial Center, Germany Suite 500, Atlanta, GA 30326, USA TEL 1-404-364-1550 Duesseldorf Branch Benrather Strasse 18-20, 40213 Duesseldorf, F.R. Germany Dallas Representative Office TEL 49-211-13020 5345 Towne Square Drive, Suite 285, Plano, TX 75024, USA TEL 1-972-324-3350 129 Mizuho Financial Group Houston Representative Office Network of Mizuho Trust & Banking Mizuho Securities USA LLC 2700 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 1270, Houston, TX 77056, USA 320 Park Avenue, 12th Floor, New York, NY 10022, USA TEL 1-713-499-4800 TEL 1-212-209-9300 Mizuho Trust & Banking San Francisco Representative Office (Luxembourg) S.A. Mizuho Securities USA LLC 235 Pine Street, San Francisco, CA 94104, USA 1B, rue Gabriel Lippmann, L-5365 Munsbach, Boston Office TEL 1-415-365-1750 Grand Duchy of Luxembourg 125 High Street, 21st Floor, Boston, MA 02110, USA TEL 352-42-16-17-1 TEL 1-617-235-1722 Washington, D.C. Representative Office 1275 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Suite 310, Washington, Mizuho Securities USA LLC Chicago Office DC 20004, USA Network of Mizuho Securities 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 700, Chicago, TEL 1-202-292-5080 IL 60606, USA TEL 1-312-294-8800 Mizuho Bank (USA) Beijing Representative Office 1251 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020, USA 8011, Chang-Fu-Gong Office Building, Jia 26, Mizuho Securities USA LLC TEL 1-212-282-3000 Jianguomenwai Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100022, The People’s Republic of China Chicago Office (Investment Banking) Mizuho Bank (USA) 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 2100, Chicago, TEL 86-10-6523-4779 IL 60606, USA Atlanta Representative Office TEL 1-312-855-1111 3353 Peachtree Road NE, Atlanta Financial Center, Shanghai Representative Office Suite 500, Atlanta, GA 30326, USA T32 33rd floor, Shanghai World Financial Center, 100 Century Avenue, Pudong New Area, Shanghai Mizuho Securities USA LLC TEL 1-404-364-1550 200120, The People’s Republic of China Houston Office (Investment Banking) Mizuho Bank (USA) TEL 86-21-6877-8000 2700 Post Oak Blvd, Suite 1270, Houston, TX 77056, USA Chicago Representative Office TEL 1-713-499-4800 311 South Wacker Drive, Suite 2100, Chicago, IL 60606, Mizuho Investment Consulting USA (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. T51 33rd floor, Shanghai World Financial Center, Mizuho Securities USA LLC TEL 1-312-855-1111 100 Century Avenue, Pudong New Area, Shanghai Iselin Office Mizuho Bank (USA) 200120, The People’s Republic of China 101 Wood Avenue S, 3rd Floor, Iselin, NJ 08830, USA Dallas Representative Office TEL 86-21-6877-5888 TEL 1-201-626-1000 5345 Towne Square Drive, Suite 285, Plano, TX 75024, USA Mizuho Investment Consulting Mizuho Securities USA LLC TEL 1-972-324-3350 Los Angeles Office (Investment Banking) (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 350 South Grand Avenue, Suite 1500, Los Angeles, Mizuho Bank (USA) Beijing Branch CA 90071, USA Houston Representative Office 6010, Chang-Fu-Gong Office Building, Jia 26, TEL 1-213-243-4500 2700 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 1270, Houston, TX 77056, USA Jianguomenwai Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100022, TEL 1-713-499-4800 The People’s Republic of China Mizuho Securities USA LLC TEL 86-10-6526-7577 Mizuho Bank (USA) New York Office (Investment Banking) 1251 Avenue of the Americas, 30th Floor, Los Angeles Representative Office Mizuho Securities Asia Limited New York, NY 10020, USA 350 South Grand Avenue, Suite 1500, Los Angeles, 14-15/F, K11 Atelier, 18 Salisbury Road, TEL 1-212-282-3000 CA 90071, USA Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong, S.A.R., TEL 1-213-243-4500 The People’s Republic of China TEL 852-2685-2000 Mizuho Securities USA LLC Mizuho Bank (USA) San Francisco Office Mizuho Securities Asia Limited, 235 Pine Street, 19th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94104, USA Park Avenue Branch TEL 1-415-268-5500 320 Park Avenue, New York, NY 10022, USA Seoul Branch TEL 1-212-282-3030 20th Floor, Seoul Finance Center, 136, Sejongdaero,Jung-gu, Seoul, 04520, Korea Mizuho Securities USA LLC Mizuho Bank (USA) TEL 822-2206-1800 San Francisco Office (Investment Banking) 235 Pine Street, 19th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94104, USA San Francisco Representative Office Mizuho Securities Asia Limited TEL 1-415365-1750 235 Pine Street, San Francisco, CA 94104, USA TEL 1-415-365-1750 (Sydney Office) Level 33, 60 Margaret Street, Sydney, N.S.W. 2000, Mizuho Securities USA LLC Mizuho Alternative Investments, LLC Australia Philadelphia Office TEL 612-8114-4511 Two Logan Square, 100 N. 18th Street, Suite 326, 757 Third Avenue, 8th Floor, New York, NY 10017, USA Philadelphia, PA 19103, USA TEL 1-212-282-4804 Mizuho Securities India Private Limited TEL 1-267207-3541 Mizuho Capital Markets LLC Level 18, TOWER–A, Peninsula Business Park, 320 Park Avenue, 12th Floor, New York, NY 10022, USA Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai 400013, India TEL 1-212-547-1500 TEL 91-22-4353-7600 Network of Asset Management One Mizuho Securities (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Mizuho Desk 12 Marina View #10-01A, Asia Square Tower 2, Asset Management One Hong Kong Limited (Country/Region) Singapore 018961 12/F., K11 Atelier, 18 Salisbury Road, TEL 65-6603-5688 Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong, S.A.R, UAE The People’s Republic of China Mizuho Bank (Switzerland) Ltd TEL 852-2918-9030 Mashreqbank psc Loewenstrasse 32, 8021 Zurich, Switzerland Japan Desk, Mashreqbank Building 3F, Dubai Internet City, TEL 41-44-216-9111 Asset Management One Singapore Pte. Ltd. Mashreqbank, P.O. Box 1250, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 2 Shenton Way #12-01 SGX Centre I, Singapore 068804 TEL 971-4-363-2324/2285 Mizuho International plc TEL 65-6532-5470 Mizuho House, 30 Old Bailey, London EC4M 7AU, United “Mizuho Desk” Kingdom Asset Management One USA Inc. By forming tie-ups with major financial institutions in TEL 44-20-7236-1090 400 Park Avenue, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10022, USA regions where Mizuho does not possess offices, we TEL 1-212-350-7650 offer our clients financial services through various Mizuho International plc institutions. (Transactions are conducted directly between the client and the local financial institution.) Frankfurt Office Asset Management One International Ltd. TaunusTurm 34th Floor, Taunustor 1, 60310 Frankfurt am Mizuho House, 30 Old Bailey, London, EC4M 7AU, UK Main, Germany TEL 44-207-329-3777 TEL 49-69-4272-93001 Mizuho International plc (DIFC Branch) The Gate Building, East Wing, Level 5, Dubai International Financial Centre, PO Box 507206, Dubai, U.A.E. TEL 44-20-7090-6181 2018 Integrated Report 130 Investor information Date of establishment Convocation of general meetings of shareholders January 8, 2003 An ordinary general meeting of shareholders of the Company shall be convened no later than 3 months from the last day of Paid-in capital each business year and an extraordinary general meeting of ¥2,256.5 billion shareholders shall be convened whenever necessary. Issued shares Record date 25,389,644,945 shares 1. The Company shall deem shareholders having voting rights appearing in writing or electronically in the register of Number of shareholders shareholders as of the end of March 31 of each year as the Common stock: 1,016,315 shareholders who are entitled to exercise their rights at the ordinary general meeting of shareholders for the relevant Major shareholders (common stock) business year. 2. The provision of the preceding paragraph shall apply mutatis Percentage mutandis to the record date for voting rights at the general of shares Shares held outstanding meetings of holders of classes of stock, where there is a (%) matter to be resolved at an ordinary general meeting of The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. shareholders that requires, in addition to such resolution, a 1 1,070,043,700 4.21 resolution by the relevant general meeting of holders of class (trustee account) of stock. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 3. In addition to the preceding two paragraphs, the Company 2 1,054,777,400 4.15 (trustee account) may set an extraordinary record date, when necessary, by Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. a determination by Executive Officer(s) under the authority 3 512,108,700 2.01 delegated by the Board of Directors and upon giving a prior (trustee account 5) public notice thereof. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 4 479,711,500 1.88 (trustee account 9) Organizations that decide dividends from surplus The Company shall decide distribution of dividends from State Street Bank surplus and other matters provided for in each item of Article 5 453,273,840 1.78 West Client – Treaty 505234 459, Paragraph 1 of the Companies Act of Japan, not by a Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. resolution of a general meeting of shareholders, but by a 6 381,129,200 1.50 resolution of the Board of Directors, unless otherwise provided (trustee account 1) for in laws or regulations. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 7 374,905,000 1.47 (trustee account 2) Record date for distribution of dividends from surplus The record dates for distribution of dividends from surplus of 8 JP Morgan Chase Bank 385151 341,932,527 1.34 the Company shall be March 31 and September 30 of each year. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 9 325,656,600 1.28 (trustee account 7) ADR* information Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. Outline of Mizuho Financial Group’s ADR 10 308,675,100 1.21 (trustee account 4) 1. Exchange : New York Stock Exchange 2. Ticker symbol : MFG Notes: 1. Figures for the percentage of shares outstanding are rounded 3. CUSIP : 60687Y109 down to the nearest second decimal place. 4. Conversion ratio : 1 ADR = 2 common shares 2. The percentages of shares outstanding are calculated by excluding 5. Depositary bank : The Bank of New York Mellon the treasury stock (6,487,234 shares). 101 Barclay Street  (As of March 31, 2018) New York, NY 10286 Phone: 1-201-680-6825 US Toll Free: 888-269-2377 Stock listing http://www.adrbnymellon.com/ (common stock) 6. Local custodian bank : Mizuho Bank, Ltd. Tokyo Stock Exchange * ADRs are securities issued for the purpose of trading in the US in place of the underlying stock of foreign companies. As ADRs are registered with Accounting auditors the SEC as US securities, they are traded, settled and held in custody in Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC substantively the same manner as the stocks of US companies. ADR is an acronym for American Depositary Receipts. Shareholder register manager Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Share unit 100 shares Fiscal year April 1 to March 31 131 Mizuho Financial Group Financial Analysis [Under Japanese GAAP] 133 Key Indicators of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 135 Status of Asset Quality 132 Financial Analysis Key Indicators of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Key Indicators of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. (Consolidated) Billions of yen As of or for the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total Income ¥3,590.8 ¥3,351.7 ¥3,235.6 ¥3,180.8 ¥2,940.7 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent 576.5 603.5 670.9 611.9 688.4 Comprehensive Income 765.5 558.1 304.5 1,941.0 832.9 Net Assets 9,821.2 9,273.3 9,353.2 9,800.5 8,304.5 Total Assets 205,028.3 200,508.6 193,458.5 189,684.7 175,822.8 Deposits 136,463.8 130,676.4 117,456.6 113,452.4 101,811.2 Loans and Bills Discounted 79,421.4 78,337.7 73,708.8 73,415.1 69,301.4 Securities 34,183.0 32,353.1 39,505.9 43,278.7 43,997.5 Net Assets per Share (Yen) 357.41 335.96 322.46 322.86 253.25 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share (Yen) 22.72 23.86 26.94 24.91 28.18 Diluted Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share (Yen) 22.72 23.78 26.42 24.10 27.12 Total Capital Ratio (International Standard (Basel III)) (Note) 18.24% 16.28% 15.41% 14.58% 14.36% Tier 1 Capital Ratio (International Standard (Basel III)) (Note) 15.44% 13.30% 12.64% 11.50% 11.35% Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio (International Standard (Basel III)) (Note) 12.49% 11.34% 10.50% 9.43% 8.80% Net Return on Equity 6.5% 7.2% 8.3% 8.6% 11.6% PER (Times) 8.42x 8.54x 6.23x 8.47x 7.23x Cash Flow from Operating Activities 2,966.7 4,690.1 4,104.1 6,654.9 (2,286.0) Cash Flow from Investing Activities (2,316.1) 5,796.3 3,687.8 2,619.2 10,607.4 Cash Flow from Financing Activities 149.9 (24.5) (521.0) (903.4) (305.7) Cash and Cash Equivalents at the end of the fiscal year 46,334.3 45,523.6 35,089.1 27,840.7 19,432.4 Note: Total Capital Ratio, Tier 1 Capital Ratio and Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio are based on the “Standards for Determining the Status of Capital Adequacy in consideration of assets held by a bank holding company and by its subsidiaries, in accordance with Banking Law Article 52-25” (Financial Services Agency Ordinance Announcement No.20, March 27, 2006) 133 Billions of yen As of or for the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Operating Income ¥305.0 ¥378.0 ¥333.5 ¥377.7 ¥316.8 Net Income 257.1 326.6 304.3 349.0 285.8 Common Stock and Preferred Stock 2,256.5 2,256.2 2,255.7 2,255.4 2,254.9 Number of Shares Issued and Outstanding ( Common Stock Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock )( 25,389,644,945shares —shares )( 25,386,307,945shares —shares )( 25,030,525,657shares 914,752,000shares )( 24,621,897,967shares 914,752,000shares )( 24,263,885,187shares 914,752,000shares ) Net Assets 5,441.3 5,342.5 5,197.2 5,096.2 4,900.4 Total Assets 10,587.7 9,269.3 7,064.2 6,603.1 6,251.3 Net Assets per Share (Yen) 214.43 210.51 203.58 198.15 188.90 Dividends per Share (Yen) (Interim Dividends per Share) (Yen) Common Stock 7.5 7.5 7.5 7.5 6.5 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock (Note) — — 20 20 20 ( Common Stock Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock (Note) )( 3.75 — )( 3.75 — )( 3.75 10 )( 3.5 10 )( 10 3 ) Net Income per Share (Yen) 10.13 12.91 12.17 14.11 11.53 Diluted Net Income per Share (Yen) 10.13 12.86 11.98 13.74 11.25 PER (Times) 18.88x 15.79x 13.81x 14.95x 17.68x Dividend Propensity 73.98% 58.06% 61.62% 53.12% 56.33% Note: Mizuho Financial Group Inc. ( MHFG ) acquired all of the Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock as of July 1, 2016 that had not been requested for acquisition by June 30, 2016 and calcelled all of the Eleventh Seties Class XI Preferred Stock held by MHFG on July 13, 2016. Accordingly, the cash dividends per share of the Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2017 and 2018 have not been recorded. 134 Financial Analysis Status of Asset Quality ○ Credit-related Costs Credit-related Costs (Consolidated) Billions of yen For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 Change Credit-related Costs ¥(156.3) ¥47.5 ¥(203.8) Expenses related to Portfolio Problems (including Reversal of 17.0 80.2 (63.1) (Provision for) General Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans) Losses on Write-offs of Loans 15.5 15.8 (0.2) Gains on Reversal of Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans and others (173.3) (32.6) (140.6) Credit Costs for Trust Accounts — — — ○ Overview of Non-performing Loans (NPLs) as of March 31, 2018 (the Two Banks) (Banking Accounts) Billions of yen 1. SELF-ASSESSMENT 2. Disclosed Claims under 3. Non-Accrual, Past Categorization Nonthe Financial ReconstDue & Restructured Obligor Category II Category III Category IV Categorization ruction Act Loans 76.6 Claims against Bankrupt Loans to Bankrupt Obligors Bankrupt and Substantially Reserve and Substantially Bankrupt Collateral, Guarantees, etc.: Direct 20.8 Bankrupt Obligors Ratio Obligors 75.1 Write-offs 100% 76.6 76.6 Reserves for Possible Losses.: 1.4 Coverage Ratio 100% Non-Accrual 232.9 48.4 Delinquent Loans Claims with Collection Risk Intensive Control 302.9 Collateral, Guarantees, etc.: Amounts for 281.4 Obligors 140.1 Reserve reserves are 281.4 Reserves for Possible Losses: Ratio Coverage Ratio 82.7% recorded under 92.8 65.7% Non-Categorization 34.3 (Notes 2) Reserve Ratio against Loans Past Due for Claims for Special Uncovered Portion 3 Months or More 26.8% Claims against Special Attention (Notes 1) Claims for Special Attention Obligors 0.6 Watch Obligors 197.8 Attention -Coverage Ratio: 54.1% Collateral, Guarantees, etc.: 197.8 51.4 -Reserve Ratio Coverage Ratio 45.9% Restructured Loans Reserves for Possible Losses: for Uncovered Portion: 29.5% -Reserve Ratio 197.2 39.3 against Total Amount of Special Attention Obligors Claims: 19.2% Other Watch Obligors Reserve Ratio against Total Amount of Claims Total Coverage Ratio Normal Obligors ·Other Watch Obligors: 3.92% 72.1% ·Normal Obligors: 0.05% Total Total Total 84,191.8 555.9 521.5 Notes: 1. Claims for Special Attention is denoted on an individual loans basis. Claims against Special Attention Obligors includes all claims, not limited to Claims for Special Attention. 2. The difference between total Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans and total Disclosed Claims under the FRA represents the amount of claims other than loans included in Disclosed Claims under the FRA. 135 ○ Status of Disclosed Claims under the FRA Disclosed Claims under the FRA (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Billions of yen As of March 31, 2018 2017 Change Claims against Bankrupt and Substantially Bankrupt Obligors ¥87.3 ¥98.4 ¥(11.0) Claims with Collection Risk 291.7 401.2 (109.5) Claims for Special Attention 241.3 422.5 (181.2) Total ¥620.4 ¥922.2 ¥(301.7) Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs, the amounts of which are indicated in the table below. Billions of yen 2018 2017 Change Amount of Partial Direct Write-offs ¥96.8 ¥93.3 ¥3.5 (Trust Accounts) Billions of yen As of March 31, 2018 2017 Change Claims against Bankrupt and Substantially Bankrupt Obligors ¥— ¥— ¥— Claims with Collection Risk 2.8 2.8 (0.0) Claims for Special Attention — — — Total ¥2.8 ¥2.8 ¥(0.0) (Consolidated and Trust Accounts) Billions of yen As of March 31, 2018 2017 Change Claims against Bankrupt and Substantially Bankrupt Obligors ¥87.3 ¥98.4 ¥(11.0) Claims with Collection Risk 294.5 404.1 (109.5) Claims for Special Attention 241.3 422.5 (181.2) Total ¥623.3 ¥925.1 ¥(301.8) 136 Financial Analysis Status of Asset Quality ○ Status of Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans (Consolidated) (Consolidated) Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans Billions of yen As of March 31, 2018 2017 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors ¥21.2 ¥33.3 ¥(12.0) Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 332.7 430.5 (97.8) Loans Past Due for Three Months or More 0.6 7.8 (7.2) Restructured Loans 240.7 414.7 (173.9) Total ¥595.3 ¥886.4 ¥(291.0) Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs, the amounts of which are indicated in the table below. Billions of yen 2018 2017 Change Amount of Partial Direct Write-offs ¥92.0 ¥87.4 ¥4.5 Ratio to Total Loans % As of March 31, 2018 2017 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors 0.02% 0.04% (0.01)% Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 0.41 0.54 (0.13) Loans Past Due for Three Months or More 0.00 0.01 (0.00) Restructured Loans 0.30 0.52 (0.22) Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans / Total Loans 0.74% 1.13% (0.38)% Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs. Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans Billions of yen As of March 31, 2018 2017 Change Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans ¥315.6 ¥509.1 ¥(193.5) General Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans 200.6 344.7 (144.1) Specific Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans 115.0 164.4 (49.4) Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans to Restructuring Countries 0.0 0.0 (0.0) Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs, the amounts of which are indicated in the table below. Billions of yen 2018 2017 Change Amount of Partial Direct Write-offs ¥97.1 ¥93.7 ¥3.3 Reserve Ratios for Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans % As of March 31, 2018 2017 Change After Partial Direct Write-offs 53.01% 57.43% (4.42)% Note: Reserve Ratio = Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans / Total Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans. 137 (Trust Accounts) Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans Billions of yen As of March 31, 2018 2017 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors ¥— ¥— ¥— Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 2.8 2.8 (0.0) Loans Past Due for Three Months or More — — — Restructured Loans — — — Total ¥2.8 ¥2.8 ¥(0.0) Ratio to Total Loans % As of March 31, 2018 2017 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors —% —% —% Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 25.16 23.09 2.07 Loans Past Due for Three Months or More — — — Restructured Loans — — — Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans / Total Loans 25.16% 23.09% 2.07% (Consolidated and Trust Accounts) Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans Billions of yen As of March 31, 2018 2017 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors ¥21.2 ¥33.3 ¥(12.0) Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 335.5 433.4 (97.8) Loans Past Due for Three Months or More 0.6 7.8 (7.2) Restructured Loans 240.7 414.7 (173.9) Total ¥598.1 ¥889.3 ¥(291.1) Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs. Ratio to Total Loans % As of March 31, 2018 2017 Change Loans to Bankrupt Obligors 0.02% 0.04% (0.01)% Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans 0.42 0.55 (0.13) Loans Past Due for Three Months or More 0.00 0.01 (0.00) Restructured Loans 0.30 0.52 (0.22) Non-Accrual, Past Due & Restructured Loans / Total Loans 0.75% 1.13% (0.38)% Note: Above figures are presented net of partial direct write-offs. 138 Financial Analysis Status of Asset Quality ○ Status of Loans by Industry Outstanding Balances by Industry (Consolidated) Billions of yen, % 2018 2017 Change Outstanding Outstanding Outstanding As of March 31, Balance Composition Balance Composition Balance Composition Domestic Total (excluding Loans Booked Offshore) ¥57,614.2 100.00% ¥57,081.8 100.00% ¥532.4 / Manufacturing 8,039.8 13.95 8,625.8 15.11 (585.9) (1.16)% Agriculture & Forestry 38.2 0.07 37.7 0.06 0.5 0.01 Fishery 2.4 0.00 1.3 0.00 1.1 0.00 Mining, Quarrying Industry & Gravel Extraction Industry 221.5 0.38 224.8 0.39 (3.3) (0.01) Construction 633.6 1.10 643.1 1.13 (9.4) (0.03) Utilities 2,446.5 4.25 2,212.1 3.88 234.4 0.37 Communication 1,486.1 2.58 1,425.0 2.50 61.1 0.08 Transportation & Postal Industry 2,068.6 3.59 2,032.5 3.56 36.0 0.03 Wholesale & Retail 4,713.3 8.18 4,737.5 8.30 (24.1) (0.12) Finance & Insurance 4,532.2 7.87 4,071.5 7.13 460.7 0.74 Real Estate 7,481.6 12.99 7,140.2 12.51 341.3 0.48 Commodity Lease 2,148.5 3.73 2,104.6 3.69 43.9 0.04 Service Industries 2,878.1 4.99 2,648.2 4.64 229.9 0.35 Local Governments 931.6 1.62 866.0 1.52 65.5 0.10 Governments 7,946.6 13.79 7,662.4 13.42 284.1 0.37 Other 12,044.7 20.91 12,648.3 22.16 (603.5) (1.25) Overseas Total (including Loans Booked Offshore) 21,807.2 100.00 21,255.9 100.00 551.2 / Governments 818.7 3.75 672.6 3.16 146.1 0.59 Financial Institutions 5,750.3 26.37 5,759.8 27.10 (9.4) (0.73) Other 15,238.1 69.88 14,823.4 69.74 414.6 0.14 Total ¥79,421.4 / ¥78,337.7 / ¥1,083.6 / Notes :1. Domestic Total = MHFG and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries (excluding their overseas offices). Overseas Total = Overseas offices of MHFG's domestic consolidated subsidiaries and MHFG's overseas consolidated subsidiaries 2 .As for Domestic Total (excluding Loans Booked Offshore), parts of Loans which have been included in Other and others are included in Real Estate and parts of Loans which have been included in Transportation & Postal Industry and others are included in Other. ○ Status of Loans by Nationality of Borrowers Balance of Loans to Restructuring Countries (Consolidated) As of March 31, 2018 Billions of yen, % As of March 31, 2017 Billions of yen, % Argentina ¥0.0 Argentina ¥0.0 Total ¥0.0 Total ¥0.0 Ratio to Total Assets 0.00% Ratio to Total Assets 0.00% Note: Listed are loans to the government and related agents in restructuring countries for which Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans to Restructuring Countries are accounted as stipulated under the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (JICPA) Banking Audit Committee Report No.4. 139 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. [Under Japanese GAAP] 141 Independent Auditor’s Report 142 Consolidated Financial Statements 154 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 140 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Independent Auditor’s Report Independent Auditor’s Report The Board of Directors Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc., which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2018, and the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in net assets, and cash flows for the year then ended and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information, all expressed in Japanese yen. Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan, and for designing and operating such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s Responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in Japan. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. The purpose of an audit of the consolidated financial statements is not to express an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control, but in making these risk assessments the auditor considers internal controls relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. as of March 31, 2018, and their consolidated financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan. Convenience Translation We have reviewed the translation of these consolidated financial statements into U.S. dollars, presented for the convenience of readers, and, in our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been properly translated on the basis described in Note 1. June 21, 2018 Tokyo, Japan 141 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Assets Cash and Due from Banks (Notes 17, 39, 41 and 42) ¥ 47,725,360 ¥ 47,129,583 $ 449,095,331 Call Loans and Bills Purchased (Note 41) 715,149 1,035,746 6,729,550 Receivables under Resale Agreements (Note 41) 8,080,873 8,967,777 76,040,970 Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions (Note 41) 4,350,527 3,350,051 40,938,430 Other Debt Purchased (Notes 41 and 42) 2,713,742 2,745,204 25,536,297 Trading Assets (Notes 10, 17, 41 and 42) 10,507,133 10,361,787 98,872,053 Money Held in Trust (Notes 41 and 42) 337,429 247,583 3,175,212 Securities (Notes 11, 17, 26, 41 and 42) 34,183,033 32,353,158 321,662,122 Loans and Bills Discounted (Notes 12, 17 and 41) 79,421,473 78,337,793 747,355,546 Foreign Exchange Assets (Note 13) 1,941,677 1,828,782 18,271,169 Derivatives other than for Trading Assets (Notes 41 and 43) 1,807,999 2,170,750 17,013,264 Other Assets (Notes 14, 17 and 42) 4,588,484 4,180,339 43,177,613 Tangible Fixed Assets (Notes 15, 28 and 40) 1,111,128 1,136,329 10,455,713 Intangible Fixed Assets (Note 40) 1,092,708 1,045,486 10,282,375 Net Defined Benefit Asset (Note 25) 996,173 797,762 9,373,990 Deferred Tax Assets (Note 27) 47,839 56,066 450,174 Customers' Liabilities for Acceptances and Guarantees (Note 26) 5,723,186 5,273,581 53,855,148 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans (Notes 16 and 41) (315,621) (509,175) (2,969,997) Total Assets ¥ 205,028,300 ¥ 200,508,610 $ 1,929,314,960 142 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheet—(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Liabilities and Net Assets Liabilities Deposits (Notes 17, 18 and 41) ¥ 136,463,824 ¥ 130,676,494 $ 1,284,123,689 Call Money and Bills Sold (Notes 19 and 41) 2,105,293 1,255,172 19,810,801 Payables under Repurchase Agreements (Notes 17 and 41) 16,656,828 17,969,753 156,740,647 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending 1,566,833 1,679,300 14,743,895 Transactions (Notes 17 and 41) Commercial Paper (Note 20) 710,391 789,705 6,684,778 Trading Liabilities (Notes 10 and 41) 8,121,543 7,923,285 76,423,669 Borrowed Money (Notes 17, 21 and 41) 4,896,218 6,307,230 46,073,388 Foreign Exchange Liabilities (Note 13) 445,804 526,053 4,195,021 Short-term Bonds (Note 22) 362,185 226,348 3,408,162 Bonds and Notes (Notes 23 and 41) 7,544,256 7,564,535 70,991,403 Due to Trust Accounts (Note 41) 4,733,131 4,784,077 44,538,732 Derivatives other than for Trading Liabilities (Notes 41 and 43) 1,514,483 1,784,857 14,251,282 Other Liabilities (Note 24) 3,685,585 3,883,168 34,681,339 Reserve for Bonus Payments 66,872 67,633 629,269 Reserve for Variable Compensation 3,242 3,018 30,514 Net Defined Benefit Liability (Note 25) 58,890 55,236 554,160 Reserve for Director and Corporate Auditor Retirement Benefits 1,460 1,327 13,742 Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans 1,075 298 10,118 Reserve for Contingencies 5,622 5,680 52,909 Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits 20,011 19,072 188,304 Reserve for Reimbursement of Debentures 30,760 32,720 289,460 Reserves under Special Laws 2,361 2,309 22,218 Deferred Tax Liabilities (Note 27) 421,002 337,800 3,961,632 Deferred Tax Liabilities for Revaluation Reserve for Land (Note 28) 66,186 66,585 622,813 Acceptances and Guarantees (Note 26) 5,723,186 5,273,581 53,855,148 Total Liabilities ¥ 195,207,054 ¥ 191,235,249 $ 1,836,897,093 Net Assets Common Stock and Preferred Stock (Note 29) ¥ 2,256,548 ¥ 2,256,275 $ 21,234,108 Capital Surplus 1,134,922 1,134,416 10,679,617 Retained Earnings 4,002,835 3,615,449 37,666,651 Treasury Stock (Note 29) (5,997) (4,849) (56,435) Total Shareholders' Equity 7,388,309 7,001,291 69,523,941 Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities (Note 42) 1,392,392 1,289,985 13,102,408 Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges (67,578) 10,172 (635,912) Revaluation Reserve for Land (Note 28) 144,277 145,609 1,357,652 Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments (85,094) (69,657) (800,741) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans (Note 25) 293,536 144,866 2,762,180 Total Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 1,677,534 1,520,976 15,785,587 Stock Acquisition Rights (Note 30) 1,163 1,754 10,952 Non-controlling Interests 754,239 749,339 7,097,387 Total Net Assets 9,821,246 9,273,361 92,417,867 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥ 205,028,300 ¥ 200,508,610 $ 1,929,314,960 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 143 Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Income Interest Income (Note 31) ¥ 1,622,354 ¥ 1,445,555 $ 15,266,345 Fiduciary Income 55,400 50,627 521,317 Fee and Commission Income 766,612 752,982 7,213,817 Trading Income (Note 32) 276,616 326,230 2,602,958 Other Operating Income (Note 33) 304,214 338,276 2,862,658 Other Income (Note 35) 565,683 438,042 5,323,076 Total Income 3,590,881 3,351,714 33,790,171 Expenses Interest Expenses (Note 31) 814,988 577,737 7,669,033 Fee and Commission Expenses 152,262 149,439 1,432,790 Trading Expenses (Note 32) 829 898 7,804 Other Operating Expenses (Note 34) 141,760 92,856 1,333,967 General and Administrative Expenses 1,488,973 1,467,221 14,011,234 Other Expenses (Note 36) 192,113 279,368 1,807,784 Total Expenses 2,790,927 2,567,521 26,262,612 Income before Income Taxes 799,953 784,193 7,527,559 Income Taxes: Current 190,158 196,535 1,789,387 Deferred 1,469 (58,800) 13,824 Total Income Taxes 191,627 137,735 1,803,211 Profit 608,326 646,457 5,724,348 Profit Attributable to Non-controlling Interests 31,778 42,913 299,039 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent ¥ 576,547 ¥ 603,544 $ 5,425,309 144 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Per Share of Common Stock Yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Net Income: Basic ¥ 22.72 ¥ 23.86 $ 0.21 Diluted 22.72 23.78 0.21 Cash Dividends 7.50 7.50 0.07 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Profit ¥ 608,326 ¥ 646,457 $ 5,724,348 Other Comprehensive Income (Note 37): 157,233 (88,326) 1,479,564 Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities 102,332 (10,965) 962,950 Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges (77,205) (155,158) (726,506) Revaluation Reserve for Land (133) (11) (1,259) Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments (10,949) (12,514) (103,030) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans 149,473 93,588 1,406,545 Share of Other Comprehensive Income of Associates Accounted for Using Equity Method (6,284) (3,266) (59,136) Comprehensive Income ¥ 765,559 ¥ 558,131 $ 7,203,912 Comprehensive Income Attributable to Owners of Parent: ¥ 734,303 ¥ 519,532 $ 6,909,794 Comprehensive Income Attributable to Non-controlling Interests: 31,255 38,598 294,118 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 145 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets Millions of yen Shareholders' Equity Common Total Stock and Capital Retained Treasury Shareholders' For the Fiscal Year ended Preferred Surplus Earnings Stock Equity March 31, 2018 Stock Balance as of the beginning ¥ 2,256,275 ¥ 1,134,416 ¥ 3,615,449 ¥ (4,849) ¥7,001,291 of the period Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 273 273 546 Cash Dividends (190,360) (190,360) Profit Attributable to Owners 576,547 576,547 of Parent Repurchase of Treasury (2,431) (2,431) Stock Disposition of Treasury (53) 1,283 1,229 Stock Transfer from Revaluation 1,198 1,198 Reserve for Land Change in Treasury Shares of Parent Arising from 287 287 Transactions with Noncontrolling Shareholders Net Changes in Items other than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the 273 506 387,385 (1,148) 387,017 period Balance as of the end of the ¥ 2,256,548 ¥ 1,134,922 ¥ 4,002,835 ¥ (5,997) ¥ 7,388,309 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 146 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets—(Continued) Millions of yen Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Net Total Stock NonUnrealized Deferred Foreign RemeasureTotal Revaluation Accumulated Acquisition Controlling Gains Gains or Currency ments of Net Assets Reserve for Other Rights Interests (Losses) on Losses on Translation Defined Land Comprehensive For the Fiscal Year ended Other Hedges Adjustments Benefit Plans Income March 31, 2018 Securities Balance as of the beginning ¥ 1,289,985 ¥ 10,172 ¥ 145,609 ¥ (69,657) ¥ 144,866 ¥ 1,520,976 ¥ 1,754 ¥ 749,339 ¥ 9,273,361 of the period Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 546 Cash Dividends (190,360) Profit Attributable to Owners 576,547 of Parent Repurchase of Treasury (2,431) Stock Disposition of Treasury 1,229 Stock Transfer from Revaluation 1,198 Reserve for Land Change in Treasury Shares of Parent Arising from 287 Transactions with Noncontrolling Shareholders Net Changes in Items other 102,407 (77,750) (1,331) (15,437) 148,670 156,558 (590) 4,899 160,867 than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the 102,407 (77,750) (1,331) (15,437) 148,670 156,558 (590) 4,899 547,884 period Balance as of the end of the ¥ 1,392,392 ¥ (67,578) ¥ 144,277 ¥ (85,094) ¥ 293,536 ¥ 1,677,534 ¥ 1,163 ¥ 754,239 ¥ 9,821,246 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 147 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets—(Continued) Millions of yen Shareholders' Equity Common Total Stock and Capital Retained Treasury Shareholders' For the Fiscal Year ended Preferred Surplus Earnings Stock Equity March 31, 2017 Stock Balance as of the beginning ¥ 2,255,790 ¥ 1,110,164 ¥ 3,197,616 ¥ (3,609) ¥ 6,559,962 of the period Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting 1,426 1,426 Policies Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting ¥ 2,255,790 ¥ 1,110,164 ¥ 3,199,042 ¥ (3,609) ¥ 6,561,388 Changes in Accounting Policies Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 484 484 969 Cash Dividends (190,001) (190,001) Profit Attributable to Owners 603,544 603,544 of Parent Repurchase of Treasury (1,904) (1,904) Stock Disposition of Treasury (55) 663 608 Stock Cancellation of Treasury (1) 1 ― Stock Transfer from Revaluation 2,863 2,863 Reserve for Land Change in Treasury Shares of Parent Arising from 23,823 23,823 Transactions with Noncontrolling Shareholders Net Changes in Items other than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the 484 24,251 416,406 (1,239) 439,903 period Balance as of the end of the ¥ 2,256,275 ¥ 1,134,416 ¥ 3,615,449 ¥ (4,849) ¥ 7,001,291 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 148 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets—(Continued) Millions of yen Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Net Total Stock NonUnrealized Deferred Foreign RemeasureTotal Revaluation Accumulated Acquisition Controlling Gains Gains or Currency ments of Net Assets Reserve for Other Rights Interests (Losses) on Losses on Translation Defined Land Comprehensive For the Fiscal Year ended Other Hedges Adjustments Benefit Plans Income March 31, 2017 Securities Balance as of the beginning ¥ 1,296,039 ¥ 165,264 ¥ 148,483 ¥ (53,689) ¥ 51,752 ¥ 1,607,851 ¥ 2,762 ¥1,182,668 ¥ 9,353,244 of the period Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting 1,426 Policies Balance as of the beginning of the period reflecting ¥ 1,296,039 ¥ 165,264 ¥ 148,483 ¥ (53,689) ¥ 51,752 ¥ 1,607,851 ¥ 2,762 ¥1,182,668 ¥ 9,354,670 Changes in Accounting Policies Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 969 Cash Dividends (190,001) Profit Attributable to Owners 603,544 of Parent Repurchase of Treasury (1,904) Stock Disposition of Treasury 608 Stock Cancellation of Treasury ― Stock Transfer from Revaluation 2,863 Reserve for Land Change in Treasury Shares of Parent Arising from 23,823 Transactions with Noncontrolling Shareholders Net Changes in Items other (6,054) (155,091) (2,874) (15,967) 93,113 (86,875) (1,008) (433,328) (521,212) than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the (6,054) (155,091) (2,874) (15,967) 93,113 (86,875) (1,008) (433,328) (81,308) period Balance as of the end of the ¥ 1,289,985 ¥ 10,172 ¥ 145,609 ¥ (69,657) ¥ 144,866 ¥ 1,520,976 ¥ 1,754 ¥ 749,339 ¥ 9,273,361 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 149 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets—(Continued) Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Shareholders' Equity Common Total Stock and Capital Retained Treasury Shareholders' For the Fiscal Year ended Preferred Surplus Earnings Stock Equity March 31, 2018 Stock Balance as of the beginning $ 21,231,536 $ 10,674,851 $ 34,021,357 $ (45,632) $ 65,882,112 of the period Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 2,572 2,572 5,144 Cash Dividends (1,791,289) (1,791,289) Profit Attributable to Owners 5,425,309 5,425,309 of Parent Repurchase of Treasury (22,880) (22,880) Stock Disposition of Treasury (507) 12,077 11,570 Stock Transfer from Revaluation 11,274 11,274 Reserve for Land Change in Treasury Shares of Parent Arising from 2,701 2,701 Transactions with Noncontrolling Shareholders Net Changes in Items other than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the 2,572 4,766 3,645,294 (10,803) 3,641,829 period Balance as of the end of the $ 21,234,108 $ 10,679,617 $ 37,666,651 $ (56,435) $ 69,523,941 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 150 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets—(Continued) Thousands of U.S. dollars (Note 1) Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Net RemeasureTotal Stock NonUnrealized Deferred Foreign Total Revaluation ments of Accumulated Acquisition Controlling Gains Gains or Currency Net Assets Reserve for Defined Other Rights Interests (Losses) on Losses on Translation Land Benefit Comprehensive For the Fiscal Year ended Other Hedges Adjustments Plans Income March 31, 2018 Securities Balance as of the beginning $ 12,138,753 $ 95,722 $ 1,370,185 $ (655,474) $ 1,363,189 $ 14,312,375 $ 16,506 $ 7,051,281 $ 87,262,274 of the period Changes during the period Issuance of New Shares 5,144 Cash Dividends (1,791,289) Profit Attributable to Owners 5,425,309 of Parent Repurchase of Treasury (22,880) Stock Disposition of Treasury 11,570 Stock Transfer from Revaluation 11,274 Reserve for Land Change in Treasury Shares of Parent Arising from 2,701 Transactions with Noncontrolling Shareholders Net Changes in Items other 963,655 (731,634) (12,533) (145,267) 1,398,991 1,473,212 (5,554) 46,106 1,513,764 than Shareholders' Equity Total Changes during the 963,655 (731,634) (12,533) (145,267) 1,398,991 1,473,212 (5,554) 46,106 5,155,593 period Balance as of the end of the $ 13,102,408 $ (635,912) $ 1,357,652 $ (800,741) $ 2,762,180 $ 15,785,587 $ 10,952 $ 7,097,387 $ 92,417,867 period See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 151 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Cash Flow from Operating Activities Income before Income Taxes ¥ 799,953 ¥ 784,193 $ 7,527,559 Depreciation 173,660 166,265 1,634,147 Losses on Impairment of Fixed Assets 6,960 6,651 65,498 Amortization of Goodwill 4,154 2,816 39,093 Losses (Gains) on Step Acquisition ― (56,226) ― Equity in Loss (Gain) from Investments in Affiliates (21,474) (18,899) (202,073) Increase (Decrease) in Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans (194,197) 57,472 (1,827,395) Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans 777 31 7,313 Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Contingencies 207 (254) 1,951 Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Bonus Payments (18) 5,809 (172) Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Variable Compensation 223 182 2,107 Decrease (Increase) in Net Defined Benefit Asset (24,803) (17,677) (233,400) Increase (Decrease) in Net Defined Benefit Liability 3,756 3,740 35,347 Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Director and Corporate 175 (358) 1,654 Auditor Retirement Benefits Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits 939 2,917 8,836 Increase (Decrease) in Reserve for Reimbursement of (1,959) (6,524) (18,443) Debentures Interest Income—accrual basis (1,622,354) (1,445,555) (15,266,345) Interest Expenses—accrual basis 814,988 577,737 7,669,033 Losses (Gains) on Securities (263,312) (357,710) (2,477,769) Losses (Gains) on Money Held in Trust (139) 292 (1,310) Foreign Exchange Losses (Gains)—net 229,892 107,847 2,163,284 Losses (Gains) on Disposition of Fixed Assets 1,495 2,608 14,076 Losses (Gains) on Cancellation of Employee Retirement Benefit (26,032) ― (244,964) Trust Decrease (Increase) in Trading Assets (132,951) 2,426,324 (1,251,070) Increase (Decrease) in Trading Liabilities 154,664 (2,142,414) 1,455,393 Decrease (Increase) in Derivatives other than for Trading Assets 354,027 946,548 3,331,395 Increase (Decrease) in Derivatives other than for Trading (260,185) (748,426) (2,448,340) Liabilities Decrease (Increase) in Loans and Bills Discounted (1,431,302) (5,192,399) (13,468,549) Increase (Decrease) in Deposits 6,171,313 14,080,723 58,072,016 Increase (Decrease) in Borrowed Money (excluding (1,371,484) (1,139,322) (12,905,657) Subordinated Borrowed Money) Decrease (Increase) in Due from Banks (excluding Due from Central Banks) (9,678) (416,740) (91,078) Decrease (Increase) in Call Loans, etc. 1,030,590 (1,333,261) 9,697,853 Decrease (Increase) in Guarantee Deposits Paid under (1,000,475) 57,338 (9,414,465) Securities Borrowing Transactions Increase (Decrease) in Call Money, etc. 122,103 152,026 1,148,997 Increase (Decrease) in Commercial Paper (37,576) (216,041) (353,598) Increase (Decrease) in Guarantee Deposits Received under (112,466) (929,671) (1,058,309) Securities Lending Transactions Decrease (Increase) in Foreign Exchange Assets (141,992) (410,914) (1,336,148) Increase (Decrease) in Foreign Exchange Liabilities (80,565) 33,814 (758,118) Increase (Decrease) in Short-term Bonds (Liabilities) 135,837 (422,033) 1,278,228 Increase (Decrease) in Bonds and Notes ¥ (411,073) ¥ 745,704 $ (3,868,203) 152 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows—(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Increase (Decrease) in Due to Trust Accounts ¥ (50,946) ¥ (283,413) $ (479,405) Interest and Dividend Income—cash basis 1,602,227 1,454,769 15,076,955 Interest Expenses—cash basis (797,725) (553,494) (7,506,588) Other—net (475,640) (987,540) (4,475,778) Subtotal 3,139,593 4,936,937 29,543,558 Cash Refunded (Paid) in Income Taxes (172,892) (246,806) (1,626,921) Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities 2,966,701 4,690,131 27,916,637 Cash Flow from Investing Activities Payments for Purchase of Securities (60,973,137) (46,111,207) (573,756,823) Proceeds from Sale of Securities 42,292,827 41,930,689 397,975,231 Proceeds from Redemption of Securities 16,679,426 10,419,553 156,953,295 Payments for Increase in Money Held in Trust (155,042) (88,905) (1,458,947) Proceeds from Decrease in Money Held in Trust 61,626 28,521 579,908 Payments for Purchase of Tangible Fixed Assets (57,974) (105,634) (545,542) Payments for Purchase of Intangible Fixed Assets (181,647) (285,561) (1,709,302) Proceeds from Sale of Tangible Fixed Assets 16,385 8,932 154,191 Proceeds from Sale of Intangible Fixed Assets 0 2 8 Proceeds from Sale of Stocks of Subsidiaries (affecting the scope of consolidation) 1,337 ― 12,582 Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities (2,316,197) 5,796,391 (21,795,399) Cash Flow from Financing Activities Proceeds from Subordinated Borrowed Money 35,000 25,000 329,350 Repayments of Subordinated Borrowed Money (69,000) (80,000) (649,289) Proceeds from Issuance of Subordinated Bonds 574,000 795,000 5,401,336 Payments for Redemption of Subordinated Bonds (172,600) (76,000) (1,624,165) Proceeds from Issuance of Common Stock 3 6 31 Proceeds from Investments by Non-controlling Shareholders 1,450 3,322 13,648 Repayments to Non-controlling Shareholders (1,065) (467,320) (10,028) Cash Dividends Paid (190,382) (190,031) (1,791,495) Cash Dividends Paid to Non-controlling Shareholders (25,832) (31,168) (243,083) Payments for Purchase of Stocks of Subsidiaries (not affecting the scope of consolidation) ― (216) ― Payments for Repurchase of Treasury Stock (1,611) (1,434) (15,160) Proceeds from Sale of Treasury Stock 0 0 5 Payments for Repurchase of Treasury Stock of Subsidiaries ― (1,695) ― Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities 149,962 (24,537) 1,411,150 Effect of Foreign Exchange Rate Changes on Cash and Cash Equivalents 10,203 (27,645) 96,016 Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents 810,670 10,434,339 7,628,404 Cash and Cash Equivalents at the Beginning of the Fiscal Year 45,523,663 35,089,122 428,377,375 Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents from ― 201 ― Merger of Consolidated Subsidiaries Cash and Cash Equivalents at the End of the Fiscal Year (Note 39) ¥ 46,334,334 ¥ 45,523,663 $ 436,005,779 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 153 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 1. Basis for Presentation The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared from the accounts maintained by Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. (“MHFG”) and its consolidated subsidiaries in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Company Law of Japan and the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, and in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan (“Japanese GAAP”) which are different in certain respects from the application and disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards. Certain items presented in the consolidated financial statements which were previously filed with the Director General of the Kanto Local Finance Bureau are reclassified for the convenience of readers outside Japan. The notes to the consolidated financial statements include information which is not required under Japanese GAAP but is presented herein as additional information. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. Totals may not add up exactly because of such truncation. Amounts in U.S. dollars are included solely for the convenience of readers outside Japan. The rate of ¥106.27=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2018 has been used for translation. The inclusion of such amounts is not intended to imply that Japanese yen has been or could be readily converted, realized or settled into U.S. dollars at that rate or any other rate. 2. Scope of Consolidation (a) The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of MHFG and its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, “the Group”), including Mizuho Bank, Ltd. (“MHBK”), Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. (“MHTB”), Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. (“MHSC”) and certain other subsidiaries. The numbers of consolidated subsidiaries as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 were 124 and 139, respectively. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, Mizuho Business Succession Fund Limited Partnership was newly included in the scope of consolidation as a result of new establishment. During the period, MHCB America Holdings,Inc. and 15 other companies were excluded from the scope of consolidation as a result of merger and other factors. (b) There were no non-consolidated subsidiaries as of March 31, 2018 and 2017. 3. Application of the Equity Method (a) There were no non-consolidated subsidiaries under the equity method as of March 31, 2018 and 2017. (b) The numbers of affiliates under the equity method as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 were 19 and 18, respectively. Investments in affiliates include Orient Corporation, The Chiba Kogyo Bank, Ltd., Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam and certain other affiliates. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, Exacta Asia Investment Ⅱ LP was newly included in the scope of the equity method as a result of new establishment. (c) There were no non-consolidated subsidiaries not under the equity method as of March 31, 2018 and 2017. (d) Pec International Leasing Co., Ltd. ,an affiliate not under the equity method, is not accounted for under the equity method, as it is not significant to the consolidated financial statements of MHFG. 154 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 4. Balance Sheet Dates of Consolidated Subsidiaries (a) Balance sheet dates of consolidated subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 are as follows: July 31 1 company December 29 6 companies December 31 50 companies March 31 67 companies (b) Consolidated subsidiaries with balance sheet dates of December 29 were consolidated based on their tentative financial statements as of and for the period ended December 31. The consolidated subsidiary with balance sheet dates of July 31 was consolidated based on its tentative financial statement as of and for the period ended the consolidated balance sheet date. Other consolidated subsidiaries were consolidated based on their financial statements as of and for the period ended their respective balance sheet dates. The necessary adjustments have been made to the financial statements for any significant transactions that took place between their respective balance sheet dates and the date of the consolidated financial statements. 155 5. Standards of Accounting Method (1) Credited Loans pursuant to Trading Securities and Trading Income & Expenses Credited loans held for the purpose of trading are, in line with trading securities, recognized on a trade date basis and recorded in Other Debt Purchased on the consolidated balance sheet. Other Debt Purchased related to the relevant credited loans is stated at fair value at the consolidated balance sheet date. Interest received and the gains or losses on the sale of the relevant credited loans during the fiscal year, including the gains or losses resulting from any change in the value between the beginning and the end of the fiscal year, are recognized in Other Operating Income and Other Operating Expenses on the consolidated statement of income. (2)Trading Assets & Liabilities and Trading Income & Expenses Trading transactions intended to take advantage of short-term fluctuations and arbitrage opportunities in interest rates, currency exchange rates, market prices of securities and related indices are recognized on a trade-date basis and recorded in Trading Assets or Trading Liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. Income or expenses generated on the relevant trading transactions are recorded in Trading Income or Trading Expenses on the consolidated statement of income. Securities and other monetary claims held for trading purposes are stated at fair value at the consolidated balance sheet date. Derivative financial products, such as swaps, futures and option transactions, are stated at their fair values, assuming that such transactions are terminated and settled at the consolidated balance sheet date. Trading Income and Trading Expenses include the interest received and paid during the fiscal year, the gains or losses resulting from any change in the value of securities and other monetary claims between the beginning and the end of the fiscal year, and the gains or losses resulting from any change in the value of financial derivatives between the beginning and the end of the fiscal year, assuming they were settled at the end of the fiscal year. (3) Securities In accordance with “Accounting Standard for Financial Instruments” (the Business Accounting Deliberation Council, January 22, 1999), MHFG classifies securities, excluding those of investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates, into three categories based upon management's intent. These securities are accounted for as follows: (i) Trading securities are carried at market value and included in Trading Assets. (ii) Bonds held to maturity are stated at amortized cost (straight-line method) and determined by the moving average method. (iii) Other securities are securities which are not classified as either trading securities or bonds held to maturity. Other securities which have readily determinable fair value are stated at fair value with changes in net unrealized gains or losses, net of applicable income taxes after excluding gains and losses as a result of the fair-value hedge method, included directly in Net Assets. The fair value of Japanese stocks is determined based on the average quoted market price over the month preceding the consolidated balance sheet date. The fair value of securities other than Japanese stocks is determined at the quoted market price if available, or other reasonable value at the consolidated balance sheet date (cost of securities sold is calculated primarily by the moving average method). Other securities, the fair values of which are extremely difficult to determine, are stated at acquisition cost or amortized cost which is determined by the moving average method. In addition, investments in affiliates not under the equity method are stated at acquisition cost as determined by the moving average method. Securities which are held as trust assets in Money Held in Trust accounts are valued in the same way as Securities above. Certain Securities other than Trading Securities (excluding Securities for which it is deemed to be extremely difficult to determine the fair value) are devalued to the fair value, and the difference between the acquisition cost and the fair value is treated as a loss for the fiscal year (“impairment (devaluation)”), if the fair value (primarily the closing market price at the consolidated balance sheet date) has significantly deteriorated compared with the acquisition cost (including amortized cost), and unless it is deemed that there is a possibility of a recovery in the fair value. The amounts of impairment (devaluation) were ¥3,424 million ($32,226 thousand) and ¥1,139 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 156 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements The criteria for determining whether a security's fair value has “significantly deteriorated” are outlined as follows: • Security whose fair value is 50% or less of the acquisition cost • Security whose fair value exceeds 50% but is 70% or less of the acquisition cost and the quoted market price maintains a certain level or lower (4) Bills Discounted In accordance with “Accounting and Auditing Treatment relating to Adoption of Accounting Standards for Financial Instruments for Banks” (The Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“JICPA”) Industry Audit Committee Report No. 24), bills discounted are accounted for as financing transactions. The banking subsidiaries have rights to sell or pledge these commercial bills, foreign exchange bills purchased and others. The face value of these bills amounted to ¥1,405,238 million ($13,223,284 thousand) and ¥1,315,137 million as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. (5) Derivative Transactions Derivative transactions are valued at fair value with changes in fair value included in current income. Derivatives qualifying as hedges are mainly accounted for using either the fair-value hedge method or the deferred method of hedge accounting (see (22) Hedge Accounting). (6) Tangible Fixed Assets (Except for Lease Assets) Depreciation of buildings is computed mainly by the straight-line method, and that of others is computed mainly by the declining-balance method. The range of useful lives is as follows: Buildings 3 years to 50 years Others 2 years to 20 years (7) Intangible Fixed Assets (Except for Lease Assets) Amortization of Intangible Fixed Assets is computed by the straight-line method. Development costs for internally-used software are capitalized and amortized over their estimated useful lives of mainly from five to ten years as determined by MHFG and its consolidated subsidiaries. (8) Lease Assets Depreciation of lease assets booked in Tangible Fixed Assets and Intangible Fixed Assets which are concerned with finance lease transactions that do not transfer ownership is mainly computed by the same method as the one applied to fixed assets owned by us. (9) Deferred Assets Bond issuance costs are expensed as incurred. 157 (10) Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans of major domestic consolidated subsidiaries are maintained in accordance with internally established standards for write-offs and reserve provisions: • For claims extended to obligors that are legally bankrupt under the Bankruptcy Law, Special Liquidation under the Company Law or other similar laws (“Bankrupt Obligors”), and to obligors that are effectively in similar conditions (“Substantially Bankrupt Obligors”), reserves are maintained at the amounts of claims net of direct write-offs described below and the expected amounts recoverable from the disposition of collateral and the amounts recoverable under guarantees. • For claims extended to obligors that are not yet legally or formally bankrupt but are likely to be bankrupt (“Intensive Control Obligors”), reserves are maintained at the amounts deemed necessary based on overall solvency analyses of the amounts of claims net of expected amounts recoverable from the disposition of collateral and the amounts recoverable under guarantees. • For claims extended to Intensive Control Obligors and Obligors with Restructured Loans (defined in Note 12 below) and others, if the exposure to an obligor exceeds a certain specific amount, reserves are provided as follows: (i) if future cash flows of the principal and interest can be reasonably estimated, the discounted cash flow method is applied, under which the reserve is determined as the difference between the book value of the loan and its present value of future cash flows discounted using the contractual interest rate before the loan was classified as a Restructured Loan, and (ii) if future cash flows of the principal and interest cannot be reasonably estimated, reserves are provided for the losses estimated for each individual loan. • For claims extended to other obligors, reserves are maintained at rates derived from historical credit loss experience and other factors. • Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans to Restructuring Countries is maintained in order to cover possible losses based on analyses of the political and economic climates of the countries. All claims are assessed by each claim origination department in accordance with the internally established “Self-assessment Standard,” and the results of the assessments are verified and examined by the independent examination departments. In the case of claims to Bankrupt Obligors and Substantially Bankrupt Obligors, which are collateralized or guaranteed by a third party, the amounts deemed uncollectible (calculated by deducting the anticipated proceeds from the sale of collateral pledged against the claims and amounts that are expected to be recovered from guarantors of the claims) are written off against the respective claim balances. The total directly written-off amounts were ¥97,112 million ($913,827 thousand) and ¥93,782 million as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Other consolidated subsidiaries provide the amount necessary to cover the loan losses based upon past experience and other factors for general claims and the assessment for each individual loan for other claims. (11) Reserve for Possible Losses on Investments Reserve for Possible Losses on Investments is maintained to provide against possible losses on investments in securities, after taking into consideration the financial condition and other factors concerning the investee company. (12) Reserve for Bonus Payments Reserve for Bonus Payments, which is provided for future bonus payments to employees, is maintained at the amount accrued at the end of the fiscal year, based on the estimated future payments. (13) Reserve for Variable Compensation To prepare for the payments of performance payments and stock compensation to be paid as variable compensation within compensation for directors, executive officers and specialist officers of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc., Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd., and Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd., the estimated payment based on the standard amount regarding variable compensation of the fiscal year is provided. (14) Reserve for Director and Corporate Auditor Retirement Benefits Reserve for Director and Corporate Auditor Retirement Benefits, which is provided for future retirement benefit payments to directors, corporate auditors, and executive officers, is recognized at the amount accrued by the end of the fiscal year, based on the internally established standards. 158 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (15) Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans is provided for possible future losses on sales of loans at the amount deemed necessary based on a reasonable estimate of possible future losses. (16) Reserve for Contingencies Reserve for Contingencies is maintained to provide against possible losses from contingencies which are not covered by other specific reserves. The balance is an estimate of possible future losses considered to require a reserve. (17) Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits is provided against the losses for the deposits derecognized from liabilities at the estimated amount of future claims for withdrawal by depositors. (18) Reserve for Reimbursement of Debentures Reserve for Reimbursement of Debentures is provided for the debentures derecognized from liabilities at the estimated amount for future claims. (19) Reserve under Special Laws Reserve under Special Laws is Reserve for Contingent Liabilities from Financial Instruments and Exchange of ¥2,361 million ($22,218 thousand) and ¥2,309 million as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. This is the reserve pursuant to Article 46-5 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law and Article 175 of the Cabinet Office Ordinance regarding Financial Instruments Business, etc. to indemnify the losses incurred from accidents in the purchase and sale of securities, other transactions or derivative transactions. (20) Accounting Method for Retirement Benefits In calculating retirement benefit obligations, a benefit formula basis is used as a method of attributing expected retirement benefits to the period up to the end of this fiscal year. Unrecognized actuarial differences are recognized as income or expenses from the following fiscal year under the straight-line method over a certain term within the average remaining service period of the employees (mainly 10 years) of the respective fiscal years. Certain consolidated subsidiaries apply the simplified method that assumes the amount required for voluntary resignation at the end of the term to be retirement benefit obligations in computing net defined benefit liability and retirement benefit expenses. (21) Assets and Liabilities Denominated in Foreign Currencies Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and accounts of overseas branches of domestic consolidated banking subsidiaries and a domestic consolidated trust banking subsidiary are translated into Japanese yen primarily at the exchange rates in effect at the consolidated balance sheet date, with the exception of the investments in affiliates not under the equity method, which are translated at historical exchange rates. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies of the consolidated subsidiaries, except for the transactions mentioned above, are translated into Japanese yen primarily at the exchange rates in effect at the respective balance sheet dates. 159 (22) Hedge Accounting (a) Interest Rate Risk The deferred method, the fair-value hedge method or the exceptional accrual method for interest rate swaps are applied as hedge accounting methods. The portfolio hedge transaction for a large volume of small-value monetary claims and liabilities of domestic consolidated banking subsidiaries and some of domestic consolidated trust banking subsidiaries is accounted for by the method stipulated in the JICPA Industry Audit Committee Report No.24, February 13, 2002. The effectiveness of hedging activities for the portfolio hedge transaction for a large volume of small-value monetary claims and liabilities is assessed as follows: (i) as for hedging activities to offset market fluctuation risks, the effectiveness is assessed by bracketing both the hedged instruments, such as deposits and loans, and the hedging instruments, such as interest-rate swaps, in the same maturity bucket. (ii) as for hedging activities to fix the cash flows, the effectiveness is assessed based on the correlation between the base interest rate index of the hedged instrument and that of the hedging instrument. The effectiveness of the individual hedge is assessed based on the comparison of the fluctuation in the market or of cash flows of the hedged instruments with that of the hedging instruments. (b) Foreign Exchange Risk Domestic consolidated banking subsidiaries and some of domestic consolidated trust banking subsidiaries apply the deferred method of hedge accounting to hedge foreign exchange risks associated with various financial assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies as stipulated in the “Accounting and Auditing Treatment relating to Adoption of Accounting Standards for Foreign Currency Transactions for Banks” (JICPA Industry Audit Committee Report No.25, July 29, 2002). The effectiveness of the hedge is assessed by confirming that the amount of the foreign currency position of the hedged monetary claims and liabilities is equal to or larger than that of currency swap transactions, exchange swap transactions, and similar transactions designated as the hedging instruments of the foreign exchange risk. In addition to the above methods, these subsidiaries apply the deferred method or the fair-value hedge method to portfolio hedges of the foreign exchange risks associated with investments in subsidiaries and affiliates denominated in foreign currency and Other securities denominated in foreign currency (except for bonds) identified as hedged items in advance, as long as the amount of foreign currency payables of spot and forward foreign exchange contracts exceeds the amount of acquisition cost of the hedged foreign securities denominated in foreign currency. (c) Inter-company Transactions Inter-company interest rate swaps, currency swaps and similar derivatives among consolidated companies or between trading accounts and other accounts, which are designated as hedges, are not eliminated and related gains and losses are recognized in the statement of income or deferred under hedge accounting, because these intercompany derivatives are executed according to the criteria for appropriate outside third-party cover operations which are treated as hedge transactions objectively in accordance with JICPA Industry Audit Committee Reports No.24 and 25. As for certain assets and liabilities of MHFG and its consolidated subsidiaries, the deferred method, the fair-value hedge method or the exceptional accrual method for interest rate swaps are applied. 160 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (23) Consumption Taxes and Other With respect to MHFG and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries, Japanese consumption taxes and local consumption taxes are excluded from transaction amounts. (24) Amortization Method of Goodwill and Amortization Period Goodwill is amortized over an appropriate period not to exceed 20 years under the straight-line method. The full amount of Goodwill that has no material impact is expensed as incurred. (25) Scope of Cash and Cash Equivalents on Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows In the consolidated statement of cash flows, Cash and Cash Equivalents consist of cash and due from central banks included in “Cash and Due from Banks” on the consolidated balance sheet. 6. Issued but not yet Adopted Accounting Standard and Others ・ Accounting Standard for Revenue Recognition (Accounting Standards Board of Japan ( ASBJ ) Statement No.29, March 30, 2018) ・Implementation Guidance on Accounting Standard for Revenue Recognition (ASBJ Guidance No.30, March 30, 2018) (1) Overview International Accounting Standards Board ( IASB ) and Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) jointly established the comprehensive accounting standard for revenue recognition and announced Revenue from contracts with customers (International Financial Reporting Standards ( IFRS ) 15 / FASB Topic 606). Considering the application of IFRS 15 from the fiscal year beginning on and after January 1, 2018 and Topic 606 from the fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2017, ASBJ has established the comprehensive accounting standard for revenue recognition and announced the accounting standard together with the guidance. As a basic policy of ASBJ in establishing the accounting standard for revenue recognition, the accounting standard was determined with the adoption of the basic principles of IFRS 15 at first from the standpoint of the comparability between financial statements that is one of conveniences provided by ensuring consistency with IFRS 15. If there were items that should give consideration to practical businesses conducted in Japan, the alternative treatment shall be added as long as comparability is not harmed. (2) Scheduled Date of Application Mizuho Financial Group is scheduled to apply this accounting standard from the beginning of the consolidated fiscal year starting on April 1, 2021. (3) Effect of Application of this accounting standard The effect of the application of this accounting standard is under consideration. 7. Change in Presentation of Financial Statements Refund of Income Taxes separately presented for the previous consolidated fiscal year has been included within Current Income Taxes from this consolidated fiscal year due to decreased materiality. In order to reflect the change in presentation of financial statements, reclassification of the previous consolidated fiscal year has been made accordingly. As a result, Refund of Income Taxes of ¥(3,259) million presented in the consolidated statement of income for the previous consolidated fiscal year has been reclassified as Current Income Taxes. 161 8. Additional Information (The Board Benefit Trust (“BBT”) Program) Since MHFG operates its business giving due regard to creating value for diverse stakeholders and realizing improved corporate value through the continuous and stable growth of MHFG group pursuant to MHFG’s basic management policy defined under the Mizuho Financial Group’s Corporate Identity, MHFG has introduced a performance-based stock compensation program using a trust (the “Program”) that functions as an incentive for each Director, Executive Officer, and Specialist Officer to exert maximum effort in performing his or her duties, and also as consideration for such exertion of effort. (1) Outline of the Program The Program has adopted the Board Benefit Trust (“BBT”) framework. MHFG’s shares on the stock market will be acquired through a trust established based on the underlying funds contributed by MHFG, and MHFG’s shares will be distributed to Directors, Executive Officers, and Specialist Officers of MHFG, Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd., and Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. (the “Company Group”) in accordance with the Rules on Distribution of Shares to be prescribed in advance. The number of MHFG’s shares to be distributed will be determined pursuant to a performance evaluation based on the annual business plan. A structure has been introduced for the distribution of MHFG’s shares under the Program, whereby the distribution will be deferred over three years, and the deferred portion will be subject to reduction or forfeiture depending on certain factors, including the performance of the Company Group or the relevant Directors, Executive Officers, and Specialist Officers. Voting rights related to MHFG’s shares belonging to the trust assets under the trust shall not be exercised. (2) MHFG’s Shares Outstanding in the Trust MHFG’s shares outstanding in the trust are recognized as Treasury Stock under Net Assets at the carrying amount (excluding the amount of incidental expenses) in the trust. The carrying amount of such Treasury Stock as of March 31, 2018 was ¥2,424 million for 13,319 thousand shares. (The carrying amount of such Treasury Stock as of March 31, 2017 was ¥1,428 million for 9,000 thousand shares.) 9 . Securities Lending and Borrowing Transactions MHFG does not have unsecured loaned securities which the borrowers have the right to sell or repledge as of March 31, 2018 and 2017. MHFG has the right to sell or repledge some of unsecured borrowed securities, securities purchased under resale agreements and securities borrowed with cash collateral. Among them, the totals of securities repledged were ¥12,656,065 million ($119,093,495 thousand) and ¥13,471,535 million as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and securities neither repledged nor re-loaned were ¥1,048,102 million ($9,862,637 thousand) and ¥675,330 million as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 10. Trading Assets and Liabilities Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Trading Assets: Trading Securities ¥ 5,188,400 ¥ 4,800,408 $ 48,822,813 Derivatives for Trading Transactions 5,065,683 5,409,525 47,668,045 Derivatives for Trading Securities 253,049 151,853 2,381,195 Total ¥ 10,507,133 ¥ 10,361,787 $ 98,872,053 Trading Liabilities: Trading Securities Sold Short ¥ 3,185,101 ¥ 2,221,541 $ 29,971,783 Derivatives for Trading Transactions 4,759,793 5,475,724 44,789,623 Derivatives for Trading Securities 176,648 226,019 1,662,263 Total ¥ 8,121,543 ¥ 7,923,285 $ 76,423,669 162 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 11. Securities Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Japanese Government Bonds ¥ 15,292,004 ¥ 13,324,305 $ 143,897,658 Japanese Local Government Bonds 239,333 284,472 2,252,128 Japanese Short-term Bonds 99 99 941 Japanese Corporate Bonds 2,964,110 2,696,287 27,892,256 Japanese Stocks*1 3,952,789 3,958,439 37,195,719 Other*2 11,734,696 12,089,553 110,423,420 Total ¥ 34,183,033 ¥ 32,353,158 $ 321,662,122 *1 Japanese Stocks included investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates of ¥178,472 million ($1,679,425 thousand) and ¥238,208 million as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. *2 Other included investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates of ¥76,913 million ($723,756 thousand) and ¥76,405 million as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 12. Loans and Bills Discounted Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Loans on Deeds ¥ 68,615,165 ¥ 67,456,670 $ 645,668,255 Overdrafts 7,369,547 7,487,574 69,347,391 Loans on Notes 2,963,152 2,754,696 27,883,248 Bills Discounted 287,692 285,395 2,707,184 Financing Receivables, including Factoring, Leasing and Property Financing 180,974 348,514 1,702,967 Other 4,941 4,941 46,501 Total ¥ 79,421,473 ¥ 78,337,793 $ 747,355,546 Loans and Bills Discounted as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 include the following: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Loans to Bankrupt Obligors*1 ¥ 21,271 ¥ 33,330 $ 200,167 Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans*2 332,702 430,525 3,130,728 Loans Past Due for Three Months or More*3 617 7,896 5,809 Restructured Loans*4 240,777 414,700 2,265,718 Total ¥ 595,369 ¥ 886,452 $ 5,602,422 *1 Loans to Bankrupt Obligors represent non-accrual loans to obligors who are legally bankrupt as defined in Article 96, Paragraph 1, Items 3 and 4 of the Corporate Tax Law Enforcement Ordinance (Government Ordinance No.97, 1965). *2 Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans represent non-accrual loans other than (i) Loans to Bankrupt Obligors and (ii) loans of which payments of interest are deferred in order to assist or facilitate the restructuring of obligors in financial difficulties. *3 Loans to Bankrupt Obligors or Non-Accrual Delinquent Loans, both of which are classified as non-accrual, are not included in this category. *4 Restructured Loans represent loans on which contracts were amended in favor of obligors (e.g., the reduction of or exemption from stated interest, the deferral of interest payments, the extension of maturity dates, or renunciation of claims) in order to assist or facilitate the restructuring of obligors in financial difficulties. Note: The amounts given in the above table are gross amounts before deduction of amounts for the Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans. 163 Commitment Line for Loans Overdraft protection on current accounts and contracts of the commitment line for loans are contracts by which banking subsidiaries are bound to extend loans up to the prearranged amount, at the request of customers, unless the customer is in breach of contract conditions. The unutilized balance of these contracts amounted to ¥92,936,908 million ($874,535,692 thousand) and ¥91,657,478 million as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Of these amounts, ¥73,190,124 million ($688,718,591 thousand) and ¥71,552,248 million as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, relate to contracts of which the original contractual maturity is one year or less, or which are unconditionally cancelable at any time. Since many of these contracts expire without being exercised, the unutilized balance itself does not necessarily affect future cash flows. A provision is included in many of these contracts that entitles the banking subsidiaries to refuse the execution of loans, or reduce the maximum amount under contracts when there is a change in the financial situation, necessity to preserve a claim, or other similar reasons. The banking subsidiaries require collateral such as real estate and securities when deemed necessary at the time the contracts are entered into. In addition, they periodically monitor customers’ business conditions in accordance with internally established standards and take necessary measures to manage credit risks such as amendments to contracts. 13. Foreign Exchange Assets and Liabilities Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Foreign Exchange Assets: Foreign Bills Bought ¥ 1,117,545 ¥ 1,029,741 $ 10,516,100 Foreign Bills Receivable 529,924 453,929 4,986,590 Due from Banks (Foreign) 287,479 344,764 2,705,176 Advance to Foreign Banks 6,727 347 63,303 Total ¥ 1,941,677 ¥ 1,828,782 $ 18,271,169 Foreign Exchange Liabilities: Due to Banks (Foreign) ¥ 393,371 ¥ 467,017 $ 3,701,620 Advance from Foreign Banks 24,134 13,747 227,105 Foreign Bills Payable 18,211 39,767 171,369 Foreign Bills Sold 10,087 5,521 94,927 Total ¥ 445,804 ¥ 526,053 $ 4,195,021 14. Other Assets Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Accrued Income ¥ 300,691 ¥ 270,538 $ 2,829,504 Prepaid Expenses 54,020 47,848 508,332 Other 4,233,773 3,861,952 39,839,777 Total ¥ 4,588,484 ¥ 4,180,339 $ 43,177,613 164 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 15. Tangible Fixed Assets Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Land ¥ 628,836 ¥ 641,284 $ 5,917,349 Buildings 341,533 348,068 3,213,833 Lease Assets 25,468 26,210 239,655 Construction in Progress 24,975 22,134 235,022 Other 90,314 98,631 849,854 Total ¥ 1,111,128 ¥ 1,136,329 $ 10,455,713 Accumulated Depreciation ¥ 879,497 ¥ 858,561 $ 8,276,070 Book Value Adjusted for Gains on Sales of Replaced Assets and Others 34,180 33,215 321,638 16. Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 General Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans ¥ (200,616) ¥ (344,741) $ (1,887,798) Specific Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans (115,004) (164,430) (1,082,188) Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans to Restructuring Countries (1) (2) (11) Total ¥ (315,621) ¥ (509,175) $ (2,969,997) 17. Assets Pledged as Collateral The following assets were pledged as collateral: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Trading Assets ¥ 1,590,718 ¥ 1,882,123 $ 14,968,648 Securities 6,712,488 8,425,757 63,164,473 Loans and Bills Discounted 4,976,680 7,128,930 46,830,528 The following liabilities were collateralized by the above assets: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Deposits ¥ 256,027 ¥ 918,743 $ 2,409,218 Payables under Repurchase Agreements 5,518,102 6,109,314 51,925,307 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 984,830 1,219,762 9,267,251 Borrowed Money 3,524,825 4,810,490 33,168,583 165 In addition, the settlement accounts of foreign and domestic exchange transactions or derivatives transactions and others were collateralized, and margins for futures transactions were substituted by Cash and Due from Banks of ¥33,434 million ($314,617 thousand) and ¥45,404 million, Trading Assets of ¥53,750 million ($505,795 thousand) and ¥126,225 million, Securities of ¥3,270,531 million ($30,775,678 thousand) and ¥3,919,060 million, and Loans and Bills Discounted of ¥154,190 million ($1,450,927 thousand) and ¥238,686 million as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Other Assets included guarantee deposits of ¥132,084 million ($1,242,914 thousand) and ¥128,941 million, collateral pledged for derivatives transactions of ¥718,276 million ($6,758,980 thousand) and ¥769,243million, margins for futures transactions of ¥140,600 million ($1,323,051 thousand) and ¥269,376 million, and other guarantee deposits of ¥968,443 million ($9,113,048 thousand) and ¥337,778 million as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 18. Deposits Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Current Deposits ¥ 11,713,590 ¥ 9,983,448 $ 110,224,807 Ordinary Deposits*1 69,837,590 64,356,023 657,171,271 Deposits at Notice 930,730 1,025,510 8,758,165 Time Deposits 36,901,106 39,176,701 347,239,170 Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 11,382,590 10,631,277 107,110,101 Other 5,698,216 5,503,533 53,620,175 Total ¥ 136,463,824 ¥ 130,676,494 $ 1,284,123,689 *1 Ordinary Deposits includes savings deposits. 19. Call Money and Bills Sold Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Call Money ¥ 2,105,293 ¥ 1,255,172 $ 19,810,801 Bills Sold — — — Total ¥ 2,105,293 ¥ 1,255,172 $ 19,810,801 20. Commercial Paper Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Average interest rates*1 As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 2018 2017 Commercial Paper ¥710,391 ¥789,705 $6,684,778 1.92% 1.10% *1 Average interest rates are the weighted-average interest rates of debts calculated from the interest rates and outstanding balances at the end of the fiscal year. 166 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 21. Borrowed Money Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Average interest rates*1 As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 2018 2017 Borrowed Money ¥4,896,218 ¥6,307,230 $46,073,388 0.63% 0.38% Bills Rediscounted ― ― ― ―% ―% Other Borrowings*2,3 4,896,218 6,307,230 $46,073,388 0.63% 0.38% *1 Average interest rates are the weighted-average interest rates of debts calculated from the interest rates and outstanding balances at the end of the fiscal year. *2 Other Borrowings included subordinated debt of ¥218,000 million ($2,051,379 thousand) and ¥252,000 million as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. *3 Repayments for Other Borrowings are scheduled for the next five years as follows: Fiscal year ending March 31, 2019 ¥2,221,554 million ($20,904,810 thousand) 2020 ¥636,522 million ($5,989,671 thousand) 2021 ¥905,073 million ($8,516,736 thousand) 2022 ¥125,318 million ($1,179,244 thousand) 2023 ¥184,092 million ($1,732,310 thousand) 22. Short-term Bonds Major components of Short-term Bonds at March 31, 2018 were as follows: Issuer Issue Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Interest rates Due MHSC Aug. 2017–Mar. 2018 334,200 3,144,820 0.00% Apr. 2018– [334,200] [3,144,820] Sep. 2018 *1 Oct. 2017–Mar. 2018 27,985 263,342 0.04%–0.11% Apr. 2018– [27,985] [263,342] May 2018 Total ¥362,185 $3,408,162 *1 indicates the total amount of Short-term Bonds issued by the domestic consolidated subsidiary, Allstar Funding Co., Ltd, and the overseas consolidated subsidiary, JAPAN SECURITIZATION CORPORATION. Notes: 1. Figures indicated in brackets [ ] represent the amounts to be redeemed within one year. 2. No collateral was provided for the above Short-term Bonds. Major components of Short-term Bonds at March 31, 2017 were as follows: Issuer Issue Millions of yen Interest rates Due MHFG Jan. 2017 ¥80,000 0.02% Apr. 2017 [80,000] MHSC Apr. 2016–Mar. 2017 111,300 0.00%–0.01% Apr. 2017– [111,300] Sep. 2017 *1 Oct. 2016–Mar. 2017 35,048 0.02%–0.10% Apr. 2017– [35,048] May 2017 Total ¥226,348 *1 indicates the total amount of Short-term Bonds issued by the domestic consolidated subsidiary, Allstar Funding Co., Ltd, and the overseas consolidated subsidiary, JAPAN SECURITIZATION CORPORATION. Notes: 1. Figures indicated in brackets [ ] represent the amounts to be redeemed within one year. 2. No collateral was provided for the above Short-term Bonds. 167 23. Bonds and Notes Major components of Bonds and Notes as of March 31, 2018 were as follows: Thousands of U.S. Interest Issuer Description Issue Millions of yen dollars rates Due MHFG Straight Bonds Jul. 2014– ¥3,869,015 $36,407,406 0.10%– Apr. 2021– Mar.2018 [—] [—] 4.35% (US$ 17,500,000 thousand) (EUR 500,000 thousand) MHTB Straight Bonds Dec. 2005 10,000 94,100 2.24% Dec. 2020 [—] [—] MHBK Straight Bonds Aug. 2005– 2,421,033 22,781,913 0.22%– Apr. 2018– Jan. 2018 [513,026] [4,827,576] 5.30% (US$ 10,546,418 thousand) (AUD 1,115,000 thousand) (SGD 290,000 thousand) (HKD 1,430,000 thousand) (CNY 500,000 thousand) (THB 3,000,000 thousand) *1 Straight Bonds Jul. 2012– 318,325 2,995,443 4.20%– Jul. 2022– Mar. 2014 [—] [—] 4.60% Mar. 2024 (US$ 2,995,443 thousand) *2 Straight Bonds Sep. 2005– 45,000 423,450 1.30%– Jun. 2023– May 2012 [—] [—] 2.75% *3 Straight Bonds Jan. 2003– 880,881 8,289,091 0.00%– Apr. 2018– Mar. 2018 [227,933] [2,144,854] 19.00% Mar. 2048 (US$ 2,417,770 thousand) (AUD 24,550 thousand) (EUR 998,900 thousand) (BRL 14,500 thousand) (GBP 20,000 thousand) (MXN 9,000 thousand) (TRY 51,076 thousand) Total ¥7,544,256 $70,991,403 *1 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) 2 Limited and Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) 3 Limited. *2 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho Finance (Cayman) Limited, Mizuho Finance (Curaçao) N.V. and Mizuho Finance (Aruba) A.E.C. *3 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the domestic consolidated subsidiary, MHSC, and the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho International plc and Mizuho Securities USA LLC. Notes: 1. Figures indicated in brackets [ ] represent the amounts to be redeemed within one year. 2. The amounts of foreign currency-denominated bonds are shown in original currencies in parentheses ( ). 3. Repayments for Bonds and Notes are scheduled for the next five years as follows: Fiscal year ending March 31, 2019 ¥740,960 million ($6,972,430 thousand) 2020 ¥849,535 million ($7,994,119 thousand) 2021 ¥296,237 million ($2,787,589 thousand) 2022 ¥1,021,008 million ($9,607,683 thousand) 2023 ¥862,446 million ($8,115,616 thousand) 4. Bonds and Notes as of March 31, 2018 included subordinated bonds and notes of ¥2,810,028 million ($26,442,347 thousand). 5. No collateral was provided for the above Bonds and Notes. 168 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Major components of Bonds and Notes as of March 31, 2017 were as follows: Interest Issuer Description Issue Millions of yen rates Due MHFG Straight Bonds Jul. 2014– ¥2,632,250 0.10%– Apr. 2021– Oct. 2017 [—] 4.35% MHTB Straight Bonds Dec. 2005 10,000 2.24% Dec. 2020 [—] MHBK Straight Bonds Aug. 2005– 3,726,331 0.20%– Apr. 2017– Mar. 2017 [1,264,044] 4.78% (US$ 15,913,528 thousand) (AUD 1,170,000 thousand) (SGD 290,000 thousand) (HKD 1,430,000 thousand) (CNY 250,000 thousand) (THB 3,000,000 thousand) *1 Straight Bonds Jul. 2012– 335,991 4.20%– Jul. 2022– Mar. 2014 [—] 4.60% Mar. 2024 (US$ 2,994,577 thousand) *2 Straight Bonds Sep. 2005– 47,600 1.30%– Jun. 2018– May 2012 [—] 2.75% *3 Straight Bonds Jan. 2003– 812,362 0.00%– Apr. 2017– Mar. 2017 [150,786] 23.80% Mar. 2047 (US$ 1,572,350 thousand) (AUD 30,060 thousand) (EUR 895,400 thousand) (BRL 14,500 thousand) Total ¥7,564,535 *1 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) Limited, Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) 2 Limited and Mizuho Financial Group (Cayman) 3 Limited. *2 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho Finance (Cayman) Limited, Mizuho Finance (Curaçao) N.V. and Mizuho Finance (Aruba) A.E.C. *3 indicates the total amount of straight bonds issued by the domestic consolidated subsidiary, MHSC, and the overseas consolidated subsidiaries, Mizuho International plc and Mizuho Securities USA Inc. Notes: 1. Figures indicated in brackets [ ] represent the amounts to be redeemed within one year. 2. The amounts of foreign currency-denominated bonds are shown in original currencies in parentheses ( ). 3. Repayments for Bonds and Notes are scheduled for the next five years as follows: Fiscal year ending March 31, 2018 ¥1,414,830 million 2019 ¥648,802 million 2020 ¥837,267 million 2021 ¥262,480 million 2022 ¥1,068,917 million 4. Bonds and Notes as of March 31, 2017 included subordinated bonds and notes of ¥2,430,741 million. 5. No collateral was provided for the above Bonds and Notes. 169 24. Other Liabilities Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Accrued Expenses ¥223,537 ¥201,532 $2,103,487 Unearned Income 116,486 129,676 1,096,139 Income Taxes Payable 66,363 71,635 624,478 Lease Liabilities*1*2 36,009 40,947 338,851 Other 3,243,188 3,439,377 30,518,384 Total ¥3,685,585 ¥3,883,168 $34,681,339 *1 Average interest rate is 1.35% and 1.41% in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. It is the weighted-average interest rate of debts calculated from the interest rates and outstanding balances at the end of the fiscal year. *2 Repayments for Lease Liabilities are scheduled for the next five years as follows: Fiscal year ending March 31, 2019 ¥11,590 million ($109,062 thousand) 2020 ¥9,640 million ($90,719 thousand) 2021 ¥7,096 million ($66,782 thousand) 2022 ¥4,240 million ($39,905 thousand) 2023 ¥2,470 million ($23,244 thousand) 25. Reserve for Employee Retirement Benefits (1) MHFG and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries have adopted the Corporate Pension Fund Plans (“Kigyo Nenkin Kikin Seido”), and the Termination Allowance Plans (“Taishoku Ichijikin Seido”) as Defined-Benefit Corporate Pension Plans. In addition, MHFG and certain domestic consolidated subsidiaries have adopted DefinedContribution Pension Plans other than risk-sharing corporate pension as a part of the Termination Allowance Plans while certain other domestic consolidated subsidiaries have established employee retirement benefit trusts. (2) Defined-Benefit Corporate Pension Plans (i) Adjustment between the balances of Retirement Benefit Obligations at the beginning and at the end of the period Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Balance of Retirement Benefit Obligations at the beginning of the period ¥1,433,371 ¥1,465,148 $13,488,018 Service Cost 41,646 44,340 391,889 Interest Cost 5,737 4,686 53,991 Unrecognized Actuarial Differences incurred 29,152 (15,851) 274,330 Retirement Benefits paid (67,267) (66,837) (632,988) Other (1,256) 1,884 (11,827) Balance of Retirement Benefit Obligations at the end of the period ¥1,441,383 ¥1,433,371 $13,563,413 Note: The above Retirement Benefit Obligations includes the amount measured by certain consolidated subsidiaries under the simplified method. 170 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (ii) Adjustment between the balances of Plan Assets at the beginning and at the end of the period Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Balance of Plan Assets at the beginning of the period ¥2,175,897 ¥2,060,062 $20,475,180 Expected Return on Plan Assets 33,609 34,862 316,262 Unrecognized Actuarial Differences incurred 245,662 80,407 2,311,686 Contributions from employer 42,863 50,095 403,347 Contributions from employee 1,232 1,215 11,600 Retirement Benefits paid (51,907) (50,972) (488,454) Cancellation of Employee Retirement Benefit (66,565) ― (626,380) Trust Other (2,125) 226 (19,998) Balance of Plan Assets at the end of the period ¥2,378,667 ¥2,175,897 $22,383,243 (iii) Adjustment between the balances of Retirement Benefit Obligations and Plan Assets at the end of the period and Adjustment to the balances of Net Defined Benefit Liability and Net Defined Benefit Asset recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Retirement Benefit Obligations ¥1,441,383 ¥1,433,371 $13,563,413 Plan Assets (2,378,667) (2,175,897) (22,383,243) Net amount of Liability and Asset recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet ¥(937,283) ¥(742,525) $(8,819,830) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Net Defined Benefit Liability ¥58,890 ¥55,236 $554,160 Net Defined Benefit Asset (996,173) (797,762) (9,373,990) Net amount of Liability and Asset recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet ¥(937,283) ¥(742,525) $(8,819,830) (iv) Employee Retirement Benefit Expenses and the breakdown Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Service Cost ¥40,549 ¥43,302 $381,570 Interest Cost 5,737 4,686 53,991 Expected Return on Plan Assets (33,609) (34,862) (316,262) Amortization of Unrecognized Actuarial Differences 23,824 38,699 224,189 Other 3,887 3,659 36,584 Net Retirement Benefit Expenses for DefinedBenefit Corporate Pension Plans ¥40,390 ¥55,485 $380,072 Gains on Cancellation of Employee Retirement Benefit Trust ¥(26,032) ¥― $(244,964) Notes: 1. The amount of employee contributions to Mizuho Pension Fund is deducted from Service Cost. 2. Retirement benefit expenses of some consolidated subsidiaries which adopt the simplified method for calculating retirement benefit obligations are included in Service Cost in full. 3. Gains on Cancellation of Employee Retirement Benefit Trust is included in Other Income. 171 (v) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans in Other Comprehensive Income Breakdown of Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans in Other Comprehensive Income (before deducting tax effect) was as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Unrecognized Actuarial Differences ¥(216,485) ¥(134,780) $(2,037,128) Other 312 ― 2,944 Total ¥(216,172) ¥(134,780) $(2,034,184) (vi) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans in Total Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Breakdown of Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans in Total Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (before deducting tax effect) was as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Unrecognized Actuarial Differences ¥(418,093) ¥(201,608) $(3,934,258) Other 312 ― 2,944 Total ¥(417,780) ¥(201,608) $(3,931,314) (vii) Plan Assets (a) Ratio of each category to the total amount of Plan Assets was as follows: As of March 31, 2018 2017 Japanese Stocks 58.86% 56.65% Japanese Bonds 13.27% 17.03% Foreign Stocks 10.54% 12.49% Foreign Bonds 8.84% 4.51% General account of life insurance companies 4.62% 5.72% Other 3.87% 3.60% Total 100.00% 100.00% Note: The total amount of Plan Assets includes 59.64% and 57.28% of Employee Retirement Benefit Trust established for the Corporate Pension Fund Plans and the Termination Allowance Plans as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. (b) Calculation of Expected Long-term Rate of Return on Plan Assets In determining the Expected Long-term Rate of Return on Plan Assets, current and expected allocation of Plan Assets and current and expected future long-term rate of return from various assets constituting Plan Assets have been considered. (viii) Basis of Actuarial Calculation Major Basis of Actuarial Calculation For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 Discount Rate mainly 0.02%0.98% mainly 0.02%1.09% Expected Long-term Rate of Return on Plan Assets mainly 1.20%1.75% mainly 1.47%1.90% (3) DefinedContribution Pension Plans The required amount of contributions to DefinedContribution Pension Plans of MHFG and its domestic consolidated subsidiaries was ¥2,473 million ($ 23,276 thousand) and ¥3,186 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 172 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 26. Acceptances and Guarantees (1) All commitments and contingent liabilities of a material nature resulting from guarantees or otherwise are included in the contra-accounts Acceptances and Guarantees and Customers' Liabilities for Acceptances and Guarantees. The outstanding balances of the accounts were as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Guarantees ¥5,540,355 ¥5,083,740 $52,134,708 Letters of Credit 125,498 138,817 1,180,943 Acceptances 57,332 51,023 539,497 Total ¥5,723,186 ¥5,273,581 $53,855,148 Note: Liabilities for guarantees on corporate bonds included in Securities, which were issued by private placement (Article 2, Paragraph 3 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law (the Securities and Exchange Law as of March 31, 2007)) amounted to ¥1,309,432 million ($12,321,747 thousand) and ¥1,169,267 million as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. (2) The principal amounts promised to be indemnified for money trusts which are entrusted to domestic consolidated trust banking subsidiaries, were ¥1,470,677 million ($13,839,066 thousand) and ¥1,413,077 million as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 173 27. Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities (1) Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities consisted of the following: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Deferred Tax Assets: Tax Losses Carried Forward ¥200,319 ¥452,166 $1,885,008 Devaluation of Securities 118,545 135,401 1,115,516 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans 103,664 158,222 975,486 Securities Contributed to Employee Retirement Benefit Trust 191,136 191,895 1,798,598 Other 255,594 205,790 2,405,146 Deferred Tax Assets Subtotal: 869,262 1,143,476 8,179,754 Valuation Allowance (299,189) (580,700) (2,815,368) Total ¥570,073 ¥562,776 $5,364,386 Deferred Tax Liabilities: Net Unrealized Gains on Other ¥(516,747) ¥(468,793) $(4,862,589) Securities Net Defined Benefit Asset (305,717) (243,814) (2,876,803) Other (120,770) (131,902) (1,136,452) Total ¥(943,236) ¥(844,510) $(8,875,844) Net Deferred Tax Assets ¥(373,162) ¥(281,734) $(3,511,458) Note: MHFG and domestic subsidiaries are subject to a number of different income taxes. (2) For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the reconciliation of the statutory tax rate of MHFG to the effective income tax rate was as follows: For the Fiscal Year ended March 31, 2018 2017 Statutory Tax Rate 30.86% 30.86% Adjustments Change in Valuation Allowance (4.91) 7.66 Permanent Differences (e.g., Cash Dividends Received) (1.18) (0.96) Tax Rate Differences between the Consolidated Subsidiaries (1.95) (2.59) Impact of corporate restructuring in overseas group companies ― (17.00) Other 1.13 (0.41) Effective Income Tax Rate 23.95% 17.56% (3) The revision of the amount of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities due to the change in tax rate of the corporate tax, etc: The Tax Reform Act was enacted on December 22, 2017 in the U.S.A. and the federal corporate tax rate applied to MHFG’s consolidated subsidiaries in the U.S.A. has been lowered from 35% to 21% from January 1, 2018. As a result of this change in the tax rate, Deferred Tax Assets decreased by ¥7,715 million ($72,600 thousand), Deferred Tax Liabilities decreased by ¥1,008 million ($9,492 thousand), and Deferred Income Taxes increased by ¥6,706 million ($63,108 thousand). 174 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 28. Revaluation of Land In accordance with the Land Revaluation Law (Proclamation No.34 dated March 31, 1998), land used for business operations of domestic consolidated banking subsidiaries was revalued. The applicable income taxes on the entire excess of revaluation are included in Deferred Tax Liabilities for Revaluation Reserve for Land under Liabilities, and the remainder, net of applicable income taxes, is stated as Revaluation Reserve for Land included in Net Assets. Revaluation date: March 31, 1998 Revaluation method as stated in Article 3, Paragraph 3 of the above law: Land used for business operations was revalued by calculating the value on the basis of the valuation by road rating stipulated in Article 2, Paragraph 4 of the Enforcement Ordinance relating to the Land Revaluation Law (Government Ordinance No.119 promulgated on March 31, 1998) with reasonable adjustments to compensate for sites with long depth and other factors, and also on the basis of the appraisal valuation stipulated in Paragraph 5. The difference at the consolidated balance sheet date between the total fair value of land for business operation purposes, which has been revalued in accordance with Article 10 of the above-mentioned law, and the total book value of the land after such revaluation was ¥100,007 million ($941,070 thousand) and ¥117,950 million as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 29. Common Stock and Preferred Stock Common Stock and Preferred Stock at March 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows: Number of shares Per share (Yen) Interim Year-end With As of March 31, 2018 Issued and cash cash Liquidation Convertible Redemption Class of stock Authorized*2 outstanding*1 dividend dividend value or not or not Common Stock 48,000,000,000 25,389,644,945 ¥3.75 ¥3.75 ¥― No No Notes: 1. Treasury Stock is included. The number is as follows: Common Stock 6,487 thousand shares 2. Each total number of other shares which are authorized to be issued is as follows: First Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares First Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares First Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XIV Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 900,000,000 in total. The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XV Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 900,000,000 in total. The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XVI Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 1,500,000,000 in total. 175 Number of shares Per share (Yen) Interim Year-end With As of March 31, 2017 Issued and cash cash Liquidation Convertible Redemption Class of stock Authorized*2 outstanding*1 dividend dividend value or not or not Common Stock 48,000,000,000 25,386,307,945 ¥3.75 ¥3.75 ¥― No No Notes: 1. Treasury Stock is included. The number is as follows: Common Stock 6,705 thousand shares 2. All of the shares of the Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock that had not been requested for acquisition by June 30, 2016 were acquired as of July 1, 2016 and all of the shares of the Eleventh Series Class XI were cancelled on July 13, 2016. Accordingly, the common stock shareholders approved an amendment to the Article of Incorporation accompanied by a decrease in the total number of authorized shares and the total number of authorized shares of the Class XI preferred stock at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of MHFG held on June 23, 2017. As a result of the amendment, each total number of other authorized shares, effective on the same day,shall be as follows: First Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XIV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares First Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XV Preferred Stock 900,000 thousand shares First Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Second Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Third Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares Fourth Series Class XVI Preferred Stock 1,500,000 thousand shares The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XIV Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 900,000,000 in total. The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XV Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 900,000,000 in total. The total number of shares of the First to Fourth Series Class XVI Preferred Stock, which are authorized to be issued, shall not exceed 1,500,000,000 in total. 176 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 30. Stock Options Outline of stock options and changes For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 (1) Outline of stock options First Series of Stock Second Series of Stock Third Series of Stock As of March 31, 2018 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 4 Directors 4 Directors 4 Executive Executive Executive 4 4 4 Officers Officers Officers Directors of Directors of Directors of subsidiaries of 14 subsidiaries of 14 subsidiaries of 12 MHFG MHFG MHFG Executive Executive Executive Officers of Officers of Officers of 71 71 71 subsidiaries of subsidiaries of subsidiaries of MHFG MHFG MHFG Number of stock Common stock 5,409,000 Common stock 5,835,000 Common stock 6,808,000 options*1 Grant date February 16, 2009 September 25, 2009 August 26, 2010 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK or MHCB immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK or MHCB. Required service July 1, 2008 April 1, 2009 April 1, 2010 period to March 31, 2009 to March 31, 2010 to March 31, 2011 Exercise period February 17, 2009 September 28, 2009 August 27, 2010 to February 16, 2029 to September 25, 2029 to August 26, 2030 177 Fourth Series of Stock Fifth Series of Stock Sixth Series of Stock As of March 31, 2018 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 6 Directors 6 Directors 6 Executive Executive Executive 6 11 36 Officers Officers Officers Directors of Directors of Directors of subsidiaries of 26 subsidiaries of 23 subsidiaries of 22 MHFG MHFG MHFG Executive Executive Executive Officers of Officers of Officers of 130 150 134 subsidiaries of subsidiaries of subsidiaries of MHFG MHFG MHFG Number of stock Common stock 12,452,000 Common stock 11,776,000 Common stock 7,932,000 options*1 Grant date December 8, 2011 August 31, 2012 February 17, 2014 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which The grantee may exercise the have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director Stock Acquisition Rights which or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHCB, MHTB or have been allotted based on MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee his or her capacity as a loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of Director or an Executive MHFG, MHBK, MHCB, MHTB or MHSC. Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC. Required service April 1, 2011 April 1, 2012 April 1, 2013 period to March 31, 2012 to March 31, 2013 to March 31, 2014 Exercise period December 9, 2011 September 3, 2012 February 18, 2014 to December 8, 2031 to August 31, 2032 to February 17, 2034 Seventh Series of Stock As of March 31, 2018 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 2 Executive Officers as defined 12 in the Companies Act Executive Officers as defined 37 in our internal regulations Directors of subsidiaries of 32 MHFG Executive Officers of 113 subsidiaries of MHFG Number of stock Common stock 9,602,000 options*1 Grant date December 1, 2014 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director, an Executive Officer as defined in Companies Act or an Executive Officer as defined in our internal regulations of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director, an Executive Officer as defined in Companies Act or an Executive Officer as defined in our internal regulations of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC. Required service April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015 period Exercise period December 2, 2014 to December 1, 2034 *1: Shown in number of shares 178 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (2) Size of stock options and changes (i) Number of stock options (in shares) First Series of Second Series of Third Series of Fourth Series of Fifth Series of For the Fiscal Year ended Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition March 31, 2018 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Non-vested As of March 31, 2017 124,000 220,000 331,000 966,000 2,207,000 Granted ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Forfeited ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Vested ─ ─ ─ 354,000 733,000 Outstanding 124,000 220,000 331,000 612,000 1,474,000 Vested As of March 31, 2017 ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Vested ─ ─ ─ 354,000 733,000 Exercised ─ ─ ─ 354,000 733,000 Forfeited ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Outstanding ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Sixth Series of Seventh Series of For the Fiscal Year ended Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition March 31, 2018 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Non-vested As of March 31, 2017 2,049,000 4,922,000 Granted ─ ─ Forfeited ─ ─ Vested 744,000 1,772,000 Outstanding 1,305,000 3,150,000 Vested As of March 31, 2017 ─ ─ Vested 744,000 1,772,000 Exercised 744,000 1,772,000 Forfeited ─ ─ Outstanding ─ ─ Note: The above table is shown in number of shares. (ii) Price information First Series of Second Series of Third Series of Fourth Series of Fifth Series of Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition As of March 31, 2018 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Exercise price ¥1 per share ¥1 per share ¥1 per share ¥1 per share ¥1 per share Average stock price ─ ─ ─ ¥205.20 ¥205.16 upon exercise Fair value at grant date ¥190.91 ¥168.69 ¥119.52 ¥91.84 ¥113.25 per share per share per share per share per share Sixth Series of Seventh Series of Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition As of March 31, 2018 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Exercise price ¥1 per share ¥1 per share Average stock price ¥205.16 ¥205.06 upon exercise Fair value at grant date ¥192.61 ¥186.99 per share per share 179 (3) Estimated number of stock options to be vested Only the number of stock options actually forfeited is reflected because the number of stock options that will be forfeited in the future cannot be readily estimated. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 (1) Outline of stock options First Series of Stock Second Series of Stock Third Series of Stock As of March 31, 2017 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 4 Directors 4 Directors 4 Executive Executive Executive 4 4 4 Officers Officers Officers Directors of Directors of Directors of subsidiaries of 14 subsidiaries of 14 subsidiaries of 12 MHFG MHFG MHFG Executive Executive Executive Officers of Officers of Officers of 71 71 71 subsidiaries of subsidiaries of subsidiaries of MHFG MHFG MHFG Number of stock Common stock 5,409,000 Common stock 5,835,000 Common stock 6,808,000 options*1 Grant date February 16, 2009 September 25, 2009 August 26, 2010 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK or MHCB immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK or MHCB. Required service July 1, 2008 April 1, 2009 April 1, 2010 period to March 31, 2009 to March 31, 2010 to March 31, 2011 Exercise period February 17, 2009 September 28, 2009 August 27, 2010 to February 16, 2029 to September 25, 2029 to August 26, 2030 180 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Fourth Series of Stock Fifth Series of Stock Sixth Series of Stock As of March 31, 2017 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 6 Directors 6 Directors 6 Executive Executive Executive 6 11 36 Officers Officers Officers Directors of Directors of Directors of subsidiaries of 26 subsidiaries of 23 subsidiaries of 22 MHFG MHFG MHFG Executive Executive Executive Officers of Officers of Officers of 130 150 134 subsidiaries of subsidiaries of subsidiaries of MHFG MHFG MHFG Number of stock Common stock 12,452,000 Common stock 11,776,000 Common stock 7,932,000 options*1 Grant date December 8, 2011 August 31, 2012 February 17, 2014 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which The grantee may exercise the have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director Stock Acquisition Rights which or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHCB, MHTB or have been allotted based on MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee his or her capacity as a loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of Director or an Executive MHFG, MHBK, MHCB, MHTB or MHSC. Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director or an Executive Officer of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC. Required service April 1, 2011 April 1, 2012 April 1, 2013 period to March 31, 2012 to March 31, 2013 to March 31, 2014 Exercise period December 9, 2011 September 3, 2012 February 18, 2014 to December 8, 2031 to August 31, 2032 to February 17, 2034 Seventh Series of Stock As of March 31, 2017 Acquisition Rights of MHFG Number of grantees Directors 2 Executive Officers as defined 12 in the Companies Act Executive Officers as defined 37 in our internal regulations Directors of subsidiaries of 32 MHFG Executive Officers of 113 subsidiaries of MHFG Number of stock Common stock 9,602,000 options*1 Grant date December 1, 2014 Condition for vesting The grantee may exercise the Stock Acquisition Rights which have been allotted based on his or her capacity as a Director, an Executive Officer as defined in Companies Act or an Executive Officer as defined in our internal regulations of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC immediately following the date on which such grantee loses the status as a Director, an Executive Officer as defined in Companies Act or an Executive Officer as defined in our internal regulations of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB or MHSC. Required service April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015 period Exercise period December 2, 2014 to December 1, 2034 *1: Shown in number of shares 181 (2) Size of stock options and changes (i) Number of stock options (in shares) First Series of Second Series of Third Series of Fourth Series of Fifth Series of For the Fiscal Year ended Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition March 31, 2017 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Non-vested As of March 31, 2016 124,000 325,000 568,000 1,796,000 3,486,000 Granted ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Forfeited ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Vested ─ 105,000 237,000 830,000 1,279,000 Outstanding 124,000 220,000 331,000 966,000 2,207,000 Vested As of March 31, 2016 ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Vested ─ 105,000 237,000 830,000 1,279,000 Exercised ─ 105,000 237,000 830,000 1,279,000 Forfeited ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Outstanding ─ ─ ─ ─ ─ Sixth Series of Seventh Series of For the Fiscal Year ended Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition March 31, 2017 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Non-vested As of March 31, 2016 3,560,000 7,331,000 Granted ─ ─ Forfeited ─ ─ Vested 1,511,000 2,409,000 Outstanding 2,049,000 4,922,000 Vested As of March 31, 2016 ─ ─ Vested 1,511,000 2,409,000 Exercised 1,511,000 2,409,000 Forfeited ─ ─ Outstanding ─ ─ Note: The above table is shown in number of shares. (ii) Price information First Series of Second Series of Third Series of Fourth Series of Fifth Series of Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition As of March 31, 2017 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Exercise price ¥1 per share ¥1 per share ¥1 per share ¥1 per share ¥1 per share Average stock price ─ ¥162.80 ¥162.80 ¥162.80 ¥162.67 upon exercise Fair value at grant date ¥190.91 ¥168.69 ¥119.52 ¥91.84 ¥113.25 per share per share per share per share per share Sixth Series of Seventh Series of Stock Acquisition Stock Acquisition As of March 31, 2017 Rights of MHFG Rights of MHFG Exercise price ¥1 per share ¥1 per share Average stock price ¥162.42 ¥162.39 upon exercise Fair value at grant date ¥192.61 ¥186.99 per share per share 182 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (3) Estimated number of stock options to be vested Only the number of stock options actually forfeited is reflected because the number of stock options that will be forfeited in the future cannot be readily estimated. 31. Interest Income and Interest Expenses Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Interest Income: Loans and Bills Discounted ¥999,385 ¥934,108 $9,404,210 Securities 282,801 279,888 2,661,157 Call Loans and Bills Purchased 5,569 5,234 52,413 Due from Banks 119,839 77,294 1,127,691 Receivables under Resale Agreements 127,923 79,599 1,203,755 Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 17,172 13,806 161,594 Other Interest Income 69,662 55,624 655,525 Total ¥1,622,354 ¥1,445,555 $15,266,345 Interest Expenses: Deposits ¥373,551 ¥269,618 $3,515,113 Call Money and Bills Sold 4,995 3,234 47,010 Payables under Repurchase Agreements 230,554 120,362 2,169,517 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 5,500 2,793 51,756 Commercial Paper 8,284 7,386 77,957 Borrowed Money 28,285 17,832 266,162 Other Interest Expenses 163,817 156,509 1,541,518 Total ¥814,988 ¥577,737 $7,669,033 Net ¥807,366 ¥867,818 $7,597,312 183 32. Trading Income and Trading Expenses Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Trading Income: Net Gains on Trading Securities ¥180,502 ¥209,990 $1,698,532 Net Gains on Derivatives for Trading Transactions 96,113 116,240 904,426 Total ¥276,616 ¥326,230 $2,602,958 Trading Expenses: Net Losses on Trading Securities 829 898 7,804 Total ¥829 ¥898 $7,804 Net ¥275,786 ¥325,332 $2,595,154 33. Other Operating Income Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Gains on Foreign Exchange Transactions ¥84,187 ¥70,213 $792,201 Gains on Sales of Bonds 70,832 150,722 666,536 Gains on Derivatives other than for Trading or Hedging 12,635 3,737 118,903 Other 136,558 113,603 1,285,018 Total ¥304,214 ¥338,276 $2,862,658 34. Other Operating Expenses Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Losses on Sales of Bonds ¥88,755 ¥48,016 $835,184 Losses on Devaluation of Bonds 2,045 1,250 19,252 Other 50,959 43,588 479,531 Total ¥141,760 ¥92,856 $1,333,967 35. Other Income Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Gains on Sales of Stock ¥316,471 ¥295,851 $2,977,991 Reversal of Reserves for 159,062 — 1,496,777 Possible Losses on Loans Gains on Cancellation of Employee Retirement 26,032 — 244,964 Benefit Trust Gains on Step Acquisition — 56,226 — Recovery on Written-off Loans 12,203 33,630 114,837 Gains on Disposition of Fixed Assets 3,723 2,588 35,041 Other 48,189 49,746 453,466 Total ¥565,683 ¥438,042 $5,323,076 184 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 36. Other Expenses Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 System migration-related expenses ¥55,398 ¥44,172 $521,296 Losses on Sales of Stocks 28,092 34,718 264,347 Losses on Impairment of Fixed Assets 6,960 6,651 65,498 Losses on Disposition of Fixed Assets 5,219 5,197 49,117 Provision for Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans — 61,557 — Other 96,442 127,071 907,526 Total ¥192,113 ¥279,368 $1,807,784 37. Comprehensive Income Reclassification adjustments and the related tax effects concerning Other Comprehensive Income Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities: The amount arising during the period ¥408,416 ¥313,180 $3,843,195 Reclassification adjustments (258,697) (361,830) (2,434,346) Before adjustments to tax effects 149,718 (48,649) 1,408,849 The amount of tax effects (47,385) 37,684 (445,899) Net Unrealized Gains on Other Securities 102,332 (10,965) 962,950 Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges: The amount arising during the period (98,763) (215,077) (929,367) Reclassification adjustments (12,064) (8,233) (113,528) Before adjustments to tax effects (110,828) (223,310) (1,042,895) The amount of tax effects 33,622 68,152 316,389 Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges (77,205) (155,158) (726,506) Revaluation Reserve for Land: The amount arising during the period — — — Reclassification adjustments — — — Before adjustments to tax effects — — — The amount of tax effects (133) (11) (1,259) Revaluation Reserve for Land (133) (11) (1,259) Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments: The amount arising during the period (10,949) (12,591) (103,030) Reclassification Adjustments — 77 — Before adjustments to tax effects (10,949) (12,514) (103,030) The amount of tax effects — — — Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments (10,949) (12,514) (103,030) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans: The amount arising during the period 216,314 96,080 2,035,517 Reclassification Adjustments (141) 38,699 (1,333) Before adjustments to tax effects 216,172 134,780 2,034,184 The amount of tax effects (66,699) (41,191) (627,639) Remeasurements of Defined Benefit Plans 149,473 93,588 1,406,545 Share of Other Comprehensive Income of Associates Accounted for Using Equity Method: The amount arising during the period (6,284) (3,266) (59,136) The total amount of Other Comprehensive Income ¥157,233 ¥(88,326) $1,479,564 185 38. Changes in Net Assets For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 (i) Types and number of issued shares and of treasury stock are as follows: Thousands of Shares As of Increase during Decrease during As of April 1, 2017 the fiscal year the fiscal year March 31, 2018 Remarks Issued shares Common stock 25,386,307 3,337 — 25,389,644 *1 Total 25,386,307 3,337 — 25,389,644 Treasury stock Common stock 19,992 12,018 7,181 24,829 *2 Total 19,992 12,018 7,181 24,829 *1 Increases are due to exercise of stock acquisition rights (stock options) (3,337 thousand shares). *2 Increases are due to acquisition of treasury stock by BBT trust account (8,130 thousand shares) and repurchase of shares constituting less than one unit and other factors (3,888 thousand shares). Decreases are due to distribution of treasury stock through BBT trust account (3,810 thousand shares), exercise of stock acquisition rights (stock options) (266 thousand shares), and repurchase of shares constituting less than one unit and other factors (3,104 thousand shares). The number of shares as of March 31, 2018 includes the number of treasury stock held by BBT trust account (13,319 thousand shares). (ii) Stock acquisition rights and treasury stock acquisition rights are as follows: Class of Number of shares to be issued or transferred shares to upon exercise of stock acquisition rights be issued (Shares) or transferred Balance as upon Balance as of of March Breakdown of exercise of Increase Decrease March 31, 31, 2018 stock stock As of during during As of 2018 (Thousands acquisition acquisition April 1, the fiscal the fiscal March (Millions of of Category rights rights 2017 year year 31, 2018 yen) U.S.dollars) Remarks MHFG Stock acquisition rights — — — — ¥— $— (Treasury — (—) (—) (—) (—) (—) (—) stock acquisition rights) Stock acquisition — 1,163 10,952 rights as stock option Consolidated — — subsidiaries (Treasury — (—) (—) stock acquisition rights) ¥1,163 $10,952 Total — (—) (—) 186 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (iii) Cash dividends distributed by MHFG are as follows (non-consolidated basis): Cash dividends paid during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 Cash Cash Cash Cash Dividends Dividends Dividends Dividends (Millions of (Thousands of per Share per Share Record Effective Resolution Type yen) U.S. dollars) (Yen) (U.S. dollars) Date Date May 15, 2017 March 31, June 5, Common Stock ¥95,173 $895,582 ¥3.75 $0.04 ( The Board of Directors ) 2017 2017 November 13, 2017 September 30, December 5, Common Stock ¥95,186 $895,707 ¥3.75 $0.04 ( The Board of Directors ) 2017 2017 Total ¥190,360 $1,791,289 / / (Notes) 1. Cash dividends based on the resolution of the Board of Directors held on May 15, 2017 include 33 million of cash dividends on treasury stock held by BBT trust account. 2. Cash dividends based on the resolution of the Board of Directors held on November 13, 2017 include 49 million of cash dividends on treasury stock held by BBT trust account. Cash dividends with record dates falling in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 and effective dates coming after the end of the fiscal year Cash Cash Cash Cash Dividends Dividends Resource Dividends Dividends (Millions of (Thousands of of per Share per Share Record Effective Resolution Type yen) U.S. dollars) Dividends (Yen) (U.S. dollars) Date Date May 15, 2018 Retained March 31, June 4, Common Stock ¥95,186 $895,708 ¥3.75 $0.04 ( The Board of Directors ) Earnings 2018 2018 Total ¥95,186 $895,708 / / (Note) Cash dividends based on the resolution of the Board of Directors held on May 15, 2018 include 49 million of cash dividends on treasury stock held by BBT trust account. 187 For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 (i) Types and number of issued shares and of treasury stock are as follows: Thousands of Shares As of Increase during Decrease during As of April 1, 2016 the fiscal year the fiscal year March 31, 2017 Remarks Issued shares Common stock 25,030,525 355,782 ― 25,386,307 *1 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred *2 Stock 914,752 ― 914,752 ― Total 25,945,277 355,782 914,752 25,386,307 Treasury stock Common stock 10,929 12,188 3,125 19,992 *3 Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 815,828 98,923 914,752 ― *4 Total 826,757 111,112 917,877 19,992 *1 Increases are due to request for acquisition (conversion) of preferred stock (349,677 thousand shares) and exercise of stock acquisition rights (stock options) (6,105 thousand shares). *2 Decreases are due to cancellation of treasury stock (preferred stock). *3 Increases are due to acquisition of treasury stock by BBT trust account (9,000 thousand shares) and repurchase of shares constituting less than one unit and other factors (3,188 thousand shares). Decreases are due to exercise of stock acquisition rights (stock options) (266 thousand shares) and repurchase of shares constituting less than one unit and other factors (2,859 thousand shares). The number of shares as of March 31, 2017 includes the number of treasury stock held by BBT trust account (9,000 thousand shares). *4 Increases are due to acquisition of treasury stock (preferred stock) (75,091 thousand shares) and request for acquisition (conversion) of preferred stock (23,832 thousand shares). Decreases are due to cancellation of treasury stock (preferred stock). (ii) Stock acquisition rights and treasury stock acquisition rights are as follows: Class of Number of shares to be issued or transferred shares to upon exercise of stock acquisition rights be issued (Shares) or transferred upon Balance as of Breakdown of exercise of Increase Decrease March 31, stock stock As of during during As of 2017 acquisition acquisition April 1, the fiscal the fiscal March (Millions of Category rights rights 2016 year year 31, 2017 yen) Remarks MHFG Stock acquisition rights — — — — ¥— (Treasury — (—) (—) (—) (—) (—) stock acquisition rights) Stock acquisition — 1,754 rights as stock option Consolidated — subsidiaries (Treasury — (—) stock acquisition rights) ¥1,754 Total — (—) 188 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (iii) Cash dividends distributed by MHFG are as follows (non-consolidated basis): Cash dividends paid during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 Cash Cash Dividends Dividends (Millions of per Share Record Effective Resolution Type yen) (Yen) Date Date May 13, March 31, Common Stock ¥93,838 ¥3.75 2016 2016 June 3, ( The Board of Directors ) Eleventh Series Class XI Preferred Stock 989 10 March 31, 2016 2016 November 14, 2016 September 30, December 6, Common Stock ¥95,173 ¥3.75 ( The Board of Directors ) 2016 2016 Total ¥190,001 / (Note) Cash dividends based on the resolution of the Board of Directors held on November 14, 2016 include 33 million of cash dividends on treasury stock held by BBT trust account. Cash dividends with record dates falling in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 and effective dates coming after the end of the fiscal year Cash Cash Dividends Resource Dividends (Millions of of per Share Record Effective Resolution Type yen) Dividends (Yen) Date Date May 15 2017 Retained March 31, June 5, Common Stock ¥95,173 ¥3.75 ( The Board of Directors ) Earnings 2017 2017 Total ¥95,173 / (Note) Cash dividends based on the resolution of the Board of Directors held on May 15, 2017 include 33 million of cash dividends on treasury stock held by BBT trust account. 189 39. Cash Flows Cash and Cash Equivalents on the consolidated statement of cash flows reconciles to Cash and Due from Banks on the consolidated balance sheet as follows: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Cash and Due from Banks ¥47,725,360 ¥47,129,583 $449,095,331 Less: Due from Banks excluding due from Central Banks (1,391,026) (1,605,919) (13,089,552) Cash and Cash Equivalents ¥46,334,334 ¥45,523,663 $436,005,779 40. Lease Transactions Finance Leases (Lessees) Finance lease transactions that do not transfer ownership: (1) Lease Assets: • Tangible fixed assets: mainly equipment • Intangible fixed assets: software (2) The method for computing the amount of depreciation is described in “5 Standards of Accounting Method (8) Lease Assets.” Operating Leases The future lease payments subsequent to the end of the fiscal year for non-cancelable operating lease transactions are summarized as follows: Lessees: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Due in One Year or Less ¥51,996 ¥52,279 $489,286 Due after One Year 193,996 211,127 1,825,505 Total ¥245,992 ¥263,407 $2,314,791 Lessors: Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Due in One Year or Less ¥632 ¥1,113 $5,954 Due after One Year 7,267 9,712 68,383 Total ¥7,899 ¥10,825 $74,337 190 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 41. Financial Instruments 1. Matters Relating to the Conditions of Financial Instruments (1) Policy on Financial Instruments Mizuho Financial Group (MHFG), which primarily engages in banking business, incurs financial liabilities such as customer deposits and market deposits on the funding side while holding financial assets such as customer loans, stocks and bonds on the investment side, and also engages in trading business for certain financial products. Some consolidated subsidiaries conduct securities business and other financial business. For above funding and investment business, MHFG appropriately manages risks of each financial instrument and carefully watches term-gaps and other risk factors. (2) Contents and Risk of Financial Products The main financial assets of the Mizuho group consist of loans to customers, government bonds and stocks. These financial assets are subject to various types of risk that may cause the Group to incur losses due to a decline in, or total loss of, the value of assets, as a result of deterioration in a counterparty’s and/or an issuer’s financial position (“credit risk”), or due to a decline in the value of assets caused by fluctuations in interest rates, stock prices and foreign exchange rates and so on (“market risk”). The Group may also be exposed to the risk of incurring losses when it becomes impossible to execute transactions in the market because of market confusion or losses arising from transactions at prices that are significantly less favorable than usual (“market liquidity risk “). The main financing source of the Mizuho group is a stable source of deposits from its customers in addition to direct funding from the financial market. These financing sources are subject to the risk of losses (“liquidity risk”) arising from funding difficulties due to market disruption or a deterioration in our financial position that makes it difficult for us to raise the necessary funds or that forces us to raise funds at significantly higher interest rates than usual. In addition, the Mizuho group uses derivative financial products to control the interest rate risk related to the assets and liabilities of the Group, as part of our asset and liability management (“ALM”). The Group primarily utilizes the portfolio hedge by grouping numerous financial assets and liabilities such as loans and deposits into similar interest risk units in accordance with risk management policies. Some derivative products like interest rate swaps are used as hedging methods for cash-flow hedges or fair value hedges. The Group applies hedge accounting to the majority of these products, treating them as deferred hedges. The effectiveness of the hedges is assessed periodically by regression analysis and other methods to ensure whether the derivative financial products effectively work in order to offset the exposure to changes in fair value and variable cash flows from hedged items. It should be noted that the Mizuho Group uses derivative financial products for trading purposes and so on as well. (3) Risk Management for Financial Products (a) Commitment to Risk Management We recognize the conducting of operations tailored to the risks and managing such risks as a key issue relating to overall management. In order to implement our business strategy while maintaining our financial stability, we maintain comprehensive risk management and control measures. We maintain basic policies for risk management established by our board of directors that are applicable to the entire Mizuho group. These policies clearly define the kinds of risks to be managed, set forth the organizational structure and provide for the human resources training necessary for appropriate levels of risk management. The policies also provide for audits to measure the effectiveness and suitability of the risk management structure. In line with these basic policies, we maintain various measures to strengthen and enhance the sophistication of our risk management system. (b) General Concept of Risk Management We classify our risk exposures according to the various kinds of risk, including credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk and operational risk, and manage each type of risk according to its characteristics. In addition to managing each type of risk individually, we have established a risk management structure to identify and evaluate overall risk and, where necessary, to devise appropriate responses to keep risk within limits that are managerially acceptable in both qualitative and quantitative terms. More specifically, we allocate risk capital to core group companies, including their respective subsidiaries, to control risk within the limits set for each company. We also control risk within managerially acceptable limits by 191 working to ensure that the overall risk we hold on a consolidated basis does not exceed the Group’s financial strength. To ensure the ongoing financial health of Mizuho Financial Group, we regularly monitor the manner in which risk capital is being used in order to obtain a proper grasp of the risk profile within this framework. Reports are also submitted to the board of directors and other committees of each company. (c) Credit Risk Management The board of directors of Mizuho Financial Group determines basic matters pertaining to credit risk management. In addition, we have established the Risk Management Committee, as one of its business policy committees. This committee broadly discusses and coordinates basic policy in connection with credit risk management and matters in connection with overall credit portfolio management and credit risk monitoring for the Mizuho group. Under the control of the Chief Risk Officer of Mizuho Financial Group, the Credit Risk Management Department and the Risk Management Department jointly monitor, analyze and submit suggestions concerning credit risk and formulate and execute plans in connection with basic matters pertaining to credit risk management. We have adopted two different but mutually complementary approaches in credit risk management. The first approach is “credit management,” in which we manage the process for each individual transaction and individual obligor from execution until collection, based on our assessment of the credit quality of the customer. Through this process, we curb losses in the case of a credit event. The second is “credit portfolio management,” in which we utilize statistical methods to assess the potential for losses related to credit risk. Through this process, we identify credit risk and respond appropriately. We use statistical methods to manage the possibility of losses by measuring the expected average loss for a oneyear risk horizon (“expected loss”) and the maximum loss within a certain confidence interval (“credit VAR”). The difference between expected loss and credit VAR is measured as the credit risk amount (“unexpected loss”). We recognize two types of risk arising from allowing unexpected loss to become too large. One type is “credit concentration risk,” which stems from granting excessive credit to certain individual counterparties or corporate groups. The other type is “chain-reaction default risk,” which arises from granting excessive credit to certain areas, industrial sectors and other groupings. We manage these risks appropriately in line with our specific guidelines for each. The board of directors of each of our principal banking subsidiaries and other core group companies determines key matters pertaining to credit risk by establishing their respective basic policies in line with the basic policies for credit risk management set forth by Mizuho Financial Group. Their respective business policy committees are responsible for discussing and coordinating overall management of their individual credit portfolios and transaction policies towards obligors. The chief risk officer of each principal banking subsidiary and core group company is responsible for matters relating to planning and implementing credit risk management. Departments in charge of credit risk management are responsible for planning and administering credit risk management and conducting credit risk measuring and monitoring. Credit Departments determine policies and approves/disapproves individual transactions regarding review and management of and collection from customers in accordance with the lines of authority set forth by each principal banking subsidiary. In addition, each of our principal banking subsidiaries has also established internal audit groups that are independent of the business departments in order to ensure appropriate credit risk management. (d) Market Risk Management The board of directors of Mizuho Financial Group determines basic matters pertaining to market risk management policies. In addition, we have established the Risk Management Committee, as one of its business policy committees. The committee broadly discusses and coordinates matters concerning basic policy and operations in connection with market risk management and market risk monitoring, and proposes measures to be taken in emergencies such as sudden market changes. The Chief Risk Officer of Mizuho Financial Group is responsible for matters relating to market risk management planning and operations. The Risk Management Department of Mizuho Financial Group is responsible for monitoring market risk, reports and analyses, proposals, setting limits and guidelines, and formulating and implementing plans relating to market risk management. In addition, the department assesses and manages the overall market risk of the Mizuho group as a whole and keeps track of the market risk situation of our principal banking subsidiaries and other core group companies. The department also submits reports to the President & CEO on a daily basis and to our board of directors and the executive management committee of Mizuho Financial Group on a regular basis. To manage market risk, we set limits that correspond to risk capital allocations. The amount of risk capital allocated to market risk corresponds to VAR and additional costs that may arise in order to close relevant positions. 192 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements For trading and banking activities, we set limits for VAR and for losses. For banking activities, we set position limits based on interest rate sensitivity as needed. The board of directors of each of our principal banking subsidiaries and other core group companies determine key matters pertaining to market risk by establishing their respective basic policies in line with the basic policies for market risk management set forth by Mizuho Financial Group. Based on a common Mizuho Group risk capital allocation framework, the above-mentioned companies manage market risk by setting limits according to the risk capital allocated to market risk by Mizuho Financial Group. They have the same market risk management structure as the Mizuho Financial Group, such as their business policy committees being responsible for overall discussion and coordination of the market risk management. In addition, they have established middle offices specializing in risk management that are independent of their front offices, which engage in market transactions, and their back offices, which are responsible for book entries and settlements. This system enables them to achieve mutual checks and control over market operations. When VAR is not adequate to control risk, the middle offices manage risk using additional risk indices such as 10 BPV (Basis Point Value), carry out stress tests and set stop loss limits as needed. (e) Situation of Market Risk i. Banking Business The following table shows the VAR figures relating to our banking activities for the fiscal years indicated: Billions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 As of fiscal year end ¥268.4 ¥292.7 $2,525,927 Maximum 307.2 397.5 2,891,486 Minimum 210.8 247.4 1,983,756 Average 267.8 331.0 2,520,486 [Definition of Banking Business] The following transactions are categorized as banking business, with trading business and cross-shareholdings being categorized separately. (1) Deposits and loans as well as related funding activities, and hedge against interest rate risk. (2) Equity (excluding cross-shareholdings), bonds, investment trusts, etc. and hedges against related market risk. The core deposit of liquid deposits is to be specified and incorporated into the measurement of market risk. Banking business VAR used to calculate Market Risk Equivalent is based on the following: • VAR : historical simulation method; • confidence interval: one-tailed 99%; • holding period of one month ; and • historical observation period of three years. 193 ii. Trading Business The following table shows VAR figures of our trading activities for the fiscal years indicated : Billions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 As of fiscal year end ¥3.0 ¥2.6 $28,485 Maximum 6.2 5.8 58,850 Minimum 2.2 2.3 20,879 Average 3.0 3.3 28,823 [Definition of Trading Business] (1) Transactions held for the purpose of short-term resale. (2) Transactions held for the purpose of making a profit from price fluctuations over a short period as well as fixing a profit from arbitrage activities. (3) Deals that have both aspects of (1) and (2) above. (4) Deals held for broking business or market making business. Trading business VAR used to calculate Market Risk Equivalent is based on the following: • VAR: historical simulation method; • confidence interval: one-tailed 99%; • holding period of one trading day; and • historical observation period of three years. iii. Cross-shareholdings For cross-shareholdings, we take the same market risk management approach as that for Banking and Trading businesses with the use of VAR and risk indices. The risk index for the cross-shareholdings (sensitivity of the portfolio to a 1% change in the equity index of TOPIX) is ¥33.0 billion ($311,205 thousand) and ¥31.7 billion for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. iv. Risk management using VAR VAR is a commonly used market risk management technique with statistical assumptions to measure maximum possible loss in the market, which will be incurred to the holding portfolio in a certain period with some probability. It should be noted that in general VAR model has the following shortcomings: • VAR estimates could differ by assumptions of holding period, confidence interval level and approaches for the measurement. • VAR which is calculated based on historical data does not necessarily indicate an accurate future possible maximum loss. • VAR might underestimate the probability of extreme market movements when the market gets inactive as VAR assumes sales of holding portfolio and hedges in the market during the holding period for the calculation. • The use of a 99% confidence level neither takes account of, nor makes any statement about, any losses that might occur beyond this confidence level. The historical simulation method used as the measurement technique of VAR assumes that change in a market movement follows an empirical distribution. Therefore, the model might underestimate the risk under the circumstance that the market is likely to move extremely beyond the assumption. We check the validity of the market risk measurement made by VAR approach periodically by the back-test which compares VAR with actual profit and loss. In addition to VAR, we make a wide variety of management and controls such as risk indices monitoring, implementation of stress tests, loss limit monitoring in order to make strict risk management by capturing carefully all risks, including what VAR approach is not able to cover. (f) Liquidity Risk Management Our liquidity risk management structure is generally the same as the market risk management structure described above (“Item (d) Market Risk Management”). However, the head of the Financial Control & Accounting Group of Mizuho Financial Group is additionally responsible for matters relating to planning and running cash flow management operations, while the Financial Planning Department is responsible for monitoring and adjusting 194 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements the cash flow management situation and for planning and implementing cash flow management. Reports on the cash flow situation are submitted to the Risk Management Committee, the Balance Sheet Management Committee, the executive management committee and the President & CEO. We measure liquidity risk using indices pertaining to cash flow, such as limits on funds raised in the market. Limits on liquidity risk are discussed and coordinated by the Risk Management Committee, discussed further by the executive management committee and determined by the President & CEO. We have established classifications for the cash flow conditions affecting the Group, ranging from “normal” to “anxious” and “crisis,” and have established procedures for dealing with cases which are deemed to fall into the “anxious” or “crisis” categories. In addition, we have constructed a system under which we will be able to respond smoothly in the event of emergency situations that affect our funding by establishing action plans. (4) Supplementary Explanation of Matters Relating to Fair Value of Financial Instruments and Others Fair values of financial instruments include the values based on market prices, and the values deemed as market prices obtained by the reasonable estimate when the financial instruments do not have market prices. Since certain assumptions and others are adopted for calculating such values, they may differ when adopting different assumptions and others. 195 2. Matters Relating to Fair Value of Financial Instruments and Others The following are the consolidated balance sheet amounts, fair values and differences between them as of March 31, 2018 and 2017. Unlisted stocks and others, the fair values of which are extremely difficult to determine, are excluded from the table below (see (Note 2)). Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2018 Sheet Amount Fair Value Difference (1) Cash and Due from Banks *1 ¥47,723,757 ¥47,723,757 ¥― (2) Call Loans and Bills Purchased *1 714,870 714,870 ― (3) Receivables under Resale Agreements 8,080,873 8,080,873 ― (4) Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 4,350,527 4,350,527 ― (5) Other Debt Purchased *1 2,713,345 2,713,347 1 (6) Trading Assets Trading Securities 5,188,400 5,188,400 ― (7) Money Held in Trust *1 336,203 336,203 ― (8) Securities Bonds Held to Maturity 2,515,830 2,521,846 6,016 Other Securities 31,103,130 31,103,130 ― (9) Loans and Bills Discounted 79,421,473 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans *1 (275,439) 79,146,034 80,053,839 907,804 Total Assets ¥181,872,972 ¥182,786,795 ¥913,822 (1) Deposits ¥125,081,233 ¥125,063,500 ¥(17,733) (2) Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 11,382,590 11,382,089 (500) (3) Call Money and Bills Sold 2,105,293 2,105,293 ― (4) Payables under Repurchase Agreements 16,656,828 16,656,828 ― (5) Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 1,566,833 1,566,833 ― (6) Trading Liabilities Securities Sold, Not yet Purchased 3,185,101 3,185,101 ― (7) Borrowed Money 4,896,218 4,886,962 (9,256) (8) Bonds and Notes 7,544,256 7,591,266 47,009 (9) Due to Trust Accounts 4,733,131 4,733,131 ― Total Liabilities ¥177,151,488 ¥177,171,007 ¥19,519 Derivative Transactions *2 Derivative Transactions not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting ¥267,784 Derivative Transactions Qualifying for Hedge Accounting 234,783 Reserves for Derivative Transactions *1 (1,355) Total Derivative Transactions ¥501,212 ¥501,212 ¥― *1 General and specific reserves for possible losses on loans relevant to Loans and Bills Discounted and reserves for derivative transactions are excluded. Reserves for Cash and Due from Banks, Call Loans and Bills Purchased, Other Debt Purchased, Money Held in Trust and others are directly written off against the consolidated balance sheet amount due to immateriality. *2 Derivative Transactions recorded in Trading Assets, Trading Liabilities, Derivatives other than for Trading Assets, Derivatives other than for Trading Liabilities, and others are presented as a lump sum. Net claims and debts that arose from derivative transactions are presented on a net basis, and the item that is net debts in total is presented in brackets. 196 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2017 Sheet Amount Fair Value Difference (1) Cash and Due from Banks *1 ¥47,127,865 ¥47,127,865 ¥― (2) Call Loans and Bills Purchased *1 1,034,901 1,034,901 ― (3) Receivables under Resale Agreements 8,967,777 8,967,777 ― (4) Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 3,350,051 3,350,051 ― (5) Other Debt Purchased *1 2,744,844 2,744,847 3 (6) Trading Assets Trading Securities 4,800,408 4,800,408 ― (7) Money Held in Trust *1 247,080 247,080 ― (8) Securities Bonds Held to Maturity 3,815,674 3,846,718 31,043 Other Securities 27,946,221 27,946,221 ― (9) Loans and Bills Discounted 78,337,793 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans *1 (433,661) 77,904,132 78,916,087 1,011,955 Total Assets ¥177,938,958 ¥178,981,961 ¥1,043,002 (1) Deposits ¥120,045,217 ¥120,044,703 ¥(514) (2) Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 10,631,277 10,631,008 (268) (3) Call Money and Bills Sold 1,255,172 1,255,172 ― (4) Payables under Repurchase Agreements 17,969,753 17,969,753 ― (5) Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 1,679,300 1,679,300 ― (6) Trading Liabilities Securities Sold, Not yet Purchased 2,221,541 2,221,541 ― (7) Borrowed Money 6,307,230 6,281,775 (25,454) (8) Bonds and Notes 7,564,535 7,626,076 61,541 (9) Due to Trust Accounts 4,784,077 4,784,077 ― Total Liabilities ¥172,458,105 ¥172,493,409 ¥35,303 Derivative Transactions *2 Derivative Transactions not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting ¥[119,961] Derivative Transactions Qualifying for Hedge Accounting 302,350 Reserves for Derivative Transactions *1 (4,466) Total Derivative Transactions ¥177,922 ¥177,922 ¥― *1 General and specific reserves for possible losses on loans relevant to Loans and Bills Discounted and reserves for derivative transactions are excluded. Reserves for Cash and Due from Banks, Call Loans and Bills Purchased, Other Debt Purchased, Money Held in Trust and others are directly written off against the consolidated balance sheet amount due to immateriality. *2 Derivative Transactions recorded in Trading Assets, Trading Liabilities, Derivatives other than for Trading Assets, Derivatives other than for Trading Liabilities, and others are presented as a lump sum. Net claims and debts that arose from derivative transactions are presented on a net basis, and the item that is net debts in total is presented in brackets. 197 Thousands of U.S. dollars Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2018 Sheet Amount Fair Value Difference (1) Cash and Due from Banks *1 $449,080,240 $449,080,240 $― (2) Call Loans and Bills Purchased *1 6,726,928 6,726,928 ― (3) Receivables under Resale Agreements 76,040,970 76,040,970 ― (4) Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 40,938,430 40,938,430 ― (5) Other Debt Purchased *1 25,532,560 25,532,578 18 (6) Trading Assets Trading Securities 48,822,813 48,822,813 ― (7) Money Held in Trust *1 3,163,672 3,163,672 ― (8) Securities Bonds Held to Maturity 23,673,947 23,730,558 56,611 Other Securities 292,680,249 292,680,249 ― (9) Loans and Bills Discounted 747,355,546 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans *1 (2,591,880) 744,763,666 753,306,103 8,542,437 Total Assets $1,711,423,475 $1,720,022,541 $8,599,066 (1) Deposits $1,177,013,588 $1,176,846,713 $(166,875) (2) Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 107,110,101 107,105,389 (4,712) (3) Call Money and Bills Sold 19,810,801 19,810,801 ― (4) Payables under Repurchase Agreements 156,740,647 156,740,647 ― (5) Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 14,743,895 14,743,895 ― (6) Trading Liabilities Securities Sold, Not yet Purchased 29,971,783 29,971,783 ― (7) Borrowed Money 46,073,388 45,986,288 (87,100) (8) Bonds and Notes 70,991,403 71,433,766 442,363 (9) Due to Trust Accounts 44,538,732 44,538,732 — Total Liabilities $1,666,994,338 $1,667,178,014 $183,676 Derivative Transactions *2 Derivative Transactions not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting $2,519,846 Derivative Transactions Qualifying for Hedge Accounting 2,209,315 Reserves for Derivative Transactions *1 (12,754) Total Derivative Transactions $4,716,407 $4,716,407 $― *1 General and specific reserves for possible losses on loans relevant to Loans and Bills Discounted and reserves for derivative transactions are excluded. Reserves for Cash and Due from Banks, Call Loans and Bills Purchased, Other Debt Purchased, Money Held in Trust and others are directly written off against the consolidated balance sheet amount due to immateriality. *2 Derivative Transactions recorded in Trading Assets, Trading Liabilities, Derivatives other than for Trading Assets, Derivatives other than for Trading Liabilities, and others are presented as a lump sum. Net claims and debts that arose from derivative transactions are presented on a net basis, and the item that is net debts in total is presented in brackets. 198 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 1) Calculation method of fair value of financial instruments Assets (1) Cash and Due from Banks For Due from Banks which have no maturity, since fair values of these items approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. For Due from Banks which have maturity, since contractual terms of these items are mainly short (i.e., within six months) and fair values of these items approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. (2) Call Loans and Bills Purchased, (3) Receivables under Resale Agreements and (4) Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions Since contractual terms of these items are mainly short (i.e., within six months) and fair values of these items approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. (5) Other Debt Purchased Fair values of Other Debt Purchased are based on the values deemed as market prices obtained by the reasonable estimate such as those obtained from brokers and financial information vendors. (6) Trading Assets Fair values of securities held for trading, such as bonds held for trading, are based on the market prices and others. (7) Money Held in Trust As to securities managed as trust assets in a directed money trust for separate investment with the management of securities as its primary purpose, fair values of these items are calculated using the method stated in (8). For other Money Held in Trust, since fair values of these items approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. The notes to Money Held in Trust based on holding purpose are stated in “42.Fair Value of Securities and Money Held in Trust.” (8) Securities Fair values of stocks are based on the prices on securities exchanges, and those of bonds and others are based on the market prices, valuations obtained from brokers and information vendors and others. Fair values of investment trusts are based on the disclosed net asset value and others. Fair values of private placement bonds are calculated by discounting the total amount of principal and interest and others at interest rates based on the discount rate reflecting expected loss and various risk factors by categories according to the internal ratings and terms. Fair values of securitized products are based on valuations obtained from brokers and others, and reasonably calculated prices based on the reasonable estimates of our management. In deriving reasonably calculated prices based on the reasonable estimates of our management mentioned above, we used the discounted cash flow method. The price decision variables include default rates, recovery rates, pre-payment rates, and discount rates. Fair values of Floating-rate Japanese Government Bonds, according to our determination that current market prices may not reflect the fair value, are based on the reasonably calculated prices as book value. In deriving the reasonably calculated prices, we used the discount cash flow method as well as other methods. The price decision variables include the yield of 10-year Japanese Government Bonds and the volatilities of interest rate swap options for 10-year Japanese Government Bonds as underlying assets. The notes to Securities based on holding purpose are stated in “42.Fair Value of Securities and Money Held in Trust.” (9) Loans and Bills Discounted Fair values of Loans and Bills Discounted are calculated by the total amount of principal and interest and others at interest rates based on the discount rate reflecting expected loss and various risk factors by categories according to the types, internal ratings and terms of the Loans and Bills Discounted. In addition, as to claims against bankrupt obligors, substantially bankrupt obligors and intensive control obligors, since the estimated amount of bad debts is calculated based on the present value of the expected future cash flows or the estimated amounts that we would be able to collect from collateral and guarantees, fair values approximate the amount of Debentures and others minus the amount of 199 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans in the consolidated balance sheet as of the consolidated balance sheet date and we thus deem such amount to be fair values. Of the Loans and Bills Discounted, for those without a fixed maturity due to loan characteristics such as limiting loans to within the value of pledged assets, we deem book values to be fair values since fair values are expected to approximate book values based on the estimated loan periods, interest rates and other conditions. Liabilities (1) Deposits (2) Negotiable Certificates of Deposit For demand deposits, we deem the payment amounts required on the consolidated balance sheet date (i.e., book values) to be fair values. In addition, fair values of fixed deposits and negotiable certificates of deposits are calculated by classifying them based on their terms and by discounting the future cash flows. The discount rates used in such calculations are the interest rates. Since fair values of those whose deposit terms are short (i.e., within six months) approximate book values, we mainly deem the book values to be fair values. (3) Call Money and Bills Sold, (4) Payables under Repurchase Agreements and (5) Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions Since contractual terms of these financial instruments are mainly short (i.e., within six months) and fair values approximate book values, we deem the book values to be fair values. (6) Trading Liabilities Fair values of Securities Sold, Not yet Purchased in Trading Liabilities are based on the market prices and others. (7) Borrowed Money Fair values of Borrowed Money are calculated mainly by discounting the total amount of the principal and interest of such Borrowed Money classified by certain period at the interest rates considered to be applicable to similar loans. (8) Bonds and Notes Fair values of Bonds and Notes issued by MHFG and its consolidated subsidiaries are based on the market prices for Bonds and Notes which have market prices, and calculated by discounting the total amount of principal and interest by the interest rates considered to be applicable to similar Bonds and Notes for those which do not have market prices. (9) Due to Trust Accounts Due to Trust Accounts of consolidated trust banking subsidiaries is used for transactions in which consolidated trust banking subsidiaries manage fund entrusted to them in bank accounts of consolidated trust banking subsidiaries. As the purpose is considered to approximate demand deposit, we deem the book values to be fair values. Derivative Transactions Derivative transactions include interest rate-related transactions (futures, options, swaps and others), currency-related transactions (futures, options, swaps and others), bond-related transactions (futures, futures options and others), and are based on the prices on securities exchanges, discounted value of future cash flows, option pricing models and others. 200 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 2) Consolidated balance sheet amounts of financial instruments whose fair values are deemed to be extremely difficult to determine are indicated below, and are not included in “Assets (5) Other Debt Purchased”, “Assets (7) Money Held in Trust” and “Assets (8) Other Securities” in fair value information of financial instruments. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2018 2017 2018 As of March 31, Consolidated Balance Consolidated Balance Consolidated Balance Category Sheet Amount Sheet Amount Sheet Amount (i) Unlisted Stocks *1 ¥204,081 ¥190,320 $1,920,404 (ii) Investments in Partnerships and others *2 104,569 86,291 983,997 (iii) Other 1,263 539 11,885 Total *3 ¥309,913 ¥277,151 $2,916,286 *1 We do not treat Unlisted Stocks as being subject to disclosure of fair values as there are no market prices and they are deemed extremely difficult to determine fair values. *2 Of the Investments in Partnerships and others, we do not treat those whose assets consist of unlisted stocks and other financial instruments that are deemed extremely difficult to determine fair values as being subject to disclosure of fair values. *3 During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, the amounts of impairment (devaluation) were ¥3,794 million ($35,711 thousand) and ¥4,823 million, respectively, on a consolidated basis. (Note 3) Projected redemption amounts after the consolidated balance sheet date for financial assets and securities with maturities As of March 31, 2018 Millions of yen Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Due from Banks ¥46,715,934 ¥200 ¥0 ¥— ¥— ¥— Call Loans and Bills Purchased 715,149 — — — — — Other Debt Purchased 2,468,141 64,338 40,744 4,573 5,273 129,730 Securities *1 10,525,858 5,374,758 3,753,350 1,824,092 2,949,807 3,069,029 Bonds Held to Maturity 840,000 640,000 100,000 380,000 — 522,783 Japanese Government Bonds 840,000 640,000 100,000 380,000 — — Foreign Bonds — — — — — 522,783 Other Securities with Maturities 9,685,858 4,734,758 3,653,350 1,444,092 2,949,807 2,546,245 Japanese Government Bonds 6,281,356 3,146,400 1,841,800 355,425 1,494,800 100,000 Japanese Local Government 31,942 25,480 92,288 57,001 24,141 4,444 Bonds Japanese Corporate Bonds 459,476 792,243 488,381 219,019 201,658 790,625 Foreign Bonds 2,887,975 760,999 1,147,715 799,771 1,192,863 1,599,648 Other 25,106 9,635 83,164 12,875 36,343 51,527 Loans and Bills Discounted *2 33,417,990 16,156,883 11,446,603 5,495,875 4,725,641 7,044,731 Total ¥93,843,074 ¥21,596,181 ¥15,240,697 ¥7,324,541 ¥7,680,722 ¥10,243,490 201 As of March 31, 2017 Millions of yen Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Due from Banks ¥46,346,741 ¥— ¥0 ¥— ¥— ¥— Call Loans and Bills Purchased 1,035,746 — — — — — Other Debt Purchased 2,380,855 182,930 30,802 6,496 1,199 141,504 Securities *1 7,822,181 7,948,593 1,854,038 2,333,771 2,923,163 3,230,787 Bonds Held to Maturity 1,100,000 1,480,000 — 380,000 100,000 708,832 Japanese Government Bonds 1,100,000 1,480,000 — 380,000 100,000 — Foreign Bonds — — — — — 708,832 Other Securities with Maturities 6,722,181 6,468,593 1,854,038 1,953,771 2,823,163 2,521,955 Japanese Government Bonds 3,144,670 5,030,500 487,100 75,230 1,463,100 — Japanese Local Government 41,305 44,606 56,456 77,059 58,478 548 Bonds Japanese Corporate Bonds 602,805 611,652 350,394 142,663 205,271 760,476 Foreign Bonds 2,901,555 742,863 934,986 1,602,879 1,071,954 1,716,058 Other 31,845 38,970 25,100 55,938 24,358 44,871 Loans and Bills Discounted *2 31,782,483 16,083,902 12,194,119 5,139,898 4,706,564 7,256,890 Total ¥89,368,008 ¥24,215,426 ¥14,078,960 ¥7,480,166 ¥7,630,927 ¥10,629,182 As of March 31, 2018 Thousands of U.S. dollars Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Due from Banks $439,596,633 $1,888 $1 $— $— $— Call Loans and Bills Purchased 6,729,550 — — — — — Other Debt Purchased 23,225,200 605,425 383,403 43,033 49,625 1,220,762 Securities *1 99,048,254 50,576,447 35,319,002 17,164,700 27,757,667 28,879,545 Bonds Held to Maturity 7,904,394 6,022,396 940,999 3,575,797 — 4,919,388 Japanese Government Bonds 7,904,394 6,022,396 940,999 3,575,797 — — Foreign Bonds — — — — — 4,919,388 Other Securities with Maturities 91,143,860 44,554,051 34,378,003 13,588,903 27,757,667 23,960,157 Japanese Government Bonds 59,107,525 29,607,603 17,331,326 3,344,547 14,066,058 940,999 Japanese Local Government 300,578 239,770 868,438 536,385 227,175 41,822 Bonds Japanese Corporate Bonds 4,323,673 7,455,005 4,595,666 2,060,970 1,897,607 7,439,778 Foreign Bonds 27,175,834 7,160,999 10,799,998 7,525,844 11,224,836 15,052,684 Other 236,250 90,674 782,575 121,157 341,991 484,874 Loans and Bills Discounted *2 314,463,072 152,036,167 107,712,461 51,716,155 44,468,260 66,290,875 Total $883,062,709 $203,219,927 $143,414,867 $68,923,888 $72,275,552 $96,391,182 *1 Securities include those of which fair values are extremely difficult to determine. *2 Amounts do not include loans to bankrupt, substantially bankrupt, and intensive control obligors and other loans, of which redemption amounts cannot be projected, of ¥353,132 million ($3,322,972 thousand) and ¥461,985 million, and loans with no maturities of ¥780,615 million ($7,345,584 thousand) and ¥711,950 million as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 202 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Note 4) Projected repayment amounts after the consolidated balance sheet date for Bonds and Notes, Borrowed Money, and other interest-bearing liabilities As of March 31, 2018 Millions of yen Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Deposits *1 ¥121,278,407 ¥2,974,182 ¥691,786 ¥86,972 ¥41,370 ¥8,514 Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 11,021,750 357,705 4,062 — — — Call Money and Bills Sold 2,105,293 — — — — — Borrowed Money 2,221,554 1,541,595 309,410 260,283 303,808 259,565 Short-term Bonds 362,185 — — — — — Bonds and Notes *3 740,960 1,145,772 1,883,455 626,680 1,375,904 532,969 Due to Trust Accounts 4,733,131 — — — — — Total ¥142,463,282 ¥6,019,255 ¥2,888,714 ¥973,936 ¥1,721,082 ¥801,049 As of March 31, 2017 Millions of yen Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Deposits *1 ¥115,871,830 ¥3,334,187 ¥696,662 ¥73,125 ¥60,455 ¥8,955 Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 10,421,618 150,627 60,067 — — — Call Money and Bills Sold 1,255,172 — — — — — Borrowed Money *2 604,614 3,095,130 1,542,031 338,626 377,791 305,037 Short-term Bonds 226,348 — — — — — Bonds and Notes *3 1,414,830 1,486,069 1,331,397 564,022 1,400,953 588,868 Due to Trust Accounts 4,784,077 — — — — — Total ¥134,578,491 ¥8,066,014 ¥3,630,158 ¥975,775 ¥1,839,199 ¥902,861 As of March 31, 2018 Thousands of U.S. dollars Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Deposits *1 $1,141,229,017 $27,987,039 $6,509,705 $818,409 $389,293 $80,125 Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 103,714,598 3,366,004 38,224 — — — Call Money and Bills Sold 19,810,801 — — — — — Borrowed Money 20,904,810 14,506,407 2,911,554 2,449,268 2,858,835 2,442,514 Short-term Bonds 3,408,162 — — — — — Bonds and Notes *3 6,972,430 10,781,707 17,723,299 5,897,055 12,947,251 5,015,235 Due to Trust Accounts 44,538,732 — — — — — Total $1,340,578,550 $56,641,157 $27,182,782 $9,164,732 $16,195,379 $7,537,874 *1 Demand deposits are included in “Within 1 year.” *2 Amounts do not include Borrowed Money with no maturities of ¥44,000 million as of March 31, 2017. *3 Amounts do not include Bonds and Notes with no maturities of ¥1,239,000 million ($11,658,982 thousand) and ¥779,000 million as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 203 42. Fair Value of Securities and Money Held in Trust The following tables contain information relating to “Securities,” Trading Securities, Short-term Bonds, certain other items in “Trading Assets,” Negotiable Certificates of Deposit in “Cash and Due from Banks,” certain items in “Other Debt Purchased,” certain items in “Other Assets,” and “Money Held in Trust.” Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2018 Sheet Amount Fair value Difference Bonds Held-to-Maturity (Total) ¥2,515,830 ¥2,521,846 ¥6,016 Bonds Whose Fair Values Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: ¥1,959,909 ¥1,984,382 ¥24,472 Japanese Government Bonds 1,959,909 1,984,382 24,472 Foreign Bonds — — — Bonds Whose Fair Values Do Not Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: ¥555,920 ¥537,464 ¥(18,455) Japanese Government Bonds — — — Foreign Bonds 555,920 537,464 (18,455) Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2017 Sheet Amount Fair value Difference Bonds Held-to-Maturity (Total) ¥3,815,674 ¥3,846,718 ¥31,043 Bonds Whose Fair Values Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: ¥3,083,991 ¥3,121,303 ¥37,312 Japanese Government Bonds 3,059,975 3,097,144 37,168 Foreign Bonds 24,015 24,159 144 Bonds Whose Fair Values Do Not Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: ¥731,682 ¥725,414 ¥(6,268) Japanese Government Bonds — — — Foreign Bonds 731,682 725,414 (6,268) Thousands of U.S. dollars Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2018 Sheet Amount Fair value Difference Bonds Held-to-Maturity (Total) $23,673,947 $23,730,558 $56,611 Bonds Whose Fair Values Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: $18,442,740 $18,673,022 $230,282 Japanese Government Bonds 18,442,740 18,673,022 230,282 Foreign Bonds — — — Bonds Whose Fair Values Do Not Exceed the Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Bonds Held-to-Maturity: $5,231,207 $5,057,536 $(173,671) Japanese Government Bonds — — — Foreign Bonds 5,231,207 5,057,536 (173,671) 204 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2018 Sheet Amount Acquisition Cost Difference Other Securities*1 (Total) ¥31,581,138 ¥29,626,911 ¥1,954,226*2 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Exceeds Acquisition Cost Other Securities: ¥14,261,162 ¥12,002,479 ¥2,258,682 Japanese Stocks 3,402,250 1,351,285 2,050,964 Japanese Bonds: 7,512,070 7,474,247 37,822 Japanese Government Bonds 5,786,004 5,775,747 10,257 Japanese Local Government Bonds 151,508 148,605 2,903 Short-term Bonds — — — Japanese Corporate Bonds 1,574,556 1,549,894 24,662 Other: 3,346,841 3,176,946 169,894 Foreign Bonds 2,641,061 2,629,413 11,647 Other Debt Purchased 74,171 72,973 1,198 Other 631,608 474,559 157,048 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Does Not Exceed Acquisition Cost Other Securities: ¥17,319,975 ¥17,624,431 ¥(304,455) Japanese Stocks 179,989 213,582 (33,592) Japanese Bonds: 9,023,533 9,055,945 (32,411) Japanese Government Bonds 7,546,089 7,555,729 (9,640) Japanese Local Government Bonds 87,824 88,105 (280) Short-term Bonds 99 99 — Japanese Corporate Bonds 1,389,519 1,412,009 (22,489) Other: 8,116,452 8,354,904 (238,451) Foreign Bonds 5,688,079 5,865,823 (177,743) Other Debt Purchased 112,361 112,641 (279) Other 2,316,011 2,376,439 (60,428) Money Held in Trust Other Money Held in Trust ¥3,199 ¥3,199 ¥— 205 Millions of yen Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2017 Sheet Amount Acquisition Cost Difference Other Securities*1 (Total) ¥28,480,731 ¥26,661,507 ¥1,819,224*2 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Exceeds Acquisition Cost Other Securities: ¥15,314,224 ¥13,210,435 ¥2,103,788 Japanese Stocks 3,363,211 1,464,923 1,898,288 Japanese Bonds: 8,408,911 8,353,050 55,861 Japanese Government Bonds 6,499,349 6,474,096 25,253 Japanese Local Government Bonds 225,771 220,930 4,840 Short-term Bonds — — — Japanese Corporate Bonds 1,683,790 1,658,023 25,767 Other: 3,542,100 3,392,462 149,638 Foreign Bonds 2,672,850 2,659,805 13,044 Other Debt Purchased 84,802 83,047 1,754 Other 784,447 649,608 134,838 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Does Not Exceed Acquisition Cost Other Securities: ¥13,166,507 ¥13,451,071 ¥(284,563) Japanese Stocks 178,834 222,664 (43,830) Japanese Bonds: 4,836,243 4,870,924 (34,680) Japanese Government Bonds 3,764,979 3,781,517 (16,537) Japanese Local Government Bonds 58,700 58,932 (232) Short-term Bonds 99 99 — Japanese Corporate Bonds 1,012,463 1,030,373 (17,910) Other: 8,151,429 8,357,482 (206,053) Foreign Bonds 6,282,585 6,439,935 (157,349) Other Debt Purchased 152,978 153,371 (393) Other 1,715,864 1,764,175 (48,310) Money Held in Trust Other Money Held in Trust ¥3,286 ¥3,286 ¥— 206 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. dollars Consolidated Balance As of March 31, 2018 Sheet Amount Acquisition Cost Difference Other Securities*1 (Total) $297,178,304 $278,789,042 $18,389,262*2 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Exceeds Acquisition Cost Other Securities: $134,197,445 $112,943,257 $21,254,188 Japanese Stocks 32,015,156 12,715,590 19,299,566 Japanese Bonds: 70,688,534 70,332,621 355,913 Japanese Government Bonds 54,446,269 54,349,746 96,523 Japanese Local Government Bonds 1,425,695 1,398,375 27,320 Short-term Bonds — — — Japanese Corporate Bonds 14,816,570 14,584,500 232,070 Other: 31,493,755 29,895,046 1,598,709 Foreign Bonds 24,852,370 24,742,764 109,606 Other Debt Purchased 697,953 686,678 11,275 Other 5,943,432 4,465,604 1,477,828 Other Securities Whose Consolidated Balance Sheet Amount Does Not Exceed Acquisition Cost Other Securities: $162,980,859 $165,845,785 $(2,864,926) Japanese Stocks 1,693,699 2,009,805 (316,106) Japanese Bonds: 84,911,394 85,216,383 (304,989) Japanese Government Bonds 71,008,650 71,099,369 (90,719) Japanese Local Government Bonds 826,432 829,071 (2,639) Short-term Bonds 941 941 — Japanese Corporate Bonds 13,075,371 13,287,002 (211,631) Other: 76,375,766 78,619,597 (2,243,831) Foreign Bonds 53,524,795 55,197,359 (1,672,564) Other Debt Purchased 1,057,322 1,059,956 (2,634) Other 21,793,649 22,362,282 (568,633) Money Held in Trust Other Money Held in Trust $30,103 $30,103 $— *1 The fair value of Japanese stocks is determined based on the average quoted market price over the month preceding the consolidated balance sheet date. The fair value of securities other than Japanese stocks is determined at the quoted market price if available, or other reasonable value at the consolidated balance sheet date. *2 Unrealized Gains (Losses) or Difference include gains of ¥28,273 million ($266,058 thousand) and ¥34,372 million which were recognized in the statements of income for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, by applying the fair-value hedge method. Note: A summary of Trading Securities and Money Held in Trust for investment purposes and related unrealized gains and losses recognized in the statement of income are as follows: * Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2018 2017 2018 Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized As of March 31, gains (losses) gains (losses) gains (losses) Trading Securities ¥(51,558) ¥(11,574) $(485,162) Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars 2018 2017 2018 Unrealized Unrealized Unrealized As of March 31, Fair value gains (losses) Fair value gains (losses) Fair value gains (losses) Money Held in Trust for Investment ¥334,230 ¥381 ¥244,297 ¥787 $3,145,109 $3,589 * Fair values of trading securities as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 are described in “41. Financial Instruments.” 207 Other Securities Sold during the Fiscal Year Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars Total amount Total amount Total amount Total amount For the Fiscal Year ended March 31, Proceeds of gains of losses Proceeds of gains of losses 2018 from sales on sales on sales from sales on sales on sales Stocks ¥362,292 ¥185,676 ¥4,547 $3,409,166 $1,747,217 $42,796 Bonds 29,552,146 26,102 10,728 278,085,503 245,628 100,958 Japanese Government Bonds 28,948,271 22,739 9,781 272,403,047 213,975 92,041 Japanese Local 97,444 1,205 54 916,955 11,341 510 Government Bonds Japanese Corporate Bonds 506,429 2,158 893 4,765,501 20,312 8,407 Other 12,647,126 168,482 102,863 119,009,373 1,585,422 967,941 Total ¥42,561,564 ¥380,262 ¥118,139 $400,504,042 $3,578,267 $1,111,695 Millions of yen Total amount Total amount For the Fiscal Year ended March 31, Proceeds of gains of losses 2017 from sales on sales on sales Stocks ¥402,281 ¥214,078 ¥3,879 Bonds 29,061,379 64,899 9,713 Japanese Government Bonds 28,478,921 61,450 9,297 Japanese Local 35,032 2 16 Government Bonds Japanese Corporate Bonds 547,425 3,447 398 Other 12,416,967 164,900 67,316 Total ¥41,880,628 ¥443,878 ¥80,908 Note: The above table contains Other Securities that are deemed extremely difficult to determine fair values. Unrealized Gains/Losses on Other Securities Unrealized Gains/Losses on Other Securities as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Difference between Acquisition Cost and Fair Value*1 ¥1,925,837 ¥1,784,855 $18,122,122 Other Securities*2 1,925,837 1,784,855 18,122,122 Deferred Tax Liabilities (518,090) (470,704) (4,875,229) Difference between Acquisition Cost and Fair Value, net of Taxes 1,407,747 1,314,150 13,246,893 Amount Corresponding to Non-controlling Interests 20,790 29,657 195,642 Amount Corresponding to Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities Owned by Affiliated Companies, which is 5,436 5,492 51,157 attributable to MHFG Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities ¥1,392,392 ¥1,289,985 $13,102,408 *1 The difference between acquisition cost and fair value excludes ¥(28,273) million ($(266,058) thousand) and ¥(34,372) million which were recognized in the statements of income for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, by applying the fair-value hedge method. *2 Other Securities includes translation differences regarding securities which do not have readily determinable fair value. 208 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 43. Derivatives Information The fair value of derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting and derivatives qualifying for hedge accounting as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 is shown in the tables below. In the following tables: (i) Contract value represents notional amounts for swap transactions and contract amounts for other transactions. Contract value amounts do not indicate the market risk related to derivative transactions. (ii) Fair values of listed contracts are based on the closing prices of the Osaka Exchange, the Tokyo Financial Exchange, the New York Mercantile Exchange and others. Fair values of over-the-counter contracts and intercompany or internal transactions are based on the discounted value of future cash flows, option pricing models and others. (1) Derivative Transactions not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting Transactions are marked to market, and changes in unrealized gains (losses) are included in the consolidated statement of income. (a) Interest Rate-Related Transactions Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2018 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥7,629,009 ¥2,781,286 ¥24,873 ¥24,873 Bought 7,382,738 2,527,389 (26,372) (26,372) Options: Sold 148,802 38,606 (157) 119 Bought 318,186 ― 715 22 Over-the-Counter: FRAs: Sold 29,881,631 657,637 (6,103) (6,103) Bought 28,470,832 641,350 4,272 4,272 Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 408,239,583 335,944,031 3,331,370 3,331,370 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 404,255,318 328,525,087 (3,350,175) (3,350,175) Receive Float / Pay Float 89,307,829 68,275,480 42,651 42,651 Receive Fixed / Pay Fixed 613,586 556,686 5,675 5,675 Options: Sold 6,348,557 4,448,904 (20,162) (20,162) Bought 3,925,710 2,669,122 19,766 19,766 Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 5,802,848 5,629,482 (42,404) (42,404) Receive Float / Pay Fixed 10,811,184 9,824,803 114,074 114,074 Receive Float / Pay Float ― ― ― ― Total / / ¥98,024 ¥97,607 209 Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2017 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥9,407,885 ¥3,325,791 ¥(10,782) ¥(10,782) Bought 9,337,119 3,323,117 9,161 9,161 Options: Sold 320,424 53,662 (478) 38 Bought 885,812 99,250 1,254 (217) Over-the-Counter: FRAs: Sold 16,705,098 287,114 (4,529) (4,529) Bought 14,123,480 276,538 (1,088) (1,088) Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 403,042,305 307,787,439 5,642,796 5,642,796 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 394,333,968 304,717,370 (5,583,337) (5,583,337) Receive Float / Pay Float 80,075,291 61,293,377 35,829 35,829 Receive Fixed / Pay Fixed 702,877 579,466 14,605 14,605 Options: Sold 8,117,121 5,719,369 (104,505) (104,505) Bought 5,642,995 3,661,695 4,344 4,344 Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 4,430,985 4,144,609 (906) (906) Receive Float / Pay Fixed 9,442,652 8,278,293 33,285 33,285 Receive Float / Pay Float 707 707 0 0 Total / / ¥35,649 ¥34,694 210 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. dollars Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2018 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold $71,788,932 $26,171,886 $234,058 $234,058 Bought 69,471,519 23,782,720 (248,169) (248,169) Options: Sold 1,400,232 363,288 (1,481) 1,121 Bought 2,994,129 — 6,735 211 Over-the-Counter: FRAs: Sold 281,185,955 6,188,362 (57,430) (57,430) Bought 267,910,345 6,035,102 40,202 40,202 Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 3,841,531,792 3,161,231,122 31,348,174 31,348,174 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 3,804,039,880 3,091,418,907 (31,525,128) (31,525,128) Receive Float / Pay Float 840,386,087 642,471,826 401,353 401,353 Receive Fixed / Pay Fixed 5,773,846 5,238,418 53,405 53,405 Options: Sold 59,739,885 41,864,164 (189,732) (189,732) Bought 36,940,913 25,116,429 186,005 186,005 Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps: Receive Fixed / Pay Float 54,604,769 52,973,393 (399,026) (399,026) Receive Float / Pay Fixed 101,733,171 92,451,339 1,073,440 1,073,440 Receive Float / Pay Float — — — — Total / / $922,406 $918,484 211 (b) Currency-Related Transactions Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2018 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥21,239 ¥1,860 ¥— ¥— Bought 92,245 22,828 — — Over-the-Counter: Swaps 49,506,179 34,820,751 245,294 164,945 Forwards: Sold 67,299,060 2,966,015 537,765 537,765 Bought 30,337,434 1,229,813 (469,341) (469,341) Options: Sold 2,451,245 1,087,293 (39,530) 14,894 Bought 2,308,666 919,460 66,225 8,218 Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps 3,190,555 2,362,942 (250,755) 18,009 Forwards: Bought 165,472 — (2,090) (2,090) Total / / ¥87,568 ¥272,402 Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2017 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥18,881 ¥352 ¥— ¥— Bought 75,501 51,302 — — Over-the-Counter: Swaps 45,250,084 30,758,244 54,489 99,071 Forwards: Sold 74,925,435 3,645,808 (92,135) (92,135) Bought 37,970,407 1,352,535 203,068 203,068 Options: Sold 2,842,595 1,182,247 (89,735) (9,821) Bought 2,610,743 1,034,441 67,939 (12,408) Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps 3,441,048 2,403,067 (228,425) 6,386 Forwards: Bought 160,189 — (2,328) (2,328) Total / / ¥(87,128) ¥191,831 212 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. dollars Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2018 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold $199,861 $17,504 $— $— Bought 868,027 214,819 — — Over-the-Counter: Swaps 465,852,826 327,663,040 2,308,218 1,552,141 Forwards: Sold 633,283,721 27,910,188 5,060,372 5,060,372 Bought 285,475,057 11,572,538 (4,416,498) (4,416,498) Options: Sold 23,066,202 10,231,427 (371,982) 140,158 Bought 21,724,538 8,652,116 623,183 77,338 Inter-company or Internal Transactions: Swaps 30,023,102 22,235,277 (2,359,604) 169,471 Forwards: Bought 1,557,092 — (19,674) (19,674) Total / / $824,015 $2,563,308 (c) Stock-Related Transactions Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2018 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Index Futures: Sold ¥345,159 ¥10,570 ¥1,986 ¥1,986 Bought 677,676 — 8,524 8,524 Index Futures Options: Sold 1,788,049 422,988 (78,493) (3,245) Bought 1,733,309 371,505 71,196 1,012 Over-the-Counter: Equity Linked Swaps 242,490 220,351 13,938 13,938 Options: Sold 705,136 412,365 (73,573) (73,573) Bought 334,443 141,885 103,731 103,731 Other: Sold 164,010 37,531 (1,004) (1,004) Bought 434,136 303,637 37,958 37,958 Total / / ¥84,265 ¥89,329 213 Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2017 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Index Futures: Sold ¥701,220 ¥14,450 ¥2,230 ¥2,230 Bought 143,890 — (673) (673) Index Futures Options: Sold 1,033,746 178,675 (125,078) (5,077) Bought 1,018,815 101,900 27,430 10 Over-the-Counter: Equity Linked Swaps 191,842 178,713 11,513 11,513 Options: Sold 687,884 587,391 (83,546) (77,815) Bought 231,697 177,712 77,950 67,701 Other: Sold — — — — Bought 414,495 377,583 24,548 24,548 Total / / ¥(65,623) ¥22,438 Thousands of U.S. dollars Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2018 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Listed: Index Futures: Sold $3,247,944 $99,464 $18,695 $18,695 Bought 6,376,929 — 80,218 80,218 Index Futures Options: Sold 16,825,530 3,980,319 (738,625) (30,540) Bought 16,310,431 3,495,860 669,960 9,529 Over-the-Counter: Equity Linked Swaps 2,281,836 2,073,511 131,163 131,163 Options: Sold 6,635,329 3,880,358 (692,326) (692,326) Bought 3,147,115 1,335,141 976,114 976,114 Other: Sold 1,543,334 353,170 (9,448) (9,448) Bought 4,085,221 2,857,229 357,188 357,188 Total / / $792,939 $840,593 214 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (d) Bond-Related Transactions Millions of yen 2018 2017 Contract value Contract value Over Fair Unrealized Over Fair Unrealized As of March 31, Total one year value gains (losses) Total one year value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥795,996 ¥— ¥(4,155) ¥(4,155) ¥584,499 ¥— ¥(4,497) ¥(4,497) Bought 626,268 — 4,206 4,206 594,999 — 2,508 2,508 Futures Options: Sold 265,529 — (246) (104) 543,534 — (86) 16 Bought 158,042 — 184 48 143,612 — 150 1 Over-the-Counter: Options: Sold 827,444 283,966 (26,511) (25,779) 745,840 420,735 (40,317) (38,567) Bought 827,685 283,966 26,040 25,702 745,840 420,735 40,136 38,777 Other: Sold 357,473 — (664) (664) — — — — Bought 297,989 — 271 271 — — — — Total / / ¥(875) ¥(475) / / ¥(2,105) ¥(1,759) Thousands of U.S. dollars 2018 Contract value Over Fair Unrealized As of March 31, Total One year value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold $7,490,325 $― $(39,106) $(39,106) Bought 5,893,183 ― 39,580 39,580 Futures Options: Sold 2,498,633 ― (2,317) (985) Bought 1,487,179 ― 1,732 457 Over-the-Counter: Options: Sold 7,786,243 2,672,123 (249,469) (242,586) Bought 7,788,517 2,672,123 245,041 241,864 Other: Sold 3,363,820 ― (6,254) (6,254) Bought 2,804,078 ― 2,552 2,552 Total / / $(8,241) $(4,478) 215 (e) Commodity-Related Transactions Millions of yen 2018 2017 Contract value Contract value Over Fair Unrealized Over Fair Unrealized As of March 31, Total one year value gains (losses) Total one year value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold ¥22,101 ¥3,108 ¥(3,563) ¥(3,563) ¥22,236 ¥7,206 ¥358 ¥358 Bought 32,891 8,979 5,675 5,675 32,199 13,568 (548) (548) Over-the-Counter: Swaps 2,516 — 0 0 5,296 — 1 1 Options: Sold 147,475 50,068 (7,871) (7,871) 158,283 63,801 3,136 3,136 Bought 130,003 40,133 7,508 7,508 141,703 49,791 (949) (949) Total / / ¥1,749 ¥1,749 / / ¥1,997 ¥1,997 Thousands of U.S. dollars 2018 Contract value Over Fair Unrealized As of March 31, Total one year value gains (losses) Listed: Futures: Sold $207,979 $29,254 $(33,534) $(33,534) Bought 309,506 84,500 53,402 53,402 Over-the-Counter: Swaps 23,683 ― 8 8 Options: Sold 1,387,740 471,147 (74,071) (74,071) Bought 1,223,334 377,655 70,656 70,656 Total / / $16,461 $16,461 Note: Commodities include oil, copper, aluminum and others. 216 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (f) Credit Derivative Transactions Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2018 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Over-the-Counter: Credit Derivatives: Sold ¥1,302,042 ¥973,507 ¥19,445 ¥19,445 Bought 1,541,030 1,147,481 (22,392) (22,392) Total / / ¥(2,947) ¥(2,947) Millions of yen Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2017 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Over-the-Counter: Credit Derivatives: Sold ¥1,845,011 ¥1,337,735 ¥22,061 ¥22,061 Bought 1,995,013 1,435,409 (24,813) (24,813) Total / / ¥(2,751) ¥(2,751) Thousands of U.S. dollars Contract value Unrealized As of March 31, 2018 Total Over one year Fair value gains (losses) Over-the-Counter: Credit Derivatives: Sold $12,252,211 $9,160,695 $182,980 $182,980 Bought 14,501,090 10,797,795 (210,714) (210,714) Total / / $(27,734) $(27,734) Note: “Sold” and “Bought” indicate assumption and cession of credit risk, respectively. 217 (2) Derivative Transactions Qualifying for Hedge Accounting (a) Interest Rate-Related Transactions Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2018 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, bonds Swaps: and notes, borrowings and Receive Fixed / Pay Float others ¥25,251,272 ¥20,768,457 ¥(32,646) Receive Float / Pay Fixed 7,281,066 7,076,303 29,562 Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities and others Swaps: Receive Float / Pay Fixed 335,553 325,421 5,724 Receive Float / Pay Float ― ― ― Exceptional Accrual Method : Loans and others Swaps: Note 2 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 57,478 51,379 Total / / ¥2,640 Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2017 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, bonds Swaps: and notes, borrowings and Receive Fixed / Pay Float others ¥25,079,445 ¥22,542,261 ¥93,716 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 6,850,334 5,939,596 (23,638) Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities and others Swaps: Receive Float / Pay Fixed 439,177 437,488 (472) Receive Float / Pay Float 591 92 (105) Exceptional Accrual Method : Loans and others Swaps: Note 2 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 66,882 62,314 Total / / ¥69,499 218 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Thousands of U.S. dollars Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2018 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, bonds Swaps: and notes, borrowings and Receive Fixed / Pay Float others $237,614,303 $195,431,050 $(307,202) Receive Float / Pay Fixed 68,514,788 66,587,965 278,184 Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities and others Swaps: Receive Float / Pay Fixed 3,157,560 3,062,213 53,867 Receive Float / Pay Float ― ― ― Exceptional Accrual Method : Loans and others Swaps: Note 2 Receive Float / Pay Fixed 540,870 483,484 Total / / $24,849 Notes: 1. Primarily the deferred method is applied under “Accounting and Auditing Treatment Relating to Adoption of Accounting Standards for Financial Instruments for Banks” (JICPA Industry Audit Committee Report No. 24, February 13, 2002). 2. Since derivative transactions qualifying for the exceptional accrual method are treated as a unit of loans and borrowings, hedged items, those fair values are included in fair values of such loans and borrowings in “41. Financial Instruments.” (b) Currency-Related Transactions Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2018 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, borrowings, Swaps parent company’s interest of ¥6,940,073 ¥2,739,832 ¥238,620 Forwards: subsidiaries’ net assets and Sold others 166,448 ― 2,083 Total / / ¥240,704 Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2017 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, borrowings, Swaps parent company’s interest of ¥7,179,955 ¥2,939,738 ¥235,186 Forwards: subsidiaries’ net assets and Sold others 276,436 — 2,273 Total / / ¥237,460 Thousands of U.S. dollars Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2018 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Primary Method : Loans, deposits, borrowings, Swaps parent company’s interest of $65,306,042 $25,781,809 $2,245,420 Forwards: subsidiaries’ net assets and Sold others 1,566,282 — 19,605 Total / / $2,265,025 Notes: 1. Primarily the deferred method is applied under “Accounting and Auditing Treatment Relating to Adoption of Accounting Standards for Foreign Currency Transactions for Banks” (JICPA Industry Audit Committee Report No. 25, July 29, 2002). 2. Forward Exchange Contracts qualifying for the allocation method are treated as a unit of short-term bonds, hedged items. 219 (c) Stock-Related Transactions Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2018 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities Forward Stock Agreements: Sold ¥161,773 ¥146,226 ¥(8,561) Total / / ¥(8,561) Millions of yen Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2017 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities Forward Stock Agreements: Sold ¥154,072 ¥40,175 ¥(4,608) Total / / ¥(4,608) Thousands of U.S. dollars Primary Contract value As of March 31, 2018 hedged items Total Over one year Fair value Fair Value Hedge Method : Other securities Forward Stock Agreements: Sold $1,522,288 $1,375,990 $(80,560) Total / / $(80,560) 220 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 44. Segment Information Segment Information by Management Approach 1. Summary of Reportable Segment MHFG has introduced an in-house company system based on the group’s diverse customer segments. The aim of this system is to leverage MHFG’s strengths and competitive advantage, which is the seamless integration of MHFG’s banking, trust and securities functions under a holding company structure, to speedily provide high-quality financial services that closely match customer needs. Specifically, the company system is classified into the following five in-house companies, each based on a customer segment: the Retail & Business Banking Company, the Corporate & Institutional Company, the Global Corporate Company, the Global Markets Company, and the Asset Management Company. The services that each in-house company is in charge of are as follows: Retail & Business Banking Company: Services for individual customers, small and medium-sized enterprises and middle market firms in Japan Corporate & Institutional Company: Services for large corporations, financial institutions and public corporations in Japan Global Corporate Company: Services for Japanese overseas affiliated corporate customers and non-Japanese corporate customers, etc. Global Markets Company: Investment services with respect to interest rates, equities and credits, etc., and other services Asset Management Company: Development of products and provision of services that match the asset management needs of its wide range of customers from individuals to institutional investors. The reportable segment information, set forth below, is derived from the internal management reporting systems used by management to measure the performance of the Group’s operating segments. Management measures the performance of each of the operating segments in accordance with internal managerial accounting rules and practices. 2. Calculating Method of Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts), Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans), and the Amount of Assets by Reportable Segment The following information of reportable segment is based on internal management reporting: Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) is the total amount of Interest Income, Fiduciary Income, Fee and Commission Income, Trading Income, and Other Operating Income. Net business profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) is the amount of which General and administrative expenses (excluding non-recurring expenses), Equity in income from investments in affiliates, and Others (consolidation adjustments) are deducted from, or added to, Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts). Asset information by segment is not prepared on the grounds that management does not use asset information of each segment for the purpose of asset allocation or performance evaluation. Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) relating to transactions between segments is based on the current market prices. 221 3. Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) and Net Business Profits or Losses (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) by Reportable Segment Millions of yen MHFG (Consolidated) Retail & Business Corporate & Asset For the Fiscal Year Banking Institutional Global Corporate Global Markets Management Others ended March 31,2018 Company Company Company Company Company (Note 2) Total Gross profits: (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) ¥ 726,200 ¥ 433,000 ¥ 352,600 ¥ 381,700 ¥ 50,200 ¥ (28,342) ¥ 1,915,357 General and administrative expenses (excluding NonRecurring Losses) 723,300 197,700 254,800 200,900 27,600 53,822 1,458,122 Equity in income from investments in affiliates 12,700 1,000 2,400 — 3,100 2,274 21,474 Others — — — — — (20,888) (20,888) Net business profits or losses (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) ¥ 15,600 ¥ 236,300 ¥ 100,200 ¥ 180,800 ¥ 25,700 ¥ (100,779) ¥ 457,820 222 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Millions of yen MHFG (Consolidated) Retail & Business Corporate & Asset For the Fiscal Year Banking Institutional Global Corporate Global Markets Management Others ended March 31,2017 Company Company Company Company Company (Note 2) Total Gross profits: (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) ¥ 717,200 ¥ 434,100 ¥ 358,300 ¥ 539,900 ¥ 48,900 ¥ (5,659) ¥ 2,092,740 General and administrative expenses (excluding NonRecurring Losses) 719,700 194,000 244,300 193,800 29,300 39,392 1,420,492 Equity in income from investments in affiliates 14,900 1,000 1,000 — 400 1,599 18,899 Others — — — — — (27,730) (27,730) Net business profits or losses (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) ¥ 12,400 ¥ 241,100 ¥ 115,000 ¥ 346,100 ¥ 20,000 ¥ (71,183) ¥ 663,416 223 Thousands of U.S. dollars MHFG (Consolidated) Retail & Business Corporate & Asset For the Fiscal Year Banking Institutional Global Corporate Global Markets Management Others ended March 31,2018 Company Company Company Company Company (Note 2) Total Gross profits: (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) $ 6,833,537 $ 4,074,527 $ 3,317,963 $ 3,591,795 $ 472,382 $ (266,703) $ 18,023,501 General and administrative expenses (excluding NonRecurring Losses) 6,806,248 1,860,356 2,397,666 1,890,468 259,716 506,468 13,720,922 Equity in income from investments in affiliates 119,507 9,410 22,584 — 29,171 21,401 202,073 Others — — — — — (196,560) (196,560) Net business profits or losses (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) $ 146,796 $ 2,223,581 $ 942,881 $ 1,701,327 $ 241,837 $ (948,330) $ 4,308,092 Notes: 1.Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) is reported instead of sales reported by general corporations. 2.“Others” includes items which should be eliminated as internal transactions between each segment on a consolidated basis. 3.Following the change in allocation method for transactions between each segment and “Others” made in April, 2017, reclassification was made on the above table for the fiscal year ended March 31,2017 to reflect the relevant change. 224 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 4. The Difference between the Total Amounts of Reportable Segments and the Recorded Amounts in Consolidated Statement of Income, and the Contents of the Difference (Matters relating to adjustment to difference) The above amount of Gross profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) and that of Net business profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) derived from internal management reporting by reportable segment are different from the amounts recorded in Consolidated Statement of Income. The contents of the difference for the period are as follows: (a) The Total of Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) of Segment Information and Ordinary Profits recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2018 2017 2018 Gross Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts) ¥ 1,915,357 ¥ 2,092,740 $ 18,023,501 Other Ordinary Income 535,927 379,228 5,043,070 General and Administrative Expenses (1,488,973) (1,467,221) (14,011,234) Other Ordinary Expenses (179,863) (267,233) (1,692,510) Ordinary Profits recorded in Consolidated Statement of Income ¥ 782,447 ¥ 737,512 $ 7,362,827 Note: Ordinary profits represents Total Income excluding certain special income less Total Expenses excluding certain special expenses. (b) The Total of Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) of Segment Information and Income before Income Taxes Recorded in Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2018 2017 2018 Net Business Profits (excluding the amounts of credit costs of trust accounts, before reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) ¥ 457,820 ¥ 663,416 $ 4,308,092 Credit Costs for Trust Accounts — — — General and Administrative Expenses (non-recurring losses) (30,851) (46,729) (290,312) Expenses Related to Portfolio Problems (including reversal of (provision for) general reserve for losses on loans) (17,014) (80,201) (160,104) Gains on Reversal of Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans and others 173,327 32,662 1,631,013 Net Gains (Losses) Related to Stocks 272,035 242,145 2,559,852 Net Extraordinary Gains (Losses) 17,506 46,680 164,732 Others (72,870) (73,779) (685,714) Income before Income Taxes Recorded in Consolidated Statement of Income ¥ 799,953 ¥ 784,193 $ 7,527,559 225 5. Related Information (a) Information about Geographic Areas (i) Ordinary income Millions of yen Asia/Oceania 2018 Japan Americas Europe excluding Japan Total Ordinary Income ¥ 2,404,030 ¥ 552,140 ¥ 195,497 ¥ 409,457 ¥ 3,561,125 Millions of yen Asia/Oceania 2017 Japan Americas Europe excluding Japan Total Ordinary Income ¥ 2,292,950 ¥ 430,329 ¥ 181,277 ¥ 388,342 ¥ 3,292,900 Thousands of U.S. dollars Asia/Oceania 2018 Japan Americas Europe excluding Japan Total Ordinary Income $ 22,621,908 $ 5,195,636 $ 1,839,633 $ 3,852,989 $ 33,510,166 Notes: 1.Geographic analyses are presented based on geographic contiguity, similarities in economic activities, and relation of business operations. The above table shows Ordinary Income instead of sales of non-financial companies. 2.Japan includes Ordinary Income of MHFG and domestic consolidated subsidiaries excluding overseas branches, Americas includes Ordinary Income of consolidated subsidiaries and branches in Canada, the United States of America and others, Europe includes Ordinary Income of consolidated subsidiaries and branches in the United Kingdom and others and Asia/Oceania includes Ordinary Income of consolidated subsidiaries and branches in Hong Kong, the Republic of Singapore and others. (ii) Tangible fixed assets Information on tangible fixed assets by geographical areas as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 is not disclosed since tangible fixed assets in Japan accounted for more than 90% of tangible fixed assets. (b) Information about Major Customers Information about major customers is not disclosed since there are no outside customers accounted for more than 10% of Ordinary Income of the Company. 226 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 6. Information about Impairment Loss on Tangible Fixed Assets by Reportable Segment Millions of yen MHFG (Consolidated) Corporate & Asset For the Fiscal Year Retail & Business Institutional Global Corporate Global Markets Management ended March 31, 2018 Banking Company Company Company Company Company Others Total Impairment Loss ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 6,960 ¥ 6,960 Millions of yen MHFG (Consolidated) Corporate & Asset For the Fiscal Year Retail & Business Institutional Global Corporate Global Markets Management ended March 31, 2017 Banking Company Company Company Company Company Others Total Impairment Loss ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 6,651 ¥ 6,651 Thousands of U.S. dollars MHFG (Consolidated) Corporate & Asset For the Fiscal Year Retail & Business Institutional Global Corporate Global Markets Management ended March 31, 2018 Banking Company Company Company Company Company Others Total Impairment Loss $ ― $ ― $ ― $ ― $ ― $ 65,498 $ 65,498 227 7. Information about Amortization and Unamortized Balance of Goodwill by Reportable Segment Millions of yen MHFG (Consolidated) Retail & Business Corporate & Asset For the Fiscal Year ended Banking Institutional Global Corporate Global Markets Management March 31, 2018 Company Company Company Company Company Others Total Amortization of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 4,154 ¥ 4,154 Unamortized Balance of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 70,515 ¥ 70,515 Millions of yen MHFG (Consolidated) Retail & Business Corporate & Asset For the Fiscal Year ended Banking Institutional Global Corporate Global Markets Management March 31, 2017 Company Company Company Company Company Others Total Amortization of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 2,816 ¥ 2,816 Unamortized Balance of Goodwill ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ — ¥ 74,772 ¥ 74,772 Thousands of U.S. dollars MHFG (Consolidated) Retail & Business Corporate & Asset For the Fiscal Year ended Banking Institutional Global Corporate Global Markets Management March 31, 2018 Company Company Company Company Company Others Total Amortization of Goodwill $ ― $ ― $ ― $ ― $ ― $ 39,093 $ 39,093 Unamortized Balance of Goodwill $ ― $ ― $ ― $ ― $ ― $ 663,551 $ 663,551 228 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 8. Information about Gain on Negative Goodwill Incurred by Reportable Segment For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 ・There is no applicable information. 45. Related Party For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 ・There are no material additions to the current scope subject to disclosure. 229 46. Per Share Information Per share information as of or for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 are calculated based on the following information: Yen U.S. dollars As of or for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Net Assets per Share of Common Stock ¥357.41 ¥335.96 $3.36 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share of 22.72 23.86 0.21 Common Stock Diluted Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per 22.72 23.78 0.21 Share of Common Stock Notes: 1. Total Net Assets per Share of Common Stock is based on the following information. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Total Net Assets ¥9,821,246 ¥9,273,361 $92,417,867 Deductions from Total Net Assets 755,403 751,093 7,108,339 Stock Acquisition Rights 1,163 1,754 10,952 Non-Controlling Interests 754,239 749,339 7,097,387 Net Assets (year-end) related to Common Stock 9,065,843 8,522,268 85,309,528 Year-end Outstanding Shares of Common Stock, based on which Total Net Assets per Share of Common Stock was calculated 25,364,815 Thousand shares 25,366,315 Thousand shares / 2. Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share of Common Stock is based on the following information. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent ¥576,547 ¥603,544 $5,425,309 Amount not attributable to Common Stock — — — Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent related to Common Stock 576,547 603,544 5,425,309 Average Outstanding Shares of Common Stock (during the period) 25,366,345 Thousand shares 25,285,898 Thousand shares / 3. Diluted Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share of Common Stock is based on the following information. Millions of yen Thousands of U.S. dollars For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Adjustment to Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent ¥— ¥— $— Increased Number of Shares of Common Stock 7,585 Thousand shares 94,403 Thousand shares / Preferred Stock — 82,993 Thousand shares / Stock Acquisition Rights 7,585 Thousand shares 11,409 Thousand shares / Description of Dilutive Securities which were not included in the Calculation of Diluted Profit Attributable to Owners of — — / Parent per Share of Common Stock as they have no Dilutive effects 230 Financial Data of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 4. In the calculation of Net Assets per Share of Common Stock, MHFG shares outstanding in BBT trust account that were recognized as Treasury Stock in Shareholders’ Equity are included in Treasury Stock shares deducted from the number of issued shares. The number of such Treasury Stock shares deducted during the period is 13,319 thousand and 9,000 thousand as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. In the calculation of Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share of Common Stock and Diluted Profit Attributable to Owners of Parent per Share of Common Stock, such Treasury Stock shares are included in Treasury Stock shares deducted in the calculation of the Average Outstanding Shares of Common Stock during the period. The average number of such Treasury Stock shares deducted during the period is 11,815 thousand and 6,000 thousand as of March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 47. Subsequent Events Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. decided to redeem in full preferred securities issued by its group's overseas special purpose subsidiaries on May 15, 2018, as set forth below. (1) Issuer Mizuho Capital Investment (JPY) 2 Limited (2) Type of securities Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Securities (3) Total redemption amount ¥274,500 million (4) Scheduled redemption date June 30, 2018 (5) Major reasons for the redemption Arrival of optional redemption date 231 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries [Under Japanese GAAP] Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 233 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet 234 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 235 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet 237 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. 238 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet 240 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. 241 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet 244 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income 232 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Assets Current Assets ¥ 106,000 ¥ 112,350 $ 997,463 Cash and Due from Banks 23,491 20,190 221,055 Other Current Assets 82,508 92,159 776,408 Fixed Assets 10,481,718 9,157,019 98,632,904 Tangible Fixed Assets 211,622 205,518 1,991,362 Intangible Fixed Assets 13,441 12,705 126,480 Investments in Subsidiaries and Affiliates 6,074,554 6,074,554 57,161,522 Other Investments 4,182,100 2,864,240 39,353,540 Total Assets ¥ 10,587,719 ¥ 9,269,369 $ 99,630,367 Liabilities and Net Assets Liabilities Current Liabilities ¥ 1,109,452 ¥ 1,179,516 $ 10,439,944 Short-term Borrowings 1,083,135 656,100 10,192,293 Short-term Bonds － 500,000 － Other Current Liabilities 26,317 23,416 247,651 Non-Current Liabilities 4,036,923 2,747,329 37,987,420 Total Liabilities 5,146,375 3,926,845 48,427,364 Net Assets Shareholders' Equity 5,354,533 5,288,113 50,386,125 Common Stock and Preferred Stock 2,256,548 2,256,275 21,234,108 Capital Surplus 1,196,478 1,196,258 11,258,850 Capital Reserve 1,196,440 1,196,167 11,258,499 Other Capital Surplus 37 91 351 Retained Earnings 1,906,557 1,839,725 17,940,691 Appropriated Reserve 4,350 4,350 40,933 Other Retained Earnings 1,902,207 1,835,375 17,899,758 Retained Earnings Brought Forward 1,902,207 1,835,375 17,899,758 Treasury Stock (5,050) (4,145) (47,524) Valuation and Translation Adjustments 85,645 52,655 805,926 Net Unrealized Gains ( Losses) on Other Securities, net of Taxes 85,645 52,655 805,926 Stock Acquisition Rights 1,163 1,754 10,952 Total Net Assets 5,441,343 5,342,523 51,203,003 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥ 10,587,719 ¥ 9,269,369 $ 99,630,367 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥106.27=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2018, has been used for translation. 233 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Operating Income ¥ 305,097 ¥ 378,084 $ 2,870,967 Cash Dividends Received from Subsidiaries and Affiliates 256,044 328,148 2,409,376 Fee and Commission Income Received from Subsidiaries and Affiliates 49,053 49,936 461,591 Operating Expenses 38,660 38,926 363,797 General and Administrative Expenses 38,660 38,926 363,797 Operating Profits 266,436 339,157 2,507,170 Non-Operating Income 72,869 44,558 685,701 Non-Operating Expenses 80,556 56,302 758,035 Income before Income Taxes 258,749 327,414 2,434,836 Income Taxes: Current 2,272 519 21,389 Deferred (715) 217 (6,732) Net Income ¥ 257,192 ¥ 326,676 $ 2,420,179 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥106.27=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2018, has been used for translation. 234 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Bank, Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Assets Cash and Due from Banks ¥38,625,732 ¥38,943,082 $363,467,885 Call Loans 366,290 433,198 3,446,792 Receivables under Resale Agreements 639,352 596,194 6,016,300 Other Debt Purchased 443,136 728,080 4,169,913 Trading Assets 3,467,593 4,234,901 32,630,029 Money Held in Trust 3,076 3,137 28,949 Securities 33,189,959 31,264,703 312,317,300 Loans and Bills Discounted 70,997,730 71,262,838 668,088,174 Foreign Exchange Assets 1,994,728 1,769,212 18,770,381 Other Assets 6,406,960 5,470,641 60,289,456 Tangible Fixed Assets 805,831 828,363 7,582,865 Buildings 304,180 308,823 2,862,338 Land 409,880 415,294 3,856,969 Lease Assets 24,304 24,758 228,710 Construction in Progress 14,368 18,153 135,204 Other Tangible Fixed Assets 53,097 61,332 499,644 Intangible Fixed Assets 799,723 754,547 7,525,396 Software 198,776 223,925 1,870,482 Lease Assets 17,012 15,488 160,089 Other Intangible Fixed Assets 583,935 515,133 5,494,825 Prepaid Pension Cost 457,453 481,968 4,304,638 Customers' Liabilities for Acceptances and Guarantees 6,186,894 5,757,150 58,218,634 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans (259,853) (437,689) (2,445,216) Reserve for Possible Losses on Investments (319) ― (3,010) Total Assets ¥164,124,289 ¥162,090,330 $1,544,408,486 235 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet—(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity Liabilities Deposits ¥121,068,919 ¥117,881,635 $1,139,257,735 Call Money 1,165,198 775,450 10,964,512 Payables under Repurchase Agreements 7,200,312 7,604,970 67,754,892 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 610,357 335,575 5,743,462 Commercial Paper 710,391 765,146 6,684,778 Trading Liabilities 2,797,942 3,362,426 26,328,621 Borrowed Money 8,958,612 9,136,351 84,300,488 Foreign Exchange Liabilities 689,958 729,532 6,492,503 Bonds and Notes 2,421,033 3,726,331 22,781,913 Other Liabilities 4,530,602 4,453,787 42,632,942 Reserve for Bonus Payments 22,741 20,902 213,994 Reserve for Variable Compensation 1,293 1,269 12,176 Reserve for Possible Losses on Sales of Loans 1,075 298 10,118 Reserve for Contingencies 56 52 530 Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits 18,097 17,575 170,296 Reserve for Reimbursement of Debentures 30,760 32,720 289,460 Deferred Tax Liabilities 181,914 186,153 1,711,815 Deferred Tax Liabilities for Revaluation Reserve for Land 66,186 66,585 622,813 Acceptances and Guarantees 6,186,894 5,757,150 58,218,634 Total Liabilities 156,662,350 154,853,914 1,474,191,682 Net Assets Shareholders' Equity 6,234,632 5,988,810 58,667,854 Common Stock and Preferred Stock 1,404,065 1,404,065 13,212,242 Capital Surplus 2,286,328 2,286,328 21,514,341 Capital Reserve 655,418 655,418 6,167,480 Other Capital Surplus 1,630,910 1,630,910 15,346,861 Retained Earnings 2,544,238 2,298,416 23,941,271 Appropriated Reserve 266,664 225,810 2,509,309 Other Retained Earnings 2,277,574 2,072,606 21,431,962 Retained Earnings Brought Forward 2,277,574 2,072,606 21,431,962 Valuation and Translation Adjustments 1,227,306 1,247,605 11,548,950 Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities, net of Taxes 1,159,210 1,099,468 10,908,159 Net Deferred Hedge Gains (Losses), net of Taxes (76,180) 2,527 (716,861) Revaluation Reserve for Land, net of Taxes 144,277 145,609 1,357,652 Total Net Assets 7,461,939 7,236,415 70,216,804 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥164,124,289 ¥162,090,330 $1,544,408,486 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥106.27=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2018, has been used for translation. 236 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Bank, Ltd. Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Income Interest Income ¥1,329,397 ¥1,204,728 $12,509,620 Loans and Bills Discounted 881,798 820,861 8,297,721 Securities 264,815 257,345 2,491,916 Fee and Commission Income 463,170 470,240 4,358,435 Trading Income 56,629 81,202 532,881 Other Operating Income 157,685 191,592 1,483,817 Other Income 491,277 287,922 4,622,916 Total Income 2,498,159 2,235,686 23,507,669 Expenses Interest Expenses 651,748 484,970 6,132,950 Deposits 340,252 239,159 3,201,770 Fee and Commission Expenses 92,481 93,982 870,255 Trading Expenses 567 792 5,340 Other Operating Expenses 83,246 47,643 783,344 General and Administrative Expenses 905,103 901,693 8,517,017 Other Expenses 182,103 251,650 1,713,593 Total Expenses 1,915,250 1,780,732 18,022,499 Income before Income Taxes 582,908 454,954 5,485,170 Income Taxes: Current 135,348 129,486 1,273,625 Deferred (1,332) (17,098) (12,537) Net Income ¥448,893 ¥342,566 $4,224,082 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥106.27=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2018, has been used for translation. 237 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Assets Cash and Due from Banks ¥1,751,680 ¥1,699,040 $16,483,306 Call Loans 2,869 6,956 27,000 Guarantee Deposits Paid under Securities Borrowing Transactions 220,934 113,046 2,078,995 Other Debt Purchased 7,989 9,196 75,184 Trading Assets 79,551 90,487 748,583 Money Held in Trust 3,199 3,286 30,103 Securities 1,091,950 1,253,105 10,275,243 Loans and Bills Discounted 3,433,750 3,326,296 32,311,570 Foreign Exchange Assets 2,268 2,596 21,345 Other Assets 171,731 83,804 1,615,992 Tangible Fixed Assets 21,762 23,617 204,784 Buildings 9,605 10,549 90,383 Land 9,185 10,153 86,431 Construction in Progress ― 1 ― Other Tangible Fixed Assets 2,972 2,913 27,970 Intangible Fixed Assets 35,041 33,477 329,738 Software 11,367 14,689 106,970 Other Intangible Fixed Assets 23,673 18,787 222,768 Prepaid Pension Cost 49,592 49,230 466,665 Customers' Liabilities for Acceptances and Guarantees 20,056 23,887 188,736 Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans (1,850) (4,779) (17,409) Total Assets ¥6,890,529 ¥6,713,251 $64,839,835 238 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet―(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity Liabilities Deposits ¥3,878,768 ¥3,715,010 $36,499,188 Call Money 469,882 242,493 4,421,588 Payables under Repurchase Agreements 53,135 67,320 500,000 Guarantee Deposits Received under Securities Lending Transactions 180,728 310,303 1,700,658 Trading Liabilities 69,367 83,683 652,746 Borrowed Money 387,490 372,578 3,646,286 Bonds and Notes 10,000 10,000 94,100 Due to Trust Accounts 1,134,182 1,272,149 10,672,652 Other Liabilities 78,418 36,173 737,919 Reserve for Bonus Payments 2,097 1,976 19,742 Reserve for Variable Compensation 511 413 4,813 Reserve for Reimbursement of Deposits 1,913 1,496 18,008 Deferred Tax Liabilities 13,646 9,692 128,412 Acceptances and Guarantees 20,056 23,887 188,736 Total Liabilities 6,300,200 6,147,179 59,284,848 Net Assets Shareholders' Equity 489,445 467,888 4,605,680 Common Stock and Preferred Stock 247,369 247,369 2,327,747 Capital Surplus 15,505 15,505 145,904 Capital Reserve 15,505 15,505 145,904 Retained Earnings 226,570 205,013 2,132,029 Appropriated Reserve 31,970 27,427 300,846 Other Retained Earnings 194,599 177,585 1,831,183 Retained Earnings Brought Forward 194,599 177,585 1,831,183 Valuation and Translation Adjustments 100,882 98,183 949,307 Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Other Securities, net of Taxes 99,258 96,529 934,023 Net Deferred Hedge Gains (Losses), net of Taxes 1,624 1,654 15,284 Total Net Assets 590,328 566,071 5,554,987 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥6,890,529 ¥6,713,251 $64,839,835 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥106.27=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2018, has been used for translation. 239 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Income Fiduciary Income ¥54,819 ¥50,075 $515,849 Interest Income 43,672 39,805 410,961 Loans and Bills Discounted 25,388 25,817 238,906 Securities 13,731 12,259 129,214 Fee and Commission Income 65,373 58,874 615,166 Trading Income 954 1,180 8,982 Other Operating Income 4,103 14,483 38,611 Other Income 37,019 33,608 348,349 Total Income 205,942 198,028 1,937,918 Expenses Interest Expenses 12,595 10,221 118,526 Deposits 1,079 1,288 10,155 Fee and Commission Expenses 31,042 27,545 292,105 Trading Expenses 60 0 568 Other Operating Expenses 10,717 5,556 100,853 General and Administrative Expenses 87,276 86,723 821,273 Other Expenses 7,641 6,628 71,902 Total Expenses 149,333 136,675 1,405,227 Income before Income Taxes 56,609 61,352 532,691 Income Taxes: Current 13,097 16,787 123,249 Deferred (761) (917) (7,163) Net Income ¥44,272 ¥45,482 $416,605 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥106.27=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2018, has been used for translation. 240 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Assets Current Assets Cash and Due from Banks ¥294,441 ¥249,691 $2,770,696 Cash Segregated as Deposits for Customers and Others 323,923 230,214 3,048,117 Trading Assets 4,923,373 5,019,291 46,328,908 Trading Securities and Others 2,493,898 2,638,609 23,467,568 Derivatives 2,429,474 2,380,682 22,861,340 Receivables unsettled Trades ― 169,960 ― Operating Investment Securities 25,362 21,762 238,665 Operating Loans Receivable ― 2,790 ― Receivables Related to Margin Transactions 127,764 96,255 1,202,259 Loans Receivable under Margin Transactions 49,424 35,251 465,083 Cash Collateral for Borrowed Securities under Margin Transactions 78,339 61,003 737,176 Collateralized Short-term Financing Agreements-receivable 4,998,221 3,821,571 47,033,236 Deposits Paid for Securities Borrowed 4,572,426 3,506,714 43,026,501 Securities Purchased under Agreements to Resell 425,795 314,856 4,006,735 Advances Paid 431 191 4,057 Short-term Guarantee Deposits 404,739 496,793 3,808,597 Securities: Fail to Deliver 29,956 28,695 281,890 Variation Margin Paid 1,548 ― 14,572 Short-term Loans Receivable 55,741 22,459 524,529 Advance Payments 535 690 5,036 Prepaid Expenses 2,978 3,193 28,024 Accounts Receivable-other 21,697 6,495 204,171 Accrued income 27,406 26,456 257,894 Deferred Tax Assets 13,547 15,302 127,481 Other Current Assets 6,538 4,009 61,530 Less: Allowance for Doubtful Accounts (9) (6) (85) Total Current Assets 11,258,198 10,215,819 105,939,577 Noncurrent Assets Tangible Fixed Assets 14,647 15,087 137,835 Intangible Fixed Assets 55,378 50,195 521,115 Investments and Other Assets 295,186 297,330 2,777,704 Investment Securities 252,068 246,267 2,371,961 Long-term Guarantee Deposits 11,202 11,759 105,412 Prepaid Pension Cost 16,716 15,761 157,303 Deferred Tax Assets 3,154 3,815 29,679 Other 15,528 23,304 146,119 Less: Allowance for Doubtful Accounts (3,482) (3,578) (32,770) Total Noncurrent Assets 365,213 362,614 3,436,654 Total Assets ¥11,623,412 ¥10,578,433 $109,376,231 241 Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet―(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Liabilities Current Liabilities Trading Liabilities ¥4,311,658 ¥3,771,283 $40,572,679 Trading Securities and Others 2,068,613 1,299,676 19,465,640 Derivatives 2,243,045 2,471,607 21,107,039 Payables unsettled trades 62,243 ― 585,707 Payables Related to Margin Transactions 44,176 55,287 415,700 Borrowings on Margin Transactions 8,814 7,871 82,944 Cash Collateral for Loaned Securities under Margin Transactions 35,361 47,415 332,756 Collateralized Short-term Financing Agreements-payable 3,739,715 3,727,318 35,190,699 Deposits Received for Securities Loaned 1,212,841 1,255,986 11,412,826 Securities Sold under Agreements to Repurchase 2,526,874 2,471,331 23,777,873 Deposits Received 267,579 234,622 2,517,926 Guarantee Deposits Received 198,003 184,821 1,863,213 Securities: Fail to Receive 2,930 12,844 27,578 Variation Margin Received ― 1,640 ― Short-term Borrowings 833,668 716,603 7,844,812 Commercial Paper 334,200 111,300 3,144,820 Bonds and Notes Due within One year 46,672 55,323 439,189 Lease Obligations 364 375 3,428 Advances Received 174 230 1,639 Accounts Payable-other 961 840 9,047 Accrued Expenses 33,127 25,243 311,727 Income Taxes Payable 3,984 ― 37,489 Reserve for Bonus Payments 9,563 13,432 89,997 Provision for Variable Compensation 954 855 8,983 Provision for Bonus Point Redemption 639 596 6,014 Other Current Liabilities 187 559 1,768 Total Current Liabilities 9,890,805 8,913,179 93,072,415 Noncurrent Liabilities Bonds and Notes 571,334 554,903 5,376,251 Long-term Borrowings 277,000 233,500 2,606,568 Lease Obligations 139 494 1,311 Provision for Retirement Benefits 19,744 19,536 185,799 Other Noncurrent Liabilities 1,540 1,647 14,497 Total Noncurrent Liabilities 869,758 810,081 8,184,426 Statutory Reserves Reserve for Financial Instrument Transaction Liabilities 2,361 2,291 22,218 Total Statutory Reserves 2,361 2,291 22,218 Total Liabilities ¥10,762,925 ¥9,725,551 $101,279,059 242 Non-Consolidated Financial Statements of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. and Three Subsidiaries Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. Non-Consolidated Balance Sheet―(Continued) Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars As of March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Net Assets Shareholders' Equity Common Stock ¥125,167 ¥125,167 $1,177,824 Capital Surplus Additional Paid in Capital 285,831 285,831 2,689,672 Other Capital Surplus 95,817 95,817 901,646 Total Capital Surpluses 381,649 381,649 3,591,318 Retained Earnings Other Retained Earnings Retained Earnings Brought Forward 338,142 332,177 3,181,915 Total Retained Earnings 338,142 332,177 3,181,915 Total Shareholders’ Equity 844,958 838,993 7,951,057 Valuation and Translation Adjustments Net Unrealized Gains on (Operating) Investment Securities, net of Tax 27,497 22,719 258,751 Net Deferred Gains or Losses on Hedges, net of Tax (11,969) (8,831) (112,636) Total Valuation and Translation Adjustments 15,527 13,887 146,115 Total Net Assets 860,486 852,881 8,097,172 Total Liabilities and Net Assets ¥11,623,412 ¥10,578,433 $109,376,231 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥106.27=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2018, has been used for translation. 243 Non-Consolidated Statement of Income Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars For the Fiscal Years ended March 31, 2018 2017 2018 Operating Revenues Commissions ¥142,534 ¥149,114 $1,341,249 Brokerage Commissions 30,818 26,284 290,005 Underwriting and Selling Fees, and Commissions from Solicitation to Qualifying Investors 24,966 34,848 234,938 Offering, Selling, and Other Commissions and Fees, and Commissions from Solicitation to Qualifying Investors 31,378 25,539 295,270 Other commissions and Fees 55,370 62,442 521,036 Net Gain on Trading 114,858 143,956 1,080,821 Net Gain on Operating Investment Securities 2,300 2,299 21,651 Interest and Dividend Income 67,061 45,756 631,046 Total Operating Revenues 326,755 341,126 3,074,767 Interest Expenses 57,147 37,915 537,762 Net Operating Revenues 269,607 303,211 2,537,005 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 236,574 239,455 2,226,166 Transaction-related Expenses 49,676 51,513 467,454 Personnel Expenses 85,562 87,966 805,142 Real Estate Expenses 26,630 27,237 250,596 Administrative Expenses 49,272 49,355 463,654 Depreciation and Amortization 17,346 17,143 163,227 Taxes and Dues 4,854 2,801 45,676 Provision of Allowance for Doubtful Accounts (58) (40) (551) Other 3,290 3,477 30,968 Operating Income 33,032 63,755 310,839 Non-operating Income 6,947 7,920 65,380 Non-operating Expenses 1,400 1,487 13,175 Ordinary Income 38,580 70,189 363,044 Extraordinary gain 4,286 119,276 40,331 Gain on Sales of Noncurrent Assets 63 24 600 Gain on Sales of Investment Securities 3,668 977 34,523 Gain on Sales of Shares of Subsidiaries and Affiliates 553 118,274 5,208 Extraordinary loss 5,015 2,554 47,199 Loss on Disposal of Noncurrent Assets 314 194 2,963 Loss on Sale of Investment Securities 6 40 58 Loss on Impairment of Investment Securities 60 ― 569 Loss on liquidation of Subsidiaries and Affiliates ― 1,129 ― Loss on Impairment of Golf Club Membership 0 6 1 Impairment Losses 2,758 841 25,962 Loss on Software Development 1,805 ― 16,987 Cost Incurred in Opening of Joint Branches ― 55 ― Provision of Reserve for Financial Instruments Transaction 70 285 659 Liabilities Income before Income Taxes 37,850 186,911 356,176 Income Taxes – current 4,092 161 38,514 Income Taxes – deferred 1,596 (13,968) 15,023 Total Income Taxes 5,689 (13,806) 53,537 Net Income ¥32,161 ¥200,718 $302,639 Notes: 1. The amounts indicated in millions of yen are rounded down by truncating the figures below one million. 2. The rate of ¥106.27=US$1.00, the foreign exchange rate on March 31, 2018, has been used for translation. 244 245 Basel Regulatory Disclosures 247 Key Metrics 248 Status of Mizuho Financial Group's Consolidated Capital Adequacy 248 Scope of Consolidation 249 Risk-based Capital 266 Summary of Risk Management and Risk-weighted Assets (RWA) 268 Linkages between Financial Statements and Regulatory Exposures 271 Credit Risk 281 Counterparty Credit Risk 285 Securitization Exposures 289 Market Risk 291 Investment or Equity Exposure 291 Operational Risk 292 Composition of Leverage Ratio 293 Indicators for Assessing Global Systemically Important Banks (G-SIBs) 294 Disclosure of Information for the Fiscal Year Ended on March 31, 2017 According to the Relevant Old FSA Notice 311 Status of Sound Management of Liquidity Risk 311 Liquidity Coverage Ratio 313 Status of Major Liquid Assets 313 Status of Major Funding 314 Compensation of Directors, Corporate Auditors and Employees 246 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Key Metrics Under the capital adequacy ratio regulations agreed upon by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, banks are required to meet certain minimum capital requirements. We calculate our capital adequacy ratio on a consolidated basis based on “the criteria used by a bank holding company for deciding whether or not the adequacy of equity capital of the bank holding company and its subsidiaries is appropriate in light of the assets owned by the bank holding company and its subsidiaries pursuant to Article 52-25 of the Banking Law” (Financial Services Agency, or FSA, Notice No.20 issued in 2006). We also calculate our leverage ratio on a consolidated basis according to “the leverage ratio on a consolidated basis separately prescribed by the Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency according to Article 1 Paragraph 1 item 7 of the Matters Separately Prescribed by the Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency Regarding Status of the Adequacy of Equity Capital pursuant to Article 19-2 Paragraph 1 Item 5 Sub-item (d) etc. of the Ordinance for the Enforcement of the Banking Law” (FSA Notice No.13 issued in 2015). Liquidity standards agreed upon by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision require our liquidity coverage ratio to surpass certain minimum standards. We calculate our consolidated liquidity coverage ratio (the “Consolidated LCR”) in accordance with the regulation “The Evaluation Criterion on the Sound Management of Liquidity Risk Defined, Based on Banking Law Article 52-25, as One of Criteria for Bank Holding Companies to Evaluate the Soundness of Their Management and the Ones of Their Subsidiaries and Others, which is also One of Evaluation Criteria on the Soundness of the Banks' Management”(the FSA Notice No. 62 of 2015 (the “Notice No. 62”)). ■ Key Metrics KM1: Key Metrics (millions of yen, except percentages) a b c d e Basel III As of As of As of As of As of Template March 31, December 31, September 30, June 30, March 31, No. 2018 2017 2017 2017 2017 Capital 1 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ¥7,437,048 ¥7,597,964 ¥7,280,598 ¥7,157,984 ¥7,001,664 2 Tier 1 capital 9,192,244 9,321,858 9,004,810 8,423,437 8,211,522 3 Total capital 10,860,440 11,260,104 10,946,675 10,410,297 10,050,953 Risk weighted assets 4 Risk weighted assets 59,528,983 63,414,867 61,695,509 61,785,213 61,717,158 Capital ratio 5 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio 12.49% 11.98% 11.80% 11.58% 11.34% 6 Tier 1 capital ratio 15.44% 14.69% 14.59% 13.63% 13.30% 7 Total capital ratio 18.24% 17.75% 17.74% 16.84% 16.28% Capital buffer 8 Capital conservation buffer requirement 1.87% 1.25% 1.25% 1.25% 1.25% 9 Countercyclical buffer requirement 0.01% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 10 Bank G-SIB/D-SIB additional requirements 0.75% 0.50% 0.50% 0.50% 0.50% 11 Total of bank CET1 specific buffer requirements 2.63% 1.75% 1.75% 1.75% 1.75% CET1 available after meeting the bank's 12 7.99% 7.48% 7.30% 7.08% 6.84% minimum capital requirements Leverage ratio 13 Total exposures 214,277,824 217,478,350 217,304,488 208,006,656 207,401,679 14 Leverage ratio 4.28% 4.28% 4.14% 4.04% 3.95% Liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) Total HQLA allowed to be included in the 15 60,159,630 63,459,113 60,568,697 61,146,475 59,034,682 calculation 16 Net cash outflows ¥50,079,075 ¥50,808,181 ¥48,025,220 ¥47,132,781 ¥45,611,601 17 LCR 120.1% 124.8% 126.1% 129.7% 129.4% Note: Base Ⅲ Template No. from 15 to 17 are quarterly averages. 247 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy Following the partial revision of “Matters Separately Prescribed by the Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency Regarding Status of the Adequacy of Equity Capital Pursuant to Article 19-2, Paragraph 1, Item 5, Sub-item (d), etc. of the Ordinance for the Enforcement of the Banking Law,” the disclosure of any information concerning the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 is made in accordance with the relevant FSA Notice issued after the revision (the “New FSA Notice”). The figures relating to our banking activities for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 are disclosed in accordance with the relevant FSA Notice issued before the revision (the “Old FSA Notice”) (See pages 294 to 310 for the disclosure items which are different from those disclosed according to the new FSA Notice). ■ Scope of Consolidation (1) Scope of Consolidation for Calculating Consolidated Capital Adequacy Ratio (a) Difference from the Companies Included in the Scope of Consolidation Based on Consolidation Rules for Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements (the “Scope of Accounting Consolidation”) None as of March 31, 2018 and 2017 (b) Number of Consolidated Subsidiaries As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2017 Consolidated subsidiaries 124 139 Our major consolidated subsidiaries are Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. and Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. The following table sets forth information with respect to our principal consolidated subsidiaries as of March 31, 2018: Proportion of Proportion of Country of ownership voting Name organization Main business interest (%) interest (%) Domestic Mizuho Bank, Ltd. ...........................................Japan Banking 100.0% 100.0% Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. ...................Japan Trust and banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. .............................Japan Securities 95.8 95.8 Mizuho Research Institute Ltd. .......................Japan Research and 98.6 98.6 consulting Mizuho Information & Research Institute Inc. . Japan Information technology 91.5 91.5 Asset Management One Co., Ltd. .................. Japan Investment 70.0 51.0 management Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd. .............. Japan Trust and banking 54.0 54.0 Mizuho Private Wealth Management Co., Ltd. Japan Consulting 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Credit Guarantee Co., Ltd. .................Japan Credit guarantee 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Realty Co., Ltd. ...................................Japan Real estate agency 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Factors, Limited ..................................Japan Factoring 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Realty One Co., Ltd. ...........................Japan Holding company 100.0 100.0 Defined Contribution Plan Services Co., Ltd. ..Japan Pension plan60.0 60.0 related business Mizuho-DL Financial Technology Co., Ltd. .....Japan Application and 60.0 60.0 Sophistication of Financial Technology UC Card Co., Ltd. ...........................................Japan Credit card 51.0 51.0 J.Score CO., LTD............................................Japan Lending 50.0 50.0 Mizuho Trust Systems Company, Limited. ..... Japan Subcontracted 50.0 50.0 calculation services, software development Mizuho Capital Co., Ltd. ..................................Japan Venture capital 50.0 50.0 248 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy Proportion of Proportion of Country of ownership voting Name organization Main business interest (%) interest (%) Overseas Mizuho Americas LLC .....................................U.S.A. Holding company 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Bank (China), Ltd. .............................. China Banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho International plc ..................................U.K. Securities and banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Securities Asia Limited .......................China Securities 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Securities USA LLC ............................U.S.A. Securities 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Bank Europe N.V. ...............................Netherlands Banking and securities 100.0 100.0 Banco Mizuho do Brasil S.A. .......................... Brazil Banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Trust & Banking (Luxembourg) S.A. ...Luxembourg Trust and banking 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Bank (USA) ........................................U.S.A. Banking and trust 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Bank (Switzerland) Ltd ....................... Switzerland Banking and trust 100.0 100.0 Mizuho Capital Markets LLC .......................... U.S.A. Derivatives 100.0 100.0 PT. Bank Mizuho Indonesia ............................Indonesia Banking 99.0 99.0 (c) Corporations Providing Financial Services for Which Article 9 of the FSA Notice No. 20 is Applicable None as of March 31, 2018 and 2017. (d) Companies that are in the Bank Holding Company’s Corporate Group but not Included in the Scope of Accounting Consolidation and Companies that are not in the Bank Holding Company’s Corporate Group but Included in the Scope of Accounting Consolidation None as of March 31, 2018 and 2017. (e) Restrictions on Transfer of Funds or Capital within the Bank Holding Company’s Corporate Group None as of March 31, 2018 and 2017. (f) Names of Any Other Financial Institutions, etc., Classified as Subsidiaries or Other Members of the Bank Holding Company that are Deficient in Regulatory Capital None as of March 31, 2018 and 2017. ■ Risk-based Capital (1) Summary of Approach to Assessing Capital Adequacy In order to ensure that risk-based capital is sufficiently maintained in light of the risk held by us, we regularly conduct the following assessment of capital adequacy in addition to adopting a suitable and effective capital adequacy monitoring structure. Maintaining a sufficient BIS capital ratio We confirm our maintenance of a high level of financial soundness by conducting regular evaluations to examine whether our risk-based capital is adequate in qualitative as well as quantitative terms, in light of our business plans and strategic targets to match the increase in risk-weighted assets acquired for growth, in addition to maintaining our capital above the minimum requirements of common equity Tier 1 capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio, total capital ratio and capital buffer ratio. Balancing risk and capital On the basis of the framework for allocating risk capital, after obtaining the clearest possible grasp of the group’s overall risk exposure, we endeavor to control risk so as to keep it within the range of our business capacity by means of allocating capital that corresponds to the amount of risk to the principal banking subsidiaries, etc., within the bounds of our capital, and we conduct regular assessments to ensure that a sufficient level of capital is maintained for our risk profile. When making these assessments, we calculate the potential losses arising from assumed stress events and risk volumes, which we assess whether they balance with the group’s capital. Stress events are based on risk scenarios that are formulated based on the current economic condition and the economic outlook, etc. and from scenarios such as the occurrence of historical stress events. In addition, we examine whether an appropriate return on risk is maintained in the assessments. 249 (2) Composition of Capital, etc. (a) Composition of Capital Disclosure (International Standard) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2017 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Common equity Tier 1 capital: instruments and reserves (1) Directly issued qualifying common share 1a+2-1c-26 capital plus related stock surplus and retained ¥7,292,638 ¥/ ¥6,905,510 ¥/ earnings 1a of which: capital and stock surplus 3,391,471 / 3,390,691 / 2 of which: retained earnings 4,002,350 / 3,614,841 / 1c of which: treasury stock (-) 5,997 / 4,849 / of which: national specific regulatory 26 95,186 / 95,173 / adjustments (earnings to be distributed) (-) of which: other than above / / 1b Subscription rights to common shares 1,163 / 1,754 / Accumulated other comprehensive income and 3 1,677,534 / 1,216,780 304,195 other disclosed reserves Common share capital issued by subsidiaries 5 and held by third parties (amount allowed in 14,344 / 14,537 / group CET1) Total of items included in common equity Tier 1 capital: instruments and reserves subject to / / 22,881 / phase-out arrangements of which: amount allowed in group CET1 capital subject to phase-out arrangements / / 22,881 / on common share capital issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties Common equity Tier 1 capital: 6 (A) 8,985,680 / 8,161,464 / instruments and reserves Common equity Tier 1 capital: regulatory adjustments (2) Total intangible assets (net of related tax 8+9 liability, excluding those relating to mortgage 794,953 / 619,806 154,951 servicing rights) of which: goodwill (net of related tax liability, 8 85,103 / 79,695 19,923 including those equivalent) of which: other intangibles other than 9 goodwill and mortgage servicing rights (net 709,850 / 540,111 135,027 of related tax liability) Deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from 10 42,352 / 36,601 9,150 temporary differences (net of related tax liability) Deferred gains or losses on derivatives under 11 ¥(67,578) ¥/ ¥8,137 ¥2,034 hedge accounting 250 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (a) Composition of Capital Disclosure (International Standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2017 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Shortfall of eligible provisions to expected 12 ¥61,964 ¥/ ¥9,381 ¥2,352 losses 13 Securitization gain on sale / 52 13 Gains and losses due to changes in own credit 14 3,960 / 593 148 risk on fair valued liabilities 15 Net defined benefit asset 691,380 / 443,158 110,789 Investments in own shares (excluding those 16 1,457 / 5,473 1,368 reported in the net assets section) 17 Reciprocal cross-holdings in common equity / Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, net of 18 20,140 / 36,595 9,148 eligible short positions, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued share capital (amount above the 10% threshold) Amount exceeding the 10% threshold on 19+20+21 / specified items of which: significant investments in the 19 / common stock of financials 20 of which: mortgage servicing rights / of which: deferred tax assets arising from 21 temporary differences (net of related tax / liability) Amount exceeding the 15% threshold on 22 / specified items of which: significant investments in the 23 / common stock of financials 24 of which: mortgage servicing rights / of which: deferred tax assets arising from 25 temporary differences (net of related tax / liability) Regulatory adjustments applied to common 27 equity Tier 1 due to insufficient additional Tier / / 1 and Tier 2 to cover deductions Common equity Tier 1 capital: 28 (B) 1,548,631 / 1,159,800 / regulatory adjustments Common equity Tier 1 capital (CET1) Common equity Tier 1 capital (CET1) 29 (C) ¥7,437,048 ¥/ ¥7,001,664 ¥/ ((A)-(B)) 251 (a) Composition of Capital Disclosure (International Standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2017 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Additional Tier 1 capital: instruments (3) Directly issued qualifying additional Tier 1 instruments plus related stock surplus of 30 31a ¥¥/ ¥¥/ which: classified as equity under applicable accounting standards and the breakdown Subscription rights to additional Tier 1 30 31b / / instruments Directly issued qualifying additional Tier 1 instruments plus related stock surplus of 30 32 1,220,000 / 760,000 / which: classified as liabilities under applicable accounting standards Qualifying additional Tier 1 instruments plus 30 related stock surplus issued by special / / purpose vehicles and other equivalent entities Additional Tier 1 instruments issued by 34-35 subsidiaries and held by third parties (amount 31,317 / 31,786 / allowed in group AT1) Eligible Tier 1 capital instruments subject to 33+35 phase-out arrangements included in additional 577,500 / 577,500 / Tier 1 capital: instruments of which: directly issued capital instruments 33 577,500 / 577,500 / subject to phase out from additional Tier 1 of which: instruments issued by subsidiaries 35 / / subject to phase out Total of items included in additional Tier 1 capital: instruments subject to phase-out / / (13,931) / arrangements of which: foreign currency translation / / (13,931) / adjustments 36 Additional Tier 1 capital: instruments (D) 1,828,817 / 1,355,354 / Additional Tier 1 capital: regulatory adjustments Investments in own additional Tier 1 37 / instruments Reciprocal cross-holdings in additional Tier 1 38 ¥¥/ ¥¥instruments 252 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (a) Composition of Capital Disclosure (International Standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2017 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, net of 39 eligible short positions, where the bank does ¥121 ¥/ ¥38 ¥9 not own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the entity (amount above 10% threshold) Significant investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that 40 73,500 / 117,600 29,400 are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation (net of eligible short positions) Total of items included in additional Tier 1 capital: regulatory adjustments subject to / / 27,858 / phase-out arrangements of which: goodwill equivalent / / 14,954 / of which: intangible fixed assets recognized / / 11,717 / as a result of a merger of which: capital increase due to / / 13 / securitization transactions of which: 50% of excess of expected losses relative to eligible reserves by banks / / 1,172 / adopting internal ratings-based approach Regulatory adjustments applied to additional 42 Tier 1 due to insufficient Tier 2 to cover / / deductions Additional Tier 1 capital: regulatory 43 (E) 73,621 / 145,496 / adjustments Additional Tier 1 capital (AT1) 44 Additional Tier 1 capital ((D)-(E)) (F) 1,755,195 / 1,209,858 / Tier 1 capital (T1 = CET1 + AT1) Tier 1 capital (T1 = CET1 + AT1) 45 (G) 9,192,244 / 8,211,522 / ((C)+(F)) Tier 2 capital: instruments and provisions (4) Directly issued qualifying Tier 2 instruments plus related stock surplus of which: classified 46 / / as equity under applicable accounting standards and the breakdown 46 Subscription rights to Tier 2 instruments ¥¥/ ¥¥/ 253 (a) Composition of Capital Disclosure (International Standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2017 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Directly issued qualifying Tier 2 instruments plus related stock surplus of which: classified 46 ¥828,702 ¥/ ¥684,150 ¥/ as liabilities under applicable accounting standards Tier 2 instruments plus related stock surplus 46 issued by special purpose vehicles and other 159,405 / 168,300 / equivalent entities Tier 2 instruments issued by subsidiaries and 48-49 held by third parties (amount allowed in group 10,378 / 10,574 / Tier 2) Eligible Tier 2 capital instruments subject to 47+49 phase-out arrangements included in Tier 2: 674,824 / 842,133 / instruments and provisions of which: directly issued capital instruments 47 135,135 / 168,022 / subject to phase out from Tier 2 of which: instruments issued by subsidiaries 49 539,688 / 674,110 / subject to phase out Total of general allowance for loan losses and 50 4,794 / 6,510 / eligible provisions included in Tier 2 50a of which: general allowance for loan losses 4,794 / 6,510 / 50b of which: eligible provisions / / Total of items included in Tier 2 capital: instruments and provisions subject to phase/ / 180,319 / out arrangements of which: 45% of unrealized gains on other / / 161,221 / securities of which: 45% of revaluation reserve for land / / 19,097 / Tier 2 capital: instruments and 51 (H) 1,678,105 / 1,891,987 / provisions Tier 2 capital: regulatory adjustments 52 Investments in own Tier 2 instruments 1,892 / 409 102 53 Reciprocal cross-holdings in Tier 2 instruments / Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, net of 54 eligible short positions, where the bank does ¥8,016 ¥/ ¥16,413 ¥4,103 not own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the entity (amount above the 10% threshold) 254 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (a) Composition of Capital Disclosure (International Standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2017 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements Significant investments in the capital banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside 55 ¥¥/ ¥¥the scope of regulatory consolidation (net of eligible short positions) Total of items included in Tier 2 capital: regulatory adjustments subject to phase-out / / 35,732 / arrangements of which: investments in the capital / / 34,559 / banking, financial and insurance entities of which: 50% of excess of expected losses relative to eligible reserves by banks / / 1,172 / adopting internal ratings-based approach 57 Tier 2 capital: regulatory adjustments (I) 9,908 / 52,555 / Tier 2 capital (T2) 58 Tier 2 capital (T2) ((H)-(I)) (J) 1,668,196 / 1,839,431 / Total capital (TC = T1 + T2) 59 Total capital (TC = T1 + T2) ((G)+(J)) (K) 10,860,440 / 10,050,953 / Risk weighted assets (5) Total of items included in risk weighted assets / / 260,992 / subject to phase-out arrangements of which: intangible assets (net of related tax liability, excluding those relating to / / 123,310 / mortgage servicing rights) of which: deferred tax assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising / / 9,150 / from temporary differences (net of related tax liability) of which: net defined benefit asset / / 110,789 / of which: investments in the capital / / 17,742 / banking, financial and insurance entities 60 Risk weighted assets (L) ¥59,528,983 ¥/ ¥61,717,158 ¥/ Capital ratio (consolidated) Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio 61 12.49% / 11.34% / (consolidated) ((C)/(L)) 255 (a) Composition of Capital Disclosure (International Standard)-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2017 Amounts Amounts excluded excluded Basel III under under template transitional transitional arrangements arrangements 62 Tier 1 capital ratio (consolidated) ((G)/(L)) 15.44% / 13.30% / 63 Total capital ratio (consolidated) ((K)/(L)) 18.24% / 16.28% / Regulatory adjustments (6) Non-significant investments in the capital of 72 other financials that are below the thresholds ¥745,717 ¥/ ¥703,872 ¥/ for deduction (before risk weighting) Significant investments in the common stock of 73 financials that are below the thresholds for 142,407 / 118,358 / deduction (before risk weighting) Mortgage servicing rights that are below the 74 / / thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) Deferred tax assets arising from temporary 75 differences that are below the thresholds for 185,172 / 182,672 / deduction (before risk weighting) Provisions included in Tier 2 capital: instruments and provisions (7) 76 Provisions (general allowance for loan losses) 4,794 / 6,510 / Cap on inclusion of provisions (general 77 43,678 / 46,343 / allowance for loan losses) Provisions eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 in respect of exposures subject to internal ratings78 / / based approach (prior to application of cap) (if the amount is negative, report as nil ) Cap for inclusion of provisions in Tier 2 under 79 284,521 / 299,309 / internal ratings-based approach Capital instruments subject to phase-out arrangements (8) Current cap on AT1 instruments subject to 82 833,255 / 1,041,569 / phase-out arrangements Amount excluded from AT1 due to cap (excess 83 over cap after redemptions and maturities) (if / / the amount is negative, report as nil ) Current cap on T2 instruments subject to 84 674,824 / 843,530 / phase-out arrangements Amount excluded from T2 due to cap (excess 85 over cap after redemptions and maturities) (if ¥7,304 ¥/ ¥¥/ the amount is negative, report as nil ) Notes: 1. The above figures are calculated based on the international standard applied on a consolidated basis under the FSA Notice No. 20. 2. In calculating the consolidated capital adequacy ratio, we underwent an examination following the procedures agreed with Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC, on the basis of Treatment in implementing examination by agreed-upon procedures for calculating capital adequacy ratio (Industry Committee Practical Guideline No. 30 of the Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants). Note that this is not a part of the accounting audit performed on our consolidated financial statements. This consists of an examination under agreed-upon procedures performed by Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC on a portion of the internal control structure concerning the calculation of the capital adequacy ratio and a report of the results to us. As such, they do not represent an opinion regarding the capital adequacy ratio itself nor the internal controls related to the calculation of the capital adequacy ratio. 256 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (b) Explanation of (a) Composition of Capital Disclosure Reconciliation between Consolidated balance sheet and items of consolidated balance sheet and Composition of capital disclosure (Millions of yen) Reference # of Consolidated balance sheet as in published Cross-reference Basel III template financial statements Items to Appended under the template Composition of As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2017 capital disclosure (Assets) Cash and due from banks ¥47,725,360 ¥47,129,583 Call loans and bills purchased 715,149 1,035,746 Receivables under resale 8,080,873 8,967,777 agreements Guarantee deposits paid under 4,350,527 3,350,051 securities borrowing transactions Other debt purchased 2,713,742 2,745,204 Trading assets 10,507,133 10,361,787 6-a Money held in trust 337,429 247,583 Securities 34,183,033 32,353,158 2-b, 6-b Loans and bills discounted 79,421,473 78,337,793 6-c Foreign exchange assets 1,941,677 1,828,782 Derivatives other than for trading 1,807,999 2,170,750 6-d assets Other assets 4,588,484 4,180,339 6-e Tangible fixed assets 1,111,128 1,136,329 Intangible fixed assets 1,092,708 1,045,486 2-a Net defined benefit asset 996,173 797,762 3 Deferred tax assets 47,839 56,066 4-a Customers' liabilities for acceptances 5,723,186 5,273,581 and guarantees Reserves for possible losses on (315,621) (509,175) loans Total assets ¥205,028,300 ¥200,508,610 (Liabilities) Deposits ¥125,081,233 ¥120,045,217 Negotiable certificates of deposit 11,382,590 10,631,277 Call money and bills sold 2,105,293 1,255,172 Payables under repurchase 16,656,828 17,969,753 agreements Guarantee deposits received under 1,566,833 1,679,300 securities lending transactions Commercial paper 710,391 789,705 Trading liabilities 8,121,543 7,923,285 6-f Borrowed money 4,896,218 6,307,230 8-a Foreign exchange liabilities 445,804 526,053 Short-term bonds 362,185 226,348 Bonds and notes 7,544,256 7,564,535 8-b 257 (b) Explanation of (a) Composition of Capital Disclosure-(Continued) (Millions of yen) Reference # of Consolidated balance sheet as in published Cross-reference Basel III template financial statements Items to Appended under the template Composition of As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2017 capital disclosure Due to trust accounts ¥4,733,131 ¥4,784,077 Derivatives other than for trading 1,514,483 1,784,857 6-g liabilities Other liabilities 3,685,585 3,883,168 Reserve for bonus payments 66,872 67,633 Reserve for variable compensation 3,242 3,018 Net defined benefit liability 58,890 55,236 Reserve for director and corporate 1,460 1,327 auditor retirement benefits Reserve for possible losses on sales 1,075 298 of loans Reserve for contingencies 5,622 5,680 Reserve for reimbursement of 20,011 19,072 deposits Reserve for reimbursement of 30,760 32,720 debentures Reserves under special laws 2,361 2,309 Deferred tax liabilities 421,002 337,800 4-b Deferred tax liabilities for revaluation 66,186 66,585 4-c reserve for land Acceptances and guarantees 5,723,186 5,273,581 Total liabilities ¥195,207,054 ¥191,235,249 (Net assets) Common stock and preferred stock 2,256,548 2,256,275 1-a Capital surplus 1,134,922 1,134,416 1-b Retained earnings 4,002,835 3,615,449 1-c Treasury stock (5,997) (4,849) 1-d Total shareholders' equity ¥7,388,309 ¥7,001,291 Net unrealized gains (losses) on 1,392,392 1,289,985 other securities Deferred gains or losses on hedges (67,578) 10,172 5 Revaluation reserve for land 144,277 145,609 Foreign currency translation (85,094) (69,657) adjustments Remeasurements of defined benefit 293,536 144,866 plans Total accumulated other ¥1,677,534 ¥1,520,976 3 comprehensive income Stock acquisition rights 1,163 1,754 1b Non-Controlling interests 754,239 749,339 7 Total net assets ¥9,821,246 ¥9,273,361 Total liabilities and net assets ¥205,028,300 ¥200,508,610 Note: The regulatory scope of consolidation is the same as the accounting scope of consolidation. 258 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy Appended template 1. Shareholders' Equity (1) Consolidated Balance Sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2018 31, 2017 1-a Common stock and preferred stock ¥2,256,548 ¥2,256,275 1-b Capital surplus 1,134,922 1,134,416 1-c Retained earnings 4,002,835 3,615,449 1-d Treasury stock (5,997) (4,849) Total shareholders' equity ¥7,388,309 ¥7,001,291 (2) Composition of Capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2018 31, 2017 Shareholders' equity Directly issued qualifying common attributable to common shares share capital plus related stock ¥7,387,824 ¥7,000,683 (before adjusting national surplus and retained earnings specific regulatory adjustments (earnings to be distributed)) 1a of which: capital and stock surplus 3,391,471 3,390,691 2 of which: retained earnings 4,002,350 3,614,841 1c of which: treasury stock (-) 5,997 4,849 of which: other than above Directly issued qualifying additional Tier 1 instruments plus related stock 31a surplus of which: classified as equity under applicable accounting standards and the breakdown 259 2. Intangible Fixed Assets (1) Consolidated Balance Sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2018 31, 2017 2-a Intangible fixed assets ¥1,092,708 ¥1,045,486 2-b Securities 34,183,033 32,353,158 of which: share of goodwill of Share of goodwill of companies companies accounted for using the 14,588 24,846 accounted for using the equity equity method method Income taxes related to above ¥(312,342) ¥(295,574) (2) Composition of Capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2018 31, 2017 Goodwill (net of related tax liability, 8 ¥85,103 ¥99,619 including those equivalent) Other intangibles other than goodwill 9 and mortgage servicing rights (net of 709,850 675,139 Software and other related tax liability) Mortgage servicing rights (net of related tax liability) Amount exceeding the 10% 20 threshold on specified items Amount exceeding the 15% 24 threshold on specified items Mortgage servicing rights that are 74 below the thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) 3. Net defined Benefit Asset (1) Consolidated Balance Sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2018 31, 2017 3 Net defined benefit asset ¥996,173 ¥797,762 Income taxes related to above ¥(304,793) ¥(243,814) (2) Composition of Capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2018 31, 2017 15 Net defined benefit asset ¥691,380 ¥553,947 260 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy 4. Deferred Tax Assets (1) Consolidated Balance Sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2018 31, 2017 4-a Deferred tax assets ¥47,839 ¥56,066 4-b Deferred tax liabilities 421,002 337,800 Deferred tax liabilities for revaluation 4-c 66,186 66,585 reserve for land Tax effects on intangible fixed assets ¥312,342 ¥295,574 Tax effects on net defined benefit asset 304,793 243,814 (2) Composition of Capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2018 31, 2017 This item does not agree with Deferred tax assets that rely on future the amount reported on the profitability excluding those arising 10 ¥42,352 ¥45,751 consolidated balance sheet from temporary differences (net of due to offsetting of assets and related tax liability) liabilities. This item does not agree with Deferred tax assets that rely on future the amount reported on the profitability arising from temporary 185,172 182,672 consolidated balance sheet differences (net of related tax liability) due to offsetting of assets and liabilities. Amount exceeding the 10% 21 threshold on specified items Amount exceeding the 15% 25 threshold on specified items Deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences that are 75 185,172 182,672 below the thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) 261 5. Deferred Gains or Losses on Derivatives under Hedge Accounting (1) Consolidated Balance Sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2018 31, 2017 5 Deferred gains or losses on hedges ¥(67,578) ¥10,172 (2) Composition of Capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2018 31, 2017 Deferred gains or losses on 11 ¥(67,578) ¥10,172 derivatives under hedge accounting 6. Items Associated with Investments in the Capital of Financial Institutions (1) Consolidated Balance Sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2018 31, 2017 Including trading account 6-a Trading assets ¥10,507,133 ¥10,361,787 securities and derivatives for trading assets 6-b Securities 34,183,033 32,353,158 6-c Loans and bills discounted 79,421,473 78,337,793 Including subordinated loans Derivatives other than for trading 6-d 1,807,999 2,170,750 assets 6-e Other assets 4,588,484 4,180,339 Including money invested Including trading account 6-f Trading liabilities 8,121,543 7,923,285 securities sold Derivatives other than for trading 6-g 1,514,483 1,784,857 liabilities 262 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (2) Composition of Capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2018 31, 2017 Investments in own capital instruments ¥3,349 ¥7,353 16 Common equity Tier 1 capital 1,457 6,842 37 Additional Tier 1 capital 52 Tier 2 capital 1,892 511 Reciprocal cross-holdings in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities 17 Common equity Tier 1 capital 38 Additional Tier 1 capital 53 Tier 2 capital Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, net of eligible short 773,996 770,182 positions, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued share capital (amount above 10% threshold) 18 Common equity Tier 1 capital 20,140 45,743 39 Additional Tier 1 capital 121 48 54 Tier 2 capital 8,016 20,517 Non-significant investments in the capital of other financials that are 72 745,717 703,872 below the thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) Significant investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of 215,907 265,358 regulatory consolidation, net of eligible short positions Amount exceeding the 10% 19 threshold on specified items Amount exceeding the 15% 23 threshold on specified items 40 Additional Tier 1 capital 73,500 147,000 55 Tier 2 capital Significant investments in the common stock of financials that are 73 142,407 118,358 below the thresholds for deduction (before risk weighting) 263 7. Non-Controlling Interests (1) Consolidated Balance Sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2018 31, 2017 7 Non-Controlling interests ¥754,239 ¥749,339 (2) Composition of Capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2018 31, 2017 Common share capital issued by After reflecting amounts eligible 5 subsidiaries and held by third parties ¥14,344 ¥14,537 for inclusion (non-controlling (amount allowed in group CET1) interest after adjustments) Qualifying additional Tier 1 After reflecting amounts eligible instruments plus related stock surplus 30-31ab-32 for inclusion (non-controlling issued by special purpose vehicles interest after adjustments) and other equivalent entities Additional Tier 1 instruments issued by After reflecting amounts eligible 34-35 subsidiaries and held by third parties 31,317 31,786 for inclusion (non-controlling (amount allowed in group AT1) interest after adjustments) Tier 2 instruments plus related stock After reflecting amounts eligible 46 surplus issued by special purpose 159,405 168,300 for inclusion (non-controlling vehicles and other equivalent entities interest after adjustments) Tier 2 instruments issued by After reflecting amounts eligible 48-49 subsidiaries and held by third parties 10,378 10,574 for inclusion (non-controlling (amount allowed in group Tier 2) interest after adjustments) 8. Other Capital Instruments (1) Consolidated Balance Sheet (Millions of yen) As of March As of March Ref. Consolidated balance sheet items Remarks 31, 2018 31, 2017 8-a Borrowed money ¥4,896,218 ¥6,307,230 8-b Bonds and notes 7,544,256 7,564,535 Total ¥12,440,475 ¥13,871,765 264 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (2) Composition of Capital (Millions of yen) Basel III As of March As of March Composition of capital disclosure Remarks template 31, 2018 31, 2017 Directly issued qualifying additional Tier 1 instruments plus related stock 32 surplus of which: classified as ¥1,220,000 ¥760,000 liabilities under applicable accounting standards Directly issued qualifying Tier 2 instruments plus related stock surplus 46 828,702 684,150 of which: classified as liabilities under applicable accounting standards Note: Amounts as of March 31, 2017 in the Composition of capital disclosure are based on those before considering amounts under transitional arrangements and include Amounts excluded under transitional arrangements disclosed in (A) Composition of Capital Disclosure as well as amounts included as regulatory capital. In addition, items for regulatory purposes under transitional arrangements are excluded from this table. 265 ■ Summary of Risk Management and Risk-weighted Assets (RWA) (1) Summary of Our Group’s Risk Profile, Risk Management Policies/ Procedures and Structure See pages 79 to 84 for a summary of our group’s risk profile and risk management policies, etc. (2) Summary of RWA (A) OV1: Overview of Risk-weighted Assets (RWA) (Millions of yen) a b c d Basel III RWA capital requirements Template As of March As of March As of March As of March No. 31, 2018 31, 2017 31, 2018 31, 2017 1 Credit risk (excluding counterparty credit risk) ¥38,823,030 / ¥3,275,858 / 2 Of which: standardized approach (SA) 1,820,063 / 145,605 / 3 Of which: internal rating-based (IRB) approach 35,420,038 / 3,003,619 / Of which: significant investments / / Of which: estimated residual value of lease / / transaction Others 1,582,929 / 126,634 / 4 Counterparty credit risk (CCR) 4,531,171 / 366,994 / 5 Of which: SA-CCR / / Of which: current exposure method 216,424 / 17,723 / 6 Of which: expected positive exposure (EPE) method 887,843 / 74,632 / Of which: credit valuation adjustment (CVA) risk 2,539,780 / 203,182 / Of which: central counterparty-related 193,088 / 15,447 / Others 694,035 / 56,009 / Equity positions in banking book under market7 2,972,073 / 252,031 / based approach Fund exposures standardized approach / / Fund exposures regarded method 3,515,582 / 297,289 / 11 Settlement risk 4,574 / 386 / 12 Securitization exposures in banking book 379,016 / 32,003 / Of which: IRB ratings-based approach (RBA) or IRB 13 110,551 / 9,374 / internal assessment approach (IAA) 14 Of which: IRB supervisory formula approach (SFA) 231,492 / 19,630 / Of which: SA/simplified supervisory formula approach 15 25,711 / 2,056 / (SSFA) Of which: 1250% risk weight is applied 11,261 / 941 / 16 Market risk 2,470,321 / 197,625 / 17 Of which: standardized approach (SA) 1,406,398 / 112,511 / 18 Of which: internal model approaches (IMA) 1,063,922 / 85,113 / 19 Operational risk 3,411,289 / 272,903 / 20 Of which: basic indicator approach 591,083 / 47,286 / 21 Of which: standardized approach / / 22 Of which: advanced measurement approach 2,820,206 / 225,616 / Exposures of specified items not subject to 23 818,950 / 67,224 / regulatory adjustments Amounts included in RWA subject to phase-out / / arrangements 24 Floor adjustment / / 25 Total (after applying the scaling factor) ¥59,528,983 / ¥4,762,318 / Note:We disclose the data for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 according to the New FSA Notice. 266 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (B) Credit Risk Weighted Assets by Asset Class and Ratings Segment (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2017 Risk Risk EAD RWA Weight(%) EAD RWA Weight(%) Internal ratings-based approach ¥188,162.7 ¥47,619.7 25.30 ¥189,852.0 ¥50,084.2 26.38 Corporate, etc. 162,853.7 29,536.1 18.13 164,623.5 31,312.3 19.02 Corporate (except specialized 79,917.9 27,232.1 34.07 78,222.1 28,727.3 36.72 lending) Ratings A1-B2 58,776.0 13,840.5 23.54 55,538.0 14,486.4 26.08 Ratings C1-D3 19,376.2 11,569.6 59.71 20,306.6 12,002.9 59.10 Ratings E1-E2 1,182.2 1,625.0 137.45 1,373.3 1,885.3 137.27 Ratings E2R-H1 583.3 196.7 33.73 1,004.0 352.5 35.11 Sovereign 76,803.1 833.9 1.08 80,314.2 1,023.3 1.27 Ratings A1-B2 76,674.5 758.3 0.98 80,165.1 928.3 1.15 Ratings C1-D3 128.2 75.2 58.70 148.6 94.3 63.49 Ratings E1-E2 0.3 0.2 82.31 0.3 0.6 164.61 Ratings E2R-H1 0.0 0.0 39.56 0.0 0.0 40.50 Bank 5,986.3 1,313.1 21.93 5,921.5 1,375.8 23.23 Ratings A1-B2 5,447.4 1,002.1 18.39 5,337.6 1,036.1 19.41 Ratings C1-D3 537.5 310.5 57.77 582.4 339.2 58.25 Ratings E1-E2 0.0 0.0 129.81 0.0 0.0 184.04 Ratings E2R-H1 1.2 0.3 29.94 1.4 0.4 29.54 Specialized lending 146.3 156.9 107.22 165.6 185.8 112.16 Retail 11,629.8 3,818.0 32.83 12,235.5 4,541.9 37.12 Residential mortgage 9,046.0 2,508.1 27.72 9,388.0 3,096.3 32.98 Qualifying revolving loan 673.7 513.0 76.14 629.2 415.6 66.05 Other retail 1,910.0 796.8 41.72 2,218.2 1,029.9 46.42 Equities 5,136.2 8,436.2 164.25 4,973.3 8,642.9 173.78 PD/LGD approach 4,162.6 5,279.2 126.82 4,180.1 6,068.0 145.16 Market-based approach 973.5 3,157.0 324.26 793.1 2,574.9 324.64 Regarded-method exposure 2,102.9 3,716.1 176.70 1,744.0 3,341.4 191.58 Securitizations 4,169.4 371.5 8.91 4,009.5 328.9 8.20 Others 2,270.5 1,741.5 76.70 2,265.9 1,916.6 84.58 Standardized approach 18,603.6 3,294.7 17.71 17,523.9 3,508.0 20.01 CVA risk / 2,539.7 / / 2,272.3 / Central counterparty-related / 193.0 / / 195.4 / Total ¥206,766.4 ¥53,647.3 25.94 ¥207,375.9 ¥56,060.0 27.03 Note: Specialized lending is specialized lending exposure under supervisory slotting criteria. 267 ■ Linkages between Financial Statements and Regulatory Exposures (A) LI1: Differences between Accounting and Regulatory Scopes of Consolidation and Mapping of Financial Statement Categories with Regulatory Risk Categories (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 a b c d e f g Carrying values of items: Carrying Carrying Not subject to values as values capital reported in under Subject to Subject to Subject to requirements published scope of credit counterparty Subject to the the market or subject to financial regulatory risk credit risk securitization risk deduction statements consolidation framework framework framework framework from capital Assets Cash and Due from Banks ¥47,725,360 ¥47,725,360 ¥¥¥¥Call Loans and Bills Purchased 715,149 715,149 Receivables under Resale Agreements 8,080,873 8,080,873 Guarantee Deposits Paid under 4,350,527 4,350,527 Securities Borrowing Transactions Other Debt Purchased 2,713,742 2,127,247 551,092 35,402 Trading Assets 10,507,133 5,318,732 10,507,133 2,249 Money Held in Trust 337,429 337,429 Securities 34,183,033 32,788,339 1,287,391 107,303 Loans and Bills Discounted 79,421,473 77,937,924 1,305 1,475,430 6,812 Foreign Exchange Assets 1,941,677 1,941,677 Derivatives Other than for Trading 1,807,999 1,807,999 Assets Other Assets 4,588,484 1,549,959 1,936,112 4,161 1,098,251 Tangible Fixed Assets 1,111,128 1,111,128 Intangible Fixed Assets 1,092,708 312,342 780,365 Net Defined Benefit Asset 996,173 304,793 691,380 Deferred Tax Assets 47,839 5,487 42,352 Customers' Liabilities for 5,723,186 5,722,952 234 Acceptances and Guarantees Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans (315,621) (314,330) (1,291) Total assets ¥205,028,300 ¥172,265,461 ¥21,495,785 ¥3,318,075 ¥10,507,133 ¥2,762,827 268 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy LI1-(Continued) (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 a b c d e f g Carrying values of items: Carrying Not subject to values as Carrying capital reported in values under Subject to Subject to Subject to requirements published scope of credit counterparty Subject to the the market or subject to financial regulatory risk credit risk securitization risk deduction statements consolidation framework framework framework framework from capital Liabilities Deposits ¥125,081,233 ¥¥¥¥¥125,081,233 Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 11,382,590 11,382,590 Call Money and Bills Sold 2,105,293 2,105,293 Payables under Repurchase 16,656,828 16,656,828 Agreements Guarantee Deposits Received under 1,566,833 1,566,833 Securities Lending Transactions Commercial Paper 710,391 710,391 Trading Liabilities 8,121,543 4,936,441 8,121,543 Borrowed Money 4,896,218 4,896,218 Foreign Exchange Liabilities 445,804 445,804 Short-term Bonds 362,185 362,185 Bonds and Notes 7,544,256 7,544,256 Due to Trust Accounts 4,733,131 4,733,131 Derivatives other than for trading 1,514,483 1,514,483 liabilities Other Liabilities 3,685,585 76,599 3,608,986 Reserve for Bonus Payments 66,872 66,872 Reserve for variable compensation 3,242 3,242 Net Defined Benefit Liability 58,890 58,890 Reserve for Director and Corporate 1,460 1,460 Auditor Retirement Benefits Reserve for possible losses on 1,075 1,075 sales of loans Reserve for contingencies 5,622 56 5,566 Reserve for reimbursement of deposits 20,011 20,011 Reserve for reimbursement of 30,760 30,760 debentures Reserves under Special Laws 2,361 2,361 Deferred Tax Liabilities 421,002 421,002 Deferred Tax Liabilities for 66,186 66,186 Revaluation Reserve for Land Acceptances and Guarantees 5,723,186 5,723,186 Total liabilities ¥195,207,054 ¥56 ¥24,751,187 ¥¥8,121,543 ¥167,270,708 Notes: 1. Since the scope of accounting consolidation and that of regulatory consolidation are the same, the column (a) and (b) have been combined. 2. Market risk includes foreign exchange risk and commodities risk in the banking book, but only those items in the trading book are recorded. 269 (B) LI2: Main Sources of Differences between Regulatory Exposure Amounts and Carrying Values in Financial Statements (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 a b c d e Items subject to: Counterparty Credit risk credit risk Securitization Market risk Total framework framework framework framework Asset carrying value amount under scope of 1 ¥202,265,473 ¥172,265,461 ¥21,495,785 ¥3,318,075 ¥10,507,133 regulatory consolidation (as per template LI1) Liabilities carrying value amount under regulatory 2 27,936,345 56 24,751,187 8,121,543 scope of consolidation (as per template LI1) 3 Total net amount under regulatory scope of consolidation 174,329,127 172,265,405 (3,255,401) 3,318,075 2,385,589 4 Off-balance sheet amounts 17,311,153 16,446,822 864,331 Differences due to consideration of provision for 5 401,252 401,252 loan losses and write-offs 6 Differences due to derivative transactions, etc. 1,887,980 1,887,980 7 Differences due to repurchase transactions 17,310,011 17,310,011 8 Other differences (523,103) (907,644) 9 Exposure amounts considered for regulatory purposes ¥210,716,420 ¥188,205,836 ¥15,942,589 ¥4,182,406 ¥2,385,589 Notes: 1. Column (a) is not necessarily equal to the sum of columns (b) to (e) due to assets being riskweighted more than once. 2. Differences between regulatory exposure amounts and carrying values in consolidated financial statements and the main sources of the differences are as follows. ･ Off-balance sheet amounts correspond to the differences produced mainly by adding exposures to undrawn commitments and by multiplying customer liabilities for acceptances and guarantees by the credit conversion factor (CCF) assigned to off-balance sheet items under the regulatory capital requirements. ･ Differences due to consideration of provision for loan losses, and write-offs are produced mainly by adding general provisions for loan losses, specific provisions for loan losses and partial direct bad debt write-offs to those assets subject to the advanced internal ratings-based approach. ･ Differences due to derivative transactions, etc. are produced mainly by incorporating future market value fluctuations and the effect of netting into regulatory exposure amounts. Derivative transactions, etc. include long-settlement transactions. ･ Differences due to repurchase transactions are mainly produced by adding the exposure amounts related to assets pledged as collateral and considering the effect of netting and collateral. ･ Other differences are produced mainly by considering the offsetting of deferred tax assets against deferred tax liabilities and the regulatory recognized effectiveness of hedging and making regulatory prudential adjustments. 270 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ■ Credit Risk (1) Summary of Risk Profile, Risk Management Policies/ Procedures and Structure See pages 113 to 116 for a summary of our credit risk profile and credit risk management policies, etc. (2) Summary of Provision for Loan Losses and Write-offs See page 115 for a summary of provision for loan losses and write-offs. (3) Quantitative Disclosure on Credit Risk Counterparty credit risk exposures, securitization exposures, and regarded-method exposures are excluded from the amount of credit risk exposures below. (A) CR1: Credit Quality of Assets (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 a b c d Gross carrying values of NonDefaulted defaulted Net values exposures exposures Reserve (a+b-c) On-balance sheet exposures 1 Loans ¥645,060 ¥77,305,616 ¥271,369 ¥77,679,307 2 Debt securities 5,946 26,116,905 26,122,851 3 Other on-balance sheet debt exposures 2,652 51,697,897 2,526 51,698,023 4 Total on-balance sheet exposures (1+2+3) 653,659 155,120,419 273,896 155,500,182 Off-balance sheet exposures 5 Guarantees 13,776 5,709,421 30,819 5,692,378 6 Commitments 15,249 25,189,759 25,205,009 7 Total off-balance sheet exposures (5+6) 29,026 30,899,180 30,819 30,897,388 Total 8 Total assets (4+7) ¥682,685 ¥186,019,600 ¥304,715 ¥186,397,570 Notes: 1. Other on-balance sheet debt exposures include deposits, call loans, bills purchased, other debt purchased, money held in trust and foreign exchange assets, etc. 2. Defaulted exposures include restructured loans, loans past due for three months or more, loans to bankrupt borrowers and so on. 3. Reserve corresponds to the amount of reserves for possible loan losses (B) Breakdown of Credit Risk Exposures (a) Breakdown by Geographical Area (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 Loans, commitments and other non-derivative off-balance-sheet exposures Securities Others Total Domestic ¥62,042.2 ¥21,449.0 ¥37,376.2 ¥120,867.5 Overseas 39,785.8 9,122.3 10,527.5 59,435.7 Asia 10,263.4 1,961.2 1,947.9 14,172.7 Central and South America 2,947.5 52.0 1,136.3 4,135.9 North America 14,172.5 5,074.6 5,917.4 25,164.6 Eastern Europe 346.0 10.0 356.1 Western Europe 7,876.3 1,313.7 844.5 10,034.6 Other areas 4,179.8 720.5 671.1 5,571.5 Total ¥101,828.0 ¥30,571.3 ¥47,903.8 ¥180,303.2 Standardized approach portion / / / 16,604.4 Notes: 1. Standardized approach portion represents the amount calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit RWA 2. Exposure to non-Japanese residents is included in Overseas. 3. Others include cash, deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets and other assets, etc. 271 (b) Breakdown by Industry (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 Loans, commitments and other non-derivative off-balance-sheet exposures Securities Others Total Manufacturing ¥22,348.0 ¥2,335.3 ¥551.1 ¥25,234.5 Construction 1,834.4 235.7 65.5 2,135.6 Real estate 9,576.2 814.1 18.0 10,408.5 Service industries 5,455.8 440.1 714.2 6,610.2 Wholesale and retail 9,536.2 755.6 744.0 11,036.0 Finance and insurance 13,028.8 2,395.8 3,706.3 19,131.0 Individuals 12,145.6 9.9 114.1 12,269.6 Other industries 25,827.4 8,314.1 9,790.1 43,931.7 Japanese Government; Bank of Japan 2,075.1 15,270.3 32,200.0 49,545.6 Total ¥101,828.0 ¥30,571.3 ¥47,903.8 ¥180,303.2 Standardized approach portion / / / 16,604.4 Notes: 1. Standardized approach portion represents the amount calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit RWA. 2. Others include cash, deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets and other assets, etc. (c) Breakdown by Residual Contractual Maturity (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 Loans, commitments and other non-derivative off-balance-sheet exposures Securities Others Total Less than one year ¥30,139.5 ¥10,117.3 ¥6,135.9 ¥46,392.7 From one year to less than three years 22,692.1 4,828.9 789.9 28,311.0 From three years to less than five years 20,637.6 3,738.5 14.5 24,390.7 Five years or more 27,872.8 7,042.5 165.4 35,080.9 Other than above 485.8 4,843.9 40,798.0 46,127.8 Total ¥101,828.0 ¥30,571.3 ¥47,903.8 ¥180,303.2 Standardized approach portion / / / 16,604.4 Notes: 1. Standardized approach portion represents the amount calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit RWA 2. Others include cash, deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets and other assets, etc. 272 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (C) Exposure to Obligors Claims of Whom Meet the Stipulations in the Article 4 Paragraph 2, 3 or 4 of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Act on Emergency Measures for the Revitalization of the Financial Functions Enacted in Japan (a) Breakdown by Geographical Area (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 Exposure Reserve Write-offs Domestic ¥598.8 ¥121.9 ¥13.7 Overseas 193.0 35.9 1.4 Asia 28.6 2.4 0.0 Central and South America 63.1 4.3 North America 19.9 0.3 Eastern Europe 0.4 0.4 Western Europe 71.4 24.8 1.3 Other areas 9.2 3.4 Total ¥791.8 ¥157.8 ¥15.2 Standardized approach portion 14.1 6.9 0.3 Note: Standardized approach portion represents the amount calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit RWA (b) Breakdown by Industry (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 Exposure Reserve Write-offs Manufacturing ¥190.9 ¥50.4 ¥2.8 Construction 7.8 0.8 0.1 Real estate 43.5 1.8 0.2 Service industries 73.6 12.9 1.9 Wholesale and retail 198.2 55.0 5.7 Finance and insurance 21.5 1.9 Individuals 103.3 12.3 3.3 Other industries 152.6 22.4 0.8 Total ¥791.8 ¥157.8 ¥15.2 Standardized approach portion 14.1 6.9 0.3 Note: Standardized approach portion represents the amount calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit RWA. (D) Exposure by Past Due Period (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 From one month to less From two months to less Less than one month than two months than three months Three months or more Total ¥100.7 ¥46.1 ¥15.1 ¥29.4 ¥191.5 Note: Excluding claims under bankruptcy or substantial bankruptcy stipulated in the Article 4 paragraph 2 of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Act on Emergency Measures for the Revitalization of the Financial Functions as well as high risk claims stipulated in the Article 4 paragraph 3. (E) Exposure to Obligors Claims of Whom have been Restructured for the Purpose of Corporate Restructuring or Supporting the Customer (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 Amount of exposure for which loss reserve has increased as a result of Exposure restructuring of lending terms Others ¥322.7 ¥280.6 ¥42.0 Notes: Excluding claims under bankruptcy or substantial bankruptcy stipulated in the Article 4 paragraph 2 of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Act on Emergency Measures for the Revitalization of the Financial Functions, high risk claims stipulated in the Article 4 paragraph 3 or claims overdue for more than three months stipulated in the Article 4 paragraph 4. 273 (4) Credit Risk under Internal Ratings-Based (IRB) Approach (i) Summary of Internal Ratings-Based (IRB) Approach We have adopted Advanced Internal Ratings-Based (AIRB) Approach as a method to calculate credit risk weighted assets (RWA) since March 31, 2009. The following business units have adopted AIRB approach: Mizuho Financial Group, Inc., Mizuho Bank, Ltd., Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd., Mizuho Credit Guarantee Co., Ltd., Mizuho Trust Realty Company Limited, Mizuho Bank (China), Mizuho Bank (USA), Ltd., Mizuho Bank Europe N.V., and Mizuho Capital Markets LLC. Note: Special purpose companies (SPCs) controlled by the above companies have also adopted the AIRB approach due to their business operations integrated with their parent companies. The application scope of AIRB is determined through taking into account the importance for each business unit, such as the ratio of its credit RWA to that of the entire group. AIRB is generally applied to those assets held by the business units that have adopted AIRB except for some asset classes considered immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit RWA. In addition, AIRB is used for all equity exposures and credit RWA exposures under Regarded-Method regardless of what approach the business unit has adopted. The standardized approach will be applied to any of those business units and asset classes that do not meet the above conditions. (ii) Summary of Our Internal Rating System See pages 113 to 115 for a summary of our internal rating system and rating assignment procedures. Estimation of parameters and validation We use our own estimates for the parameters indicated below in the calculation of credit RWA under the Basel Framework. We generally validate the parameters by backtesting or other methods on an annual basis. Methods of estimation and validation as well as results are approved by the Chief Risk Officer. PD Probability of default (likelihood of default of an obligor over a period of one year) LGD Loss given default EAD Exposure at default The definition of default conforms to the Notice issued by Japan’s Financial Services Agency. Details of Estimates: We estimate PD of corporate, sovereign and bank exposures per obligor rating, and that of retail exposures per pool allocations. In making estimations, we make conservative adjustments such as accounting for estimation error on the long-term average of internal default records. We supplement estimations for low default portfolios with external data. We apply the regulatory floor PD (0.03%) to A1-rated obligors in the measurement of credit RWA, except for sovereign exposures. The estimated parameters in almost all the PD categories such as obligor rating or pool allocations exceeded actual defaults in the last three years. The differences stemmed from such reasons as: actual defaults in the last few years were lower than the long-term average of the defaults over the entire period, which was the basis for our estimation; conservative adjustments have been made to estimated parameters. We estimate LGD based on obligor classifications in our self-assessments or pool allocations, and protection coverage. For LGD per obligor classifications, we estimate LGD under normal economic circumstances based on prior defaulted obligor data, making adjustments in consideration of periods of economic downturn using stochastic methods. Our estimation is based on validation of the time between the default event and the closure of the exposure as well as LGD for low default portfolios etc. With regard to protection, we estimate LGD per type of collateral using some external data. We estimate EAD based on prior defaulted obligor data. (iii) Asset Class-based EAD Ratios to the Total EAD by Credit RWA Calculation Approach As of March 31, 2018 Internal Ratings-based Approach 91.18% Corporate 79.20 Retail 6.24 Equities 2.75 Purchase Receivables 1.75 Others 1.21 Standardized Approach 8.81% Total 100.00% Notes: 1. Counterparty credit risk exposures, securitization exposures, and regarded-method exposures are excluded from the amount of credit risk exposures above. 2. As for any portfolio to which the standardized approach is applied, exposure instead of EAD is used for calculation. 274 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (iv) Quantitative Disclosure on Credit Risk under Internal Ratings-based Approach (A) CR6: IRB Credit Risk Exposures by Portfolio and PD Range (Millions of yen, %, number in the thousands, year) a b c d e f g h i j k l Original Offon-balance balance EAD sheet sheet Average post CRM Average Number Average RWA gross exposures CCF and PD of LGD Average density PD scale exposure pre CCF (%) post-CCF (%) obligors (%) maturity RWA (%) EL Provisions As of March 31, 2018 Sovereign 1 0.00 to <0.15 ¥65,282,123 ¥493,305 78.14 ¥67,094,685 0.00 0.3 37.99 1.6 ¥633,434 0.94 ¥828 ¥/ 2 0.15 to <0.25 / 3 0.25 to <0.50 30,742 3,142 75.00 9,343 0.27 0.0 37.97 3.5 4,931 52.77 9 / 4 0.50 to <0.75 76,127 14,762 75.00 76,646 0.50 0.0 37.97 1.1 35,076 45.76 146 / 5 0.75 to <2.50 80,202 163 75.00 28,798 1.46 0.0 37.44 1.6 22,058 76.59 158 / 6 2.50 to <10.00 62,602 9,186 75.00 947 3.30 0.0 37.97 2.6 1,068 112.71 11 / 7 10.00 to <100.00 16,952 26 75.00 217 15.16 0.0 8.17 1.1 83 38.66 2 / 8 100.00 (Default) 1,819 19 100.00 0.0 28.17 1.2 7 37.33 4 / 9 Sub-total 65,550,571 520,586 77.97 67,210,657 0.00 0.3 37.99 1.6 696,660 1.03 1,163 792 Banks 1 0.00 to <0.15 3,444,364 704,050 72.47 4,274,768 0.06 0.3 37.38 1.4 693,677 16.22 1,011 / 2 0.15 to <0.25 / 3 0.25 to <0.50 106,079 34,292 83.00 157,228 0.27 0.0 34.08 1.5 45,560 28.97 123 / 4 0.50 to <0.75 197,750 55,035 72.89 211,024 0.50 0.0 36.75 1.4 103,707 49.14 378 / 5 0.75 to <2.50 130,564 9,911 75.32 138,643 1.00 0.0 36.73 1.4 102,512 73.93 504 / 6 2.50 to <10.00 20,652 18,128 67.96 24,045 3.13 0.0 40.38 2.2 28,335 117.84 304 / 7 10.00 to <100.00 / 8 100.00 (Default) 1,287 1,287 100.00 0.0 96.57 4.9 363 28.25 1,214 / 9 Sub-total 3,900,699 821,418 72.87 4,806,998 0.16 0.5 37.26 1.4 974,158 20.26 3,536 2,408 Corporate (except SME and specialized lending) 1 0.00 to <0.15 35,728,142 21,717,226 73.81 52,701,719 0.07 6.5 37.97 2.4 11,485,859 21.79 15,786 / 2 0.15 to <0.25 / 3 0.25 to <0.50 4,154,221 1,464,926 75.16 4,954,125 0.27 5.3 33.22 2.6 1,978,399 39.93 4,556 / 4 0.50 to <0.75 3,335,203 874,325 74.03 3,808,160 0.50 3.8 33.57 2.7 2,073,698 54.45 6,434 / 5 0.75 to <2.50 4,212,757 926,478 75.97 4,518,372 1.18 5.2 31.97 2.6 3,145,660 69.61 17,169 / 6 2.50 to <10.00 1,967,931 684,281 70.34 1,912,682 3.86 1.9 32.58 3.0 2,026,392 105.94 24,920 / 7 10.00 to <100.00 478,359 172,021 77.99 418,948 15.16 0.7 28.23 2.2 574,489 137.12 17,943 / 8 100.00 (Default) 420,603 22,230 80.22 414,611 100.00 0.7 38.96 2.1 127,172 30.67 151,385 / 9 Sub-total 50,297,219 25,861,490 73.92 68,728,619 0.99 24.3 36.78 2.5 21,411,672 31.15 238,196 162,210 SME 1 0.00 to <0.15 82,869 20,926 74.99 98,562 0.07 0.0 31.64 2.3 14,696 14.91 24 / 2 0.15 to <0.25 / 3 0.25 to <0.50 552,499 29,152 73.71 562,058 0.27 3.0 24.31 2.8 142,029 25.26 378 / 4 0.50 to <0.75 688,348 26,430 74.25 690,992 0.50 3.3 23.91 3.0 229,938 33.27 831 / 5 0.75 to <2.50 1,243,471 29,192 75.43 1,226,916 1.19 5.9 20.75 3.4 491,630 40.07 3,124 / 6 2.50 to <10.00 454,790 12,354 76.30 446,427 3.25 1.7 19.05 3.7 214,824 48.12 2,802 / 7 10.00 to <100.00 147,430 5,173 92.75 140,309 15.16 0.7 17.98 3.1 106,804 76.12 3,828 / 8 100.00 (Default) 146,588 623 66.96 137,093 100.00 0.6 42.41 2.2 43,356 31.62 54,678 / 9 Sub-total 3,315,998 123,853 75.47 3,302,360 5.83 15.4 22.89 3.2 1,243,280 37.64 65,667 44,718 Specialized Lending 1 0.00 to <0.15 2,375,330 262,272 77.84 2,206,165 0.09 0.4 36.49 4.3 707,374 32.06 759 / 2 0.15 to <0.25 / 3 0.25 to <0.50 386,629 139,797 77.89 373,281 0.27 0.0 38.49 4.1 219,941 58.92 397 / 4 0.50 to <0.75 230,853 74,918 77.70 215,900 0.50 0.0 43.42 4.1 185,680 86.00 471 / 5 0.75 to <2.50 413,034 107,078 75.36 331,811 1.02 0.0 38.49 4.5 335,100 100.99 1,312 / 6 2.50 to <10.00 76,132 14,241 76.45 51,744 4.38 0.0 38.19 3.5 68,274 131.94 867 / 7 10.00 to <100.00 40,737 1,342 94.02 9,364 15.16 0.0 37.97 3.9 18,836 201.13 539 / 8 100.00 (Default) 29,001 389 100.00 25,293 100.00 0.0 64.04 4.2 12,473 49.31 15,201 / 9 Sub-total 3,551,720 600,039 77.41 3,213,563 1.13 0.6 37.64 4.2 1,547,680 48.16 19,549 13,313 Equities (PD/LGD approach) 1 0.00 to <0.15 3,704,926 21,305 100.00 3,726,232 0.05 1.0 90.00 5.0 3,795,623 101.86 / / 2 0.15 to <0.25 / / 3 0.25 to <0.50 90,067 90,067 0.27 0.5 90.00 5.0 142,515 158.23 / / 4 0.50 to <0.75 43,662 43,662 0.50 0.3 90.00 5.0 89,021 203.88 / / 5 0.75 to <2.50 40,387 40,387 1.15 0.2 90.00 5.0 107,668 266.58 / / 6 2.50 to <10.00 113,095 113,095 3.76 0.0 90.00 5.0 425,736 376.44 / / 7 10.00 to <100.00 915 915 15.16 0.0 90.00 5.0 5,851 638.79 / / 8 100.00 (Default) 5,710 5,710 100.00 0.1 90.00 5.0 64,245 1,125.00 / / 9 Sub-total ¥3,998,766 ¥21,305 100.00 ¥4,020,072 0.33 2.3 90.00 5.0 ¥4,630,663 115.18 ¥/ ¥/ 275 CR6-(Continued) (Millions of yen, %, number in the thousands, year) a b c d e f g h i j k l Original OffEAD on-balance balance post CRM sheet sheet Average and Average Number Average RWA gross exposures CCF postPD of LGD Average density PD scale exposure pre CCF (%) CCF (%) obligors (%) maturity RWA (%) EL Provisions As of March 31, 2018 Purchased receivables (Corporate, etc.) Default Risk Equivalent 1 0.00 to <0.15 ¥2,148,219 ¥701,913 75.14 ¥2,671,876 0.08 0.9 38.23 1.9 ¥472,908 17.69 ¥818 ¥/ 2 0.15 to <0.25 / 3 0.25 to <0.50 129,026 94,175 77.74 202,240 0.27 0.2 37.89 2.0 80,622 39.86 212 / 4 0.50 to <0.75 102,644 31,136 79.27 127,326 0.50 0.1 37.89 1.8 66,997 52.61 242 / 5 0.75 to <2.50 83,546 28,528 77.42 105,635 1.04 0.1 37.88 2.3 80,956 76.63 419 / 6 2.50 to <10.00 122,256 30,434 75.58 144,774 5.78 0.0 37.97 1.4 177,211 122.40 3,180 / 7 10.00 to <100.00 1,163 18,484 75.71 15,159 15.16 0.0 37.97 1.6 27,179 179.28 873 / 8 100.00 (Default) 1,720 1,720 100.00 0.0 93.53 1.0 521 30.29 1,567 / 9 Sub-total 2,588,578 904,673 75.65 3,268,735 0.51 1.6 38.20 1.9 906,398 27.72 7,314 4,980 Purchased receivables (Retail) Default Risk Equivalent 1 0.00 to <0.15 / 2 0.15 to <0.25 / 3 0.25 to <0.50 / 4 0.50 to <0.75 / 5 0.75 to <2.50 / 6 2.50 to <10.00 / 7 10.00 to <100.00 / 8 100.00 (Default) / 9 Sub-total Purchased receivables (Dilution Risk Equivalent) 1 0.00 to <0.15 895,557 16,505 100.00 912,062 0.02 0.1 7.96 166,817 18.29 411 / 2 0.15 to <0.25 / 3 0.25 to <0.50 11,735 11,735 0.27 0.0 37.97 3,654 31.13 12 / 4 0.50 to <0.75 17,229 17,229 0.50 0.0 37.31 7,609 44.16 32 / 5 0.75 to <2.50 97,240 5,881 100.00 103,122 1.39 0.0 19.96 69,059 66.96 463 / 6 2.50 to <10.00 11,811 11,811 3.03 0.0 8.82 11,116 94.11 140 / 7 10.00 to <100.00 923 923 15.16 0.0 37.97 1,553 168.25 53 / 8 100.00 (Default) 2,139 2,139 100.00 0.0 47.79 1,087 50.85 935 / 9 Sub-total 1,036,637 22,387 100.00 1,059,024 0.41 0.1 10.06 260,898 24.63 2,050 / Retail – qualifying revolving retail exposures (QRRE) 1 0.00 to <0.15 0 0.13 0.0 78.04 / 0 6.01 0 / 2 0.15 to <0.25 33 0.18 0.4 77.05 / 2 7.79 0 / 3 0.25 to <0.50 60 0.34 2.0 78.04 / 7 12.85 0 / 4 0.50 to <0.75 / / 5 0.75 to <2.50 246,700 882,617 15.67 385,057 2.31 484.0 78.03 / 214,816 55.78 6,961 / 6 2.50 to <10.00 171,502 904,560 8.86 251,550 4.06 1,838.9 78.04 / 204,438 81.27 7,973 / 7 10.00 to <100.00 30,330 15,707 38.33 36,349 18.49 111.4 78.04 / 64,164 176.51 5,245 / 8 100.00 (Default) 547 1,389 12.13 710 100.00 2.1 71.86 / 564 79.48 465 / 9 Sub-total 449,080 1,804,276 12.45 673,761 3.94 2,439.0 78.03 / 483,995 71.83 20,647 14,060 Retail – Residential mortgage 1 0.00 to <0.15 1,753,094 1,788,294 0.07 134.0 29.40 / 98,880 5.52 396 / 2 0.15 to <0.25 1,555,463 1,557,206 0.19 98.7 31.48 / 196,694 12.63 984 / 3 0.25 to <0.50 1,995,206 1,996,178 0.35 137.5 33.88 / 411,553 20.61 2,400 / 4 0.50 to <0.75 1,913,740 106,001 97.52 1,976,720 0.66 176.4 36.68 / 684,897 34.64 4,785 / 5 0.75 to <2.50 1,540,512 869 100.00 1,543,115 1.08 118.2 36.58 / 736,804 47.74 6,054 / 6 2.50 to <10.00 78,221 2,795 100.00 81,793 9.58 6.9 37.92 / 138,206 168.97 2,969 / 7 10.00 to <100.00 31,308 2,477 100.00 33,807 47.05 3.2 40.24 / 66,608 197.02 6,406 / 8 100.00 (Default) 67,581 1,372 100.00 68,903 100.00 4.3 45.19 / 32,533 47.21 28,537 / 9 Sub-total 8,935,128 113,516 97.68 9,046,019 1.48 679.7 33.80 / 2,366,178 26.15 52,535 35,776 Other retail 1 0.00 to <0.15 20 307,294 0.05 41.4 43.50 / 19,034 6.19 75 / 2 0.15 to <0.25 2 55,690 0.18 4.5 43.16 / 9,068 16.28 43 / 3 0.25 to <0.50 121,031 155 100.00 137,772 0.34 4.1 46.55 / 37,291 27.06 224 / 4 0.50 to <0.75 188,160 550 75.18 184,968 0.69 65.9 26.93 / 41,514 22.44 327 / 5 0.75 to <2.50 1,017,097 3,472 78.21 940,438 1.36 26.4 53.29 / 528,419 56.18 5,988 / 6 2.50 to <10.00 398,879 1,897 63.40 174,889 6.29 16.0 22.22 / 57,981 33.15 2,149 / 7 10.00 to <100.00 98,427 9,870 51.83 49,497 18.27 11.8 31.29 / 32,253 65.16 3,156 / 8 100.00 (Default) 73,064 3,023 94.67 58,600 100.00 2.9 44.01 / 25,897 44.19 23,722 / 9 Sub-total 1,896,684 18,970 65.72 1,909,152 4.89 173.4 44.68 / 751,460 39.36 35,688 24,303 Total (all portfolios) ¥145,521,084 ¥30,812,518 70.60 ¥167,238,965 0.72 3,337.8 38.21 2.20 ¥35,273,045 21.01 ¥446,348 ¥302,564 Notes: 1. Counterparty credit risk exposures, securitization exposures, and regarded-method exposures are excluded from the amount of credit risk exposures above. 2. On-balance sheet exposures, pre-CCF and preCRM off-balance sheet exposures, and the average CCF are allocated to the PD ranges based on preCRM PD estimates. 3. The number of credits is disclosed as the number of data of obligors for QRRE, residential mortgage and other retail excluding credit for business purpose. 276 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (B) CR9: IRB Backtesting of Probability of Default (PD) per Portfolio (%, the number of data) a b c d e f g h i Number of Average External rating equivalent Arithmetic of which: Weighted obligors historical PD average Defaulted new average annual Portfolio Range PD by As of As of obligors defaulted Moody’ PD default (%) S&P Fitch R&I JCR obligors March March in the year obligors s (%) rate (%) 31, 2017 31, 2018 in the year (%) 0.00 to AAA～AAaa～A3 AAA～AAAA～AAAA～A0.05 0.06 2,330 2,395 <0.10 0.10 to BBB+～BBBBaa1～Baa3 BBB+～BBBBBB+～BBBBBB+～BBB0.15 0.15 5,072 5,272 2 0.03 <0.20 Corporate, 0.20 to BB+～BBBa1～Ba3 BB+～BBBB+～BBBB+～BB0.48 0.52 20,736 21,267 52 0.21 etc. <1.00 1.00 to B+～BB1～B3 B+～BB+～BB+～B2.06 2.15 9,832 9,041 112 2 1.29 <5.00 5.00 to CCC+～CCCCaa1～Caa3 CCC+～CCCCCC+～CCCCCC～C 12.59 12.86 2,500 2,144 197 4 8.02 <100.00 0.00 to / / / / / <0.10 0.10 to Retail – / / / / / <0.20 qualifying 0.20 to revolving retail / / / / / <1.00 exposures 1.00 to (QRRE) / / / / / 2.35 2.80 316,263 338,973 5,789 1,004 1.68 <5.00 5.00 to / / / / / 10.17 6.24 137,011 146,695 12,315 1,232 7.85 <100.00 0.00 to / / / / / 0.05 0.05 77,649 71,310 20 0.02 <0.10 0.10 to / / / / / 0.14 0.14 101,477 103,939 44 0.07 <0.20 Retail – 0.20 to Residential / / / / / 0.53 0.53 413,756 395,746 966 3 0.28 <1.00 mortgage 1.00 to / / / / / 1.26 1.22 62,374 75,664 303 0.57 <5.00 5.00 to / / / / / 19.03 20.36 11,209 8,551 1,014 11.81 <100.00 0.00 to / / / / / <0.10 0.10 to / / / / / <0.20 Other 0.20 to / / / / / 0.80 0.66 429,469 340,586 1,333 27 0.31 retail <1.00 1.00 to / / / / / 2.20 3.08 440,253 322,169 2,020 180 0.73 <5.00 5.00 to / / / / / 17.74 22.92 73,044 47,241 3,113 13 4.23 <100.00 Notes: 1. Counterparty credit risk exposures, securitization exposures, and regarded-method exposures are excluded from the amount of credit risk exposures above. 2. Exposures to sovereign and bank is included in the category of corporate, etc. because their obligors can be presumably specified. Likewise, exposures to corporate (except specialized lending), specialized lending, equity and purchased receivables (corporate) is included in the category of corporate, etc. because the data of the respective portfolios is not separately used for PD estimation. Since purchased receivables (retail) account for a small portion of the entire exposure, they are incorporated with any one of QRRE, residential mortgage or other retail depending on the portfolio classification of the purchased receivables. 3. PD Range indicates the ranges of PD estimates for multiple consolidated internal ratings groups. 4. The following shows the percentages accounted for by the respective portfolios among the credit RWA calculated by the AIRB: Corporate, etc. : 76%, QRRE: 1%, Residential mortgage : 7%, Other retail : 3% 5. The number of credits is disclosed as the number of data of obligors for QRRE, residential mortgage and other retail excluding credit for business purpose. 6. The back testing covers the period from September 30, 2016 to September 30, 2017. 277 (C) CR10: IRB -Specialized Lending under the Slotting Criteria Approach and Equity Exposures under the Marketbased Approach etc. (Millions of yen, %) As of March 31, 2018 a b c d e f g h i j k l Specialized lending under slotting criteria approach Other than HVCRE OnOffExposure amount Regulatory Remaining balance balance Expected RW RWA categories maturity sheet sheet PF OF CF IPRE Total losses amount amount Less than 2.5 years ¥¥50% ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥Strong Equal to or more 24,919 70% 24,919 24,919 17,443 99 than 2.5 years Less than 2.5 years 70% Good Equal to or more 90% than 2.5 years Satisfactory 3,464 115% 3,464 3,464 3,984 97 Weak 11,108 250% 11,147 11,147 27,868 891 Default 3,081 9,312 9,312 4,656 Total 42,574 48,844 48,844 49,296 5,744 HVCRE OnOffRegulatory Remaining balance balance Exposure Expected RW RWA categories maturity sheet sheet amount losses amount amount Less than 2.5 years 2,698 700 70% 3,225 2,257 12 Strong Equal to or more 55,022 16,356 95% 67,290 63,925 269 than 2.5 years Less than 2.5 years 13 95% 13 13 0 Good Equal to or more 23,260 3,970 120% 26,250 31,500 105 than 2.5 years Satisfactory 140% Weak 250% Default Total 80,996 21,026 96,779 97,696 387 Equity exposures under the market-based approach etc. Equity exposures under the market-based approach OnOffbalance balance Exposure Categories RW RWA sheet sheet amount amount amount Exchangetraded 841,626 68,014 300% 909,640 2,728,922 equity exposures Private equity 58,551 1,510 400% 59,683 238,735 exposures Other equity exposures Total 900,177 69,524 969,324 2,967,658 Equity exposures to which a risk weight of 100% is applied Equity exposures to which a risk weight of 4,415 100% 4,415 4,415 100% is applied Notes:1. Counterparty credit risk exposures, securitization exposures, and regarded-method exposures are excluded from the amount of credit risk exposures above. 2. PF, OF, CF and IPRE respectively stand for project finance, object finance, commodity finance and income-producing real estate. (D) Credit RWA Exposures under Regarded-method (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 Ending balance ¥2,102,954 278 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (5) Credit Risk under Standardized Approach (i) Status of portfolios to which the standardized approach is applied Eligible external credit assessment institutions used for determining the risk weight for portfolios to which the standardized approach is applied are Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I) in Japan and S&P Global Ratings overseas. We apply a risk weight of 100% for all of our corporate exposure. (ii) Quantitative disclosure on credit risk under standardized approach (A) CR5: Standardized Approach Exposures by Asset Classes and Risk Weights (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 a b c d e f g h i j k Credit exposures amount (post CCF and post-CRM) Risk weight 0% 10% 20% 35% 50% 75% 100% 150% 250% 1,250% Total Asset classes 1 Cash ¥10,169 ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥10,169 2 Japanese sovereigns and Bank of Japan 12,698,108 12,698,108 3 Foreign central sovereigns and central 75,651 34,791 64,684 75,963 251,091 banks 4 Bank for International Settlements,etc. 5 Japanese non-central governmental PSEs 1,089 1,089 6 Non-central governmental PSEs other 7,731 38 16 7,786 than foreign central sovereigns, etc. 7 International development banks 2,983 2,983 8 Japan Finance Organization for 36,192 36,192 Municipalities 9 Japanese government institutions 523,138 523,138 10 Three regional public sectors of Japan 11 Financial institutions and business 703,187 19,773 48,083 771,044 operators conducting the type I financial instruments business 12 Corporates, etc. 1,484,951 1,484,951 13 Regulatory retail portfolios and individuals 14 Mortgage housing loan 15 Real estate acquisition business, etc. 16 Claims past due for 3 months or more 60 12 27 100 (excluding mortgage housing loan) 17 Claims past due for 3 months or more regarding mortgage housing loan 18 Bills in process of collection 19 With guarantee of Credit Guarantee Corporations, etc. 20 With guarantee of Regional Economy Vitalization Corporation of Japan 21 Investments, etc.(excluding significant investments) 22 Total ¥12,788,002 ¥559,331 ¥745,710 ¥¥84,557 ¥¥1,609,027 ¥27 ¥¥¥15,786,656 Note: Counterparty credit risk exposures, credit risk related to securitization transactions, and exposures which are underlaid with the plural number of assets and transactions are excluded from the amount of credit risk exposures above. (B) Exposures which are underlaid with the plural number of assets and transactions and cannot be judged the risk weights directly in the institutions that adopt the Standardized Approach (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 Ending balance 279 (6) Credit Risk Mitigation Techniques (i) Summary of Risk Profile, Risk Management Policies/ Procedures and Structure We obtain collateral and guarantees as a means of securing credit. In obtaining the collateral and guarantees, we evaluate the value of the collateral, guarantee performance capability of guarantor and legal enforceability, and we also conduct periodical subsequent re-evaluations. Furthermore, we monitor any concentration of risks in a particular classification, keeping an eye on the concentration of collateral type and/or of credit risks in particular companies including indirect credit exposure such as guarantees. When calculating the credit risk weighted assets for capital adequacy ratio regulations, the effect of credit risk mitigation through financial collateral (mainly deposits and securities), other collateral (mainly real estate) and guarantees by sovereign, banks or corporations above a certain credit rating is reflected. (ii) Quantitative Disclosure on Credit Risk Mitigation Techniques Counterparty risk exposures, securitization exposures, and regarded-method exposures are excluded from the amount of credit risk exposures below. (A) CR3: Credit Risk Mitigation Techniques Overview (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 a b c d e Exposures secured Exposures secured Exposures Exposures secured by financial by credit unsecured Exposures secured by collateral guarantees derivatives 1 Loans ¥64,898,669 ¥12,780,637 ¥5,990,412 ¥6,784,828 ¥5,397 2 Debt securities 25,670,926 451,924 179,920 272,003 3 Other on balance debt assets 51,653,415 44,607 5,016 39,591 4 Total (1+2+3) ¥142,223,012 ¥13,277,170 ¥6,175,349 ¥7,096,423 ¥5,397 5 Of which defaulted 461,445 192,214 135,384 56,830 Notes: 1. Other on-balance debt assets include deposits, call loans, bills purchased, monetary claims bought, money held in trust, and foreign exchange assets, etc. 2. Defaulted exposures include restructured loans, loans past due for three months or more, loans to bankrupt borrowers and so on. (B) CR4: Standardized Approach Credit Risk Exposure and Credit Risk Mitigation (CRM) Effects (Millions of yen, except percentages) As of March 31, 2018 a b c d e f Exposures before CCF and Exposures post-CCF and CRM CRM On-balance Off-balance On-balance Off-balance RWA Asset classes sheet amount sheet amount sheet amount sheet amount RWA density 1 Cash ¥10,169 ¥¥10,169 ¥¥0.00 2 Japanese sovereigns and Bank of Japan 12,698,108 12,698,108 0.00 3 Foreign central sovereigns and central banks 251,091 251,091 115,264 45.90 4 Bank for International Settlements,etc. 5 Japanese non-central governmental PSEs 1,089 1,089 0.00 Non-central governmental PSEs other 6 7,786 7,786 1,581 20.31 than foreign central sovereigns, etc. 7 International development banks 2,983 2,983 0.00 8 Japan Finance Organization For Municipalities 36,192 36,192 100 0.27 9 Japanese government institutions 523,138 523,138 19,531 3.73 10 Three regional public sectors of Japan Financial institutions and business operators 11 770,920 774 770,657 387 198,607 25.75 conducting the type I financial instruments business 12 Corporates, etc. 1,282,944 261,731 1,282,944 202,006 1,484,893 99.99 13 Regulatory retail portfolios and individuals 14 Mortgage housing loan 15 Real estate acquisition business, etc. Claims past due for 3 months or more 16 100 100 83 83.26 (excluding mortgage housing loan) Claims past due for 3 months or more 17 regarding mortgage housing loan 18 Bills in process of collection With guarantee of Credit Guarantee 19 Corporation, etc. With guarantee of Regional Economy 20 Vitalization Corporation of Japan Investments, etc.(excluding significant 21 investments) 22 Total ¥15,584,525 ¥262,506 ¥15,584,262 ¥202,393 ¥1,820,063 11.52 280 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (C) CR7: IRB Effect on RWA of Credit Derivatives Used as CRM Techniques (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 a b Pre-credit Portfolios derivatives RWA Actual RWA 1 Sovereign FIRB ¥¥2 Sovereign AIRB 577,518 577,518 3 Banks FIRB 4 Banks AIRB 930,901 930,901 5 Corporate (except Specialized lending) FIRB 6 Corporate (except Specialized lending) AIRB 22,718,567 22,715,534 7 Specialized lending FIRB 8 Specialized lending AIRB 1,796,490 1,796,490 9 Retail qualifying revolving retail exposures (QRRE) 483,995 483,995 10 Retail residential mortgage exposures 2,366,178 2,366,178 11 Other retail exposures 751,460 751,460 12 Equity FIRB 13 Equity AIRB 4,640,872 4,640,872 14 Purchased receivables FIRB 15 Purchased receivables AIRB 1,167,296 1,167,296 16 Total ¥35,433,279 ¥35,430,246 ■ Counterparty Credit Risk (1) Summary of Risk Profile, Risk Management Policies/ Procedures and Structure In managing the risk pertaining to counterparty credit risk (including central counterparty) in derivatives transactions and repurchase transactions etc., we generally allocate risk capital together with loans, etc., (we take into account wrong way risk for derivatives transactions). For derivatives transactions and repurchase transactions, in cases in which a bilateral netting agreement is valid in light of the legal system of the relevant jurisdiction, we take its effect into consideration. As to derivatives transactions with financial institutions, etc., we periodically, where necessary, deliver and receive collateral to and from the counterparty based on the replacement cost to mitigate credit risk (collateralized derivatives transactions). In conducting such transactions, there is a risk in which we may be required to provide additional collateral in cases where our credit profile deteriorates. (2) Quantitative Disclosure on Counterparty Credit Risk (A) CCR1: Analysis of Counterparty Credit risk (CCR) Exposure by Approach (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 a b c d e f Alpha used for Potential computing Replacement future regulatory EAD cost exposure EEPE EAD post-CRM RWA 1 SA-CCR ¥¥/ 1.4 ¥¥Current Exposure Method 323,382 230,084 / / 535,507 216,424 2 Internal Model Method / / ¥1,944,443 1.4 2,722,221 887,843 Simple Approach for credit risk 3 / / / / 763,521 39,710 mitigation Comprehensive Approach for credit 4 / / / / 10,332,329 654,325 risk mitigation 5 VAR for SFTs / / / / 6 Total / / / / / ¥1,798,303 (B) CCR2: Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA) Capital Charge (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 a b EAD post-CRM RWA 1 Total portfolios subject to the Advanced CVA capital charge ¥¥2 (i) VAR component (including the 3×multiplier) / 3 (ii) Stressed VAR component (including the 3×multiplier) / 4 All portfolios subject to the Standardized CVA capital charge 3,552,645 2,539,780 5 Total subject to the CVA capital charge ¥3,552,645 ¥2,539,780 281 (C) CCR3: Standardized Approach CCR Exposures by Regulatory Portfolio and Risk Weights (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 a b c d e f g h i Credit exposures amount (post CCF and post-CRM) Risk weight 0% 10% 20% 50% 75% 100% 150% Other Total Regulatory portfolio 1 Japanese sovereigns and Bank of Japan ¥742,381 ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥742,381 2 Foreign central sovereigns and central banks 4,065 3,934 361 289 8,650 3 Bank for International Settlements,etc. 4 Japanese non-central governmental PSEs Non-central governmental PSEs other than 5 6,843 1,504 12 8,361 foreign central sovereigns, etc. 6 International development banks 15,357 15,357 7 Japan Finance Organization for Municipalities 8 Japanese government institutions 1,076 1,076 9 Three regional public sectors of Japan Financial institutions and business operators 10 665,336 13,269 41,948 720,554 conducting the type I financial instruments business 11 Corporates, etc. 679,087 679,087 12 Regulatory retail portfolios and individuals 13 Other assets 14 Total ¥761,805 ¥1,076 ¥676,114 ¥15,135 ¥¥721,337 ¥¥¥2,175,469 (D) CCR4: IRB CCR Exposures by Portfolio and PD Scale (Millions of yen, %, number in the thousands,year) As of March 31, 2018 a b c d e f g EAD Average Number of Average Average RWA density PD scale post-CRM PD (%) counterparty LGD (%) maturity RWA (%) Sovereign 1 0.00 to <0.15 ¥9,213,266 0.00 0.0 37.97 4.5 ¥40,100 0.43 2 0.15 to <0.25 3 0.25 to <0.50 419 0.27 0.0 37.97 2.3 180 42.94 4 0.50 to <0.75 682 0.50 0.0 37.97 3.0 440 64.52 5 0.75 to <2.50 2,944 1.28 0.0 37.97 4.9 3,291 111.77 6 2.50 to <10.00 84 6.34 0.0 37.97 1.6 108 129.20 7 10.00 to <100.00 8 100.00 (Default) 9 Sub-total 9,217,397 0.00 0.0 37.97 4.5 44,120 0.47 Banks 1 0.00 to <0.15 1,121,064 0.06 0.3 37.97 2.0 239,768 21.38 2 0.15 to <0.25 3 0.25 to <0.50 26,824 0.27 0.0 37.97 1.0 11,354 42.32 4 0.50 to <0.75 3,623 0.50 0.0 37.97 4.0 3,472 95.81 5 0.75 to <2.50 130 1.11 0.0 35.50 1.1 78 59.96 6 2.50 to <10.00 1,506 3.13 0.0 37.97 0.9 1,431 95.04 7 10.00 to <100.00 8 100.00 (Default) 9 Sub-total 1,153,150 0.07 0.4 37.96 2.0 256,105 22.20 Corporate 1 0.00 to <0.15 1,276,093 0.07 2.3 37.87 3.3 338,813 26.55 2 0.15 to <0.25 3 0.25 to <0.50 71,739 0.27 1.3 34.64 2.8 31,462 43.85 4 0.50 to <0.75 45,443 0.50 0.9 34.76 2.4 24,117 53.07 5 0.75 to <2.50 41,705 1.23 1.3 34.66 2.8 32,929 78.95 6 2.50 to <10.00 22,779 3.58 0.4 33.64 2.2 22,050 96.80 7 10.00 to <100.00 2,328 15.16 0.1 30.64 2.2 3,445 147.92 8 100.00 (Default) 1,301 100.00 0.1 51.99 2.5 446 34.31 9 Sub-total ¥1,461,390 0.30 6.6 37.45 3.2 ¥453,264 31.01 282 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy CCR4-(Continued) (Millions of yen, %, number in the thousands,year) As of March 31, 2018 a b c d e f g EAD Average Number of Average Average RWA density PD scale post-CRM PD (%) counterparty LGD (%) maturity RWA (%) SME 1 0.00 to <0.15 ¥147 0.07 0.0 14.18 2.7 ¥12 8.33 2 0.15 to <0.25 3 0.25 to <0.50 7,928 0.27 0.5 21.80 3.2 1,954 24.64 4 0.50 to <0.75 5,688 0.50 0.5 22.58 3.3 1,892 33.27 5 0.75 to <2.50 6,843 1.16 0.9 23.24 3.2 3,136 45.82 6 2.50 to <10.00 4,172 3.16 0.2 23.43 3.8 2,612 62.61 7 10.00 to <100.00 999 15.16 0.0 22.64 3.0 984 98.44 8 100.00 (Default) 559 100.00 0.0 40.35 3.5 126 22.51 9 Sub-total 26,340 3.69 2.5 22.98 3.3 10,718 40.69 Specialized Lending 1 0.00 to <0.15 209,425 0.10 0.1 40.14 4.5 84,829 40.50 2 0.15 to <0.25 3 0.25 to <0.50 36,813 0.27 0.0 38.75 4.6 23,601 64.11 4 0.50 to <0.75 30,159 0.50 0.0 37.97 4.3 23,135 76.70 5 0.75 to <2.50 34,864 0.96 0.0 37.97 4.1 32,817 94.12 6 2.50 to <10.00 2,966 3.60 0.0 37.97 4.0 3,861 130.20 7 10.00 to <100.00 1,194 15.16 0.0 37.97 3.4 2,348 196.71 8 100.00 (Default) 2,768 100.00 0.0 55.90 4.9 1,540 55.66 9 Sub-total 318,190 1.21 0.3 39.64 4.5 172,134 54.09 Purchased receivables 1 0.00 to <0.15 2 0.15 to <0.25 3 0.25 to <0.50 4 0.50 to <0.75 5 0.75 to <2.50 6 2.50 to <10.00 7 10.00 to <100.00 8 100.00 (Default) 9 Sub-total Retails 1 0.00 to <0.15 / 2 0.15 to <0.25 / 3 0.25 to <0.50 / 4 0.50 to <0.75 / 5 0.75 to <2.50 834 1.95 0.8 28.77 / 307 36.86 6 2.50 to <10.00 13 4.03 0.0 4.41 / 0 6.37 7 10.00 to <100.00 35 13.39 0.0 21.68 / 14 40.29 8 100.00 (Default) 3 100.00 0.0 36.77 / 1 40.68 9 Sub-total 886 2.83 0.9 28.16 / 323 36.55 Total (all portfolios) ¥12,177,355 0.08 10.9 37.91 4.1 ¥936,667 7.69 (E) CCR5: Composition of Collateral for CCR Exposure (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 a b c d e f Collateral used in derivative transactions Collateral used in SFTs Fair value of collateral received Fair value of posted collateral Fair value of Fair value of collateral posted Segregated Unsegregated Segregated Unsegregated received collateral 1 Cash – domestic currency ¥3,458 ¥481,886 ¥5,310 ¥803,536 ¥1,695,567 ¥2,996,441 2 Cash – other currencies 343,180 385,532 257,532 536,166 16,529,816 9,267,379 3 Domestic sovereign debt 27,877 303,956 122,227 265,290 1,951,674 2,364,378 4 Other sovereign debt 48,205 69,742 253,988 184,402 7,744,419 13,853,163 5 Government agency debt 1,234 481 620,455 1,070,112 6 Corporate bonds 55 49,094 21 3,141 493,226 603,156 7 Equity securities 254,472 128,584 1,904,428 1,413,438 8 Other collateral 7,806 4,944 4,464 394,305 9 Total ¥424,012 ¥1,552,490 ¥639,562 ¥1,926,066 ¥30,944,054 ¥31,962,377 283 (F) CCR6: Credit Derivatives Exposures (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 a b Protection bought Protection sold Notionals 1 Single-name credit default swaps ¥1,120,511 ¥1,142,042 2 Index credit default swaps 178,477 159,997 3 Total return swaps 4 Credit options 5 Other credit derivatives 6 Total notionals ¥1,298,988 ¥1,302,040 Fair values 7 Positive fair value (asset) 2,480 20,313 8 Negative fair value (liability) (18,489) (868) (G) CCR8: Exposures to Central Counterparties (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 a b EAD (post-CRM) RWA 1 Exposures to QCCPs (total) / ¥193,088 Exposures for trades at QCCPs (excluding initial margin and default fund 2 ¥676,795 ¥3,053 contributions); of which 3 (i) OTC derivatives 438,891 425 4 (ii) Exchange-traded derivatives 115,828 2,035 5 (iii) Securities financing transactions 122,076 593 6 (iv) Netting sets where cross-product netting has been approved 7 Segregated initial margin 95,392 / 8 Non-segregated initial margin 531,371 10,967 9 Pre-funded default fund contributions 332,443 162,394 10 Unfunded default fund contributions 34,112 16,672 11 Exposures to non-QCCPs (total) / Exposures for trades at non-QCCPs (excluding initial margin and default 12 fund contributions); of which 13 (i) OTC derivatives 14 (ii) Exchange-traded derivatives 15 (iii) Securities financing transactions 16 (iv) Netting sets where cross-product netting has been approved 17 Segregated initial margin / 18 Non-segregated initial margin 19 Pre-funded default fund contributions 20 Unfunded default fund contributions 284 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ■ Securitization Exposures We classify transactions as securitization exposures based on two characteristics, “non-recourse” and “senior/subordinated structure,” pursuant to the definitions set forth in the FSA Notice No.20, etc.; provided that the transactions do not include those which fall within specialized lending exposure. (1) Summary of Risk Management Regarding Securitization Exposures Our role in securitization transactions We are associated with securitization transactions from various purposes and positions through our banking book and trading book. (a) Securitization of our assets (“Securitization as originator”) For the purposes of mitigating credit risk and credit concentration risk, controlling economic capital and responding to the needs of our investors, etc., we engage in securitization transactions, the underlying assets of which include mortgage loans and loans to our corporate customers. When conducting a securitization as an originator, we consider such transactions from various aspects, including the effects of reduction of economic capital and improvement of return on risk as well as the practical effects of risk transfers, and make a comprehensive judgment on the structure and appropriateness of such transactions. (b) Securitization program (ABCP/ABL) sponsor As a means of supporting our customers in the securitization of their account receivables and notes receivables, etc., we retain securitization exposure by providing asset-backed loans (ABLs, which are on-balance-sheet transactions), and providing asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP) backup lines (off-balance-sheet transactions), as sponsor to special purpose companies (in the form of Cayman Islands Corporations, etc.). In such cases, in addition to gaining firm understanding of the actual risk profile through due diligence from the viewpoint of investors, we assign internal ratings and make evaluations by assessing such transactions and carefully managing the exposure together with other direct loan assets. (c) Investment in alternative credit risk assets (“Securitization Transactions as an Investor”) We hold securitization products, such as ABS, CMBS, RMBS, and CDO, and resecuritization products, the underlying assets of which are mainly RMBS and CDO, etc., for the purpose of investing in alternative credit risk assets that are different from conventional credit risk assets in order to diversify our investment portfolio. The Risk Management Committee, etc. set limits on the amount of investment for Securitization Transactions as an Investor, and we maintain a stringent structure for management of such transactions. In addition, we implement stress tests based on scenarios under the market liquidity depletion and sharp price declines. In addition, we undertake various securitization program arrangements such as ABL, ABCP and trust schemes, etc., as a means of financing for our customers. We endeavor to understand the actual risk profile, including the underlying assets, and to appropriately disclose the risks and terms of the program to the customers who invest in the product. Furthermore, we actively act as servicer for securitization transactions, offer settlement account facilities (servicer cash advance) and provide interest rate swaps to securitization conduits. None of our affiliated entities hold securitization products in which we are involved as originators or sponsors. The securitization conduits included within the scope of consolidation are as follows: ROCK FIELD CORPORATION, FANTASTIC FUNDING CORPORATION, ARTEMIS FUNDING CORPORATION, N&M FUNDING CORPORATION, Denshi Saiken Kaitori Godo Kaisha, JAPAN SECURITIZATION CORPORATION, Allstar Funding Co., Ltd, SPARCS FUNDING CORPORATION, PERPETUAL FUNDING CORPORATION, Working Capital Management Co. L.P., ALWAYS CAPITAL CORPORATION, HORIZON CAPITAL CORPORATION There are no securitization conduits that provide credit enhancement beyond what is provided in agreements. Overview of risk profile of securitization transactions and monitoring system In addition to price fluctuation and market liquidity risks, securitization and resecuritization products are exposed to risks related to default, recovery and granularity of underlying asset portfolio. The structure of these products also contains risks related to the originators, the administrators, trustees and managers of the underlying assets. To address these risks, we also analyze the structure in terms of the underlying assets and credit events. We monitor the ability, quality and operating performance of originators and managers in charge of controlling the underlying assets as well as covenant information and credit status of the parties related to the program. In addition, for resecuritization products, we pay attention to the underlying assets of the underlying securitization products. We also assign internal ratings to all products and review the rating at least once a year. If there is a change in the credit situations, we will review the internal rating as appropriate. As mentioned above, we have established a system to comprehensively understand the risk characteristics of securitization exposures and manage these exposures. We conduct credit risk measurements on all credit transactions, including securitization transactions. Furthermore, we carry out periodic monitoring on investment amount and performance on securitization transactions and report the situations to our Risk Management Committee, etc. 285 Response to Basel Framework In calculating credit risk-weighted assets of securitization exposure under the internal ratings-based approach, we apply the ratings-based approach (“RBA”) if the asset has a rating obtained from eligible external credit assessment institutions and apply the supervisory formula approach (“SF”) in other cases pursuant to the FSA Notice No. 20. We apply a risk weight of 1,250% under Basel III when neither RBA nor SF can be applied. In addition, in calculating credit risk-weighted assets of securitization exposure under the standardized approach, we calculate based on risk weight according to ratings by eligible external credit assessment institutions and weighted average risk weight of underlying assets. In terms of securitization exposure in our trading book that is subject to market risk regulations, we adopt the standardized measurement method and calculate market risk equivalent amounts in connection with the specific risks of securitization products based on risk weights according to ratings assigned by eligible external credit assessment institutions pursuant to the FSA Notice No. 20. As for the eligible external credit assessment institutions, we refer to Rating and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I), Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. (JCR), Moody's Investors Service Inc. (Moody's), Standard & Poor's (S&P) and Fitch Ratings, Ltd. in determining securitization exposure risk weight. (2) Accounting Policies for Securitization Transactions The point at which financial assets and liabilities relating to securitization transactions begin or cease to be recognized, their evaluation and accounting treatment are pursuant to Accounting Standards Relating to Financial Products (Business Accounting Standards No. 10). (3) Quantitative Disclosure on Securitization Exposures (A) SEC1: Securitization Exposures in the Banking Book by Type of Underlying Assets (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 a b c d e f g h i Bank acts as originator Bank acts as sponsor Banks acts as investor type of underlying assets Traditional Synthetic Sub-total Traditional Synthetic Sub-total Traditional Synthetic Sub-total 1 Retail (total) of which ¥0 ¥¥0 ¥882,415 ¥¥882,415 ¥1,745,598 ¥¥1,745,598 2 residential mortgage 0 0 842,644 842,644 3 credit card 219,986 219,986 93,976 93,976 4 other retail exposures 662,429 662,429 808,977 808,977 5 re-securitization 6 Wholesale (total) of which 422,098 422,098 219,123 219,123 913,169 913,169 7 loans to corporates 422,098 422,098 398,149 398,149 8 commercial mortgage 210 210 9 lease and receivables 219,123 219,123 414,345 414,345 10 other wholesale 100,463 100,463 11 re-securitization (B) SEC2: Securitization Exposures in the Trading Book by Type of Underlying Assets (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 a b c d e f g h i Bank acts as originator Bank acts as sponsor Banks acts as investor type of underlying assets Traditional Synthetic Sub-total Traditional Synthetic Sub-total Traditional Synthetic Sub-total 1 Retail (total) of which ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥11,560 ¥¥11,560 2 residential mortgage 4,287 4,287 3 credit card 2,956 2,956 4 other retail exposures 4,316 4,316 5 re-securitization 0 0 6 Wholesale (total) of which 11,541 11,541 7 loans to corporates 11,240 11,240 8 commercial mortgage 9 lease and receivables 301 301 10 other wholesale 11 re-securitization 286 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (C) SEC3: Securitization Exposures in the Banking Book and Associated Regulatory Capital Requirements Bank Acting as Originator or as Sponsor (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 a b c d e f g h Of which Of which Total Traditional Of which retail Of which reOf which Of which exposures securitization securitization underlying wholesale securitization senior non-senior Exposure values (by RW bands) 1 ≤20% RW ¥1,478,354 ¥1,075,137 ¥1,075,137 ¥859,674 ¥215,463 ¥¥¥2 >20% to 50% RW 25,515 25,515 25,515 22,741 2,773 3 >50% to 100% RW 886 886 886 886 4 >100% to <1250% RW 18,201 5 1250% RW 680 Exposure values (by regulatory approach) 6 IRB RBA (including IAA) 136,048 136,048 136,048 117,049 18,999 7 IRB SFA 1,386,908 965,490 965,490 765,366 200,124 8 SA/SSFA 9 1250% 680 RWA (by regulatory approach) 10 IRB RBA (including IAA) 11,093 11,093 11,093 9,722 1,370 11 IRB SFA 110,473 77,763 77,763 58,417 19,345 12 SA/SSFA 13 1250% 8,500 Capital charge after cap 14 IRB RBA (including IAA) 940 940 940 824 116 15 IRB SFA 9,368 6,594 6,594 4,953 1,640 16 SA/SSFA 17 1250% 720 As of March 31, 2018 i j k l m n o Of which Of which Synthetic Of which retail Of which reOf which Of which securitization securitization underlying wholesale securitization senior non-senior Exposure values (by RW bands) 1 ≤20% RW ¥403,216 ¥403,216 ¥¥403,216 ¥¥¥2 >20% to 50% RW 3 >50% to 100% RW 4 >100% to <1250% RW 18,201 18,201 18,201 5 1250% RW 680 680 680 Exposure values (by regulatory approach) 6 IRB RBA (including IAA) 7 IRB SFA 421,418 421,418 421,418 8 SA/SSFA 9 1250% 680 680 680 RWA (by regulatory approach) 10 IRB RBA (including IAA) 11 IRB SFA 32,710 32,710 32,710 12 SA/SSFA 13 1250% 8,500 8,500 8,500 Capital charge after cap 14 IRB RBA (including IAA) 15 IRB SFA 2,773 2,773 2,773 16 SA/SSFA 17 1250% 720 720 720 287 (D) SEC4: Securitization Exposures in the Banking Book and Associated Regulatory Capital Requirements Bank Acting as Investor (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 a b c d e f g h Of which Of which Total Traditional Of which retail Of which reOf which Of which exposures securitization securitization underlying wholesale securitization senior non-senior Exposure values (by RW bands) 1 ≤20% RW ¥2,535,058 ¥2,535,058 ¥2,535,058 ¥1,677,283 ¥857,775 ¥¥¥2 >20% to 50% RW 107,393 107,393 107,393 68,315 39,078 3 >50% to 100% RW 7,415 7,415 7,415 7,415 4 >100% to <1250% RW 8,678 8,678 8,678 8,678 5 1250% RW 220 220 220 0 220 Exposure values (by regulatory approach) 6 IRB RBA (including IAA) 1,381,546 1,381,546 1,381,546 929,913 451,633 7 IRB SFA 1,264,262 1,264,262 1,264,262 815,585 448,677 8 SA/SSFA 12,737 12,737 12,737 100 12,637 9 1250% 220 220 220 0 220 RWA (by regulatory approach) 10 IRB RBA (including IAA) 99,457 99,457 99,457 67,768 31,689 11 IRB SFA 121,018 121,018 121,018 69,257 51,761 12 SA/SSFA 25,711 25,711 25,711 20 25,691 13 1250% 2,761 2,761 2,761 0 2,761 Capital charge after cap 14 IRB RBA (including IAA) 8,433 8,433 8,433 5,746 2,687 15 IRB SFA 10,262 10,262 10,262 5,873 4,389 16 SA/SSFA 2,056 2,056 2,056 1 2,055 17 1250% 220 220 220 0 220 As of March 31, 2018 i j k l m n o Of which Of which Synthetic Of which retail Of which reOf which Of which securitization securitization underlying wholesale securitization senior non-senior Exposure values (by RW bands) 1 ≤20% RW ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥2 >20% to 50% RW 3 >50% to 100% RW 4 >100% to <1250% RW 5 1250% RW Exposure values (by regulatory approach) 6 IRB RBA (including IAA) 7 IRB SFA 8 SA/SSFA 9 1250% RWA (by regulatory approach) 10 IRB RBA (including IAA) 11 IRB SFA 12 SA/SSFA 13 1250% Capital charge after cap 14 IRB RBA (including IAA) 15 IRB SFA 16 SA/SSFA 17 1250% 288 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ■ Market Risk See pages 117 to 119 for information regarding our market risk management structure, etc. (1) Trading Activities In the calculation of the market risk equivalent amounts under the regulatory capital requirements, the risk arising from fluctuations in common factors across the market as a whole (e.g. foreign exchange and interest rates, etc.) is referred to as general market risk, and the risk arising from a deterioration in creditworthiness or market liquidity inherent in bonds and stocks is referred to as specific risk. In principle, we calculate market risk equivalent amounts by determining both general market risk and specific risk by applying the Internal Models Approach (IMA) to the former and the standardized approach to the latter, and by simply adding up both amounts. The Internal Models Approach is applied to trading transactions and calculated by adding up VAR and stressed VAR. (A) MR1：Market risk under standardized approach (Millions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 RWA No. (Risk equivalent / 8%) 1 Interest rate risk (general and specific) ¥405,247 2 Equity risk (general and specific) 652,526 3 Foreign exchange risk 81,926 4 Commodity risk 167,631 Options 5 Simplified approach 6 Delta-plus method 24,628 7 Scenario approach 8 Securitization 74,438 9 Total ¥1,406,398 (B) MR3：IMA values for trading portfolios (Millions of yen) No. As of March 31, 2018 VAR (10 day 99%) 1 Maximum value ¥13,059 2 Average value 7,496 3 Minimum value 4,978 4 Period end 7,120 Stressed VAR (10 day 99%) 5 Maximum value 27,270 6 Average value 18,882 7 Minimum value 13,131 8 Period end 17,093 Incremental Risk Charge (99.9%) 9 Maximum value 10 Average value 11 Minimum value 12 Period end Comprehensive Risk Capital Charge (99.9％) 13 Maximum value 14 Average value 15 Minimum value 16 Period end 17 Floor (standardized measurement method) Notes: 1. The historical simulation method is used for the calculation of VAR and stressed VAR under the Internal Models Approach. 2. VAR is measured based on the observation period of 3 years (801 business days), a 99% confidence interval and a 1-day holding period. This 1-day VAR is scaled up to 10business day VAR using the square-root-of-time (√T) rule. We update historical data on a daily basis, in principle, and do not weight such data. When re-pricing instruments, we use the full revaluation method, a sensitivity-based approach and the like. We consider change width or rate as market volatility of risk factors according to product attributes. 3. When measuring stressed VAR, the same measurement approach as VAR is used except for the observation period of 1 year (265 business days). As a stressed period, we select a period which has an adequate length of time and is considered the most stressful under a certain set of criteria established based on the most recent portfolio. 4. When applying the internal model, we regularly verify the preconditions used for VAR measurement. 289 (C) MR4：Back testing results of IMA Note: The above graphs show the results of backtesting performed for the most recent 250 business days including the reporting reference date. (2) Banking Activities To comply with Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book (IRRBB) requirements, we are required to calculate expected changes in the economic value of equity (ΔEVE) arising from banking activities and expected changes in net interest income (ΔNII) from the reference date until the date no later than 12 months from the reference date under interest rate shock scenarios (i.e. parallel up and downwards shifts in the yield curve and the like). (D) IRRBB1：Interest rate risk (Millions of yen) a b c d ΔEVE ΔNII As of March As of March As of March As of March No. 31, 2018 31, 2017 31, 2018 31, 2017 1 Parallel up ¥895,416 / ¥(274,475) / 2 Parallel down 0 / 370,566 / 3 Steepener 436,819 / / / 4 Flattener 90,789 / / / 5 Short rate up 321,141 / / / 6 Short rate down 69,824 / / / 7 Maximum 895,416 / 370,566 / e f As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2017 8 Tier1 capital ¥9,192,244 / Notes: 1. Decreased economic values and interest income are shown as positive values. 2. As for some of those current deposits and ordinary deposits whose interest rates are not changed at predetermined intervals and from which depositors can withdraw money as desired on demand, we measure the interest rate risk associated with such deposits by applying an appropriate method after recognizing them as core deposits. The average repricing maturities are 0.9 years for yen deposits and 0.1 years for dollar deposits respectively. The longest repricing maturities are 10.0 years for yen deposits and 5.0 years for dollar deposits respectively. We measure interest rate risk associated with term deposits and loans in an appropriate manner by estimating their early redemption rates based on their historical prepayment and cancellation data. 3. When aggregating the respective ΔEVE of multiple currencies, we use the internal model that estimates the correlations between the key currencies based on historical data. When aggregating the respective ΔNII of multiple currencies, we simply add their respective ΔNII. 4. For the calculation of ΔEVE and ΔNII, we set an appropriate interest rate and spread according to a certain discount rate and reference rate. 5. When making the calculations above, we use regulatory defined preconditions including an interest rate shock scenario. 290 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ■ Investment or Equity Exposure (1) Summary of Risk Profile, Risk Management Policies/ Procedures and Structure With regard to equities, we manage default risk through our credit risk management structure and price fluctuation risk through our market risk management structure. With regard to subsidiaries and related companies in which we invest, we manage their risks on a consolidated basis, and manage them appropriately in accordance with their management classification. In addition, securities, a part of equity exposure, are valued as follows: Japanese stocks with quoted market prices are valued based on the average quoted market price over the month preceding the consolidated balance sheet date; other securities which have readily determinable fair values are valued at the quoted market price if available, or otherwise based on their reasonable value at the consolidated balance sheet date (cost of securities sold is calculated primarily by the moving average method); and other securities the fair values of which are extremely difficult to determine are stated at acquisition cost or amortized cost and determined by the moving average method. ■ Operational risk (1) Summary of Operational Risk Management and Procedures See pages 121 to 124 for a summary of our operational risk management policies, etc. (2) Approach Used for the Measurement of Operational Risk Equivalent We use the advanced measurement approach for the calculation of operational risk equivalent. See pages 122 to 124 for the outline and the scope of application of the advanced measurement approach. In the measurement of operational risk equivalent, we do not recognize the risk mitigating impact of insurance. 291 ■Composition of Leverage Ratio (Millions of yen) Correspon Correspon ding line # ding line # on Basel on Basel As of March 31, As of March 31, III III Item 2018 2017 disclosure disclosure template template (Table 2) (Table 1) On-balance sheet exposures (1) On-balance sheet exposures before deducting adjustment 1 ¥178,888,103 ¥174,146,451 items 1a 1 Total assets reported in the consolidated balance sheet 205,028,300 200,508,610 The amount of assets of subsidiaries that are not included in 1b 2 the scope of the leverage ratio on a consolidated basis (-) The amount of assets of subsidiaries that are included in the scope of the leverage ratio on a consolidated basis (except 1c 7 those included in the total assets reported in the consolidated balance sheet) The amount of assets that are deducted from the total assets 1d 3 reported in the consolidated balance sheet (except 26,140,197 26,362,159 adjustment items) (-) 2 7 The amount of adjustment items pertaining to Tier1 capital (-) 1,685,871 1,296,500 3 Total on-balance sheet exposures (a) ¥177,202,231 ¥172,849,950 Exposures related to derivative transactions (2) Replacement cost associated with derivatives transactions, 4 2,655,175 2,454,674 etc. 5 Add-on amount associated with derivatives transactions, etc. 6,524,621 5,615,193 The amount of receivables arising from providing cash margin 858,877 1,038,620 in relation to derivatives transactions, etc. The amount of receivables arising from providing cash 6 margin, provided where deducted from the consolidated 263,112 204,188 balance sheet pursuant to the operative accounting framework The amount of deductions of receivables (out of those arising 7 from providing cash variation margin) (-) The amount of client-cleared trade exposures for which a 8 bank holding company acting as a clearing member is not / / obliged to make any indemnification (-) 9 Adjusted effective notional amount of written credit derivatives 1,319,146 1,882,691 The amount of deductions from effective notional amount of 10 1,207,805 1,705,729 written credit derivatives (-) 11 4 Total exposures related to derivative transactions (b) ¥10,413,128 ¥9,489,638 Exposures related to repo transactions (3) 12 The amount of assets related to repo transactions, etc 12,431,400 12,317,829 13 The amount of deductions from the assets above (line 12) (-) 4,196,150 5,179,456 The exposures for counterparty credit risk for repo 14 521,728 385,734 transactions, etc 15 The exposures for agent repo transactions / / 16 5 Total exposures related to repo transactions, etc. (c) ¥8,756,979 ¥7,524,107 Exposures related to off-balance sheet transactions (4) 17 Notional amount of off-balance sheet transactions 50,668,428 49,117,932 The amount of adjustments for conversion in relation to off18 32,762,942 31,579,950 balance sheet transactions (-) 19 6 Total exposures related to off-balance sheet transactions (d) ¥17,905,485 ¥17,537,982 Leverage ratio on a consolidated basis (5) 20 The amount of capital (Tier1 capital) (e) 9,192,244 8,211,522 21 8 Total exposures ((a)+(b)+(c)+(d)) (f) ¥214,277,824 ¥207,401,679 22 Leverage ratio on a consolidated basis ((e)/(f)) 4.28% 3.95% 292 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ■Indicators for Assessing Global Systemically Important Banks (G-SIBs) (Billions of yen) Item As of March 31, As of March 31, Description No. 2018 2017 1 Total exposures (= a + b + c + d): ¥215,963.6 ¥208,698.1 a. On-balance sheet assets (other than assets specifically identified below b., c. and contra-account of guarantees) b. Sum of counterparty exposure of derivatives contracts, capped notional amount of written credit derivatives and potential future exposure of derivatives contracts c. Adjusted gross value of securities financing transactions (SFTs) and counterparty exposure of SFTs d. Gross notional amount of off-balance sheet items (other than derivatives contracts and SFTs ) 2 Intra-financial system assets (= a + b + c + d): 12,910.4 12,248.4 a. Funds deposited with or lent to other financial institutions and undrawn committed lines extended to other financial institutions b. Holdings of securities issued by other financial institutions (Note 1) c. Net positive current exposure of SFTs with other financial institutions d. Over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives with other financial institutions that have a net positive fair value 3 Intra-financial system liabilities (=a + b + c): 22,558.2 20,482.5 a. Deposits due to, and loans and undrawn committed lines obtained from, other financial institutions b. Net negative current exposure of SFTs with other financial institutions c. OTC derivatives with other financial institutions that have a net negative fair value 4 Securities outstanding(Note 1) 24,854.2 24,386.5 5 Assets under custody 140,047.3 144,337.5 6 Notional amount of OTC derivatives 1,168,293.9 916,188.1 7 Held-for-trading(HFT) securities and available-for-sale(AFS) securities , 10,838.3 9,728.9 excluding HFT and AFS securities that meet the definition of Level 1 assets and Level 2 assets with haircuts (Note 2) 8 Level 3 assets (Note 3) 1,901.4 1,774.5 9 Cross-jurisdictional claims 45,183.0 44,852.9 10 Cross-jurisdictional liabilities 31,932.9 30,741.5 For the fiscal For the fiscal Item Description year ended year ended No. March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 11 Payments (settled through the BOJ-NET, the Japanese Banks' Payment ¥5,991,927.8 ¥5,820,573.6 Clearing Network and other similar settlement systems, excluding intragroup payments) 12 Underwritten transactions in debt and equity markets (Note 4) 16,938.1 14,159.9 Notes: 1. Securities refer to secured debt securities, senior unsecured debt securities, subordinated debt securities, commercial paper, certificate of deposits, and common equities. 2. Level 1 and Level 2 assets with haircuts are defined in the Basel III Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR). 3. The amount is calculated in accordance with the U.S.GAAP. 4. This refers to underwriting of securities defined in article 2 paragraph 8 item 6 of the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. 293 Disclosure of Information for the Fiscal Year Ended on March 31, 2017 According to the Relevant Old FSA Notice Among the information disclosed for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, according to the relevant Old FSA Notice, see the following for the items which are different from those disclosed according to the New FSA Notice. □ Risk-based Capital (1) Required Capital by Portfolio Classification (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 EAD Required capital Credit risk ¥207,375.9 ¥5,078.5 Internal ratings-based approach 189,852.0 4,600.4 Corporate (except specialized lending) 71,777.8 2,468.9 Corporate (specialized lending) 3,630.9 225.4 Sovereign 80,002.7 81.0 Bank 5,902.0 113.6 Retail 12,235.5 486.3 Residential mortgage 9,388.0 312.2 Qualifying revolving loan 629.2 48.8 Other retail 2,218.2 125.1 Equities 4,973.3 691.4 PD/LGD approach 4,180.1 485.4 Market-based approach (simple risk weight method) 793.1 205.9 Market-based approach (internal models approach) Regarded-method exposure 1,744.0 268.4 Purchase receivables 3,297.5 102.5 Securitizations 4,009.5 26.3 Others 2,278.3 136.3 Standardized approach 17,523.9 280.6 Sovereign 12,638.5 12.2 Bank 1,930.1 36.7 Corporate 2,354.5 177.3 Residential mortgage Securitizations 14.4 2.1 Others 586.1 52.0 CVA risk / 181.7 Central counterparty-related / 15.6 Market risk / 182.6 Standardized approach / 103.6 Interest rate risk / 39.0 Equities risk / 34.2 Foreign exchange risk / 6.9 Commodities risk / 23.4 Option transactions / Internal models approach / 78.9 Operational risk / 269.9 Advanced measurement approach / 223.4 Basic indicator approach / 46.5 Total required capital (consolidated) / ¥4,937.3 Note: EAD calculated using the standardized approach for credit risk represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs. 294 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy □ Credit Risk (2) Credit Risk Exposures, etc. The amounts associated with regarded-method exposures and securitization exposures are excluded. The outstanding balance is based on exposure at default. Status of Credit Risk Exposure (A) Breakdown by Geographical Area (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Loans, commitments and other non-derivative off-balance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Domestic ¥68,581.7 ¥19,414.3 ¥954.6 ¥38,424.0 ¥127,374.7 Overseas 37,218.6 10,014.2 1,635.9 7,854.8 56,723.7 Asia 8,907.9 2,145.6 472.7 1,865.2 13,391.6 Central and South America 2,978.7 56.3 85.1 456.3 3,576.6 North America 14,644.8 6,304.6 339.6 4,420.9 25,710.0 Eastern Europe 289.1 0.2 4.6 294.0 Western Europe 6,597.0 882.1 581.5 722.7 8,783.4 Other areas 3,800.9 625.3 156.5 384.9 4,967.7 Total ¥105,800.4 ¥29,428.5 ¥2,590.5 ¥46,278.8 ¥184,098.4 Exempt portion / / / / 17,509.4 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit riskweighted assets. 2. Exposure to non-Japanese residents is included in Overseas. 3. Others include cash, deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. (B) Breakdown by Industry (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Loans, commitments and other non-derivative off-balance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Manufacturing ¥20,272.4 ¥2,299.9 ¥424.1 ¥742.9 ¥23,739.5 Construction 1,349.2 215.0 7.6 70.6 1,642.4 Real estate 8,608.9 570.4 83.5 19.7 9,282.6 Service industries 5,018.6 397.7 77.4 68.0 5,561.9 Wholesale and retail 8,532.7 738.9 92.3 994.4 10,358.5 Finance and insurance 12,095.5 3,034.3 896.8 2,144.1 18,170.9 Individuals 11,071.5 0.8 9.4 11,081.8 Other industries 25,759.5 8,846.0 1,002.5 8,360.3 43,968.5 Japanese Government; Bank of Japan 13,091.8 13,325.9 5.1 33,868.8 60,291.8 Total ¥105,800.4 ¥29,428.5 ¥2,590.5 ¥46,278.8 ¥184,098.4 Exempt portion / / / / 17,509.4 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit riskweighted assets. 2. Others include cash, deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. (C) Breakdown by Residual Contractual Maturity (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Loans, commitments and other non-derivative off-balance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Less than one year ¥28,002.1 ¥7,317.2 ¥378.8 ¥5,819.6 ¥41,518.0 From one year to less than three years 18,999.1 7,689.9 980.2 676.6 28,346.1 From three years to less than five years 19,035.9 1,879.4 451.7 17.8 21,384.9 Five years or more 27,912.4 7,705.1 759.0 11.9 36,388.5 Other than above 11,850.6 4,836.7 20.5 39,752.7 56,460.7 Total ¥105,800.4 ¥29,428.5 ¥2,590.5 ¥46,278.8 ¥184,098.4 Exempt portion / / / / 17,509.4 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit riskweighted assets. 2. Others include cash, deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. 295 Status of Exposure Past Due Three Months or More or in Default (D) Breakdown by Geographical Area (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Loans, commitments and other non-derivative off-balance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Domestic ¥973.8 ¥90.6 ¥2.9 ¥10.5 ¥1,078.1 Overseas 244.6 2.9 7.8 3.3 258.8 Asia 54.2 0.0 1.8 1.1 57.2 Central and South America 98.5 0.0 2.8 0.0 101.3 North America 30.1 2.9 0.1 1.4 34.7 Eastern Europe 0.6 0.0 0.7 Western Europe 47.3 0.0 2.9 0.5 50.8 Other areas 13.7 0.0 0.1 13.9 Total ¥1,218.5 ¥93.6 ¥10.8 ¥13.9 ¥1,336.9 Exempt portion / / / / 3.6 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit riskweighted assets. 2. Exposure to non-Japanese residents is included in “Overseas.” 3. “Others” include deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. (E) Breakdown by Industry (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Loans, commitments and other non-derivative offbalance-sheet exposures Securities Derivatives Others Total Manufacturing ¥548.4 ¥87.5 ¥2.9 ¥4.8 ¥643.8 Construction 13.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 13.3 Real estate 59.0 0.3 0.1 0.2 59.6 Service industries 84.1 0.4 0.9 0.9 86.4 Wholesale and retail 176.1 2.2 0.3 4.1 182.8 Finance and insurance 11.1 2.6 0.0 1.8 15.6 Individuals 94.6 1.1 95.7 Other industries 231.8 0.3 6.4 0.7 239.4 Total ¥1,218.5 ¥93.6 ¥10.8 ¥13.9 ¥1,336.9 Exempt portion / / / / 3.6 Notes: 1. Exempt portion represents the amount before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs, calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for the purpose of calculating credit riskweighted assets. 2. “Others” include deposits, call loans, other debt purchased, money held in trust, foreign exchange assets, other assets, etc. Status of Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans The amounts associated with regarded-method exposure and securitization exposure are excluded. (F) Fiscal Year-end Balances of Reserves for Possible Losses on Loans and Changes during the Fiscal Year (after Partial Direct Write-offs) (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2017 General reserve for possible losses on loans Beginning balance ¥304.8 Increase during the fiscal year 344.7 Decrease during the fiscal year 304.8 Ending balance 344.7 Specific reserve for possible losses on loans Beginning balance 154.6 Increase during the fiscal year 164.4 Decrease during the fiscal year 154.6 Ending balance 164.4 Reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring Beginning balance 0.0 countries Increase during the fiscal year 0.0 Decrease during the fiscal year 0.0 Ending balance 0.0 Total Beginning balance ¥459.5 Increase during the fiscal year 509.1 Decrease during the fiscal year 459.5 Ending balance 509.1 Note: General reserve for possible losses on loans in the above table represents the amount recorded in our consolidated balance sheet, and the amounts associated with regardedmethod exposure and securitization exposure are not excluded. 296 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (G) Specific Reserve for Possible Losses on Loans by Geographical Area and Industry (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2016 Change Domestic ¥105.0 ¥96.2 ¥8.7 Manufacturing 36.4 27.2 9.2 Construction 0.8 3.1 (2.3) Real estate 1.9 2.3 (0.3) Service industries 12.6 11.5 1.1 Wholesale and retail 33.4 28.8 4.5 Finance and insurance 0.5 0.6 (0.0) Individuals 14.1 17.3 (3.2) Other industries 4.8 5.0 (0.1) Overseas 49.2 49.1 0.0 Exempt portion 10.1 9.3 0.8 Total ¥164.4 ¥154.6 ¥9.7 Note: Exempt portion represents the amount calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for purposes of calculating credit riskweighted assets. (H) Write-offs of Loans by Industry (Billions of yen) For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 Manufacturing ¥0.9 Construction 0.3 Real estate 0.2 Service industries 2.3 Wholesale and retail 3.1 Finance and insurance Individuals 4.4 Other industries 4.2 Exempt portion 0.1 Total ¥15.8 Notes: 1. The above table represents the breakdown of losses on write-offs of loans recorded in our consolidated statement of income after excluding the amounts associated with regarded-method exposure and securitization exposure. 2. Exempt portion represents the amount calculated using the standardized approach for business units and asset classes that are immaterial for purposes of calculating credit risk-weighted assets. 3. Other industries include overseas and non-Japanese resident portions. Status of Exposure to which the Standardized Approach is Applied (I) Exposure by Risk Weight Category after Applying Credit Risk Mitigation (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 On-balance sheet Off-balance sheet Total With external rating 0% ¥10,729.6 ¥1,522.4 ¥12,252.1 ¥50.0 10% 179.8 179.8 20% 1,337.2 511.1 1,848.4 63.5 Risk weight 35% 50% 42.4 55.8 98.3 22.0 100% 1,894.8 1,186.8 3,081.6 122.9 150% 0.0 0.0 250% 48.9 48.9 350% 625% 0.0 0.0 937.5% 0.0 0.0 1,250% 0.0 0.0 Total ¥14,233.1 ¥3,276.3 ¥17,509.4 ¥258.4 Notes: 1. The amounts in the above table are before the deduction of specific reserve for possible losses on loans, reserve for possible losses on loans to restructuring countries and partial direct write-offs. 2. Off-balance-sheet exposure shows credit equivalent amount. (J) Amount of Exposure to which a Risk Weight of 1,250% is Applied (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Amount of exposure to which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied ¥0.2 297 Status of Exposure to which the Internal Ratings-based Approach is Applied (K) Specialized Lending Exposure under Supervisory Slotting Criteria by Risk Weight Category (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 50% ¥0.0 70% 13.4 90% 3.8 95% 87.6 Risk weight 115% 4.5 120% 8.0 140% 15.2 250% 17.0 Default 15.5 Total ¥165.6 (L) Equity Exposure under Simple Risk Weight Method of Market-based Approach by Risk Weight Category (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 300% ¥737.5 Risk weight 400% 55.6 Total ¥793.1 Note: Of the equity exposure under the simple risk weight method, a risk weight of 300% is applied for listed equities and 400% for unlisted equities. (M) Portfolio by Asset Class and Ratings Segment (Corporate, etc.) (Billions of yen, except percentages) As of March 31, 2017 EL Risk Weighted PD LGD default weight Amount average of (EAD (EAD (EAD (EAD OnOffof credit weighted weighted weighted weighted undrawn conversion average) average) average) average) balance balance commitfactor (%) (%) (%) (%) EAD sheet sheet ments (%) Corporate 1.76 36.17 / 36.73 ¥78,222.1 ¥56,571.6 ¥21,650.4 ¥22,184.7 74.99 Investment grade zone 0.09 37.82 / 26.08 55,538.0 37,788.8 17,749.1 18,464.6 74.99 Non-investment 1.49 31.95 / 64.06 21,680.0 17,927.0 3,752.9 3,563.4 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 35.87 33.22 35.12 1,004.0 855.7 148.2 156.6 75.00 Sovereign 0.01 37.96 / 1.27 80,314.2 67,492.6 12,821.5 816.3 75.00 Investment grade zone 0.00 37.96 / 1.16 80,165.1 67,353.7 12,811.4 806.8 75.00 Non-investment 0.94 37.82 / 63.75 149.0 138.8 10.1 9.4 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 28.51 25.45 40.51 0.0 0.0 Bank 0.16 37.28 / 23.23 5,921.5 4,231.3 1,690.2 734.3 75.00 Investment grade zone 0.08 37.30 / 19.41 5,337.6 3,764.5 1,573.0 643.6 75.00 Non-investment 0.59 36.96 / 58.25 582.4 465.3 117.1 90.6 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 96.75 94.52 29.55 1.4 1.4 Equity exposure under 2.28 90.00 / 145.16 4,180.1 4,064.4 115.7 PD/LGD approach Investment grade zone 0.07 90.00 / 112.90 3,788.9 3,673.2 115.7 Non-investment 1.10 90.00 / 240.10 301.9 301.9 grade zone Default 100.00 90.00 / 1,192.50 89.3 89.3 Total 0.88 38.40 / 22.06 ¥168,638.0 ¥132,360.1 ¥36,277.9 ¥23,735.3 74.99 Investment grade zone 0.04 39.24 / 14.31 144,829.7 112,580.3 32,249.4 19,915.1 74.99 Non-investment 1.46 32.89 / 66.25 22,713.3 18,833.1 3,880.2 3,663.5 75.00 grade zone Default 100.00 40.37 33.31 129.54 1,094.9 946.6 148.2 156.6 75.00 Notes: 1. Investment grade zone includes obligor ratings A1 through B2, non-investment grade zone includes C1 through E2 (excluding E2R), and default includes E2R through H1. 2. Corporate does not include specialized lending exposure under supervisory slotting criteria. 3. Each asset class includes purchased receivables. 4. The commitments that can be terminated at any time without condition or terminated automatically are not included in the amount of undrawn commitments and weighted average of credit conversion factor. 5. Regarding equity exposure under the PD/LGD approach, we recognize the risk-weighted assets by multiplying 1,250% by the expected loss ( EL ). 298 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy (N) Portfolio by Asset Class and Ratings Segment (Retail) (Billions of yen, except percentages) As of March 31, 2017 EL Risk PD LGD default weight Weighted (EAD (EAD (EAD (EAD Amount of average of weighted weighted weighted weighted EAD OnOffundrawn credit average) average) average) average) (Billions balance balance commitconversion (%) (%) (%) (%) of yen) sheet sheet ments factor (%) Residential 1.61 41.29 / 32.98 ¥9,388.0 ¥9,258.2 ¥129.8 ¥9.1 75.00 mortgage Non-default 0.76 41.24 / 32.92 9,307.8 9,179.6 128.2 9.1 75.00 Default 100.00 47.30 44.25 40.27 80.2 78.6 1.5 Qualifying revolving 3.25 76.82 / 66.05 629.2 414.9 214.2 1,715.6 12.49 loan (retail) Non-default 3.14 76.83 / 66.05 628.4 414.4 214.0 1,714.1 12.49 Default 100.00 71.62 66.53 67.40 0.7 0.5 0.1 1.5 12.84 Other retail 4.50 49.02 / 46.43 2,218.2 2,204.2 14.0 16.4 65.02 Non-default 1.66 49.12 / 46.56 2,154.0 2,143.4 10.5 12.7 56.80 Default 100.00 45.71 42.54 41.92 64.2 60.7 3.4 3.6 93.64 Total 2.22 44.52 / 37.12 ¥12,235.5 ¥11,877.4 ¥358.0 ¥1,741.2 13.31 Non-default 1.04 44.49 / 37.07 12,090.3 11,737.5 352.8 1,736.0 13.14 Default 100.00 46.72 43.61 41.14 145.2 139.9 5.2 5.2 69.86 Notes: 1. Each asset class includes purchased receivables. 2. The commitments that can be terminated at any time without condition or terminated automatically are not included in the amount of undrawn commitments and weighted average of credit conversion factor. (O) Actual Losses by Asset Class (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2016 through March 31, 2017 Actual losses Corporate ¥(2.8) Sovereign 0 Bank (0.2) Residential mortgage (0.6) Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 0.5 Other retail (1.6) Total ¥(4.9) Note: Actual losses are the sum of the net increase (decrease) in the amount of partial direct write-offs, specific reserve for possible losses on loans and general reserve for possible losses on loans (for claims against special attention obligors or below), etc., as well as tax-qualified direct write-offs, losses from sales of non-performing loans, losses from debt forgiveness and losses from debt-equity swaps during the relevant period. Equity exposure under the PD/LGD approach is not included in the amount of actual losses. (P) Comparison of Estimated and Actual Losses by Asset Class (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2007 For the period from April 1, 2008 through March 31, 2008 through March 31, 2009 Estimated losses Actual losses Estimated losses Actual losses (expected losses as of (expected losses as of March 31, 2007) March 31, 2008) After After deduction deduction of reserves of reserves Corporate ¥1,086.0 ¥217.0 ¥74.6 ¥1,121.0 ¥350.0 ¥345.3 Sovereign 5.4 (7.0) 0.0 1.3 (11.1) 0.0 Bank 6.4 2.6 (2.6) 2.9 2.5 28.6 Residential mortgage 78.2 6.8 5.1 86.6 22.7 17.2 Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 7.2 2.3 (0.1) 7.9 3.2 2.1 Other retail 52.9 8.8 (2.8) 51.9 16.4 3.8 Total ¥1,236.5 ¥230.5 ¥74.1 ¥1,271.8 ¥383.9 ¥397.3 299 (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2009 For the period from April 1, 2010 through March 31, 2010 through March 31, 2011 Estimated losses (expected Actual losses Estimated losses (expected Actual losses losses as of March 31, 2009) losses as of March 31, 2010) After After deduction deduction of reserves of reserves Corporate ¥1,313.1 ¥473.3 ¥166.5 ¥1,296.9 ¥454.0 ¥22.9 Sovereign 1.7 (10.8) 0.3 1.5 (11.4) 0.2 Bank 35.5 6.5 1.0 38.4 8.3 (0.4) Residential mortgage 95.8 24.8 33.2 122.6 31.1 31.5 Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 10.3 3.8 0.2 10.2 3.5 1.4 Other retail 51.3 15.6 4.3 51.2 15.0 23.1 Total ¥1,508.0 ¥513.3 ¥205.8 ¥1,521.1 ¥500.6 ¥78.7 (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2011 For the period from April 1, 2012 through March 31, 2012 through March 31, 2013 Estimated losses (expected Actual losses Estimated losses (expected Actual losses losses as of March 31, 2011) losses as of March 31, 2012) After deduction Afterdeduction of reserves of reserves Corporate ¥989.6 ¥373.2 ¥29.2 ¥828.0 ¥272.6 ¥75.6 Sovereign 1.3 (11.7) 0.2 3.1 (10.2) 0.2 Bank 31.9 4.1 (1.4) 18.4 6.3 (5.0) Residential mortgage 150.4 43.2 (2.9) 134.8 41.6 (9.2) Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 12.2 4.2 (0.7) 10.8 3.7 0.3 Other retail 74.7 24.1 5.2 73.5 24.2 0.2 Total ¥1,260.3 ¥437.2 ¥29.5 ¥1,068.8 ¥338.4 ¥62.1 (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2013 For the period from April 1, 2014 through March 31, 2014 through March 31, 2015 Estimated losses (expected Actual losses Estimated losses (expected Actual losses losses as of March 31, 2013) losses as of March 31, 2014) After After deduction deduction of reserves of reserves Corporate ¥785.1 ¥246.9 ¥(41.2) ¥596.0 ¥195.5 ¥128.1 Sovereign 1.7 (11.9) (13.5) 1.5 1.5 0.0 Bank 12.5 6.4 (1.2) 10.3 5.6 (1.2) Residential mortgage 123.7 50.5 (3.2) 104.8 46.1 (0.7) Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 11.2 3.9 0.4 11.5 3.8 2.2 Other retail 69.1 26.2 1.4 61.9 23.8 5.1 Total ¥1,003.5 ¥322.3 ¥(57.4) ¥786.3 ¥276.6 ¥133.6 (Billions of yen) For the period from April 1, 2015 For the period from April 1, 2016 through March 31, 2016 through March 31, 2017 Estimated losses (expected Actual losses Estimated losses (expected Actual losses losses as of March 31, 2015) losses as of March 31, 2016) After After deduction deduction of reserves of reserves Corporate ¥607.1 ¥128.9 ¥24.8 ¥483.4 ¥117.6 ¥(2.8) Sovereign 1.6 1.5 0 1.8 1.7 0 Bank 7.3 3.9 (0.5) 5.5 3.6 (0.2) Residential mortgage 80.4 31.2 (6.0) 71.5 34.2 (0.6) Qualifying revolving loan (retail) 12.3 2.4 0.4 13.6 3.3 0.5 Other retail 54.3 15.1 (1.2) 47.8 16.5 (1.6) Total ¥763.2 ¥183.3 ¥17.4 ¥623.8 ¥177.2 ¥(4.9) Notes: 1. Estimated losses after deduction of reserve are the amount after deductions of partial direct write-offs, specific reserves for possible losses on loans and general reserves for possible losses on loans (for claims against special attention obligors or below), etc., as of the beginning of each period. Equity exposure under the PD/LGD approach is not included in the amount of estimated losses. 2. Actual losses are the sum of the net increase (decrease) in the amount of partial direct write-offs, specific reserves for possible losses on loans and general reserves for possible losses on loans (for claims against special attention obligors or below), etc., as well as tax-qualified direct write-offs, losses from sales of non-performing loans, losses from debt forgiveness and losses from debt-equity swaps during the relevant period. Equity exposure under the PD/LGD approach is not included in the amount of actual losses. 300 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy □ Methods for Credit Risk Mitigation (3) Credit Risk Mitigation by Portfolio Classification The amounts of exposure to which the method of credit risk mitigation through collateral and guarantees is applied are as follows: (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Financial Credit collateral Other collateral Guarantees derivatives Total Internal ratings-based approach ¥806.3 ¥5,045.9 ¥8,429.4 ¥11.7 ¥14,293.4 Corporate 740.9 4,670.6 7,412.7 11.7 12,836.0 Sovereign 8.5 8.3 369.9 386.8 Bank 33.3 99.6 82.3 215.3 Retail 23.4 267.2 564.4 855.1 Residential mortgage 122.5 122.5 Qualifying revolving loan 0.1 0.1 Other retail 23.4 267.2 441.7 732.4 Others Standardized approach 124.5 / 163.4 287.9 Sovereign 100.0 / 163.4 263.4 Bank 14.0 / 14.0 Corporate 10.5 / 10.5 Residential mortgage / Securitizations / Others / Total ¥930.8 ¥5,045.9 ¥8,592.9 ¥11.7 ¥14,581.4 □ Counterparty Risk in Derivatives Transactions and Long-settlement Transactions (4) Status of Counterparty Risk in Derivatives Transactions and Long-settlement Transactions (A) Status of Derivatives Transactions and Long-settlement Transactions Derivative Transactions (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Gross Gross Credit equivalent replacement cost add-on amount Current exposure method Foreign exchange-related transactions ¥139.7 ¥95.7 ¥235.4 Interest rate-related transactions 156.5 61.8 218.3 Gold-related transactions Equity-related transactions 36.6 130.4 167.0 Transactions related to precious metals (other than gold) 33.1 73.7 106.8 Other commodity-related transactions 527.4 1,160.5 1,688.0 Credit derivatives transactions 2.4 8.1 10.6 Subtotal (A) 895.9 1,530.4 2,426.4 Netting benefits by close-out netting settlement contracts (B) / / 1,154.2 Subtotal (C)=(A)+(B) / / 1,272.1 Effect of credit risk mitigation by collateral (D) / / 298.6 Total (C)+(D) / / ¥973.5 Credit equivalent Standardized method amount Total ¥16.3 Expected positive exposure method Total ¥2,386.1 301 Long-settlement Transactions (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Gross Gross Credit equivalent replacement cost add-on amount Long-settlement transactions ¥26.8 ¥5.9 ¥32.8 Notes: 1. The current exposure method is used as the method to calculate credit equivalent amounts. 2. Neither the netting benefits by close-out netting settlement contracts nor the effect of credit risk mitigation by collateral applies to long-settlement transactions. (B) Amounts of Credit Risk Mitigation by Type (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Financial collateral ¥23.7 Other collateral 31.1 Guarantees, others 11.7 Total ¥66.7 (C) Notional Amount of Credit Derivatives Subject to Credit Equivalent Amount Calculations (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Notional amount Credit derivatives type: Credit default swap Protection bought ¥1,708.2 Protection sold 1,803.0 Total return swap Protection bought Protection sold Total Protection bought ¥1,708.2 Protection sold 1,803.0 Note: Credit derivatives used for credit risk mitigation are as follows: (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Credit derivatives used for credit risk mitigation ¥20.0 □ Securitization Exposures (5) Quantitative Disclosure Items for Securitization Exposures Securitization Exposures as Originator (for Calculation of Credit Risk-weighted Assets) (A) Information by Type of Underlying Assets (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2017 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total Traditional securitizations Amount of underlying assets (a) ¥¥48.1 ¥¥¥¥¥¥48.1 Default exposure 0.2 0.2 Losses during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year Gains and losses recognized on sales during the fiscal year Securitization subject to early amortization treatment Synthetic securitizations Amount of underlying assets (b) 280.9 280.9 Default exposure Losses during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized during the fiscal year 277.4 277.4 Total amount of underlying assets (a)+(b) ¥¥48.1 ¥¥¥280.9 ¥¥¥329.1 Notes: 1. Items that refer to during the fiscal year show amounts accumulated during the fiscal year ended March 31, and 2017. 2. Amount of underlying assets and Losses during the fiscal year include those related to, in addition to exposure originated by us, exposure to assets originated by other financial institutions if they are contained in the same securitization program. 3. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. 4. Credit cards include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 5. The effects of risk mitigation, in the context of calculating capital adequacy ratio, of transfers (hedges) of risk through synthetic securitization transactions are reflected in Required capital of (B) Information of securitization exposure retained or purchased. 302 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ─Exposure Intended to be Securitized─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total Exposure intended to be securitized ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥(B) Information of Securitization Exposure Retained or Purchased ─Exposure by Type of Underlying Asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment CorpoReal zation cards loans loans receivables rate estate products Total On-balance sheet ¥¥0 ¥¥¥280.9 ¥¥¥280.9 Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥¥0 ¥¥¥280.9 ¥¥¥280.9 Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight 0 0.6 0.6 of 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets are overseas assets Notes: 1. Classification based on type of underlying asset is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. 2. Credit cards include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 3. Exposure whose underlying assets are overseas assets is classified based on the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. 4. Exposure on resecuritizations as of March 31, 2017 is classified following Article 1, Paragraph 2-2 of the FSA Notice No. 20 (hereinafter the same). ─Exposure by Risk Weight Category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥267.4 ¥¥¥¥267.4 ¥Up to 50% Up to 100% Risk Up to 250% 1.7 1.7 weight Up to 650% Less than 1,250% 11.1 11.1 1,250% 0.6 0.6 Total ¥280.9 ¥¥¥¥280.9 ¥─Amount of Required Capital by Risk Weight Category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥1.5 ¥¥¥¥1.5 ¥Up to 50% Up to 100% Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% Less than 1,250% 0.2 0.2 1,250% 0.7 0.7 Total ¥2.6 ¥¥¥¥2.6 ¥303 ─Credit Risk Mitigation against Exposure on Resecuritizations─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Up to 20% ¥Up to 50% Risk Up to 100% weight Up to 250% Up to 650% Over 650% Total ¥Note: The above table shows the exposure on resecuritizations based on the risk weight after taking into consideration the effect of method to mitigate credit risk. ─Capital Increase Due to Securitization Transactions─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Residential Lease SecuritiCredit mortgage Auto payment Real zation cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate products Total Capital increase due to ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥securitization transactions Securitization Exposure as Sponsor of Securitization Programs (ABCP/ABL) (for Calculation of Credit Risk-weighted Assets) (C) Information by Type of Underlying Assets (Billions of yen) As of, or for the fiscal year ended, March 31, 2017 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receiv-ables receiv-ables estate Others Total Amount of underlying assets ¥43.3 ¥¥74.4 ¥31.9 ¥307.5 ¥¥43.3 ¥500.6 Default exposure 4.9 4.9 Estimated loss amount related to 1.6 0.8 0.5 5.8 0.7 9.6 underlying assets during the fiscal year Amount of exposures securitized ¥394.0 ¥¥814.3 ¥753.7 ¥2,512.4 ¥¥680.3 ¥5,154.9 during the fiscal year Notes: 1. Items that refer to during the fiscal year show amounts accumulated during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. 2. Securitization exposure that is acquired in securitization of customer’s claims other than as sponsor (in the form of asset-backed securities, trust beneficiary rights and other transferable instruments) is categorized as securitization exposure as investor. 3. The amount of default exposure is the amount of the underlying assets recognized as default in the calculation of capital adequacy ratio. 4. Estimated loss amount related to underlying assets is based on the amount of the underlying assets as of the relevant date and the following parameters that are used in the calculation of capital adequacy ratio: ･ parameters used in the calculation of required capital for an underlying asset when applying the supervisory formula (e.g., PD); and ･ with respect to underlying assets classified as securitization exposure, the conservative application of risk weights used in the ratings-based approach. 5. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. Transactions that are difficult to classify are included under Others. 6. Credit cards include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. (D) Information of Securitization Exposure Retained or Purchased ─Exposure by Type of Underlying Asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Residential Lease Account Credit mortgage Auto payment and note Real cards loans loans receivables receivables estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥17.8 ¥¥62.7 ¥30.1 ¥296.3 ¥¥43.3 ¥450.6 Exposure on resecuritizations Off-balance sheet 136.3 0.1 54.0 27.6 218.2 Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥154.2 ¥¥62.9 ¥30.1 ¥350.4 ¥¥71.0 ¥668.8 Exposure on resecuritizations Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 1,250% is applied Exposure whose underlying assets are overseas assets 98.2 18.0 153.0 58.3 327.7 Notes: 1. Securitization exposure retained or purchased includes unused portions of securitization programs that are subject to allocation of required capital. 2. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. Transactions that are difficult to classify are included under Others. 3. Credit cards include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 4. The classification of transactions of which the underlying assets are overseas assets is conducted according to the principal underlying assets of each transaction. 5. Exposure on resecuritizations as of March 31, 2017 is classified following Article 1, Paragraph 2-2 of the FSA Notice No. 20 (hereinafter the same). 304 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy ─Exposure by Risk Weight Category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥434.9 ¥¥218.2 ¥¥653.1 ¥Up to 50% 14.0 14.0 Up to 100% 1.6 1.6 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% Less than 1,250% 1,250% Total ¥450.6 ¥¥218.2 ¥¥668.8 ¥─Amount of Required Capital by Risk Weight Category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 OnExposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on balance sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥2.7 ¥¥1.4 ¥¥4.1 ¥Up to 50% 0.2 0.2 Up to 100% 0.1 0.1 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% Less than 1,250% 1,250% Total ¥3.1 ¥¥1.4 ¥¥4.5 ¥─Credit Risk Mitigation against Exposure on Resecuritizations─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Up to 20% ¥Up to 50% Risk Up to 100% weight Up to 250% Up to 650% Over 650% Total ¥Note: The above table shows the exposure on resecuritizations based on the risk weight after taking into consideration the effect of method to mitigate credit risk. Securitization Exposure as Investor (for Calculation of Credit Risk-weighted Assets) (E) Information of Securitization Exposure Retained or Ourchased ─Exposure by Type of Underlying Asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Residential Lease Credit mortgage Auto payment Real cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥145.0 ¥818.9 ¥725.6 ¥333.5 ¥425.4 ¥6.5 ¥195.3 ¥2,650.4 Exposure on resecuritizations 0.0 0.0 Off-balance sheet 32.0 97.2 130.1 161.6 0.1 2.3 423.6 Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥177.1 ¥818.9 ¥822.8 ¥463.7 ¥587.1 ¥6.6 ¥197.6 ¥3,074.1 Exposure on resecuritizations 0.0 0.0 Exposure on securitizations to which a risk weight of 1,250% is 0.0 0.2 0.2 applied Exposure whose underlying 161.3 0.0 819.9 462.8 587.1 0.1 163.3 2,194.8 assets are overseas assets Notes: 1. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. Transactions that are difficult to classify are included under Others. 2. Credit cards include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 3. The classification of transactions of which the underlying assets are overseas assets is conducted according to the principal underlying assets of each transaction. 4. Exposure on resecuritizations as of March 31, 2017 is classified following Article 1, Paragraph 2-2 of the FSA Notice No. 20 (hereinafter the same). 305 ─Exposure by Risk Weight Category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥2,593.7 ¥0.0 ¥421.1 ¥¥3,014.9 ¥0.0 Up to 50% 44.8 44.8 Up to 100% 8.3 1.7 10.1 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% 3.3 0.5 3.9 Less than 1,250% 1,250% 0.0 0.1 0.2 Total ¥2,650.4 ¥0.0 ¥423.6 ¥¥3,074.1 ¥0.0 ─Amount of Required Capital by Risk Weight Category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 20% ¥14.9 ¥0.0 ¥3.3 ¥¥18.2 ¥0.0 Up to 50% 0.9 0.9 Up to 100% 0.6 0.1 0.8 Risk Up to 250% weight Up to 650% 0.9 0.1 1.1 Less than 1,250% 1,250% 0.0 0.1 0.2 Total ¥17.5 ¥0.0 ¥3.7 ¥¥21.3 ¥0.0 ─Credit Risk Mitigation against Exposure on Resecuritizations─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Up to 20% ¥Up to 50% Risk Up to 100% weight Up to 250% Up to 650% Over 650% Total ¥Note: The above table shows the exposure on resecuritizations based on the risk weight after taking into consideration the effect of method to mitigate credit risk. Securitization Exposure as Originator (for Calculation of Market Risk Equivalent Amounts) (F) Information by Type of Underlying Assets None as of March 31, 2017 (G) Information of Securitization Exposure Retained or Purchased None as of March 31, 2017 306 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy Securitization Exposure as Sponsor of Securitization Programs (ABCP/ABL) (for Calculation of Market Risk Equivalent Amounts) (H) Information by Type of Underlying Assets None as of March 31, 2017 (I) Information of Securitization Exposure Retained or Purchased None as of March 31, 2017 Securitization Exposure as Investor (for Calculation of Market Risk Equivalent Amounts) (J) Information of Securitization Exposure Retained or Purchased ─Exposure by Type of Underlying Asset─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Residential Lease Credit mortgage Auto payment Real Cards loans loans receivables Corporate estate Others Total On-balance sheet ¥0.0 ¥3.7 ¥13.8 ¥0.6 ¥0.0 ¥3.0 ¥7.0 ¥28.4 Exposure on resecuritizations 0.0 0.0 Off-balance sheet Exposure on resecuritizations Total ¥0.0 ¥3.7 ¥13.8 ¥0.6 ¥0.0 ¥3.0 ¥7.0 ¥28.4 Exposure on resecuritizations 0.0 0.0 Exposure on securitizations to which 3.6 0.4 0.0 0.3 4.4 a risk weight of 100% is applied Exposure whose underlying 3.5 13.8 0.6 0.0 3.0 7.0 28.2 assets are overseas assets Notes: 1. Classification based on type of underlying assets is conducted according to the principal underlying asset type for each transaction. Transactions that are difficult to classify are included under Others. 2. Credit cards include shopping credit receivables, card loans, etc. 3. The classification of transactions of which the underlying assets are overseas assets is conducted according to the principal underlying assets of each transaction. 4. Exposure on resecuritizations are classified following Article 1, Paragraph 2-2 of the FSA Notice No. 20 (hereinafter the same). 307 ─Exposure by Risk Capital Charge Category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥20.5 ¥¥¥¥20.5 ¥Risk Up to 4% capital Up to 8% 2.4 2.4 charge Up to 20% Up to 52% 1.0 1.0 Less than100% 100% 4.4 0.0 4.4 0.0 Total ¥28.4 ¥0.0 ¥¥¥28.4 ¥0.0 ─Amount of Required Capital by Risk Capital Charge Category─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 On-balance Exposure on Off-balance Exposure on Exposure on sheet resecuritizations sheet resecuritizations Total resecuritizations Up to 1.6% ¥0.3 ¥¥¥¥0.3 ¥Up to 4% Risk Up to 8% 0.1 0.1 capital Up to 20% charge Up to 52% 0.2 0.2 Less than 100% 100% 4.4 0.0 4.4 0.0 Total ¥5.2 ¥0.0 ¥¥¥5.2 ¥0.0 ─Subject to Comprehensive Risk Measure─ (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Securitization Resecuritiation Total amount of securitization exposure ¥¥Total amount of required capital ¥¥308 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Mizuho Financial Group’s Consolidated Capital Adequacy □ Market Risk (A) Market risk (VAR) and stressed VAR associated with trading activities for the fiscal year as of March 31, 2017. The following table shows VAR (Value At Risk) figures of our trading activities: (Billions of yen) For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 End of period ¥1.9 Maximum 4.8 Minimum 1.7 Average 2.7 The number of cases where assumptive losses 0 exceeded VAR during the period Notes:1. Amount of market risk (VAR) is calculated based on the internal model. 2. The multiplication factor for the calculation of market risk equivalent is determined by the number of cases where assumptive losses exceeded VAR before 250 business days prior to the end of period. 3. Our group companies which conduct trading activities are Mizuho Bank, Mizuho Trust & Banking and Mizuho Securities, etc. VAR method: VAR: historical simulation method; Quantitative standard: 1. confidence interval: one-tailed 99.0%; 2. holding period: 1 day; and 3. historical observation period of three years (801 business days) The following table shows stressed VAR figures of our trading activities: (Billions of yen) For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 End of period ¥5.3 Maximum 8.9 Minimum 2.8 Average 5.2 Stressed VAR method: Stressed VAR: historical simulation method; Quantitative standard: 1. confidence interval: one-tailed 99.0%; 2. holding period: 1 day; and 3. historical observation period of one year of significant financial stress (265 business days) Stressed VAR The stressed VAR measurement is based on a continuous 12-month period of significant financial stress. (B) Outlier criteria The following table shows results of calculations under the outlier framework based on previous outlier criteria: (Billions of yen) Broadly-defined Loss ratio Amount of loss capital to capital As of March 31, 2017 ¥361.2 ¥10,050.9 3.5% Interest rate shock scenario under stress conditions in outlier criteria For the interest rate shock scenario used in connection with the calculations under the outlier framework, we generate annual rate fluctuation data for five years derived from daily raw historical interest rate data of the past six years and then apply the actual fluctuation data at a 99.0% confidence level to the shock scenario. 309 □ Equity Exposures in Banking Book (6) Status of Equity Exposures in Banking Book (A) Amounts Stated in Consolidated Balance Sheet (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Consolidated balance sheet amount Fair value Exposure of listed stock, etc. ¥3,857.0 ¥4,031.5 Other equity exposure 400.3 / Total ¥4,257.4 / Note: The above figures include only Japanese and foreign stocks. (B) Gains and Losses on Sales Related to Equity Exposure (Billions of yen) For the Fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 Gains and losses on sales Gains on sales Losses on sales Sale of equity exposure ¥261.1 ¥295.8 ¥34.7 Note: The above figures represent gains and losses on sales of stocks in our consolidated statement of income. (C) Gains and Losses from Write-offs Related to Equity Exposure (Billions of yen) For the Fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 Gains and losses fromwrite-offs Write-offs of equity exposure ¥(4.8) Note:The above figures represent gains and losses on devaluation of stocks in our consolidated statement of income. (D) Unrealized Gains and Losses Recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and not Recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Net unrealized gains Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Equity exposure ¥1,971.2 ¥2,017.1 ¥45.9 Note: The above figures include only Japanese and foreign stocks. (E) Unrealized Gains and Losses not Recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet or in the Consolidated Statement of Income (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Net Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Equity exposure ¥174.5 ¥182.8 ¥8.3 Note: The above figures include only Japanese and foreign stocks. (F) Equities Exposure by Portfolio Classification (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 PD/LGD approach ¥4,180.1 Market-based approach (simple risk weight method) 793.1 Market-based approach (internal models approach) Total ¥4,973.3 310 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Sound Management of Liquidity Risk ■Liquidity Coverage Ratio The information disclosed herein is in accordance with Matters Separately Prescribed by the Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency Regarding Status of Sound Management of Liquidity Risk , etc. pursuant to Article 19-2, Paragraph 1, Item 5, Sub-item (e) , etc. of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Banking Law (the FSA Notice No. 7 of 2015). (In million yen, the number of data) Item For the three months ended March 31, 2018 For the three months ended December 31, 2017 High-Quality Liquid Assets (1) / / 1 Total high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) ¥60,159,630 ¥63,459,113 TOTAL UNWEIGHTED TOTAL WEIGHTED TOTAL UNWEIGHTED TOTAL WEIGHTED Cash Outflows (2) VALUE VALUE VALUE VALUE 2 Cash outflows related to unsecured retail funding 46,184,608 3,682,339 45,597,491 3,638,206 3 of which, Stable deposits 13,410,643 402,319 13,200,574 396,017 4 of which, Less stable deposits 32,773,964 3,280,020 32,396,917 3,242,188 Cash outflows related to unsecured wholesale 5 77,563,913 49,329,388 78,558,012 49,864,317 funding 6 of which, Qualifying operational deposits 0 0 0 0 of which, Cash outflows related to unsecured 7 wholesale funding other than qualifying 71,364,662 43,130,137 73,002,116 44,308,421 operational deposits and debt securities 8 of which, Debt securities 6,199,250 6,199,250 5,555,895 5,555,895 9 Cash outflows related to secured funding, etc / 1,068,454 / 1,129,409 Cash outflows related to derivative transactions, 10 24,249,235 7,064,688 24,764,396 7,077,369 etc. funding programs, credit and liquidity facilities of which, Cash outflows related to derivatives 11 2,315,235 2,315,235 2,368,843 2,368,843 transactions, etc of which, Cash outflows related to funding 12 21,922 21,922 23,706 23,706 programs of which, Cash outflows related to credit and 13 21,912,077 4,727,530 22,371,846 4,684,819 liquidity facilities Cash outflows, etc. related to contractual funding 14 7,040,197 2,333,910 6,562,416 1,936,205 obligations 15 Cash outflows related to contingencies 77,792,015 696,424 78,261,200 695,462 16 Total cash outflows / 64,175,205 / 64,340,971 TOTAL UNWEIGHTED TOTAL WEIGHTED TOTAL UNWEIGHTED TOTAL WEIGHTED Cash Inflows (3) VALUE VALUE VALUE VALUE Cash inflows related to secured lending and 17 10,554,062 836,532 10,283,301 737,035 investments, etc. 18 Cash inflows related to collections of loans, etc 14,863,687 11,012,718 14,205,103 10,755,503 19 Other cash inflows 7,515,036 2,246,878 7,092,196 2,040,250 20 Total cash inflows 32,932,786 14,096,129 31,580,601 13,532,789 Consolidated liquidity coverage ratio (4) / / Total HQLA allowed to be included in the 21 / ¥60,159,630 / ¥63,459,113 calculation 22 Net cash outflows / 50,079,075 / 50,808,181 23 Consolidated liquidity coverage ratio / 120.1％ / 124.8％ The number of data used to calculate the average 24 59 62 value Notes: 1. Item from 1 to 23 are quarterly average using data points as shown in item 24. From the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, the average daily value is disclosed. 2. We do not apply the exception regarding qualifying operational deposits in Article 28 of the Notice No. 62 with respect to item 6. 3. The numbers in item 11 include the amount of additional collateral required due to market valuation changes on derivatives transactions estimated by the historical lookback approach instead of scenario approach in Article 37 of the Notice No. 62. 4. There are no material components that necessitate detailed explanation of cash outflows from other contracts in Article 59 of the Notice No. 62 within item 14, cash outflows from other contingent funding obligations in Article 52 of the Notice No. 62 within item 15, cash inflows from other contracts in Article 72 of the Notice No. 62 within item 19. 5. Monthly data or quarterly data is used for some of the data, etc., concerning our consolidated subsidiaries. 311 2016 2017 2018 Apr-Jun Jul-Sep Oct-Dec Jan-Mar Apr-Jun Jul-Sep Oct-Dec Jan-Mar Consolidated LCR 135.1% 137.4% 135.3% 129.4% 129.7% 126.1% 124.8% 120.1% (quartely average) Our Consolidated LCR surpasses the final regulatory standard (100%) and remains stable, with no change affecting funding conditions. LCR disclosed herein does not differ much from the level we expected beforehand, and we do not expect our Consolidated LCR in the future to deviate significantly from the current level. There are no significant changes in the composition, such as currency composition or type composition, and geographic distribution of the HQLA allowed to be included in the calculation. In addition, there is no significant currency mismatch which might affect our funding conditions between total amount of the HQLA allowed to be included in the calculation and net cash outflow regarding significant currencies. 312 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Status of Sound Management of Liquidity Risk ■ Status of Major Liquid Assets (Billions of yen) Item As of March 31, 2018 As of March 31, 2017 Cash and Due from Banks (including Due from Central Banks) ¥47,725.3 ¥47,129.5 Trading Securities 5,188.4 4,800.4 Securities 33,618.9 31,761.8 Bonds Held to Maturity 2,515.8 3,815.6 Other Securities 31,103.1 27,946.2 Japanese Stocks 3,582.2 3,542.0 Japanese Bonds 16,535.6 13,245.1 Japanese Government Bonds 13,332.0 10,264.3 Japanese Local Government Bonds 239.3 284.4 Japanese Corporate Bonds 2,964.1 2,696.3 Other 10,985.2 11,159.0 Foreign Bonds 8,329.1 8,955.4 Other 2,656.1 2,203.5 Total 86,532.7 83,691.8 Portion pledged as collateral (11,660.9) (14,398.5) Total after the deduction above ¥74,871.7 ¥69,293.3 Notes: 1. All securities included in the above table have fair value. 2. Portion pledged as collateral mainly consists of securities and others collateralized for borrowed money, foreign and domestic exchange transactions or derivatives transactions,or substituted for margins for futures transactions. 3. Figures in the above table do not represent high quality liquid assets under the Basel Ⅲ regulatory regime. ■ Status of Major Funding (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2018 Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Deposits ¥121,278.4 ¥2,974.1 ¥691.7 ¥86.9 ¥41.3 ¥8.5 Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 11,021.7 357.7 4.0 Call Money and Bills Sold 2,105.2 Borrowed Money 2,221.5 1,541.5 309.4 260.2 303.8 259.5 Commercial Paper 362.1 Issued Bonds 740.9 1,145.7 1,883.4 626.6 1,375.9 532.9 Due to Trust Account 4,733.1 Total ¥142,463.2 ¥6,019.2 ¥2,888.7 ¥973.9 ¥1,721.0 ¥801.0 (Billions of yen) As of March 31, 2017 Types of Financial Instruments Within 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5-7 years 7-10 years Over 10 years Deposits ¥115,871.8 ¥3,334.2 ¥696.7 ¥73.1 ¥60.5 ¥9.0 Negotiable Certificates of Deposit 10,421.6 150.6 60.1 Call Money and Bills Sold 1,255.2 Borrowed Money 604.6 3,095.1 1,542.0 338.6 377.8 305.0 Commercial Paper 226.3 Issued Bonds 1,414.8 1,486.1 1,331.4 564.0 1,401.0 588.9 Due to Trust Account 4,784.1 Total ¥134,578.5 ¥8,066.0 ¥3,630.2 ¥975.8 ¥1,839.2 ¥902.9 Notes: 1. Regarding Deposits, Demand deposits are included in Within 1 year 2. Borrowed money or issued bonds with open ended, 44.0 billion, 779.0 billion, respectively, at March 31, 2017, and 0.0 billion, 1,239.0 billion, respectively, at March 31, 2018, are excluded. 313 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Compensation of Directors, Corporate Auditors and Employees ■ Compensation of Directors, Corporate Auditors and Employees (1) Qualitative Disclosure (A) State of the Organizational System Relating to Compensation of Subject Directors, Corporate Auditors and Employees of Mizuho Group 1. Scope of Subject directors, corporate auditors and employees Subject directors, etc. and Subject employees, etc. subject to disclosure as provided for in the FSA Notice (collectively, Subject directors, corporate auditors and employees ) are as follows: (1) Scope of Subject directors, etc. Subject directors, etc. are directors and executive officers as defined in the Companies Act of Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. ( MHFG ). Outside directors auditors are excluded. (2) Scope of Subject employees, etc. Subject employees, etc. who are subject to disclosure are executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations), specialist officers and employees of MHFG and directors, corporate auditors and employees of its Major consolidated subsidiaries , who are persons who receive large amounts of compensation and materially affect the operation of business or the state of assets of Mizuho group or its major consolidated subsidiaries. (a) Scope of Major consolidated subsidiaries A Major consolidated subsidiary is a consolidated subsidiary, etc., (i) whose total assets as a percentage of consolidated total assets exceeds 2% of a bank holding company or bank and (ii) who materially affects the management of our group. Specifically, those are Mizuho Bank, Ltd. ( MHBK ), Mizuho Bank (USA) and other subsidiaries who conduct banking business similar to a branch of MHBK, Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. ( MHTB ), Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. ( MHSC ), Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd., Mizuho Securities USA Inc. and Mizuho International Plc. (b) Scope of Persons who receive large amounts of compensation A Person who receives large amounts of compensation refers to a person who receives compensation that exceeds the base amount from MHFG or its Major consolidated subsidiaries. The base amount at MHFG has been set at ¥50 million. Such base amount has been set based on the average amounts of the compensation of directors, executive officers (as defined in the Companies Act) and corporate auditors of MHFG, MHBK and MHTB for the last three fiscal years (excluding persons who resigned or retired during each of such fiscal years), taking into account fluctuations in amounts of compensation over past fiscal years. The preceding base amount has been adopted as the common base in order to unify the selection criteria of persons who receive large amounts of compensation at each of the companies in this paragraph. (c) Scope of Persons who materially affect the operation of business or the state of assets of Mizuho group A Person who materially affects the operation of business or the state of assets of Mizuho group means a person who exerts significant influence on the operation of the business of MHFG or a Major consolidated subsidiary through his or her work in conducting transactions or management, or who materially affects the state of assets by incurring losses on transactions. Specifically, it includes executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations) and specialist officers of MHFG and directors, corporate auditors, executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations), specialist officers and market department employees of Major consolidated subsidiaries. 2. Decisions on compensation of Subject directors, corporate auditors and employees and the name, composition and duties of the committee to supervise business execution and other major organizations relating to payment of compensation and other compensation, etc. (1) State of maintaining and ensuring the Compensation Committee, etc. MHFG is a Company with Three Committees, and has established the Compensation Committee as a statutory committee. The chairman of the statutory Compensation Committee shall be an outside director, and in principle its members shall be appointed from among the outside directors (or at least non-executive directors) in order to ensure objectivity and transparency in director and executive officer compensation. As of March 2018, all four members of the Compensation Committee, including the chairman, were outside directors. The Compensation Committee shall determine the basic policy and compensation system for directors and executive officers of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC, determine the compensation for each individual director and executive officer (as defined in the Companies Act) of MHFG, and exercise approval rights in MHFG for compensation for each individual director of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. In addition, the president of each of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC determines the amount of compensation for each of its executive officers and specialist officers. 314 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Compensation of Directors, Corporate Auditors and Employees (2) Decisions on compensation of Subject employees, etc. Matters relating to executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations) and specialist officers of MHFG and directors, executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations) and specialist officers of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC are as set out in (1) State of maintaining and ensuring the Compensation Committee, etc.. With regard to the compensation of directors of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC, it is determined through approval by the Compensation Committee, pursuant to each statutory procedure for directors who are Audit & Supervisory Committee Members and for directors who are not Audit & Supervisory Committee Members, and set within the scope of the total amount of compensation of directors resolved at the ordinary general meeting of shareholders. With regard to the compensation of corporate auditors of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC, it is determined pursuant to consultation among corporate auditors, including outside corporate auditors, and set within the scope of the total amount of compensation of corporate auditors resolved at the ordinary general meeting of shareholders. The compensation of subject employees, etc., is decided and paid in accordance with the salary and bonus system established by MHFG and the Major consolidated subsidiaries. Such system is designed and put into writing by the human resources departments of MHFG and the Major consolidated subsidiaries which are independent of departments furthering business. In terms of the compensation of overseas employees, each overseas office or operation determines its own compensation policy based on local laws and regulations as well as employment relationships. 3. Total amount of compensation paid to members of the compensation committee and number of meetings held by the Compensation Committee Number of meetings held (April 2017 – March 2018) Compensation Committee 9 (MHFG) Note: The total amount of compensation is not set out above as it is not possible to separately calculate the amounts that are paid as consideration for the execution of duties by the compensation committee. (B) Evaluating the Appropriateness of the Design and Operation of the System Relating to Compensation of Subject Directors, Corporate Auditors and Employees of Mizuho Group 1. Policies relating to compensation (1) Policies relating to compensation of Subject directors, etc. MHFG set out the “Mizuho Financial Group Compensation Policy” concerning the determination of compensation for each individual director, executive officer and specialist officer (“Officers, etc.”) of MHFG as well as MHBK, MHTB and MHSC (the “Three Core Companies”). a. Philosophy and objectives Executive compensation for MHFG and the Three Core Companies pursuant to such policy is determined based on appropriate governance and control, and aims to function as incentive and compensation for each Officer, etc., to exercise their designated function to the fullest in our efforts to realize management that contributes to value creation for various stakeholders and improve corporate value through continuous and stable corporate growth based on our basic management policies under our Corporate Identity. b. Basic Policy The basic policy with respect to the determination concerning the individual compensation of Officers, etc., of MHFG and the Three Core Companies is set forth below: (i) The executive compensation shall be determined based on appropriate governance and control, and function as an appropriate incentive in order to realize management that contributes to value creation for various stakeholders and improve corporate value through continuous and stable corporate growth based on our basic management policies under our Corporate Philosophy. (ii) The executive compensation shall be based on the function and responsibility assigned to and the performance of each Officer, etc. (iii) The executive compensation shall contribute to suppressing excessive risk-taking, improving corporate value and creating value for various stakeholders not only in the short-term, but also over the mediumto long-term. (iv) The executive compensation shall reflect the management environment and business performance of our group. (v) The executive compensation shall enable compensation for securing expert personnel such as professionals with a competitive edge in the market. 315 (vi) The compensation system and standards shall be timely and appropriately reevaluated and set at a competitive and appropriate standard based on such factors as the economic and social conditions and survey data with respect to management compensation provided by external specialized organizations. (vii) Regulations and guidelines, etc., concerning executive compensation, both in Japan and overseas, shall be complied with. c. Compensation System I. Compensation for Officers, etc., shall, in principle, consist of a “Basic Salary,” “Performance Payment” and “Stock Compensation.” (i) “Basic Salaries” shall factor in the function and responsibility of each Officer, etc., in addition to the standard amount for each position and payment will be made monthly in cash. (ii) “Performance Payments” shall be made as a monetary incentive for Officers, etc., to achieve the annual budget and as compensation for their achievement. The payment thereof shall reflect our company-wide results of operations, the results of organizations (our in-house companies and units, etc.) that each Officer, etc., is in charge of and the performance or each Officer, etc., in addition to the standard amount for each position. A system shall be adopted which, based on resolution by the Compensation Committee, etc., enables certain amount of deferred payments of the performance payments over three years, as well as a decrease or forfeiture of the deferred amount depending on performance, etc., of the company or the individual. (iii) “Stock Compensation” shall be paid in the form of shares of common stock of MHFG consisting of “Stock Compensation I” and “Stock Compensation II,” (together “Stock Compensation I and II”) acquired from the stock market through a trust with an aim to align the interests of Officers, etc., with those of the shareholders and increase the incentive to enhance corporate value. (a) “Stock Compensation I” shall be paid at the time of retirement of each Officer, etc., in the form of shares of common stock of MHFG calculated based on each position. A system shall be adopted which enables a decrease or forfeiture of the amount by resolution of the Compensation Committee, etc., depending on performance of the company or the individual. (b) “Stock Compensation II” shall be paid in accordance with our company-wide results of operations, the results of organizations (our in-house companies and units, etc.) that each Officer, etc., is in charge of and the performance of each Officer, etc., in addition to the standard amount for each position. A system shall be adopted which enables the entire amount of deferred payments over three years, as well as a decrease or forfeiture of the deferred amount by resolution of the Compensation Committee, etc., depending on performance of the company or the individual. II. Within the Officers, etc., the compensation system for the executive officers as defined in the Companies Act, the directors, the executive officers as defined in our internal regulations and the specialist officers responsible for business execution (the Officers Responsible for Business Execution ) shall be separate from the compensation system for the directors responsible for management supervision ( Non-Executive Officers Responsible for Management Supervision ). (i) The basic compensation system for Officers Responsible for Business Execution shall be a “Basic Salary,” “Performance Payment” and “Stock Compensation I and II.” (a)The composition of the compensation shall, in principle, be 50%, 17.5% and 32.5% for “Basic Salary,” “Performance Payment” and “Stock Compensation I and II” respectively. (b)“The upper limit of “Performance Payment” and “Stock Compensation II” shall be decided* in accordance with the our annual results of operations taking into account the traits of business activities of MHFG as a Financial Services Group. The payment to each officer shall reflect the performance of each officer and the results of organizations (our in-house companies and units, etc.) that each Officer, etc., is in charge of, and be, in principle, within the range of 0% to 150% of the standard amount for each position. * The amount of funds for “Performance Payment” and “Stock Compensation II” is decided for each fiscal year by multiplying the standard amount for each position in a respective year with the total number of officers in that year and a coefficient based on the result from the fiscal year’s results of operations. The evaluation metric for this coefficient is decided by setting metrics based on our Consolidated Gross Profits, and using such evaluation metrics for the reference year and the current fiscal year (provided that, for Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd., the system is linked to Ordinary Profits, which is a metric that is equivalent to Consolidated Gross Profits based on the traits of business activities and financial structure of securities companies). (ii) The compensation for Non-Executive Officers Responsible for Management Supervision, in principle, shall be in the form of fixed compensation from the perspective of ensuring the effectiveness of the supervisory function. The compensation system shall consist of “Basic Salaries” and “Stock Compensation” and the composition shall, in principle, be 85% and 15% for “Basic Salaries” and “Stock Compensation,” respectively. 316 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Compensation of Directors, Corporate Auditors and Employees III. There are cases where compensation for some personnel, including those officers recruited locally in countries other than Japan, may be designed individually in compliance with local compensation regulations while taking into consideration local compensation practices and the responsibilities, business characteristics and market value, etc., of each respective officer. For cases where compensation is designed individually, payment of compensation is also made in accordance with the performance of the company or the individual. Payment of compensation is designed to avoid excessive risktaking through a system which enables certain amount or a portion of deferred payments and non-monetary payments such as stock, as well as a decrease or forfeiture of the deferred amount depending on the performance, etc., of the company or the individual. d. Compensation Determination Process I. The Compensation Committee shall determine the determination policy of executive compensation for MHFG and the Three Core Companies and the executive compensation system including the compensation system set out in “Compensation System” in order to effectively secure the transparency and objectivity of compensation, etc., for individual Officers, etc. In addition, the Compensation Committee shall determine the compensation for each individual director and executive officer, as defined in the Companies Act, of MHFG and approve at MHFG the compensation of each individual director of the Three Core Companies. II. The President & CEO, pursuant to this policy and regulations and detailed rules, etc., shall determine the compensation for each executive officer, as defined in our internal regulations, and specialist officer of MHFG and approve at the MHFG the compensation of each individual executive officer and specialist officer of the Three Core Companies. III. The Compensation Committee will verify the validity of the compensation system and standards based on economic and social conditions and survey data with respect to management compensation provided by external specialized organizations. IV. All members of the Compensation Committee shall be appointed from among outside directors (or at least nonexecutive directors) and the Chairman thereof shall be an outside director. V. The Compensation Committee may have officers who are not members of the committee (including officers of the Three Core Companies) such as the President & CEO and external experts, etc., attend its meetings and provide their opinion in order to facilitate adequate and appropriate discussions and determinations. (2) Policies relating to compensation of Subject employees, etc. The policies relating to compensation for executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations) and specialist officers of MHFG and directors, executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations) and specialist officers of MHBK, MHTB and MHSC are also the same as the policies described in (1) Policies relating to compensation of Subject directors, etc. above. The compensation of corporate auditors is determined pursuant to consultation among corporate auditors, including outside corporate auditors, and set within the scope of the total amount of compensation of corporate auditors resolved at the ordinary general meeting of shareholders. Compensation for other employees, etc., is determined in accordance with their duties and responsibilities. Some bonuses that are linked to performance are determined after comprehensively evaluating the employee’s contribution to business, including any qualitative contributions to the organization, in a manner that does not place an excessive emphasis on results. 2. The effect of the overall level of compensation, etc., on equity capital The Compensation Committee of MHFG receives reports on the amount of compensation paid to directors, executive officers (as defined in the Companies Act), executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations) and specialist officers of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC in the previous fiscal year and confirms that there is no material effect on the Mizuho group’s performance or the adequacy of equity capital. 317 (C) Compatibility between System for Compensation of Subject Directors, Corporate Auditors and Employees of Mizuho Group and Risk Management andMmatters Relating to Linking Compensation with Performance 1. Compatibility between system for compensation of Subject directors, corporate auditors and employees and risk management The compensation of employees in risk management department, compliance department and internal audit department is decided in accordance with the salary and bonus system, and specific payment amounts are conclusively determined in accordance with employee performance evaluations made by the relevant department and the human resources department, independent from departments furthering business. Each employee of the risk management department, the compliance department and the internal audit department sets their own objectives in the employee performance evaluations, subject to the approval of their superiors. The degree to which the objectives are achieved is evaluated by taking into account the degree of the employee's contribution to the establishment of a system for risk management, compliance and internal audit. 2. Linking compensation of Subject directors, corporate auditors and employees with performance The performance payments and performance-based stock compensation for Officers Responsible for Business Execution are made or paid based on the standard amount set for each position, with which each officer’s performance shall be reflected, and determined in accord with a performance evaluation, etc., against the annual business plan. A certain amount of the performance payments and the entire amount of the performance-based stock compensation shall be made or paid in deferred payments over three years, and a decrease or forfeiture of the deferred amount may be made depending on the performance, etc., of the company and such officer. It should be noted that certain Subject directors, corporate auditors and employees have entered into compensation-related contracts. Stock compensation for Non-Executive Officers Responsible for Management Supervision shall be made in accordance with the standard amount set for each position, and the payment level shall not change based on the performance of each officer. The entire amount of the stock compensation shall be paid in deferred payments over three years, and a decrease or forfeiture of the deferred amount may be made depending on the performance, etc., of the company. 318 Basel Regulatory Disclosures Compensation of Directors, Corporate Auditors and Employees (2) Quantitative Disclosure Items (A) REM1：Compensation Assigned to the Relevant Fiscal Year (Millions of yen, except people) a b “Subject “Subject No. directors, etc.” employees, etc.” 1 Number of “Subject directors, etc.” and “Subject employees, etc.” 22 378 2 Fixed compensation amount (3+5+7) ¥976 ¥13,530 3 Cash compensation amount 937 12,381 4 Fixed Of which, deffered amount 5 compensation Stock compensation amount or stock-based type compensation amount 37 16 6 Of which, deffered amount 37 16 7 Other compensation amount 1 1,132 8 Of which, deffered amount 9 Number of “Subject directors, etc.” and “Subject employees, etc.” 20 375 10 Variable compensation amount (11+13+15) ¥490 ¥14,962 11 Cash compensation amount 246 13,638 12 Variable Of which, deffered amount 6 4,031 13 compensation Stock compensation amount or stock-based type compensation amount 244 1,307 14 Of which, deffered amount 244 995 15 Other compensation amount 17 16 Of which, deffered amount 17 Number of “Subject directors, etc.” and “Subject employees, etc.” 2 Retirement 18 Retirement benefits amount ¥¥8 benefits 19 Of which, deffered amount 20 Number of “Subject directors, etc.” and “Subject employees, etc.” 171 Other 21 Other compensation amount ¥¥897 compensation 22 Of which, deffered amount 23 Comensation amount (2+10+18+21) ¥1,467 ¥29,399 Notes: 1. Amounts of compensation of “Subject directors, etc.” include amounts of compensation received for duties performed as a director or executive officer of a Major consolidated subsidiary. 2. The number of employees is the actual number of persons (a) for the compensation for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 and (b) for the compensation for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 for the payments made or anticipated payments for which the amount became clear during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 are stated. 3. The stated amount is the total amount for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 and the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017. 4. No. 7, “Fixed compensation,” “Other compensation amount,” includes condolence money insurance premiums and Group life insurance premium subsidies, both based on the decision of our Compensation Committee. 5. No. 11, “Variable compensation” “Cash compensation amount,” includes the recorded performance payment for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 for directors, executive officers (as defined in the Companies Act), executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations) and specialist officers of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC. For portions that exceed a certain amount, we plan to defer payment over the three-year period from the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019. 6. No. 13, “Variable compensation” “Stock compensation amount or stock-based type compensation amount” includes the amount obtained by multiplying the stock compensation and performance-based stock compensation ownership points (with one point to be converted into one share of MHFG stock) granted to the directors, executive officers (as defined in the Companies Act), executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations) and specialist officers of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 by the book value of MHFG's shares (196.9447 yen per share). For stock compensation and performance-based stock compensation for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, we plan to defer payment over the three-year period from the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019. 7. Because the amounts of the stock compensation, performance payment and performance-based-type stock compensation for the directors, executive officers (as defined in the Companies Act), executive officers (as defined in our internal regulations) and specialist officers of MHFG, MHBK, MHTB and MHSC for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 have not been determined at this time, they are not included in the above compensation. However, we have recorded the required reserves for accounting purposes. 8. The exercise periods for the stock compensation-type stock options (stock acquisition rights) are as set out below. Under the stock option agreements, exercise of the options is postponed, even during the exercise period, until the time of retirement of the director or employee. [The exercise periods for stock options have been omitted from the table] 319 (B) REM2：Special Compensation (Millions of yen, except people) a b c d e f Lump sum payments Bonus guarantees Additional retirement benefits at the time of recruitment People JPY Peopl JPY Peopl JPY “Subject directors, etc.” “Subject employees, etc.” 1 ¥127 3 ¥36 19 ¥813 (C) REM3：Deferred Compensation (Millions of yen) a b c d e Regarding Regarding compensation compensation Of which, the Amount of after allocation, after allocation, deferred deferred Deferred variable amounts variable amounts compensation compensation compensation adjusted but not adjusted and amount subject paid in the amount linked to linked to to adjustment or relavent fiscal variations for the variations for the variation year relevant fiscal relevant fiscal year year Cash compensation ¥10 ¥10 ¥¥¥1 amount Stock compensation “Subject amount or stockdirectors, 773 444 103 162 based type etc.” compensation amount Other compensation amount Cash compensation 6,745 1,938 126 2,697 amount Stock compensation “Subject amount or stockemployees, 2,440 1,333 157 566 based type etc.” compensation amount Other compensation 0 amount Total amount ¥9,969 ¥3,727 ¥126 ¥260 ¥3,429 (D) Other Relevant Matters Relating to Our System of Compensation for Subject Directors, Corporate Auditors and Employees of Mizuho Group Not applicable, other than those covered in the above. 320 321 Disclosure Policy 1. Basic principles laws and regulations as well as stock exchange rules, we We are committed to growing together with our customers follow the defined disclosure procedures such as publishing in a stable and sustainable manner and bringing together such information in business reports (Jigyo–Hokoku), our group–wide expertise to contribute to the prosperity of annual securities reports (Yukashoken–Hokokusho), economies and societies throughout the world as the leading Integrated Report (Annual Review) and other disclosure Japanese financial services group with a global presence publications, as well as providing such information through and a broad customer base. For this reason, we place one of the information distribution systems of domestic and the highest management priorities on continuing to disclose international stock exchanges and through press releases. information to our customers, shareholders, and investors both We also endeavor to disclose other information in a fair, in and outside Japan in a fair, timely and appropriate manner, timely and appropriate manner. When we disclose such in order that they may form proper judgments and appraisals information, we basically publish on our website the of the group. To achieve this aim, we observe applicable information we disclose. In addition, we endeavor to utilize domestic and international laws and regulations as well as the latest disclosure methods and tools to provide more fair stock exchange rules relating to corporate disclosure, and we and widespread disclosure. establish and implement appropriate Disclosure Controls and (2) Investor relations activities Procedures. Investor relations activities to market participants both in and outside Japan such as shareholders, investors and 2. Disclosure Controls and Procedures securities analysts are conducted by the President & Group (1) Establishment and implementation of Disclosure Controls CEO, Group CFO, Chief IR Officer, and executives and and Procedures employees designated by them. In accordance with our Our Disclosure Controls and Procedures are established basic principles described in section 1 above, and with due to observe applicable domestic and international laws and attention to two–way communication, we endeavor sincerely regulations as well as stock exchange rules and to implement to facilitate a proper understanding of our management fair, timely and appropriate corporate disclosure. The strategies, financial condition and other matters. In this Disclosure Controls and Procedures are the process carried way, we aim to earn the trust of the market and obtain an out by directors, officers and employees of Mizuho Financial appropriate market reputation. Group and include Internal Controls over Financial Reporting designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding Beginning with the disclosure required by applicable the reliability of Financial Reporting and the Preparation domestic and international laws and regulations as of Financial Statements. We have established the basic well as stock exchange rules, we endeavor to grasp principles underlying our Disclosure Controls and Procedures properly the types of information desired by the market as well as our internal rules related to Disclosure Controls and and to disclose useful and appropriate information Procedures that govern the management framework for the voluntarily and proactively, in accordance with the soentire Mizuho Financial Group including group companies, called Fair Disclosure Rule (“FDR”). Regarding disclosure and we endeavor to establish, implement and continuously of information we consider particularly important, we improve our Disclosure Controls and Procedures. Our communicate such information on an ad hoc basis as and Disclosure Committee is the Business Policy Committee when necessary, even if a press release has already been that is responsible for discussing and coordinating matters issued, through such means as special briefing sessions. relating to Disclosure Controls and Procedures. (2) Evaluation of effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and In addition, we respect various disclosure principles Procedures including fair disclosure. Accordingly, at individual calls, Our Disclosure Controls and Procedures are documented, private meetings or conferences hosted or attended by and evaluation of the overall effectiveness of our Disclosure representatives of Mizuho Financial Group we endeavor to Controls and Procedures is conducted regularly by limit carefully our explanations to matters already disclosed reviewing the contents of such documentation and their and facts commonly known. implementation. In addition, evaluation of the effectiveness and appropriateness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures Should we happen to disclose important information such is conducted through internal audits. as information subject to insider trading regulations and/or (3) Others undisclosed financial results that might have a significant We established a “Code of Ethics for Financial Professionals” influence on stock prices, we endeavor to take necessary to be observed by all directors and executive officers, as well action such as officially announcing the information as soon as all managers and other employees within Mizuho Financial as possible, in accordance with FDR. Group who engage in financial reporting, accounting or (3) Correction of misconceptions in the markets disclosure. We have also developed the “internal control and If we identify significant misconceptions regarding Mizuho audit hotline”, a system designed for reporting questionable Financial Group in the market due to the spread of rumors accounting, internal control, or auditing matters from both or otherwise, we endeavor to investigate their causes and inside and outside Mizuho Financial Group. correct such misconceptions promptly. 3. Disclosure methods, other (1) Disclosure methods With respect to the information which is required to be disclosed pursuant to applicable domestic and international 2018 Integrated Report 322 Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 1-5-5 Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8176, Japan www.mizuho-fg.com This PDF version of the Integrated Report is a digital version of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified published version, which is printed on FSC-certified paper.
