Currie Communication on Progress 27 September 2018 Statement of support by Managing Director I am pleased to reaffirm Currie’s support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Since becoming a participant in 2016, Currie has continued to integrate the principles into our business strategy and culture alongside our support and advocacy for the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and our commitments as a certified B Corporation. We’ve commenced a materiality review to inform our business strategy and our next sustainability report. Currie also made a submission to the Australian Government for Australia’s first voluntary national review of progress towards the SDGs and we have been closely monitoring the passage of Modern Slavery legislation through the Australian Parliament. As a communications firm, we’re cognisant of our role in promoting these global goals and have assisted several clients align their sustainability strategies and reporting with the SDGs. This public statement of support describes the actions we have taken and plan to take to ensure our ongoing focus into 2018-19 and beyond. Susan McNair Managing Director Currie Communications Pty Ltd ABN 82 050 913 909 Level 7, 84 William Street, Melbourne, Victoria, 3000 03 9670 6599 | info@curriecommunications.com.au www.curriecommunications.com.au Human rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights issues Currie supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights as described in the Universal Declaration on Human Rights. Our commitment to these rights is encapsulated in our Code of Conduct that explicitly promotes human rights in the workplace. We promote human rights internally through our Flexible Working Policy and Leave Policy which ensures those that work at Currie can balance their individual circumstances and needs. Our OH&S officer and OH&S policy contribute to build a balanced and safe workplace. What we’ve done These policies have been implemented through our activities in 2017-18 in three key areas – Supporting non-profit partners • Reached our target of 5% pro-bono work to social, environmental and non-profit partners that include the Banksia Foundation and the Asylum Seeker’s Resource Centre (ASRC) and the World Bank project, Capturing Coral Reef and Related Ecosystem Services project (CCRES). • Donated to causes that support rural communities, cancer research and foster care programs. Advocating for human rights • During 2017/18 we attended a briefing on Human Rights and Business hosted by Global Compact Network Australia; a training session by Deloitte on human rights in the supply chain; and monitored progress of the Modern Slavery Act bills in the Australian Commonwealth Parliament and the NSW Parliament. We shared the learnings from these sessions with Currie staff during an internal knowledge sharing event on human rights and modern slavery. • Supported sustainable development and human rights, including the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), through social media and blog articles on our website and in our newsletter. • An assessment to identify our key suppliers, with a view to introducing a supplier code of conduct next year is underway. The code will encourage suppliers to consider human rights issues in their practices and supply chain. Improving the wellbeing of our staff • Applied our policies and employee code of conduct to promote human rights in the workplace. Ensured we had no OH&S incidents during the period. © Currie Communications Page 2 of 9 • Supported the education of our staff by investing in formal staff training and in-house knowledge exchange events. Staff members are encouraged to access up to $AUD2,500 each per year for professional development. Plans for the future We did not complete our planned review of supplier relationships during the period and instead focussed our efforts on a materiality review which is currently underway. We will renew our human rights commitment in 2018/19 through: • Prioritising the completion of a materiality review as part of our sustainability strategy to evaluate our impact and our stakeholders’ interest in human rights issues, and ensure we are measuring and reporting what matters. • Creating a supplier code of conduct to seek suppliers’ commitment to adhere to the principles on human rights. • Continuing our advocacy activities around the SDGs. © Currie Communications Page 3 of 9 Labour Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation We value our workers as the backbone of our business and were proud to receive recognition as a B Corp Best For the World company in the Workers category for the second consecutive year. We aim to provide a safe, fair and rewarding workplace. Our employee Code of Conduct sets out our expectation for a positive work environment. Currie’s HR Manual articulates guidelines and processes for the exercise of labour rights including leave, flexible working arrangements, performance review, pay adjustment and disputes. Currie supports the International Labour Organisation’s core conventions through strict adherence to Australia’s labour laws. What we’ve done These policies have been implemented through our activities in 2017-18 in three key areas: Compensating employees fairly • Paid employees above Award rates • Increased employee salaries higher than CPI increases each year • Distributed monthly bonuses to employees who met productivity targets • Paid EOFY bonuses to all employees. Eliminating all forms of discrimination • Promoted gender diversity by supporting working women with 75% of executives being female • Bridging socio-economic divisions by hiring a refugee intern as part of our partnership with ASRC Mentoring program • Establishing a workplace that caters to individual circumstances through open, flexible working arrangements • Attended a briefing on Human Rights and Business hosted by Global Compact Network Australia; a training session by Deloitte on human rights in the supply chain; and monitored progress of the Modern Slavery Act bills in the Australian Commonwealth Parliament and the NSW Parliament. We shared the learnings from these sessions with staff during a training session on human rights and modern slavery. • Begun the process of identifying suppliers in order to determine an approach that will encourage our suppliers to consider forced and child labour issues in their practices and supply chains. © Currie Communications Page 4 of 9 Maintaining a positive and healthy work environment • A code of conduct and suite of HR policies to promote respectful and positive workplace relationships • Supported the mental health and wellbeing of employees by providing access to a thirdparty employee assistance program. The program is made available in the event of traumatic incidents in an employee’s personal life. • Held monthly one-on-one meetings between employees and the Managing Director – a platform to discuss and address any concerns and provide 360 feedback. • Ensured the workplace had no OH&S incidents during 2017-18 through the implementation of our OH&S policy • Conducted a staff survey ahead of Currie’s strategy day to gather employee feedback on work culture and work satisfaction, suggestions for improvements, and input into strategic priorities. • Surveyed staff to inform the development of a ‘Healthy Currie’ program that includes monthly social activities, healthy eating initiatives and equipment stations to support microbreaks and office-based exercise. • Sit-stand desks to improve the health and wellbeing of employees. • Consulted our staff on business strategy by hosting an all-day workshop to co-design our business strategy and identify our strategic priorities. Plans for the future While we are pleased with the successes of 2017-18 we look forward to progressing our support for labour rights. In the next reporting period we plan to: • Create a supplier code of conduct requesting our suppliers to adhere to labour principles. • Complete a materiality review as part of our sustainability strategy to evaluate our role in promoting and upholding labour rights, and ensure we are measuring and reporting what matters. © Currie Communications Page 5 of 9 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 0 Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies Currie’s Environmental Policy Statement helps guide sustainable decision-making and activities and directs Currie to minimise its environmental footprint through: • Use of materials and resources, including energy, waste and water • Purchase of products and resources, including energy supply • Decisions to support and accept suppliers and clients including pro-bono work • Off-setting emissions from travel. As a knowledge provider, we understand that we are in a position to encourage external stakeholders to adopt sustainable practice. To reflect this our environmental policy challenges our business to take proactive steps to support sustainable development – including customers, suppliers and associates. What we’ve done We have taken action in three key areas in 2017-18 – Minimising carbon emissions Our office is supplied by 100% renewable energy sources stemming from hydropower. This commitment to renewable energy significantly reduces our carbon emissions. Our policy is to offset 100% of our emissions generated through energy, waste and travel. We do this directly through airlines’ offset programs (60% of emissions offset) and via our ongoing relationship with Greenfleet (40%). This relationship saw 112 native trees planted during the period. Reducing waste to landfill We continue to reduce our waste footprint by using reusable KeepCups to minimise the use of single-use coffee cups, using 100% recycled paper, using rechargeable batteries and recycling other brands. Following our office move in early 2018, we donated all unsuitable office furniture to local Scouts groups for reuse. Promoting sustainable development outside the business Outside the business, we actively promote and encourage environmentally-sustainable practice through social media, blogs and pro-bono work with environmentally-focused organisations, including the Banksia Foundation. Where applicable, we have encouraged our clients to align with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by initiating conversations about these global goals, mapping their activities to the 17 SDG goals and 169 targets, and presenting information on the benefits of contributing to this global movement. © Currie Communications Page 6 of 9 When producing publications for our clients, we have encouraged them to consider the environmental impacts of printed options and use recycled stock where appropriate. Plan for the future While our plans to conduct formal environmental assessments of purchased products could not be completed, due to our focus on conducting a materiality review, we do have plans to: • Complete a supplier code of conduct that will encourage environmental best practice. • Complete a materiality review as part of our sustainability strategy to evaluate our impact on environment issues, and ensure we are measuring and reporting what matters. • Continue our advocacy activities around the SDGs. • Investigate a more comprehensive recycling solution for our new office building and other tenants within the building. © Currie Communications Page 7 of 9 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption 0 in all forms, including extortion and bribery We have continued to act against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our staff act with integrity and this value is embodied in our code of conduct which explicitly sets out our anti-corruption policy: • Act and maintain a high standard of integrity and professionalism • Avoid apparent conflicts of interest • Business transactions may not be influenced by offering or accepting gifts • Under no circumstances may employees offer or accept money. What we’ve done In 2017-18 we have continued to show our commitment through full compliance with Australian anti-corruption law. We have achieved no corruption complaints, formal or informal, during the reporting period. Plans for the future While it was not possible to complete anti-corruption assessments of our suppliers, clients or associates, or implement a measurement system due to our focus on completing a materiality review, we are committed to achieving the following: • Build anti-corruption statements into our supplier code of conduct, which we are aiming to complete next year. © Currie Communications Page 8 of 9 © Currie Communications Page 9 of 9
