COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 Flash Group 1 Statement of continued support About Flash Group Flash CSR Strategy The 10 principles of UN Global Compact Flash Group Communication on Progress This document is a summary of our Communication On Progress 2017. The full text version is available on the UN Global Compact website. 2 Statement of Continued Support “As Chief Executive Officer of the Flash Group, I am pleased to confirm our continued support for the United Union Global Compact and renew our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its 10 principles on Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This first Communication on Progress aims to share with you the efforts we made since our membership to the UN Global Compact to improve our CSR performance by making its 10 principles part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations.” Philippe HIGELIN Chief Executive Officer This document is a summary of our Communication On Progress. The full text version is available on the UN Global Compact website. 3 About Flash Group Flash is the European leader in same-day and time-sensitive premium freight. In 2015, Flash partnered with Eurazeo to support its international expansion as well as its digital strategy. Flash has been digitizing its activity: disintermediating and automating the order intake while launching and incubating seven digital startups. The creation of startups and other acquisitions effectively made Flash a group. In March 2018, to better reflect its entire portfolio of activities and services, Flash has formed and become part of Redspher. Redspher incorporates all its companies and startups within one digital platform, covering a wide spectrum of services in on-demand delivery. 4 Facts & figures Over 1.000.000 deliveries in 2017 350.000.000 kms covered in 2017 49 offices in 18 Countries 630 employees Majority Management owned + 43% by PE Eurazeo PME 5 Insight on the Flash Group Companies European leader in Specialized in time A Tool comparing Premium Freight. critical transports, A web based worldwide shipping Flash offers tailor Schwerdtfeger relies solution to manage and tracking made solutions on its strong all ad hoc solutions for your worldwide, by road presence in transports. Easy4Pro parcels. and air. Germany, with its is much more than teams, drivers and a TMS. partners. An App to monitor Online training Get online access to vehicles and Online solutions for center creating new the biggest shipments. Improve companies looking horizons for european fleet of the communication to quickly improve logistics. Set up new small vehicles for between shippers their customer standards with your urgent and and drivers for a logistic experience: attractive and tailor direct deliveries. better quality of first, last mile & made content. service. direct delivery in Europe. 6 CSR Strategy What is our CSR strategy? To improve the sustainability of our development path by reinforcing our attractivity and by being competitive. What do we stand for? To become a great place to work for & with in our market. What are our priorities? To reduce our environmental footprint To improve our social footprint To create sustainable value What are our key levers? Innovation Training Fair business practices 7 Strategic CSR Goals ENVIRONMENT CUSTOMERS To measure and to reduce the impact To become their strategic partner for our of our activities on the environment CSR performances To offer our customers a carbon neutral To promote our CSR commitments and transport solution achievements EMPLOYEES PARTNERS To attract and keep good and talented To integrate the CSR expectations employees on board in the management of transport To create a working environment suppliers promoting diversity, innovation and trust To support improvements in working conditions of drivers 8 Human Labour Rights UN GLOBAL COMPACT 10 PRINCIPLES Environment Anti-Corruption 9 Human Rights 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights 2. no complicity in Human Rights abuses. International expansion, both organic or external, is a pillar of the Group’s growth strategy. Flash applies the same policy in all its agencies in order to ensure the Group’s worldwide reputation and quality of service. It means respecting a comparable level of ethics and identical operational processes across the whole group. 10 Human Rights Goal Solutions Results Implementation of a Code Comparable level of ethics of Conduct for the Group’s employees and respect for Human Awareness to the respect of Human Rights guaranteed in all the Rights made in the CSR e-learning Group’s agencies regardless training program the country of operation Engage the Group Implementation of a reporting and its employees No problem procedure for concerns and unethical with respect for reported in 2017 behaviors Human Rights Realization of an anonymous Employee satisfaction: employee satisfaction survey every + 0,5 percentage points year in order to enforce the freedom compared to 2016 of expression within the Group Topics addressed in the Code of Conduct: 11 Child & forced labour, anti-discrimination policy and prohibition of harassment Labour 3. Support the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4. Eliminate of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5. Abolish child labour 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Human Resources management is a top priority. Flash made a significant investment in training, promotion of internal mobility and talent management. Flash also promoted the use of digital communities among employees and worked on the development of its employer brand. 12 LABOUR Goal Solutions Results Development of a CSR e-learning program, promoting diversity at work Raise employees’ 1 awareness Implementation of a Code of Conduct for the Group’s employees Promote diversity Percentage of women in the total workforce and equal Gender equality is 11 % higher than the sector average opportunities through hiring and within the Group career management A woman joined the EXCOM in 2017 Implementation of a reporting procedure in No problem case of violation of the reported in 2017 Code of Conduct principles Topics addressed in the Code of Conduct: Respect for ILO conventions, child & forced labour, freedom of association and right to collective bargaining, respect for staff fundamental rights, anti-discrimination policy and prohibition of harassment 13 LABOUR Goal Solutions Results Same training opportunities for all the In 2017, 5060 online trainings have been Group’s employees completed, representing approximately thanks to Flash’s 1 900 training hours e-learning platform 2 Development of the 17 internal mobilities in 2017, 4 of which Group’s talents by enabled the employees to move to Attracting, internal mobility management positions retaining & developing New premises answering to high quality talented Creation of a healthy standards for Contern (2015), Lille (2017) and employees and stimulating work Maastricht (2018) offices and ongoing program environment for the of compliance of premises in France Group’s employees No work accident in 2017 Realization of a yearly employee satisfaction Regular measurement of survey with definition of an improvement plan the impact of the actions Employee satisfaction for 2017: carried out by Flash + 0,5 percentage points compared to 2016 14 Flash WORKING IN 49 Talent OFFICES OVER 18 Pool COUNTRIES 630 EMPLOYEES IN THE GROUP 33% OF EMPLOYEES ARE FEMALE 25 SECTOR AVERAGE: CULTURALLY AND LINGUISTICALLY DIVERSE 22% OF WOMEN IN COMMUNITIES TRANSPORT (*) REPRESENTED IN THE GROUP 23% EMPLOYEES ARE AGED LESS THAN 30 YEARS 20% OF LEADER TEAM ARE FEMALE (*) Source: Eurostat 2017 15 Environment 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. Promote greater environmental responsibility 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Flash decided to place the respect of the environment at the heart of it’s strategy. A large set of initiatives has been launched in order to reduce the environmental footprint as well as to improve the Group’s efficiency. 16 Environment Goal Solutions Results 1 The execution of organized expedites per Measure the impact of Realization of a Carbon Flash has been identified Flash’s activity on the assessment as the main source of environment and GHG emissions identify the main sources of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions directly or A measurement system Build up a reliable indirectly generated by is being built up in house measurement system of the Group’s activity to ensure a regular GHG emissions linked to follow up of the defined Flash activity KPIs Scope 3 represents more than 99% of the Group’s emissions Road activities are accountable for approximately 97% of those emissions The emissions generated by upstream activities (business travels, employees commuting, capital goods, …) have comparatively a negligible impact (<1%) 17 Environment Goal Solutions Results Development and use of advanced mileage Optimization and optimization technology reduction of empty Training of the employees to the optimization mileage thanks to tools and process developed by Flash innovative and digital 2 new solutions Creation of an optimization center Reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Achievement of a 20% CO2 reduction for road generated by the Implementation of a activity over a consecutive period of 5 years: transports organized program that will lead obtention of the 1st Lean & Green Star in 2015 by Flash for its into a customers & operated Qualification for the 2nd Lean & Green Star Lean & Green award by the Group’s transport suppliers Fostering the use of Launch of an urban delivery service based on cleaner and lower electric vehicles (Easy2Go) consumption engines Work with Carrier Community to encourage within our customer Euronorms regular upgrade supply chain 18 Focus on Easy2Go electric cars program Easy2GO launched in France, in September 2017, a milkrun delivery program based on full electric vehicles. The main goal of this project is to be able to offer a more qualitative and sustainable service. Actually, Easy2Go employes 10 electric vehicles and is willing to develop quickly this activity by creating new partnerships with environmentally friendly carriers. In 4 months: 9 tCO2e saved thanks to the only use of electric vehicles 19 Environment Goal Solutions Results Selection of a green hosting provider In 2017 100% of computers have been “Green IT” bought from environmentally friendly manufacturers 3 Eco-friendly e-learning module Raise employees’ implementation Reduce greenhouse awareness Environmental protection clause in the gas (GHG) emissions Group's Code of Conduct directly generated by Flash activity and its Improvement of the employees Group company car Increased percentage of hybrid company car policy Improvement of energy Luxembourg office based in a BREEAM excellent certified building. Similar efficiency of Flash’s requirements for our new office in offices Maastricht 20 Fight against corruption 10. Work against corruption in all its forms The Group Management believes that opposing any kind of corruption and maintaining a high level of business ethics is essential to the sustainable growth of the Group. Flash worked on the commitment of its management team and of all employees, formalized in the form of signed documents. 21 Fight against corruption Goal Solutions Results Ensure Formalization of a business management ethics statement, signed by commitment in the Excom members fight against corruption Implementation of a Code of Conduct for the Group’s No problem employees . Dedicated identified in 2017 Prevent corruption e-learning module to the fight risks within the against corruption Group and raise awareness of Flash’s Implementation of a reporting employees procedure Topics addressed in the Code of Conduct: gifts given and received, conflict of interests, prevention of money laundering, fight against corruption and relationships with suppliers, customers or any third party associate. 22
