UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Contents Letter from the CEO 3 1 Open communication and knowledge dissemination 4 Communication policy 4 Open meetings 4 Does the future need energy? 4 A report on “The Energy Market at a Crossroads” 5 Renewable energy is more valuable 5 North-eastern Sustainability Initiative 5 Sustainability initiative in East Iceland 5 Successful cooperation between Landsvirkjun and the tourism industry in Iceland 6 Get to know Landsvirkjun on the web 7 2 UN’s Sustainable Development Goals 8 Gender equality 8 Affordable and Clean Energy 9 Climate Action 9 Climate matters are energy matters 10 3 Guiding Principles 12 Objectives 2017 12 Corporate governance 13 Value Chain 13 Environmental Matters 14 Society 15 Human Resources 16 The proportion of female managers exceeds 30% 16 Appraisal of accessibility 16 Accidents 16 Knowledge Dissemination 17 4 Universal sustainability principles 18 Human rights and the work environment 18 Environmental issues 19 Anti-corruption measures 19 UN Global Compact 20 UN Global Compact 20 Relevant materials/content 20 2 Letter from the CEO Landsvirkjun's operations were successful in in 2014. The first phase of the geothermal power 2017. Revenues were higher than ever before station at Þeistareykir also began operations and energy sales and generation were the highest in November. The second phase will begin ever recorded. Sales amounted to 14.3 TWh, an operations in the spring of 2018. The expansion increase of more than 5% when compared with of the Búrfell Hydropower Station will soon the previous year. Five power stations enjoyed reach completion and is scheduled to begin a record year in production: Fljótsdalur, Sigalda, operations by the middle of 2018. A total of 1.6 Búðarháls, Sultartangi and Steingrímsstöð. TWh will be produced by these three new power stations, representing a 12% increase in capacity. External conditions were also advantageous to the Company. Aluminium prices increased These projects, which will lay the foundation by 23% between years and still have some for stronger and safer revenue resources for the effect on the Company's income. Most of our Company, have temporarily slowed down debtlargest customers experienced a successful year repayment. In 2018, this extended construction of operations and the demand for electricity period will end, and the Company will be even remained high. stronger than before and better prepared to deal with future projects. All of these factors led to record profits before unrealised financial items. Landsvirkjun's Landsvirkjun is a participant in the UN Global finances are becoming stronger every year, Compact, which is a global criteria for social which means that we will soon be able to responsibility and Landsvirkjun’s progress on increase dividend payments to the owner those issues is outlined in the annual report. of the Company, the Icelandic people. This strong cash flow has sustained major Yours sincerely, investments over the past few years. Two power stations were constructed concurrently for the first time in Company history and the Búðarháls Hydropower Station began operations Hörður Arnarson, CEO 3 Open communication and knowledge dissemination Landsvirkjun’s social responsibility policy Our communication policy is includes open and honest communication with any parties affected by company decisions and to create support and consensus those who can influence company decisions. through open communication Landsvirkjun is a state owned energy company with stakeholders and plays an important role within society. We are committed to providing information to the public and to creating a platform for the views Open meetings and interests of those affected, by creating a forum for discussion. We want to help the public Landsvirkjun holds a number of open meetings to familiarise themselves with our operations. every year to share information on its operations. The issues discussed are varied and call for open We are committed to achieving widespread communication with stakeholders all over the consensus on the balance between country. Landsvirkjun held six, well attended, environmental, social and profitability issues open meetings this year where the public in our operations. The Company wants to were able to familiarise themselves with our contribute to the sustainable development of operations. society; it is a leader in environmental matters and is committed to social responsibility. Does the future need energy? The Company fulfils external requirements, government, laws and regulations, and other The question “Does the Future Need Energy?” requirements made with regard to its operations. was the main focus of Landsvirkjun’s Annual Meeting, held at the Hilton Reykjavík Nordica, Communication policy on the 26th of April, 2017. Benedikt Jóhannesson, Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs Our communication policy is to create support and Jónas Þór Guðmundsson, Chairman of and consensus through open communication the Landsvirkjun Board of Directors both with stakeholders. We attach great importance addressed the audience. Hörður Arnarson, CEO to our communication policy and enforce it in all of Landsvirkjun and Ragna Árnadóttir, Deputy our Company projects. CEO gave an overview of the year’s results and 4 operations. They also discussed the future of The first part of the year was spent validating energy matters in Iceland and elsewhere. the indicators for the project, that the data used to develop these indicators is accessible. A cost A report on “The Energy Market at a analysis was subsequently conducted and a plan Crossroads” was developed for data purchases in connection with the monitoring of the project. Initially, it A report on “The Energy Market at a Crossroads” was assumed that the scope of the data collection was presented at an open meeting held at the would only cover the years 2015 and 2016, but Hilton Reykjavík Nordica. Over 300 people data will now be retrieved as far back as 2011 or as attended the meeting. The economists Helge far as possible, without creating additional costs. Sigurds Næss-Schmidt and Martin Bo Westh Preparation work for the project’s website Hansen addressed the audience. Þórdís Kolbrún began in February and the steering committee R. Gylfadóttir, Minister of Tourism, Industry suggested that the domain www.gaumur.is be and Innovation and Hörður Arnarson, CEO of used for the project. Data collection and data Landsvirkjun also gave presentations. processing continued alongside preparation work for the website. Renewable energy is more valuable Sustainability initiative in East Iceland Landsvirkjun has produced renewable energy since it began operations. Global awareness Ten years have elapsed since monitoring began on the environment and climate change has on sustainability indicators via the sustainability increased the value of renewable electricity. Our initiative in East Iceland. The Social Science experts discussed the value of this commodity Research Institute at the University of Iceland was during our Autumn Meeting. The impact of contacted and asked to conduct an evaluation of climate change on energy production and the social indicators of the project to commemorate utilisation within the Icelandic system was this milestone. These indicators were analysed discussed. There was also a discussion on the with reference to the social indicators from worldwide, increased demand for renewable Statistics Iceland. A report on the results of the energy and how it can be used responsibly and audit was published in December 2017. Among sustainably. the topics discussed were the project’s scope, the development and objectives of the sixteen social North-eastern Sustainability Initiative indicators of the project as well as the benefits and follow-up on these results. The outcome of the audit Landsvirkjun launched a Sustainability Initiative is intended as a guide for the project’s participants in (SI) in Northeast Iceland in 2015. The aim of the the review and follow-up of the project. project was to monitor the social, environmental and economic development of the area affected The report and other information on the project by the Þeistareykir Geothermal Power Station, indicators as well as its progress can be accessed on tourism and by the build-up of industry at Bakki. the project website: www.sjalfbaerni.is. 5 Successful cooperation between wilderness in the eyes of the tourists who go Landsvirkjun and the tourism industry in there. Iceland The report states that the fact that the Blanda The collaboration between the energy industry Hydropower Station does not disturb the tourist and tourism industry has been successful so experience is a clear indication that the design of far. The access and facilities provided by energy the station is successful and works well with the projects have often been positive for tourism. The surrounding landscape. construction of power stations and connected operations has often proved popular with tourists. Good examples of this include the Blue “This is the first time such an Lagoon, the Mývatn Nature Baths, the Hellisheiði Geothermal Power Plant, and the energy extensive survey is conducted on exhibition in Reykjanes and Landsvirkjun’s the tourist experience of power visitor centres in Ljósafoss, Búrfell, Krafla and the Kárahnjúkar Dam. stations in operation in Iceland. These visits from foreign visitors provide revenue The power industry and tourism each year which is likely to increase in the years to come. The results of a survey conducted by can clearly work well together the University of Iceland showed that almost if the design process of power half of the respondents would be likely to visit the visitor centres, at geothermal or hydropower stations is well thought out. It stations, during their next visit. is important that new buildings Renewable energy sources are a large part of Iceland´s image and there is a great opportunity and other structures outside the for energy-based tourism for the country as a urban area in Iceland take the whole. protection of nature into account The power station structures in the Blanda area do not cause much disruption to the tourist experience and merge with the landscape.” The University of Iceland conducted a study for Landsvirkjun this year with the aim of exploring the impact of manmade structures on the tourist Hörður Arnarson, CEO of experience of nature in Iceland. An operational Landsvirkjun power station was chosen for the study including both the reservoir and the station, which is in the vicinity of a popular tourist route in the Over 40,000 visitors this year highland area. Landsvirkjun has over the years received visitors The survey results show that the majority of and educated them on renewable energy sources. tourists in the Blanda area were pleased with Landsvirkjun opens its power stations to visitors their stay. The majority of tourists or 89% who want to know more about the Company’s experience the area as a natural landscape. operations and electricity generation from Approximately 92% considered the untouched renewable energy sources every summer. Guests wilderness to be part of the area’s attractiveness, were welcomed at Ljósafoss Station and Krafla despite the presence of power station structures Station and a guide was made available at the such as reservoirs, dams, canals, roads and Kárahnjúkar Dam. The energy exhibition at the power lines. It could therefore be said that the Ljósafoss Station is open all year, where visitors Blanda Hydropower station does not disturb can learn about electricity in an entertaining and the image of the highlands as an untouched educational way. 6 The number of visitors to Landsvirkjun’s visitor centres has increased significantly between years, or by 39 per cent. Over 40,000 thousand people visited Landsvirkjun’s visitor centres as well as the dam at Hálslón. More than twenty thousand people made their way to Krafla and over nineteen thousand people visited the Ljósafoss Visitor Centre. Nearly nine hundred and fifty people enjoyed a guided tour of Kárahnjúkar. More than half of the respondents who took part in the survey conducted by the University of Iceland stated that they were interested in visiting a visitor centre in a geothermal or hydropower station. There are therefore clear opportunities within the industry to build on energy-efficient tourism. Get to know Landsvirkjun on the web Landsvirkjun provides important information on the Company’s website in both Icelandic and English. In 2017, approx. 97,000 visited the Company website. Facebook followers increased by 14% to a total of 4,280. Landsvirkjun shared 70 entries on Facebook and received 4000 “likes”. The Company is also on Twitter and Instagram. Landsvirkjun has in recent years published both annual and environmental reports but these reports have only been published digitally since 2014. The goal is to increase public access to the annual accounts of the Company and to promote effective disclosure on its activities. In 2017, nearly 3000 readers viewed the Annual Report and page views were over 15,500. The Annual Report is available to all interested parties, who can also acquaint themselves with the Company at Landsvirkjun.is or on our Facebook page, Twitter and Instagram. 7 UN’s Sustainable Development Goals Landsvirkjun is committed to three of the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals Landsvirkjun committed to upholding three Landsvirkjun attaches great importance to the of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals at sustainable development of energy in harmony the beginning of 2017: Goal 5 on Gender with the environment and society. Support for Equality, Goal 13 on Climate Action and Goal 7 the Global Goals is in line with Landsvirkjun’s on Affordable and Clean Energy. focus on corporate social responsibility and support for the UN Global Compact. Landsvirkjun hosted an open meeting on social responsibility at Hotel Nattura. Hörður Arnarson, Gender equality CEO of Landsvirkjun gave a presentation on Goal 13 on Climate Action and the Company’s Sustainable Development Goal 5 objectives. Ragnhildur Arnljótsdóttir, Perma­ nent Secretary at the Prime Minister’s Office, Success was achieved on gender equality issues gave a presentation on all of the UN Sustainable with regard to employee wages. Landsvirkjun Development Goals and Sigurður Ingi Friðleifsson, was also awarded the Gold Standard for Wage Manager of the Energy Agency at the National Equality by PWC for the third time. Landsvirkjun Energy Authority gave a presentation on Goal 7, achieved one of its main goals and the proportion on Affordable and Clean Energy. of female managers exceeded 30% this year during the year. 8 A group of female Landsvirkjun employees These indicators emphasise the need for began discussing the status of women within the progress on gender equality in the following Company at the beginning of 2017. Efforts have categories: Culture, communication and been made to balance the gender gap but these working environment, policy and organization, changes have been much slower than initially organizational chart, wages and role models. hoped. The issue of gender equality was therefore Gender equality goals will be set according to discussed in a variety of ways and the CEO of the Equality indicators in all Landsvirkjun’s Landsvirkjun subsequently announced that he operational areas and managers will be would accept the position of Chairman on the responsible for the development of gender gender equality committee, until satisfactory equality within their own area. results were achieved. Affordable and Clean Energy A report on the status of women in the Icelandic energy sector was published in May by the Women Sustainable Development Goal 7 in Energy Association. The report showed that women have less influence within the field A conference was held in New York in May 2017 than men. by SEforALL (Sustainable Energy for All) which is a United Nations organization established after Preperation of action plan the December 2015 climate summit in Paris. The aim of the Association is to ensure access The debate on gender equality called for to energy, to double the share of renewable action. External advisors were asked to assess energy in energy production worldwide and to the situation and to implement any relevant double the progress of energy efficiency by 2030. changes to ensure more gender equality within Ragna Árnadóttir, deputy CEO of Landsvirkjun, Landsvirkjun. The company Capacent was participated in the panel discussions, where consulted to assess Landsvirkjun’s corporate she introduced renewable energy production culture with regard to gender equality. Visits in Iceland, energy exchange during the last few were made to all operational areas and factors decades and the challenges faced by Icelanders relating to culture, processes, facilities, housing, in energy and climate issues. etc. were assessed. Various interviews were also conducted with managers and employees. The A People-Centred Accelerator was subsequently results of the assessment were presented to the designed to support gender equality, community Executive Board in August, 2017 participation and the promotion of women within the global energy sector. Landsvirkjun is Employees from all Company areas were invited one of the founders of the Accelerator and the to Reykjavik to attend Landsvirkjun’s Autumn Company hosted a workshop at Krafla Station Meeting in early November. All employees (as part of the development of the accelerator), participated in working groups, focusing on in June, where 40 participants gathered from gender equality and discussing the many aspects around the world. Among the guests was Rachel of the issue. The results of Capacent’s analysis Kyte, CEO of SEforALL. were introduced to employees and integrated into the discussion. A representative from More Information on the SEforAll initiative each group subsequently gave an overview of and the Accelerator can be accessed on the what had been discussed and ideas for relevant organisation’s website: http://www.se4all.org/ projects were put forward. An action plan was subsequently further developed as a follow-up Climate Action measure. Sustainable Development Goal 13 Implementaion of the action plan Landsvirkjun published its climate targets The implementation of the action plan will publicly before the climate summit in Paris, in be carried out in the beginning of 2018 using 2015. The main target is carbon-free operations, Capacent’s Equality Indicators as a guideline. before 2030. The action plan for this target 9 is being systematically followed to ensure Landsvirkjun subsequently registered these success. Further carbon binding measures will intentions in Nazca (Non-State Actor Zone for be introduced including the increased use of Climate Action). electric vehicles and reduction of unrecyclable waste. Landsvirkjun is working alongside the Landsvirkjun‘s NAZCA goals are: Soil Conservation Service of Iceland (SCSI) and the Icelandic Forest Service on carbon To be a carbon neutral company by 2030 offset projects. Landsvirkjun is also working in To invest in renewable energy: geothermal, cooperation with Kolviður to offset employee hydropower and wind power travel, equipment, waste, etc. To ensure that 25% of the Company’s vehicles are powered by electricity by 2020 Landsvirkjun submitted a report on the To introduce various measures to reduce the Company’s climate action, for the second time, impact on the climate including the initiative to to the CDP. create action plans on energy efficiency at the national level Climate matters are energy matters The temperature on Earth in 2017 was the highest Climate issues are energy issues. ever recorded or 1.1 ° C higher than it was in the last decades of the 19th century. We must reduce global energy The sea level has risen during the same period consumption and accelerate and the sea has continued to acidify. An the development of renewable unusually high number of natural disasters occurred in 2017, some of which can be energy production to achieve the attributed to climate change. objectives of the Paris agreement Climate change is occurring at a much faster rate than expected and the serious consequences and to keep global warming below of these developments have received increased 2°C attention at the international level. Nations, cities, companies, associations of companies, non-governmental organizations and the public Energy generation is the largest producer of have outlined and promised action, aimed at greenhouse gases (GHG) and more than 80% of reaching the Paris Summit goal which aims global energy production is still based on fossil to keep the increase in temperature below 2 fuels. This type of power generation creates degrees. an enormous carbon footprint or high GHG emissions per energy unit. The Carbon footprint Iceland is an active participant in this initiative of renewable energy production, such as and plans to be carbon neutral by 2040. Various hydropower, wind power, geothermal energy municipalities and companies in Iceland have and solar energy is generally much less. participated in the debate and set ambitious targets to reduce their carbon footprint. Landsvirkjun is at the forefront of this campaign and intends to be carbon neutral by 2030. This is further explained in our Green Accounts 10 Carbon Footprint of Various Energy Sources Coal 1,001 Oil 840 Gas 469 Solar energy PV 46 Geothermal 45 Nuclear 16 Wind Energy 12 Hydropower 4 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 1100 Source: * Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change 2012: renewable Energy Sources and Climate Change Mitigation. Special Report of the Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change (page 982). ** Umhverfisstofnun 2017: National Inventory Report. Emissions of Greeenhouse Gases in Iceland 1990 to 2015 Expected develpment based on the goals -> 12,000 GW of individual countries 11 Guiding principles Landsvirkjun sets out key objectives in six areas regarding social responsibility every year. The objectives for 2017 can be seen below as well as action and outcomes. Objectives 2017 Every year, we develop an annual action plan defining one or more targets for each main category for that particular year. This enables the Company to increase any positive impact on the environment and minimise the negative. The objectives are introduced on the Company website at the beginning of each year and their progress is monitored. They are assessed and reevaluated as the next New Year begins when new objectives are set. Some of the objectives and the projects associated with them are supported by policies or regulations that Landsvirkjun has deemed necessary. This offers stakeholders more transparency with regard to our operations and gives them the opportunity to communicate their expectations. These measures also ensure a common understanding of certain topics at a cross-divisional level. 12 1 Corporate governance Policy on human rights The increased demand for non-financial disclosure, which specifically encourages a discussion on policy with regard to human rights, is outlined in in the new Act on Annual Accounts. Landsvirkjun will either review its equality policy in 2017, using human rights issues as a basis, or it will develop a policy on human rights. Status at year-end 2017 Preparatory work for Landsvirkjun’s policy on human rights was carried out in 2017 but has not been completed. The human rights policy is due to be published in 2018. 2 Value Chain Green steps Green steps are about systematically promoting ecological operations. The activities are primarily focused on ordinary office activities and have a positive impact on the environment, improving the working environment of employees and reducing operating costs. Status at year-end 2017 We completed Green Steps two and three in Akureyri and Reykjavik this year. The procedure for step four was also adopted, but has yet to be assessed by the Environment Agency. Green step procedures have been part of the environmental audit system in all Landsvirkjun’s operational areas since 2017. Mapping the value chain The Code of Conduct provided for suppliers and service providers are a requirement and a part of the Company’s daily operations. Efforts will be made to create an improved overview of the social impact of suppliers. These include climate action and fossil fuel consumption. Status at year-end 2017 Proposals were introduced, in cooperation with a number of consultants, as to appropriate requirements for contracts with contractors, with regard to reducing fossil fuel consumption during the construction period. One of the Company’s policies is to minimise the use of fossil fuels in its operations and to assist others in doing the same. Potential measures to minimise the use of fossil fuels on-site (with a particular emphasis on heavy equipment) were assessed. 13 3 Environmental Matters Information for the CDP Landsvirkjun signed the “Caring for Climate” declaration at the Paris Summit in December, 2015. The declaration commits Landsvirkjun to publishing the results of its success in the fight against climate change. Landsvirkjun submitted its first report to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), in accordance with the requirements of membership outlined for the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in 2016. Status at year-end 2017 Landsvirkjun submitted a report on its carbon emissions and action on climate action to the CDP for the second time in 2017. According to the CDP’s feedback, Landsvirkjun has made a good start on its work on climate change awareness. The CDP mentioned the following actions to strengthen work and improve Landsvirkjun’s performance with regard to action on climate change: Use the SBTI (Science Based Targets initiative) guidelines when setting carbon emission objectives Implementation of internal carbon prices Improve access to information by using CDSB (Climate Disclosure Standards Board) guidelines. Landsvirkjun will use the CDP feedback in its continuing work on climate issues. Review of the policy on energy exchange in transport In 2012, Landsvirkjun adopted a policy on energy exchange in transport and a transport policy was approved in 2013. Both of these policies outline support for reducing the impact of transport on the environment and atmosphere by reducing the use of fossil fuels and by using energy exchange in transport. Support for energy exchange has increased within Icelandic society and dialogue on the issue has increased. The policies therefore need to be reviewed and proposals that target these new opportunities need to be developed. Landsvirkjun will continue to endeavour to promote energy exchange in transport, both in its own activities and in cooperative projects. Status at year-end 2017 A proposal was put forward for Landsvirkjun’s Clean Energy Policy, which combines two previous company policies regarding energy exchange in transport and a transport policy, which was subsequently approved by Landsvirkjun’s executive committee. One of the projects undertaken in 2017 was the increase of electric car use in the Þjórsá area (instead of the rental of diesel cars), during the summer months, to coincide with the recruitment of summer employees. The experience revealed the following: Carbon dioxide emissions decreased by 7.9 tonnes CO2 compared to the same period in 2016 3,000 litres of fuel were saved in 2017 The increased use of electric cars in Landsvirkjun’s operations is a viable option Forestation measures in the Skálmholtshraun Lava Field Skálmholtshraun í Flóa is owned by Landsvirkjun and forestation measures for the area have been under preparation for some time. Land usage has changed in the area and the Master Plan will need to be reviewed for the project to go ahead. The change would imply that the land would be classified as ‘fit for agricultural purposes’. An extensive part of the land is suitable for forestry. Status at year-end 2017 The review of the Master Plan for Flóahreppur has not been completed but most of the land in Skálmholtshraun is already classified as land fit for agricultural purposes. Preparation work for forestation projects was carried out in 2017. Potential partners for the forestation project will be considered and the project is expected to begin in 2018. 14 4 Society Dividends paid to owners Our role is to consistently endeavour to maximise the potential yield and value of the natural resources we have been entrusted with, in a sustainable, responsible and efficient manner. One of the ways to fulfil this role is by paying dividends. Landsvirkjun pays annual dividends to its owner, the Icelandic state. The amount differs between years and is decided by the Board at their Annual General Meeting. Status at year-end 2017 The amount of dividend payments is determined by the Board of Directors at Landsvirkjun’s Annual General Meeting. Dividend payments for 2016 amounted to 1.5 billion ISK. North-eastern Sustainability Initiative Landsvirkjun launched a Sustainability Initiative (SI) in Northeast Iceland in cooperation with stakeholders in the area affected by the Þeistareykir Geothermal Power Station construction area and the build-up of industry at Bakki. The Húsavík Academic Center (HAC) is responsible for overseeing the project. Sustainability indicators were developed, via a broad consultation process, to assess developments within the area. Preparation work for the website will take place in 2017. Work on data collection for 2015 and 2016 is expected to be completed by the end of the year and the data will be published on the project’s website. Status at year-end 2017 Preparation work for the project’s website began in February and the steering committee suggested that the domain www.gaumur.is be used for the project. Data collection and data processing continued alongside preparation work for the website. Initially, the scope of the data collection only covered the years 2015 and 2016, but data will now be retrieved as far back as 2011 or as far as possible without additional cost. See further discussion in the Annual Report. Dialogue and consultation Extensive work was initiated within Landsvirkjun in 2015, aimed at improving relations with stakeholders and to encourage consensus on important aspects of projects and Company activities. This will continue in 2017 when interdisciplinary consultative groups will be established within the Company and further efforts will be made to promote dialogue and consultation with stakeholders in various ways. Status at year-end 2017 Nine consultative groups were identified within Landsvirkjun at the beginning of the year and each group received one focus project. The issues were diverse, including the protection of mid-highland areas, climate change and the future energy needs of the community. The work involved dialogue and consultation with stakeholders connected to these issues. An example of this is the future energy needs of the community group who consulted with professional development companies, municipalities and customers when the future energy needs of the community were assessed. 15 5 Human Resources The proportion of female managers exceeds 30% Landsvirkjun’s policy is to ensure full gender equality. The Company has established a gender equality policy and a gender equality committee. A gender equality action plan with defined objectives is developed every two years. Status at year-end 2017 Landsvirkjun achieved its goal and the proportion of female managers exceeded 30% this year. Appraisal of accessibility Landsvirkjun’s management is aware of the need to increase diversity in its workforce. One of the objectives of 2017 is to assess the accessibility of disabled individuals and to assess the workplace in a broader context at the Company headquarters at Háaleitisbraut 68. Status at year-end 2017 An assessment was conducted in all Landsvirkjun’s operational areas in 2017 with regard to gender equality/accessibility, but no such assessment was carried out with regard to the accessibility of disabled individuals at Háaleitisbraut 68. Accidents Landsvirkjun’s Health and Safety Policy outlines the fact that the Company is committed to following a zero accident policy in all its projects. This applies to the Company’s own employees and any contractors working for the Company. Status at year-end 2017 There were no absence related incidents this year. 16 6 Knowledge Dissemination Knowledge dissemination on climate change Contributions to the Energy Research fund were increased by 3.5%Landsvirkjun wants to promote public awareness on the impact of climate change and Iceland’s responsibility in a global context. This will be achieved through various types of knowledge dissemination, such as open meetings, published content, dialogue and encouragement of informed discussion on climate change. Status at year-end 2017 Landsvirkjun hosted an open meeting in March to outline the Company’s approach to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. Landsvirkjun is committed to Global Goal 5 on Gender Equality, Goal 13 on Climate Action and Goal 7 on Affordable and Clean Energy. The company’s CEO also participated in a debate on climate issues held by the Association of Chartered Engineers in Iceland (VFÍ) and at a seminar held by Samorka in the spring. Landsvirkjun organised a seminar entitled “Adapting Power Production to a Changing Climate” at the Arctic Circle Assembly conference, held in Harpa on the 13th to 15th of October. Landsvirkjun’s Autumn Meeting, held on the 2nd of November, was well attended and the topic under discussion was the value of renewable energy. The speakers discussed the impact of climate change on energy production and the utilisation of the Icelandic system. They also explained how renewable energy has become more sought after worldwide and how it can be used responsibly and sustainably. Energy research presented to the public (ORKA) Work will be initiated on educational material related to energy matters in order to present energy research to the public and to address the sustainable use of energy resources. The focus will be on innovation and technology as well as diversity within the energy sector. The project is a cooperative venture between Landsvirkjun’s Energy Research Fund and the NaNo Project at the School of Education at the University of Iceland. An emphasis will be placed on literacy, creativity and sustainability. The topics are mostly related to sustainability and will be easily accessible to students as well as the public, on the NaNO website, free of charge. Status at year-end 2017 The NaNo database is set up by the School of Education at the University of Iceland but the project bank is for teachers in primary and secondary schools who teach the natural sciences. The content of the database is supplied by employed teachers (for employed teachers) and is completely free. A grant was applied for (via the Energy Research Fund) to fund the development of educational materials on energy issues and to promote energy research for the public. The project could not begin this year due to the changing circumstances of the project’s members but it is expected to begin in 2018. 17 Universal sustainability principles Landsvirkjun is a member of the UN Global Compact within the labour market. One individual was which is a global criterion for social responsibility. offered full-time employment in another field following their experience with Landsvirkjun. This commits the Company to following the principles issued by the UN on human rights, Increased protection of the workforce labour rights, environmental issues, and anti– Value chain corruption guidelines. Landsvirkjun implemented rules on chain Human rights and the work environment reliability after they had been approved by Landsvirkjun’s Board in August, 2016. The rules are A more diverse workforce intended to ensure that any counterparty working indirectly for Landsvirkjun (contractors, subA pilot project was launched in the summer contractors or temporary work agencies) enjoy of 2017, giving young autistic individuals the rights and employment terms in accordance with opportunity to gain experience in the labour the law and wage contracts. market. Eight individuals were invited to work in the environmental group at Landsvirkjun, in Provisions for the value chain have been Reykjavík. The project was run in collaboration incorporated into all Landsvirkjun’s procurement with the Secondary School in Kópavogur and agreements (work contracts, contracts of sale Specialisterne in Iceland who offered their and contracts for the purchase of services). support during the completion of the project as According to the provisions, the contractor shall well as any assistance required in the case of any ensure that all employees, whether hired by unforeseen incidents. Landsvirkjun’s employees contractors, subcontractors or temporary work were also offered information and education on agencies, receive salaries, terms of employment, autism. sickness and accident insurance and other rights in accordance with the agreement, current collective The project was successful and valuable agreements and laws at any given time. experience was gained by both the group and employees. The experience gained by each The contractor must also be in possession of valid individual differed as did their continued journey insurance for all contractor employees, covering 18 any accidents, sickness, illness, medical costs Anti-corruption measures or deaths that occur during construction. The contractor is also responsible for ensuring that any Landsvirkjun’s Code of Conduct for employees sub-contractors, temporary work agencies and was published and implemented in December their employees also have valid insurance. 2013. The code covers nine topics, including employee safety, the importance of integrity and Penalties can and will be enforced in the case of respect, handling confidential information and any violations with regard to chain responsibility conflicts of interest. or if the counterparty does not provide the requested information. Landsvirkjun reserves A Code of Conduct was subsequently the right to enforce these penalties to ensure implemented for suppliers and service providers, compliance with the regulations. based on the principles set out by the UN Global Compact on human rights, labour rights, Human Rights Policy environmental issues and anticorruption. The rules provide clear guidance on expectations Preparation work for Landsvirkjun’s Human Rights with regard to healthy work and governance Policy was carried out in 2017 but has not been methods and were implemented in 2015, using completed. The Human Rights Policy is due to be the appropriate work procedures. There were no published in 2018. deviations from those procedures this year. Environmental issues The environmental action plan and its objectives were successfully implemented in 2017. One of these objectives was the assessment of 40% of the Company hydropower stations using the Hydropower Sustainability Assessment Protocol (HSAP), which is assessed by independent external parties. This objective was achieved. Targets have been set for decreased fuel consumption, reduced waste generation and increased waste classification. Landsvirkjun will be carbon-free by 2030 and has already achieved set goals for the increased percentage of electric cars in the Company’s fleet, renewable energy investments and the multi-purpose use of geothermal energy, as well as the successful implementation of an action plan for carbon offsetting. The set objectives for ‘operations without environmental incident’ were not achieved in 2017, but environmental incidents did decrease by 50% between years. Approximately half of Landsvirkjun’s impact on the environment can be attributed to power generation construction projects undertaken by the Company. Further information on Landsvirkjun’s environmental performance can be found in the environmental chapter of the Annual Report and in the Company’s Green Accounts. 19 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact Relevant materials/content Principle 1: Businesses should support and Chapter in UN Global Compact / Human Rights respect the protection of internationally and LabourLandsvirkjun’s Code of Conduct: proclaimed human rights. https://www.landsvirkjun.is/Media/Sidareglurlandsvirkjun-des-2013.pdf Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Landsvirkjun’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers: https://www.landsvirkjun.is/Media/sidareglurPrinciple 3: Businesses should uphold the free­ lv-isl1.pdf dom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support Chapter in UN Global Compact / Environment a precautionary approach to environ­Green Accounts / Environment Chapter in mental challenges. Annual Report https://annualreport2017.landsvirkjun. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake com/environment/green-accounts#Deepreinitiatives to promote greater environ­injectionofseparatedwater mental responsibility. Environmental Policy https://www. landsvirkjun.is/samfelagogumhverfi/ Principle 9: Businesses should encourage umhverfisstefna the development and diffusion of environ­mentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against Chapter in UN Global Compact / Anticorruption in all its forms, including extortion Corruption and bribery. Landsvirkjun‘s Code of Conduct: https://www.landsvirkjun.is/Media/Sidareglurlandsvirkjun-des-2013.pdf Landsvirkjun‘s Code of Conduct for Suppliers: https://www.landsvirkjun.is/Media/sidareglurlv-isl1.pdf 20 Landsvirkjun Háaleitisbraut 68 • 103 Reykjavík +354 515 9000 landsvirkjun@landsvirkjun.is www.landsvirkjun.is
