COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 About Banque BEMO 5 Statement of Chairman of the Board and Vice-Chairman & General Manager 7 TABLE OF Human Rights 9 a. Corporate Governance b. Deontology & Ethics c. Human Capital CONTENTS d. Safe, Healhty & Happy Environment Labor 21 a. Recruitment & On-boarding b. Learning & Development c. Employment Engagement & Satisfaction d. Reward of Achievements Environment 29 a. Carbon Footprint Analysis & Offsetting b. Employee Volunteerism Program c. Awareness Campaign/Coaching d. Paperless Environment e-Recycling Anti-Corruption 35 a. Anti-Bribery & Corruption b. Whistle Blowing c. Training & Awareness CSR Budget Breakdown 39 a. Cultural Activities b. Educational Activities c. Health Activities d. Sports Activities ABOUT BANQUE BEMO Banque BEMO sal is a commercial bank whose services and activities cover both the Lebanese and Vision regional markets. “To be the reference in Private and Corporate Banking” True to its long history and culture of prudence and conservative approach to serving its clients, the Mission Statement Bank remains focused on its core expertise, namely Private and Corporate Banking while aiming to build strong relationships, based on trust, with its selected clients. “Live our values while achieving high return on equity and offering our customers outstanding quality“ The Bank is known for its competency in delivering high quality services and products, and for its Values customer centricity orientation. Products and services target large corporations and high net worth individuals. “Family spirit Professionalism Faithful to its tradition of investing efforts first and foremost in its clients’ trust, Banque BEMO Conservatism committed to abide by the following four principles, which represent the source of past achievements Honesty“ and the foundation on which to plan future development: Positioning Statement • Commitment to Customer Centricity: whereby the client is considered as a core asset, around whom the Bank build its endeavors, and where each decision is weighed on how to improve client “Consolidating traditional values with a contemporary approach; satisfaction offering services that are personal in delivery and global in scope.” • Commitment to providing an exclusive experience to clients: through attention to detail and anticipation of needs, Banque BEMO strives to understand stakeholders’ perspective and ensure that they get more than their fair share of expectation CSR Vision • Commitment to develop expertise/knowledge/proficiency: based on the existing broad offering of financial services, through the Bank and its sister entities, Banque BEMO recognizes this as a core “To understand the current and future implications of its actions competency and is committed to grow skills and remain proficient in the latest banking techniques by focusing on the economic, social and environmental impacts • Commitment to Transparency: In line with the Group’s motto “Business With Ethics”, Banque BEMO of its business and developing sustainable practices to meet the recognizes that transparency fosters discipline and strengthens the processes. Therefore, the Bank needs of present and future generations .” commits to transparency with its stakeholders and earn their trust. CSR Mission Statement In August 2017, Banque BEMO has joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) as a signatory “We aim to move toward a higher CSR maturity level by fostering member and has therefore pledged to the following three Sustainable Development Goals: Decent a strong sense of corporate responsibility and creating value to the Work & Economic Growth (SDG 8); Climate Action (SDG 13); Life on Land (SDG 15). business and the society .” 5 STATEMENT OF CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND VICE-CHAIRMAN & GENERAL MANAGER Dear Stakeholders, We are pleased to confirm that Banque BEMO reaffirms its continued support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In our first annual Communication on Progress, we demonstrate our aspirations, commitment and actions taken to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this report with all stakeholders on the Bank’s website under the Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility section. Yours Sincerely, Dr. Riad B. Obegi Mr. Samih H. Saadeh Chairman of the Board Vice-Chairman & General Manager Dr. Riad B. Obegi Mr. Samih H. Saadeh Chairman of the Board Vice-Chairman & General Manager 7 Human Rights 9 HUMAN RIGHTS A. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE awareness on the importance of governance • Work on enhancing Board Members’ and to share best practices. onboarding process, through appropriate As an institution part of the Obegi Group, training and support, in addition to setting up our Bank inherited a long tradition of ethical • Exerting efforts in coordination with Senior feedback mechanisms that allows learning conduct, putting stakeholders at the center of Management, to enhance the information from experiences, and further enhance all our business concern. This statement is even provided to Board Members through ensuring actions taken. With time, investors’ and Board more essential when we consider the nature of their quality and relevance. Members’ input will become the cornerstone our activity, the core essence of which is based for evolving the Corporate Governance on trust. Corporate Governance is one of our • Mobilizing the resources to grow our structure. main tools in achieving the above statement. relationship with shareholders and other Our Bank, including our Board of Directors, is investors, in order to ensure that they are fully B. DEONTOLOGY & ETHICS fully aware of this and is adamant in evolving informed of the developments pertaining to our governance framework to become a The Corporate Governance Office focused on the Bank and that the Board is attentive to their Deontology and Ethics are the major benchmark of best practices in our economy. the following topics during the past year: input and requests. foundations of Banque BEMO’s principles and Our Corporate Governance Office considers guidelines, whereby all business activities this task as one of the core missions of our • Undergoing a reorganization effort to In the foreseeable future, the Corporate are conducted in an honest, legal and ethical Bank, as we know that it is a pre-condition to streamline its operations, document its best Governance Office will focus on several manner, providing state-of-the-art services achieving continuity and growth in the region. practices and ensure that all required checks enhancements which can be summarized as to all stakeholders, preserving their interests and balances are in place. follows: In this respect, Banque BEMO signed in 2017, and achieving the Bank’s vision and quest • Thriving to enhance investors’ participation the Investors for Governance and Integrity for excellence. Moral obligations, duties, and • Supporting the International Finance to the institution’s life to ensure that they grasp (IGI) Declaration during a signature ceremony right actions are the main pillars for Banque Corporation (IFC) in conducting a diagnosis of the full extent of their partnership with the organized by Capital Concept, where Banque BEMO’s operating environment, and the the Bank’s current governance practices, the Bank. BEMO was specifically mentioned for its Bank’s Code of Deontology is the driving force outcome of which provided us with a roadmap • Work on enhancing even more the current swift responsiveness to carry out all needed for all employees who follow high standards for improvement for the near future. workflow, in coordination with the Bank’s IT disclosure improvements that led to an of conduct at all times. After an extensive inDepartment to provide our Board Members enhancement in its grading to B+ rating. depth review, the Bank’s “Code of Deontology • Coordination with the Bank’s departments, with access to available information in an easy, and Professional Ethics” was updated and but also with related institutions, to raise secured and flexible way. published on the Bank Internal Communication 11 HUMAN RIGHTS Site accessible to all staff members. to clients and protect their interests in each VOICE OF THE CLIENT OVERVIEW and every stage of the product life cycle, from 2015 2018 (1st Half) In addition, Banque BEMO’s staff members its promotion to after sales service, as well as 6 complaints share a responsibility to protect the Bank’s endeavoring to meet the needs of each client 18 feedback reputation for integrity by always demonstrating by offering a transparent and professional 6 suggestions their commitment to the highest standards of service, and constantly identifying areas of 2015 ethics and professional behavior when dealing improvement. 30 CASES with colleagues, clients, shareholders and the community. Therefore, Banque BEMO’s Moreover, Banque BEMO put at the disposal of Code of Conduct’s objective is to state the 5 complaints all clients the list of rights and duties governing requirements for best business practices and 16 feedback their relationship with the Bank, as well as the professional conduct . The Code of Conduct 2016 2 suggestions responsibilities of the Bank in serving them policy was updated and published on the bank’s 40 CASES fairly. The collection of clients’ signatures 2017 Internal Communication Site and is available to on the “Rights & Duties” forms showed an 8 complaints 23 CASES all staff members. effective 92% as at 31.07.2018. 29 feedback Within the scope of business ethics and clients As the Bank’s aim is to be the reference in 3 suggestions protection, two policies have been developed Private and Corporate Banking, this vision and and are available to all staff members on the ambition is achieved through a commitment Internal Communication Site: The Complaints to deliver outstanding quality in the offered H1-2018 Management policy has been developed products, services and clients relationship 30 CASES to provide guidance on the effective and management. For this purpose, the Quality 5 complaints efficient complaints handling process; aiming Management exerts needed efforts to 20 feedback at ensuring client satisfaction and maintaining maintain high quality standards across its 5 suggestions loyalty, encouraging clients’ feedback, and products, services and operations, as well as recognizing their rights to make a complaint, drive continuous improvements. However, and resolving the complaints in an equitable, quality cannot be measured from one angle objective and impartial manner.Furthermore, a only. Consequently, the Bank introduced the policy has been developed, aiming to add value “Voice of the client” initiative which purpose 13 HUMAN RIGHTS is to see the Bank through the eyes of its The document, which is updated on a yearly Paternity, Maternity & Family Medical Leave clients. All opinions voiced are analyzed by basis clearly stipulates employees’ rights as per the Quality Management in order to reach and Labor Law and Collective Labor Agreement. Paternity Number of fathers 9 meet client›s expectations and increase their Hence, paternity leave, family medical leave, Leave satisfaction. maternity leave, are only a few of the benefits Number of hours taken 350 stated in the Employee Handbook. C. HUMAN CAPITAL Number of mothers 15 Banque BEMO recognizes that human capital Maternity is its most valuable asset, hence the Human Leave Number of hours taken 8,190 Resources Management’s motto: “Putting People First”.The HRM strategy is governed by Family the following principles: Medical Number of hours taken 1,843 • Fairness Leave • Honesty • Equity • Respect • Confidentiality • Credibility FTE’s Distribution by Gender The Bank’s internal relations success “employer-employee” is based on living its culture of integrity, fairness, professionalism, Males excellence, openness and trust. To this effect, 125 109 % 53 47 the Employee Handbook is handed to all 2017 Females 234 % 100 new recruits and it is also available to all staff Total members on the Internal Communication Site. 15 HUMAN RIGHTS FTE’s Distribution per age: FTE’s Distribution per Corporate Title: 2017 2017 Senior 20-25 yrs 8 9 Total: 17 % 7 04 % 02 Males Management Males F 6 8 % 3 3 Females 26-35 yrs 55 27 Total: 82 % 35 Females 36-45 yrs Total: 65 % 28 Total % E 10 12 % 4 5 33 32 46-55 yrs Total: 41 % 18 D 26 15 % 11 7 21 20 >55 yrs Total: 29 % 12 C 44 22 % 19 9 8 21 125 % 100 B 33 24 % 14 10 TOTAL 234 109 A 6 24 % 3 10 TOTAL 125 234 109 Grade specifications from “A” to “F” follow the grading structure of Association of Banks in Lebanon as per Collective Labor Agreement. 17 HUMAN RIGHTS D. SAFE, HEALTHY & HAPPY ENVIRONMENT smokers are allowed to take short daily breaks At the term of the C.O.H. mandate,the “Chief in designated smoking areas. Every year, the of Happiness” magic wand is passed on to a D1. Safe Environment International Non-Smoking is celebrated at new employee from a different department. Our goal is to support, guide and provide all the Bank whereby in exchange of an activity employees with a healthy, stable and positive or awareness session engaging the staff working environment. members, a donation is made to a healthAn Entrance Policy was put in place to ensure related NGO. and maintain uninterrupted daily activities while protecting the safety of staff members, equipment and client-sensitive information. D3. Happy Environment On the other hand, at Banque BEMO, we The Bank has also assigned Fire Marshalls believe that happiness is the secret ingredient in all its premises in order to ensure smooth in the workplace and that “Happy Employees evacuation of the staff members and = Happy Clients”. Therefore, the “Chief of visitors as well as safeguard critical assets, Happiness” (C.O.H.) initiative has been in case of emergency. A related policy has introduced. The mission of the C.O.H is to make been developed and is regularly updated to the workplace happiness a priority through a help maintain proper security and healthy series of simple and easy-to-implement ideas/ conditions within the work place. Similar to the quick wins; thus putting in place a creative drill performed in Achrafieh premises in 2016, a approach to a happy environment. Several D2. Healthy Environment activities were undertaken; happy hours were drill was successfully performed in our Rabieh The Bank promotes a healthy and smokeMoreover, under BEMO Open Door Policy, the premises on February 27th 2018. A total of 33 organized and entertainment was provided staff members’ children from the age of 4 years free environment for its staff members, by internal talents (95 employees attended); employees participated in the drill which was clients, suppliers and visitors. A strict nonold and above were allowed to accompany their completed in a record time of 4 minutes with surprise breakfast visits to 18 Branch Network parent to their work location on one Saturday smoking rule has been implemented since colleagues were performed; early afternoon an average of 1 minute per floor/location which 2012, in conformity with Law no. 174. To this of their choice for a limited period of time in is better than the regular average for first drill leave was allowed; a yoga session was the summer of 2017. The purpose of such an end, smoking is strictly prohibited in all of the held in the Bank’s premises (17 employees attempts; mainly thanks to the seriousness Bank’s premises. Premises include indoor and initiative was to let children discover more and efficiency of the assigned fire marshals. participated). about their parents’ professional life and get outdoor common and private areas. Therefore, familiar with working environments. 19 Labor 21 LABOR Banque BEMO is committed to ensure that Because Banque BEMO believes in the the HRM initiated the process of induction During the year, constant career development its potentials are well equipped to take more capabilities of the future generation it has program consisting of holding a quarterly was provided to our employees through a complex responsibilities and become the participated in the AUB Job Fair to connect meeting with each new recruit to discuss set of learnings sessions that matches with future leaders of the organization. directly with high potential candidates and the challenges they are facing, share their their need to be well equipped to serve and offer them new and challenging opportunities success stories, and mitigate obstacles if any. anticipate clients’ needs with a strong focus A. RECRUITMENT & ON-BOARDING to exploit their academic credentials in the During the meetings, the new joiners receive on Management and Leadership. Therefore, Banque BEMO is always committed to attract professional field. The participation went all learning material, and are in the right track although the focus in 2017 was diversified, two new talented employees while managing beyond collecting CVs, to holding discussions enabling them to work in accordance with the major programs were conducted: carefully the balance between the external with students and advising them on the best Bank vision, strategies and objectives. talent acquisition that gives equal opportunity suitable career path or internship that would • Executive Leadership Camp and Tribal to candidates who wish to follow their career match their educational background with their B. LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT Mapping: two workshops conducted by ambitions with our Bank (6% of the total personality. Banque BEMO promotes learning and foreign trainers and tailored for a total period workforce), and internal mobility that enables growth through trainings, our ELearning of four full days in which the Chairman, Vice our employees to expand their knowledge, online platform & Executive educators, open Chairman and General Manager as well as skills and abilities (2.16% of the total workforce). communication and internal mobility to retain Directors were completely detached from talent employees and improve their skills and their work engagements. The purpose of these Throughout 2017, efforts were dedicated to sessions was to stimulate a positive change ability to deliver business objectives and meet attract talented candidates who have the while triggering systemic thinking towards the global strategy. needed skills and capabilities for vacant people, business and culture management. positions. On top of their education and In line with the importance of supporting the The Executive Leadership Camp was attended experience background, HR Management personal and professional development of our by 16 participants whereas the Tribal Mapping selection was highly based on the candidates employees, the HR Management invested was attended by 13 participants. drive for success, cultural fit and mutual this year in several indoor, outdoor and abroad interest. The recruitment need for this year trainings; complemented by BEMO E-learning • Management Development Program: was diversified which gave the opportunity to a solution.Different types of topics related to soft designed for a period of seven months for a larger number of candidates to post their CVs and technical skills, as well as sessions related group of managers and managers to be, to on the Bank website or via LinkedIn, whereas to compliance and risk were covered, in order focus on the mindset shifting from individual to the top notch among them were selected In order to ensure a proper integration of newly to be in line with regulatory requirements. collective contributor. It promoted the learning representing 6% of the entire workforce. hired employees with the Bank environment 23 LABOR of Leading Oneself, Leading the Team and On the other hand, The Human Resources break the ice, build new relationships and learn Leading the Business. In addition to all internal Management department launched the “Future how to work in groups and accept each other. and external trainings, our managers attended Generation Staff Children Coaching Program” Cheerful team spirit were spread all over the several abroad trainings and conferences a new initiative that perfectly reflects one of place. This activity gathered 13 participants. related to their field of specialization, through the most cherished value at the Bank “Family “Because Together Everyone Achieves More”. which they were exposed to multinational Spirit”; and that aims at providing the children trends and practices. 18 participants across of our employees with new learning experience Following last year start-up of the learning several departments attended this training. that help them to develop their capacity and digitalization as a new HRM tool, we launched exploit their potential. This continuous program in November 2017 the second year program Total investment in Learning & Development that targets different ages of our staff children, in which we provided employees with reached (1.89%) of total basic salaries. to provide them with a mental and physical personalized plans designed based on their journey of investigation, exploration and adults’ competencies management results and work role while playing. Energetic, happy moments requirements. In addition, a full access was were spread all over the place. The initiative granted to the Massive Open Online Course saw 21 participants (all of whom where staff (MOOC) and AML/CFT libraries to benefit from members’ children). them as a space of personal development. Learning & Development breakdown With this regard, Banque BEMO was recognized by IQUAD Learning solutions for its hard work in implementing the E-Learning 3% 29% 10% through their learning & development 31% Indoor departments. In October 2017, an award was presented to Banque BEMO for taking Outdoor ownership of the backend portal and managing 68% 59% the post-implementation and support from the Abroad The second activity was launched in May first year. 2018 for sports and events. By means of fun 1-Hours of Training 2-Investment methods and challenges, children were able to 25 LABOR On-the-job rotation is a developmental program corrective actions where needed. The purpose D. REWARD OF ACHIEVEMENTS Last but not least, recognition is an essential that was launched in 2017 for a large group of this survey was to enhance internal working characteristic of a happy and productive of employees, selected based on their line environment in order to better focus on our We emphasize on our Performance environment. Thus, BEMO’s Got Talent, managers recommendations, the gap analysis clients’ service and needs. It was accomplished Management system and apply fair BEMO’s Star and BEMO’s reward are conducted by the HRM and their need to in September 2017, and was addressed to the remunerations accordingly. Furthermore, we initiatives that have been launched in 2015. better perform their present job. The purpose entire workforce. A report listing all strength assess and evaluate staff competencies and Whereas BEMO’s Got Talent showcases an of this program was to provide a hands-on and weak areas identified by employees was follow up on their development needs. employee’s talent every quarter, BEMO’s STAR experience on different aspects of the banking communicated to heads of departments who and BEMO’s Reward recognize and award activities, give a comprehensive knowledge were recommended to hold meetings with Our systematic approach to reward by employees for their hard work and valuable of transactions chain, and help employees their team to discuss the highlighted facts and setting objectives at the beginning of the contribution to the bank’s success. All three seeing the impact of their job on other units come-up with an action plan for enhancement. year, conducting mid-year review during the initiatives are communicated in our internal and vice versa. The program started by series second quarter, and comparing results versus newsletter on a quarterly basis and concerned of presentations conducted by each business • 121 employees responded to the survey, objectives at the end of each year proved to be staff members are congratulated during the owner to describe the main activities and their representing 51.71% a successful, fair and transparent method for Annual Staff Gathering. In the past year, 10 influence on other business lines. managing people performance. All the above employees were singled out as BEMO’s Stars • The overall Engagement and Satisfaction rate combined with the 360 degree evaluation and Rewards, whereas 4 were highlighted as was equal to 3.78/4 for Cadres level employees, were linked to a BEMO’s talents. C. EMPLOYMENT ENGAGEMENT & reward scheme to decide on final results. SATISFACTION Accordingly, in May 2018, the Human Resources Management created two focus On the other hand, within the scope of its value We systematically invest in finding, selecting, “Family Spirit” and the “Staff Children Coaching training, evaluating, developing and retaining groups composed of 5 employees each and responsible to come up with solutions, ideas Program – Future Generation”, the Human our workforce by optimizing their satisfaction Resources Management organized a gathering that in turn will lead to client satisfaction. and suggestions with a focus on one of the topics with low rate, namely communication in the presence of the General Management & Based on our practice of openness and Executive Committee members to reward the transparency, we designed this year the issues and recognition issues. The suggestions were discussed at the Executive Committee employees’ children who were on the Honor’s Employee Engagement and Satisfaction Survey List in the universities as well as those who to gain an insight into the level of happiness, meeting. received a very high mention in their school commitment and engagement, and take report/official exams. 27 Environment 29 ENVIRONMENT Banque BEMO has pledged to 2 SDGs related to the environment: SDG 13 “Climate Change” B. EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM PROGRAM and SDG 15 “Life on Land”. In this respect, Plantation of 300 trees in Bchaaleh the bank has launched initiatives which were Banque BEMO introduced the Employee a key step on the path to a sustainable positive Volunteerism Program aiming at dedicating an impact on the environment and further foster amount of each employee’s time to serve the Banque BEMO as a responsible business. Reforestation of 2 hectares of Community. The first step of the new project Jabal Moussa* by planting 600 was to conduct a survey and gather information A. CARBON FOOTPRINT MANAGEMENT trees on the causes that each employee relates to the most. As a result, 50% of employees AND OFFSETTING participated in the survey with Environment Banque BEMO emitted a total of 1,071.7 being in the top 3 causes, along with Children/ In December 2017, Banque BEMO was tC02e in 2016 due to their BaU activities, • In 2018, and in its continuous efforts to certified as a “Carbon Neutral” organization. pursue its commitment to calculating and Youth and Human Rights. The second part of with the following breakdown by emission the project which is the actual launch of the The Carbon Neutral certification was obtained source: reducing its carbon emissions, Banque BEMO following the completion of the “Carbon has opted to collaborate with a certified GHGprogram is set to be carried out throughout Footprint Management” project. This project protocol expert to be able to manage its carbon 2018. falls within the scope of the Sustainable 317.4 tC02e emissions through an online platform and set Development Goal 13 “Climate Action” that has (diesel usage) clear reduction targets for the years to come. been adopted by Banque BEMO. The project *Jabal Moussa Biosphere Reserve (JMBR) is located in consisted of conducting an assessment and 28.8 tC02e Kesrouan District, Lebanon. It covers an area of 6500 calculation of the greenhouse gas emissions (air travel) hectares, at an altitude ranging between 350 meters and from day-to-day activities by a certified expert, 675.3 tC02e (electricity consumption) 1,700 meters Jabal Moussa and surrounding villages in the Bank’s premises and offsetting these became part of the UNESCO Network of Biosphere carbon emissions through an environmental 20.9 tC02e (cars) Reserves under the Man and Biosphere (MAB) program project – the reforestation and restoration in 2009. of two hectares of Jabal Moussa Biosphere Reserve’s* forest, thanks to the efforts and 29.3 tC02e (paper usage) engagement of BEMO’s staff members.  31 ENVIRONMENT C. AWARENESS CAMPAIGN/COACHING Responsibility (CSR) Team in order to conduct • On the occasion of World Environment Day, D. PAPERLESS ENVIRONMENT • Banque BEMO proudly supports a smokea presentation to a large group of students and a visual was developed and displayed in all of Throughout 2017, Banque BEMO has taken free work environment in partnership with address their inquiries. our branches and our social platforms, with digitalization to a new level by taking the “Tobacco Free Initiative”. Therefore, in line with a special focus on fighting plastic pollution; decision to stop printing its internal newsletter the efforts to promote a healthy environment, raising awareness for our staff members and and only making it available digitally as well as the bank conducted a Quiz to engage staff and clients alike. limiting the printing of its annual report copies; raise their awareness on the occasion of the and sending electronically the end of month World No Tobacco Day. Over 30% of employees statement of accounts to clients as well as participated and each completed Quiz with launching the electronic end of day reporting accurate answers led to a financial contribution system. Number of papers reduced in the to a health-related NGO. reported period: • Banque BEMO was invited to coach the students of grade 5/CM2 at the International College in May 2018, and support their learning 518,232 papers 54% process on their projects evolving on “Climate Action” and “Life on Land”. During the final E. RECYCLING year of their elementary school education, and The Bank is currently developing in line with their mission statement “Inspiring partnerships to put a recycling program into learners of today to be global citizen leaders implementation throughout 2018. Guidelines of tomorrow”, the learners at International and a framework have already been College participate in a project known as developed accordingly. the Exhibition whereby they connected this project this year to the United Nations Average weight of recycled paper in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This reported period: collaboration took place at the Internal College premises in Beirut, whereby an onsite visit was organized by Banque BEMO’s Corporate Social 14.5 tons 33 Anti-Corruption 35 ANTI-CORRUPTION A. ANTI-BRIBERY & CORRUPTION C. TRAINING & AWARENESS Since its inception, Banque BEMO is committed to embed high ethical standards and antiAll staff members systematically attend trainings and awareness sessions regarding Anti-Corruption corruption practices in the day-to-day business activities. The Anti-Bribery & Corruption policy and Bribery. and manual draw together the Bank’s principles on anti-Bribery and corruption. Furthermore, it is designed to reduce the risk of the Bank, staff members, or persons associated with the Bank AML/CFT/DDML presentations: 84 participants from offering, receiving or extorting bribes, or conducting an act of corruption, either directly or by AML Conference: 4 participants proxy, and thereby mitigate the risk of the Bank being subject to legal or regulatory sanctions and reputational damage. On the other hand, two training sessions were organized with regards to the Bank’s General Policies and Procedures and were attended by a total of 53 participants. B. WHISTLE BLOWING The Whistle Blowing policy has been designed to promote a culture of open communication that enables staff members to voice their concerns at the earliest opportunity, while preserving the confidentiality of the staff member disclosing the malpractice. The policy allows the staff members to raise their concerns directly to the Compliance Officer, if they feel unable to raise them to their direct manager. Moreover, the policy states that the Bank will not tolerate any victimization or harassment of a whistleblower and will take appropriate measures to protect the whistleblower against any retaliation, discrimination, and any other type of unfair treatment. Furthermore, the Bank shall protect the personal information of the alleged wrongdoer in the same manner as the whistleblower. 37 CSR Budget Breakdown 39 CSR BUDGET BREAKDOWN BUDGET BREAKDOWN A. CULTURAL ACTIVITIES Exhibitions • In the past year, the bank has organized two exhibitions in its premises. The first one “What Sports Activities If” was dedicated to a photography exhibition by and focused on discovering the reality of the lifestyle of modest, neglected poor districts of 3% Lebanon versus an imaginative representation Social Activities of what these neighborhoods could be with 8% a little maintenance and support in a natural Cultural Activities environment. 47% Environmental Activities • The second exhibition was a miniatures exhibition entitled “such a small world”. In 7% the artist’s words: “Miniature art is a gift, a treasure, a secret. Each miniature contains a World of Exquisite Serenity, of Wonder and Inspiration. An amazing experience in which Educational Activities you are immersed in the wonderful World of Health Activities Art “in little”. It does not shout its presence to 22% the world but, instead, waits quietly for you to 13% stop and admire it.” Cultural Events • On the other hand, Banque BEMO also hosted cultural events abroad. The first event was an “Art Day” . 41 CSR BUDGET BREAKDOWN The event consisted of a visit to the “On Site • In 2018, Banque BEMO was the proud Petit Palais”, a new sector of FIAC where 40 sponsor of Baalbeck International Festival’s sculptures and installations where shown in a fundraising event featuring a live cine-concert private tour as well as a tour of the FIAC led by by Khaled Mouzanar and his orchestra at contemporary art experts. the Bacchus Temple. This unique event showcased extracts of Nadine Labaki’s • The second event targeted the young new feature film “Capharnaüm” which won generation and emerging art collectors, the Jury Prize at the Cannes Film Festival gathering them in a renowned French visual 2018. The show also featured compositions artist’s private studio for a private showcase performed by the musicians and led by and dinner. the Orchestrator Marie Jeanne Serero. • The National Conservatory in collaboration • The 57th International Art Exhibition at La with the Centre du Patrimoine Musical Biennale di Venezia’s Lebanese Pavilion: The Libanais (CPML) organized a concert under project conceived by Zad Moultaka for the the conducting of Mr. Naji Hakim himself, Lebanese Pavilion combined visual architecture around folkloric and popular themes of his and sound composition. The artist merged the composition, interpreted by the orchestra of musical and visual research in a synergy of the Conservatory and featuring Mr. Mario Rahi forms, materials and sounds. as violin soloist. Festivals and Concerts • Banque BEMO teamed up with L’Institut • Banque BEMO had the pleasure to invite Français for the second consecutive year of La clients and potential prospects to attend the Nuit des Idées under the theme “Imagination concert of internationally renowned Lebanese in power” whereby three round tables and one Trumpeter Ibrahim Maalouf at the Bacchus literary café were organized as well as artistic Temple – Baalbeck, within the scope of its • Fashion For A Cause: Banque BEMO was performances and a concert. international festival. one of the main sponsors of the Heartbeat Charity Fashion show. United for a cause, 43 CSR BUDGET BREAKDOWN • Banque BEMO was the exclusive sponsor of related to executive programs, high potential Association du Foyer de l’Enfant Libanais’ first development, consultation and programs concert “Sound of AFEL”, directed by soprano on Entrepreneurship and Governance within Maria Mattar and featuring Anthony Touma, the frame of family businesses. By signing in support of underprivileged and abused this MoU, Banque BEMO further confirms children. its commitment to developing Excellency in building knowledge and business best • Banque BEMO was one of the proud sponsors practices among their workforce. of this year’s Al Bustan Festival. This year’s edition centered around “Bach” and Banque BEMO contributed to Gautier Capuçon’s cello Conferences concert in March 2018. • Banque BEMO has organized several • The second conference was held by Banque conferences whereby the first conference BEMO’s Wealth & Investment Department entitled “Financial Factors & Regulatory on “Investment Oultook 2018 & Blockchain Challenges in the 21st Century” was delivered & Cryptocurrencies” to a pool of private and by Mr. Sarkis Yoghourtdjian, Advisor & corporate clients. The presentation highlighted Assistant Director for Banking Supervision & the various factors driving the financial B. EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES Regulation at the Board of Governors of the markets. Federal Reserve System in Washington D.C. MoU with IE University • Banque BEMO, represented by its Chairman Dr. Riad Obegi has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Instituto de Empresa (IE), represented by its VicePresident for External Relations Mr. Gonzalo Garland, in November 2017. The MoU which was signed between Banque BEMO and IE addresse topics pertaining to matters 45 CSR BUDGET BREAKDOWN • The third conference was conducted by • Heartbeat Fashion for a Cause: Bank with a certification in recognition of its Banque BEMO Real Estate department. All The show brought together some of the most continuous support to CCCL. topics related to the market including important renowned fashion designers in one exclusive events, data, the fiscal policy as well as the show dedicated to saving the lives of children housing policy were covered. The conference born with heart disease. aimed at highlighting the academic aspect of real estate investment while proposing scientific potential solutions. Moreover, in the scope of its partnership with Institut Français, Banque BEMO also • A Blood Drive was hosted in partnership sponsored a couple of conferences, among with Donner Sang Compter volunteers and which: coordinators at Banque BEMO Ashrafieh Branch. The Blood donation drive highlighted • The theme of the conference was “economy the Bank’s commitment and engagement and culture in a globalized context” by Mr. toward the community. Under the slogan • Annual Visit to Children’s Cancer Center “Donate Life!” Banque BEMO’s family rolled Jean-Paul Cluzel, President of the Institute for Lebanon (CCCL): Banque BEMO team visited up its sleeves and volunteered for blood the financing of cinema and cultural industries CCCL and spent a wonderful time with the donation in support of a noble cause, saving (IFCIC) which was held at Ecole Supérieure children. The visit aimed at drawing smiles on the lives of 42 people. des Affaires. the children’s faces and extending their hope and courage to fight against cancer. A magic • Another conference tackled the theme of show was organized, followed by Santa Claus Architecture and Freedom. The presentation distribution of 70 Christmas gifts to all patients. was led by architect Youssef Tohme at the C. HEALTH ACTIVITIES Moreover, in January 2018, the CCCL team Sursock Museum. welcomed Banque BEMO’s Communication Banque BEMO gives a lot of importance to Department and gave them a tour of their health. This past year was no different as we premises after which they presented the have contributed to several initiatives. 47 CSR BUDGET BREAKDOWN • In support of the fight against breast cancer D. SPORTS ACTIVITIES and in hopes of raising awareness of its staff members as well as its clients, Banque BEMO • Banque BEMO’s colleagues and family displayed a flyer in all its premises during the members ran the Beirut Marathon under the month of October. theme “15 Years of Running”; a call to action aiming to create a better and more sustainable • The Bank’s female employees were invited to tomorrow for our country. In this year’s the “Women Heart Health” awareness session edition of Beirut Marathon, the Bank scored conducted by YADUNA foundation. The main an outstanding record achievement for two focus of the session that was presented by a colleagues and a high level of participation Doctor, Dietician and Social Assistant was to whereby 125 colleagues and family members shed light on factors that would trigger women ran in support of Donner Sang Compter (DSC). heart problems and the ways to prevent women heart disease and promote early diagnosis. 33 • Banque BEMO’s basketball team was created participants attended this awareness session. during the second quarter of 2017 and the team has been perseverant in their practices throughout the year. 49 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 www.bemobank.com
