Social Responsibility Report – 2017 Content Message from the CEO...............................................................3 I BIAL Mission & Values..............................................................................5 Innovation in Health.....................................................................6 Social Responsibility....................................................................7 II BIAL and the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights....................................................................................9 Labour Practices.............................................................................10 Environmental Protection...................................................... 15 Anti-corruption............................................................................... 17 III Patronage Social Responsibility and Patronage..................................................................................19 BIAL Foundation.......................................................................... 20 Social Responsibility Report 2017 2 Message from the CEO For more than 90 years, BIAL has been at the forefront of research, production and marketing of new medication with the objective of providing people with a longer and better life. We have sought to do it with professionalism and commitment, following the best practices and complying with the highest ethical standards. Working side-by-side with the best professionals has allowed us to evolve as a company, with continued progress and daily efforts to achieve excellence. This is the course we want to maintain. A path of growth and progress, focused on the discovery of new high-quality drugs that we can deliver to people all over the world. A path that we have set bearing in mind the huge social, scientific, technical, labour, environmental and economic challenges we are faced with daily, as a company and as a dynamic force in society. In the future, we want to continue to be guided by respect for People and Human Rights, for respect for the Environment, always working ethically and in accordance with the best Working Practices. These will always be the principles upon which BIAL bases itself and that we will always uphold. Therefore, we renew our commitment to the UN Global Compact, of which this Progress Report is an example, in full confidence that we share the same goals and that we want to help building a more inclusive, cooperative and sustainable society. Social Responsibility Report 2017 3 I BIAL I BIAL Mission & Values Founded in 1924, BIAL’s mission is to discover, develop and provide new therapeutic solutions within the area of Health. “Keeping Life in Mind” is our motto, and our strategic areas of development are Research and Development, Internationalisation and Quality. We want to meet people’s Health needs, by playing an active part in global economic growth. We also want to contribute to the construction of a knowledge society, one that is competitive and dynamic, based on scientific development and innovation. The values that guide us reflect our identity: • Caring for Health • Invest in Quality and Innovation • Excellence in scientific research • Integrity and high ethical standards • Rigour, responsibility and teamwork • Respect for universal values Social Responsibility Report 2017 5 I BIAL Innovation in Health We believe that, to better serve the interests and needs of In recent years, we have patented several new drugs worldwide. everyone, we cannot limit ourselves to the production and supply of The average amount of time the pharmaceutical industry spends on medication, we must go beyond. This is why we have decided that a researching a new medication is between ten to fourteen years and strategic focus for BIAL should be the research of new therapeutic research investments can reach 1 billion Euros. During this process, solutions. thousands of molecules are left behind, either because they are not effective or safe, or because they have undesirable side-effects on the To be able to contribute to the development of mankind, we feel we human organism. From a universe of 12,000 molecules, it is estimated should discover, innovate and actively contribute to the treatment of the that only one to two ends up reaching the market in the form of a new many diseases that affect human beings and their quality of life. To live drug. every single day in a spirit of creativity and evolution, within a highly professional business sector, means engaging our employees, our In 2009, BIAL put Portugal on the world map of therapeutic shareholders, our customers and our suppliers in the BIAL project. innovation by launching the first medicine researched and patented in Portugal onto the market – an antiepileptic drug. This drug is currently BIAL invests over 20% of its turnover in Research and marketed in several European countries, including Portugal, Spain, Development (R&D). According to data published in the 2017 United Kingdom, Germany, France and also in the USA. EU Industrial RD Investment Scoreboard, BIAL is the Portuguese company with the largest investment in R&D, ranking in the top 1,000 In 2016, the European Commission approved a new innovative companies in Europe who invest the most in R&D. drug from BIAL, for the treatment of Parkinson’s disease. This drug has already been marketed in several European countries. The Group’s R&D projects are developed at the R&D centre located in Trofa, Portugal, by more than 100 people, 35 of which have PhDs In recognition of our commitment to research and development, and 8 different nationalities. BIAL’s research focuses mostly on the BIAL has been admitted, for more than one decade, to the European neuroscience and the cardiovascular system, with the aim to contribute Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), to therapeutic development, providing the market with products that the prestigious federation of the leading research companies in the improve people’s quality of life. European pharmaceutical sector. As a national industry, we also feel compelled to contribute actively to Portugal’s economic and social development, by fostering the construction of a society founded on the pillars of knowledge, competitiveness, cooperation, science and innovation. BIAL is a founding member and an associate of the Health Cluster Portugal, a pole of competitiveness in health whose mission is to make Portugal a competitive player in the research, design, development, manufacture and marketing of health-related products and services. Social Responsibility Report 2017 6 I BIAL Social Responsibility BIAL’s social responsibility policy is an integral part of the company’s management practices and dictates the relationship with its various stakeholders. It involves several areas: management of people, quality and environmental protection policies, various initiatives to promote/support scientific research and association with humanitarian causes and social organisations throughout the world. We are not alone in this mission. Over the course of recent years, BIAL has allied itself with several institutions and bodies that share our vision of cooperating to build a more responsible and sustainable planet. Aiming to contribute to the promotion of sustainable economic progress, we are a member of the UN Global Compact, acting in accordance with its ten principles regarding management practices. We are also a signatory to Caring for Climate, a declaration by the members of the Global Compact that promotes solutions for the climate problems that affect our planet. BIAL is also a member of EPIS – Businessmen for Social Inclusion. This association was created in 2006 and its action is focused on Education, with special emphasis on tackling school failure and early drop-out. Social Responsibility Report 2017 7 II BIAL and the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights The People Human Rights • Principle 1: BIAL supports and respects the protection We are constantly concerned with the respect for Human Rights in of internationally proclaimed human rights; all our activities and in our relationship with our employees, suppliers, health professionals, patients and caregivers. • Principle 2: BIAL guarantees that it is not complicit in the abuse of human rights. BIAL does not make any kind of discrimination and our processes always call for equal opportunities. Our Research & Development Area employs people from 8 different nationalities and, as a result of our commitment to internationalisation, we are present in more than 55 The human factor is a priority in BIAL Group’s management policy. countries across Europe, America, Africa and Asia. We believe that our employees are the cornerstone of the Group’s success, recognised today by public and private institutions as a When non-Portuguese employees are integrated in the company, benchmark in the labour market. we support them in their search for housing, school for their children and in obtaining the necessary documentation to stay in Portugal. All of BIAL has consistently and steadily created relevant job these employees are offered individual Portuguese classes during their opportunities. In 1995, BIAL employed 250 people. Today, BIAL Group first year, to facilitate their integration in the country, in the company has more than 900 employees. and in their respective position. Our commitment is reflected in the quality and qualification of It is also important to say that BIAL has never been involved in any our employees. BIAL is proud of its extremely thorough selection and case related to violation of Human Rights and the Group has a Code of recruitment process, as it seeks to attract, select and retain skilled Ethics and Conduct, read and accepted by all employees, that develops workers, with the best qualifications. This factor can be proven by the the topic of the respect for the non-violation of Human Rights. percentage of employees with higher education degrees – more than 76%. On a regular basis, we also carry out an Internal Satisfaction Survey, where employees can report, confidentially and anonymously, any situations that might contradict the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. “Although we have defined a corporate policy common to all group companies, there are of course different habits and cultures between countries or nationalities. Perhaps the first rule to manage an international team is the respect for the differences”. Luís Portela, Chairman of BIAL in Leadership Portal. Social Responsibility Report 2017 9 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Labour Practices • Principle 3: BIAL supports the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective negotiation; • Principle 4: BIAL condemns all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: BIAL condemns all forms of child labour. BIAL’s strategy is future-oriented, while always respecting the basic principles that any company should ensure in order to be socially responsible. Below we have examples of some situations which reflect the development of BIAL’s activity, aiming the sustainable growth while respecting society and human beings. -BIAL has a proactive policy for the development of employees through talent management programs, such as training and development actions, as well as several opportunities for internal and international mobility. -Health and safety are a constant priority, so BIAL complies with all legal and regulatory requirements related to the health and prevention of work-related accidents. This fact is recognized and validated by the occupational health and safety management system, in accordance with the requirements of OHSAS 18001. Social Responsibility Report 2017 10 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Labour Practices • Principle 6: BIAL guarantees the elimination of employment discrimination. The BIAL Group does not engage any discriminatory practice in its recruitment process, namely pertaining to disability, gender, religion, political or sexual orientation, marital status, nationality, ethnic origin or union membership. For example, 51% of the company employees are female. 49% DISTRIBUTION BY GENDER 51% Women Men 47% GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION 53% Portugal Rest of the World Social Responsibility Report 2017 11 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Labour Practices LABOUR RELATIONS BIAL aims to develop the best practices pertaining to the management and relationship with people. Labour relations are no exception. BIAL is a member of the Portuguese Pharmaceutical Industry Association (APIFARMA), an entity whose main mission is to foster innovation and the development of therapies that address the needs for treatment and prevention of new diseases, as well as providing medicines that will improve the health and the quality of life for all populations. As part of APIFARMA, one of BIAL’s main responsibilities is to follow the guidelines and rules of the Collective Employment Agreement of the Pharmaceutical Industry, an existing convention between companies involved in the sector who are members of the Association. This collective agreement regulates the sector’s activities in all matters relating to Labour Law, Establishment of Employment Relations, Vocational Training, Safety, Hygiene, Occupational Health and Safety, among others. BIAL is also part of the “ISO Group”, a project developed in partnership with Infarmed (Portuguese Authority of Medicines and Health Products I.P.), which aims to gather a work group of representatives of each industry to harmonise procedures and promote potential synergies between the participating entities. It should also be emphasised that BIAL gives priority to job security and stability, and prides itself on having approximately 90% of our employment contracts as permanent. Social Responsibility Report 2017 12 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Labour Practices HUMAN RESOURCES POLICIES Performance Management Turnover and Mobility Performance Management is crucial and an essential management tool to align employees with the organisation’s strategy. At BIAL, the At BIAL, we favour the internal turnover of our employees, with performance evaluation is carried out annually for all employees, based almost all existing opportunities within the Group being disclosed on the analysis of both the (corporate, departmental and individual) internally, thus offering employees the chance to take on new roles in objectives and the strengths and areas needing improvement, which different departments and countries. will result in a development plan with concrete actions and measures. In 2017, the rate of recruitment processes completed with internal In this evaluation, employees are given the opportunity to report employees exceeded 25%. their strengths and improvement areas, as well as their career expectations. Whenever BIAL enters a new market and/or creates international teams, it is common to appoint employees with leadership and/or This type of information allows BIAL to generate a “mapping” of the other roles with some impact and responsibility in those countries. needs of all employees and develop specific training plans. This also Other than providing a better integration of the business processes, enables us to gain a more detailed idea of the interests, motivations this type of policy also allows for a better integration and transmission and ambitions of the employees in the short and medium-term, as well of company’s values, culture and ethical principles. Having said this, as align them with the strategic needs of the BIAL Group. BIAL also recognizes the importance of having well-integrated local employees in order to ease the company’s inclusion in the communities where we operate. Social Responsibility Report 2017 13 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Labour Practices Training and Development • Internal Training – Every year, all employees receive updated internal training on processes, procedures or equipment. At all functional levels, we promote teamwork and an ongoing Employees are also trained in key areas such as Best Practices training system that allows for updating and expanding the skills and in the Pharmaceutical Industry, Occupational Health and Safety, competencies of our human resources. Pharmacovigilance, among others. It is important to recall that, whenever a new employee is taken on by the company, they With the objective of generating high levels of motivation and are given access to training on our Code of Ethics and Conduct. performance, as well as enabling the employees to use all of their Proving once again our commitment to offer training to all potential, BIAL develops programs aimed at individual performance. In employees, BIAL has also developed an internal training e-learning 2017, approximately 50 training hours were given to each employee, platform that can be accessed by the vast majority of the Group’s proving BIAL’s commitment to the qualification and professional employees, anytime and anywhere. valorisation of its employees. Below are some examples of training projects implemented at BIAL: Internal Satisfaction • Induction Training – Training defined and aimed at all employees who start working for the company. Since the opinion of our employees is important to overall growth, every 2 years we conduct an Internal Satisfaction Survey. This survey • Executive Coaching – Provided annually to a group of aims to give employees the opportunity to voice their views on employees with the main objective of providing them with key skills several issues related to their work. The overall goal is to contribute to better perform their roles. continuously to improved job satisfaction, teamwork and the global BIAL results. In the last Internal Satisfaction Survey, conducted in 2017, the participation rate was 84% and the overall employee satisfaction reached 83%. In 2019, we will carry out a new survey and our aim is to maintain at least the same results as those above, as well as to continue to be a company where our employees like to work and are proud to work for. Internal Communication As BIAL is present in over 55 countries and has more than 900 employees, good communication is key so that all employees are well • Leadership Training – Through partnerships with renowned informed and aware of the changes that occur within the organisation. institutions, each year, BIAL provides its leadership teams with leadership training. “myTEAM” and “BIAL Tools” are examples of BIAL has Intranet available to all employees, even to those who programs which have been developed. are physically distant, with information relevant to all employees being systematically updated. Every year, on BIAL’s anniversary, the Chairman, the CEO and the Directors of the different areas share information about the present status and the future of the company. In addition, international meetings are held annually with all Directors to share information and make decisions on the definition/adjustment of the company’s strategy. Defining internal motivation and the maintenance of a spirit of cooperation and collaboration as priorities, BIAL has been creating a • Management and Leadership Good Practices Program. virtuous circle of satisfaction between the Company and its employees. • Curriculum Enrichment – BIAL annually contributes to or The high level of satisfaction of the Group’s employees is a source of finances the costs of employee graduation, master, PhD and pride, which is recognised both internally and externally. MBA studies, which may be considered as an added value to the business and the employees. • Language Training – Given each year so that, over time, all employees can improve this skill so as to facilitate, optimise and speed up the internationalisation process defined for the Group. Social Responsibility Report 2017 14 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Environmental Protection Quality and the Environment as Principles The main environmental aspects which directly and indirectly depend on its activity are periodically monitored in a systematic • Principle 7: BIAL supports a precautionary approach to manner, namely: environmental challenges; -Waste Production • Principle 8: BIAL promotes environmental -Water Consumption and Wastewater responsibility; -Energy • Principle 9: : BIAL promotes the use of environmentally-friendly technology. -Gas Emissions -Environmental Noise The satisfaction of the therapeutic needs of patients and their -Promotion of Legal Compliance for “Entities that work on behalf of caregivers, and that of healthcare professionals, our customers, or for the Organisation” employees and shareholders is one of BIAL’s cultural values. Quality is understood as being a responsibility for all. Its improvement must be constantly sought out and developed, becoming WASTE PRODUCTION a deciding factor for the compliance of our objectives. In 2017, overall waste production was 195 tonnes. In total, all of it Health, Safety and the Environment are also an integral part of our was sent to licensed operators. commitments. The strategies and the development and optimisation efforts in our processes, products and services respect both the In 2017, the production of recyclable waste (plastics, aluminium, Environment and all those who live in it. glass, cardboard, paper, ….) at BIAL corresponded to approximately 50% of the total waste generated. The economic value of this waste These commitments will be ensured, by all areas of the Company, led to added value for the company of about 15% of the total costs through the following principles: associated with the global management of waste. -Guarantee the quality and safety of the drugs manufactured, BIAL monitors its paper consumption. It is worth noting that, in harmony with the health and safety of employees and the despite the increase in the number of employees registered in 2017, environment; the implementation of several consumption strategies, such as the transition to documents in digital form, the use of double-sided -Strictly comply with regulatory, technical and normative printing and the reuse of paper, resulted in the same amount of paper requirements that apply to our activity or others to which BIAL consumption of 2016. subscribes; In addition to recyclable waste, BIAL produces hazardous waste -Stimulate the improvement and development of the employees’ resulting from the return of products from the market (pharmacies, skills, recognising their contributions as a way of professional wholesalers) and from production leftovers. In 2017, hazardous waste growth, job satisfaction and commitment to quality, health, safety amounted to approximately 60 tons, in line with the previous year. and the environment, so as to maintain an organisation which values initiative, teamwork and the sharing of knowledge; -Demand, from suppliers, the strict compliance with the specifications and requirements for different materials, products and services, as well as acting responsibly with regards to health, safety and the environment, stimulating their participation in the improvement of their processes, products and services; -Continuous improvement of the system performance, so that we deserve the acceptance of the Health Community, regulating entities and society in general. Certified in 2001, BIAL was the first pharmaceutical company and the first operating in the area of healthcare to obtain Certification for its Environmental Management System from ISO 14001. Social Responsibility Report 2017 15 Environmental Protection PROMOTION OF LEGAL COMPLIANCE FOR “PEOPLE WORKING ON BEHALF OF OR FOR THE ORGANISATION” Throughout 2017, BIAL continued to promote training and awareness actions regarding the Environment, with special emphasis on subcontracted entities. In 2018, BIAL will continue the adequacy and efficiency of its Environmental Management and Occupational Health and Safety Systems, along with their evolution in time, while paying special attention to the compliance with the applicable legislation and continuous improvement. WATER CONSUMPTION AND WASTEWATER During 2017, 14,060 m3 of water from the public supply system OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OHS) were consumed. This water was used for human consumption and for the production process. This figure fell 7% in comparison to 2016 BIAL promotes a healthy and safe working environment, adopting even though there was an increase in the number of employees. In the necessary measures to prevent accidents that may occur during order to reduce costs and their inherent impact, the company’s fire the course of work and minimizing or eliminating, where possible, the prevention network, irrigation systems, washing and cooling systems risks. use untreated water obtained from a borehole, and 9,574 m3 were consumed, which means a saving in the consumption of drinking water. Within the context of training/awareness and communication, several actions were developed with all employees, both in conference In 2017, the volume of wastewater produced and treated in our rooms and at the workplace. Various emergency drill exercises were Industrial Effluent Chemical and Biological Treatment Plant was similar also conducted. In 2017, several training/ awareness actions were to 2016. conducted, namely in areas such as the Environment and OHS, focusing on Waste Management, Good Environmental and OSH ENERGY Practices for Service Providers, Emergency Response (including fire extinguisher training), Occupational Noise and Ergonomics. Energy consumption is mainly associated with two types of “sources”: Electricity and Natural Gas, the totality of which is recorded In terms of health, in addition to the usual auxiliary diagnostic tests under Primary Energy, TEP. Energy consumption has shown some that support the medical fitness assessment, two additional campaigns fluctuations over the past 10 years, alternating with positive and were also developed: one with audiometric tests and another with negative variations from one year to another. optometric tests. In 2017, BIAL’s facilities consumed a total of approximately With regards to the choice of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), 1,050 TEP, with the consumption profile registering an increase of this is performed by taking into account the risks to be protected and approximately 8% in comparison to 2016. However, there was a the characteristics of the employees who will use it. In addition to slight reduction in relative consumption (per unit produced). Under providing all PPE required for the tasks to be performed, BIAL replaces the applicable law, the BIAL Group is considered an intensive energy them whenever they are damaged or their useful life has expired. consumer and is implementing an Energy Rationalisation Plan. Technical audits to the facilities are also carried out, with the objective of verifying the safety conditions of workplaces (work GAS EMISSIONS equipment, working environment, PPE, fire-fighting equipment, According to the “Gaseous Effluent Characterization” conducted exposure to chemical, biological and physical agents) and checking periodically and as a consequence of the improvement actions taken, their legal compliance. These audits also check machines, the use of BIAL maintains mass flow rates of pollutants below the respective shields and other aspects related to OHS. These audits result in reports minimum mass flow thresholds, and it is, therefore, not required to that include the findings and proposed corrective measures. comply with the respective Emission Limit Values (ELV). ENVIRONMENTAL NOISE According to the provisions of the applicable law and based on the results obtained in the last measurement, BIAL meets the noise indicator values, not exceeding the exposure limit values nor the discomfort limit values. Social Responsibility Report 2017 16 II BIAL and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Anti-corruption • Principle 10: BIAL works against all forms of ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES corruption, including extortion and bribery. -The company defends and promotes the fight against corruption in all its forms. BIAL complies the Medicinal Product Status and the Codes of Ethics which govern the Pharmaceutical Industry in BIAL has been in the market for over 90 years and, throughout all activities to disclose its products to health professionals, as these nine decades, has worked in compliance with the highest ethical well as all legislation in this area. On a regular basis, the company standards. This has always been part of the company’s DNA. conducts training and awareness actions, defending transparency, ethics and integrity in its activity. Our employees are expected to BIAL has a Code of Ethics and Conduct which reminds and applies behave in accordance to these principles. the main ethical principles which govern the company and its relations with its partners. Since BIAL’s image and success depends on each -An example of this was the training given to our medical of their employees and the group’s strength, integrity and ethics lives representative team, at the beginning of 2016, on “Ethics & in its daily activities, BIAL will continue to work responsibly, seeking to Transparency: From Concepts and Guidelines to Practical Issues”. make a difference, offering everyone a longer and better life. Also, each year, all employees receive training in the Code of Ethics and Conduct. This training is given in an e-learning format, so that it can reach all employees. -As part of BIAL’s commitment to integrity while exercising its activities, all Officers, Employees and anyone acting on behalf of BIAL are strictly prohibited from offering, giving, soliciting, accepting or receiving a bribe (including attempt to). -A bribe is a direct or indirect offer to give or receive anything of value to/from a Government Official or commercial person or entity, with the intent to corruptly influence that official, person or entity to award new business, continue existing business or to gain any improper advantage. -For the purposes hereunder, the term “anything of value” includes cash or cash equivalents, gifts, services, employment offers, loans, travel expenses, entertainment, political contributions, charitable donations, subsidies, per diem payments, sponsorships, fees or provision of any other asset. -Failure to comply with these or other laws could lead to criminal and civil penalties for BIAL and personally for its Officers and Employees. It could also lead to significant business disruptions and harm BIAL’s reputation. Social Responsibility Report 2017 17 III Patronage III Sponsorship Social Responsibility and Patronage BIAL integrates several entities and institutions whose aim is the Once a year, a blood donation and bone marrow collection by sustainable development of the planet and the creation of a more just Instituto Português de Sangue e Transplantação is also held at BIAL’s and responsible society. premises. BIAL is part of “Porto de Futuro”, a pioneering and innovative Every year, BIAL Group contributes actively to the development educational program in the country, which is a response to the need for of several institutions, associations, hospitals, schools, universities, a greater involvement from the civil society in school life, recognising municipalities and other bodies who work to foster the well-being of the key role of Education in the sustainable development of a more today’s society and future generations. BIAL gives special attention to competitive and dynamic society. Its purpose is to generate a culture of supporting the local community where it is based, namely the Câmara knowledge based on merit, creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship, Municipal da Trofa, local schools in the Trofa and Maia districts, and as a reflection of the educational project to be developed for the city of local sports clubs and associations. Porto. We also highlight BIAL’s participation in the “Banco do In this program, BIAL supports a Group of Schools in the greater Medicamento” initiative, a protocol between the Ministério da Porto region and, among the various programs, we highlight the Solidariedade e Segurança Social, Infarmed, Apifarma and “União das “Braço Direito” project. This project aims to have students come to Misericórdias”. This initiative is a platform for access to free medicines BIAL for a day and work as the right hand of one of our employees, through donations made directly by pharmaceutical companies, by accompanying them on their tasks and activities. social institutions that have medical and pharmaceutical services. In the area of Health, we also have partnerships with several entities, Furthermore, every year, some BIAL employees volunteer to train medical societies and patient associations that aim at training, students from one of that Group’s schools on topics such as Family, education and awareness of the various issues that affect the health of Citizenship, Economy, among others. the population. Every year, we collect food products, school books, toys and BIAL’s patronage also includes the promotion of artistic activities, clothing to support charitable institutions. including the publication and disclosure of a variety of cultural works in the areas of painting, literature, sculpture, music and photography. Social Responsibility Report 2017 19 III Sponsorship BIAL Foundation With the objective of disclosing and promoting science and research in Health, BIAL created, in 1994, the BIAL Foundation. It is an institution of public utility, whose mission is to promote and motivate scientific knowledge of the human-being, both from a physical and spiritual point of view. In 2017, with the objective of widening the scope of the BIAL Foundation action and recognising the most remarkable and relevant Over the years, the BIAL Foundation has recognised and stimulated discoveries in biomedicine, the BIAL Award in Biomedicine was scientific research by awarding Prizes and Grants for Scientific created. This new Award, with a value of 300,000 Euros, will have its Research, collaborating with the scientific community from around the first edition in 2019 and is intended to reward an article of biomedical world. nature published after the 1st of January 2010, which represents a work with results of great quality and scientific relevance. Aimed at motivating medical research and publishing works with great repercussion in medical research, the BIAL Foundation promotes The Grants for Scientific Research are aimed at encouraging the Prémio BIAL Medicina Clínica. This award aims to reward an research in Neuroscience. The competitions already conducted have original, intellectual work of medical nature, with a free theme and already benefitted more than 610 projects of approximately 1,350 directed to clinical practice, representing a work with results of great researchers from 25 countries. quality and relevance. With the same goal of stimulating the neurophysiological and In addition to the monetary value of 100,000 Euros, the Prémio mental study of Man, the BIAL Foundation has been organising, every BIAL Medicina Clínica also includes the publication of the winning two years since 1996, the “Behind and Beyond the Brain” symposium, article, with a first exclusive edition to be distributed free of charge which is currently an international forum for the discussion and among health professionals. expansion of research in the field of neuroscience. Social Responsibility Report 2017 20
