SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 Reporting Principles and Criteria 2 1 Index Message to Our Stakeholders 1 4. The Relationships 99 Sustainability Highlights 17 4.1 With Employees 100 1. A spotlight on our corporate identity 19 4.1.1 Employment 101 1.1 Our histor y between heritage and innovation 20 4.1.2 People Empowerment and Welfare 104 1.2 The Group and the Corporate Governance 26 4.1.3 Occupational Health and Safety 106 1.3 Flos global presence 40 4.2 With Clients 108 1.4 Flos’ third sustainability repor t 42 4.2.1 Sales Channels and Communication Activities 108 1.4.1 Our Key Stakeholders 44 4.2.2 Customer Care and Satisfaction 110 1.4.2 Our Material Issues 45 4.3 With the Community 114 2. The Lighting World: warranty of Continuity 51 Repor ting Principles and Criteria 118 and Drive for Innovation GRI Content Index 124 2.1 The Creation of Light 56 2.2 Product Quality and Compliance 60 2.3 Energy Efficiency of Lighting Systems 66 2.4 Investing in Research and Innovation 70 2.5 Protecting Flos’ Ideas 74 3. A Journey in our Value Chain 77 3.1 The Production Process 78 3.1.1 Supplier Selection and Management 80 3.1.2 Logistics 82 3.2 Environmental Impacts along the Production Process 84 3.2.1 Materials and Energy Consumption 87 3.2.2 Waste Production 91 3.2.3 GHG Emissions 94 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 Message to our stakeholders 2017 has been an exciting year for Flos Group, epitomized by a push towards innovation and modernization, characterized by the first implementation phase of our digital transformation. Actually, in late 2017 we have launched our new global website, with a great new design and contents offer, and we have started a gradual centralization and strategic management of the corporate social media. Albeit being just the first step of a long-standing roadmap, this strategy for us represents an opportunity to demonstrate to our stakeholders how a 55-year old company can still adopt a pioneering approach, by combining a solid tradition of quality and a renowned brand with an endlessly young attitude. Digitalization goes hand in hand with our distinctive attention towards product innovation. At Flos, we are deeply convinced that the creation of light through the conception and the design of new lighting solutions is an act of profound responsibility. As a matter of fact, light is a vital element to life, and our solutions should embody the latest technological enhancements in order to ameliorate our customers’ quality of living, by offering a customized and reliable answer to their evolving needs. That is why our new models explore some of the most advanced Internet of Things solutions, with the aim of improving the user experience of our increasingly connected customers. On the same vein, innovation should contribute to the overall sustainability of our products, as witnessed by the progressive diffusion of LED solutions within our portfolio. In our view, LED provides the perfect match between creativity and respect for the environment. Therefore, we will keep experimenting with its applications in the upcoming years, building on the mounting success of recent models like Noctambule, designed by Konstantin Grcic, or Michael Anastassiades’ Arrangements lamp. These latter perfectly demonstrate how sustainability can be iconic and how energy efficiency can become a synonym of style and class. However, since we are aware that our commitment towards sustainability cannot be limited to our products, in 2017 we have also worked in order to improve our overall environmental and social performance along our value chain. In this direction, we have implemented a series of actions intended to progressively reduce our energy consumption and to increase the percentage of recycled waste. Similarly, driven by the willingness to ensure a constant talent development, we have increased the amount of training hours dispensed to our employees, while trying to foster a positive working environment and to enhance their personal welfare. This, our third Sustainability Report will provide you with insights regarding all these topics, and offers you a more nuanced glance of our corporate reality. It will also guarantee an objective vision over our sustainability performance, with an enlarged reporting scope covering also our subsidiaries Antares and Ares. Finally, as a confirmation to our firm commitment to adhere to the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which we joined in 2015, it will clearly communicate our efforts to become a reference in the lighting industry also from a sustainability standpoint. Piero Gandini, CEO 5 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 Our Stakeholders Electronic department, Italy Electronic department, Spain 6 7 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 Our Stakeholders R&D department, Spain Production department, Spain 8 9 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 Our Stakeholders Mechanic department, Italy Mechanic department, USA 10 11 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 Our Stakeholders Logistics, USA Employee, Italy 12 13 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 Our Stakeholders Biagio’s craftsman, Italy Ray’s craftsman, Italy 14 15 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 Our Stakeholders Michael Anastassiades with the Arrangements lamps Formafantasma with Blush lamp 16 17 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 Our Stakeholders Flos Store, Arrangements Flosʼ event 18 19 Suu s ttaaiinnaa b i lil ittyy R S Reeppoorrtt 2017 2017 Sustainability highlights Sustainability highlights 2017 The Group Revenues People Countries 215 M€ 609 94 Our Suppliers * Local suppliers in Italy Local suppliers in Spain 84 % 94 % Our People* Employees Training hours per employees 397 7.9 h Permanent Increase of total training hours contracts with respect to 2015 84 % 94 % Total training dedicated to non-compulsory training activities 86 % Environment * Tons of CO2 Waste sent to recycling in 2017 265 56 % equivalent emissions compensated through the subscription to Go Green Climate Neutral Program by DHL *Data refer to Flos, Antares and Ares. 20 21 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A spotlight on our corporate identity 1. A spotlight on our corporate identity Established in 1962 in Merano, Italy, by Dino Gavina and Cesare Cassina, Flos Group (hereinafter Flos) is recognized as a world leading manufacturer of innovative lighting solutions in the residential and architectural sectors, featuring high quality products and systems characterized by timeless design. The beginnings of Flos, meaning flower in Latin, blossomed from a brilliant idea: to create objects, starting with a light bulb, which would change the way of life for both the Italian and the foreign markets. Sergio Gandini e Achille Castiglioni, 1974 22 23 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A spotlight on our corporate identity 1.1 Our history between heritage and innovation Since the launch of Flos, the founders had the key has single-brand stores in Rome, Milan, Paris, Lyon, objective of creating products that would become New York, Stockholm and Hong Kong. The brand’s icons, establishing new typologies and innovative creations have received numerous international archetypes. This has progressively allowed Flos to awards and many of them are now featured in the become universally renowned for producing design permanent collections of leading international art and icons, like the Arco lamp, a tangible proof of Flos design museums.Thanks to a know-how acquired timeless design and craftsmanship excellence. after over fifty years of experience, Flos is today an The same approach has been inherited and enhanced international organization that offers a complete range by the current Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of residential, commercial and even custom-made Piero Gandini, whose family has been Flos’ main lighting products that can be seamlessly integrated shareholder almost since the beginning. Today Flos is in any office, hotel, or store. With a constant the only company in the lighting industry that is able commitment to research and technological innovation, to offer a complete range of integrated solutions. but always aiming to reach a poetic quality of light, It exports to more than 70 countries worldwide and the company has demonstrated how a historic brand Sergio Gandini and Snoopy Lamp, 1968 24 25 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A spotlight on our corporate identity can look at the future without losing sight of its supported by a new corporate function, the Chief tradition. Following its commitment in technological Digital Officer, specifically devoted to the digital innovation, in 2017, Flos has also started a process transformation. As an initial step of this path, in intended to fully harness the potential of digital 2017 Flos has started a series of Digital Lessons, i.e. technologies in order to rethink both its internal training sessions dedicated to its employees focusing processes and its communication activities targeting on digital topics e.g. design thinking, interaction customers. To achieve this ambitious result the design, enhanced customer experience, internet Company has started a cross-divisional process aimed of things, the potential of mobile devices aimed at reskilling its employees and enhancing their digital at creating a company culture that nurtures innovation expertise. Indeed, Flos believes that to effectively and digital transformation. achieve a digital transition it is crucial to provide In addition, concerning its communication with digital skills to employees, as to empower them in customers, Flos is also investing in the creation order to drive and funnel the corporate technological of a new Data Asset Management System, aimed change. This process is actively coordinated and at storing and sharing in a single, centralized Sergio Gandini and Achille Castiglioni, 1982 Sketch Taraxacum, 1982 – Coocon Eisenkeil, 1960 Tobia Scarpa, 1960 – MAK Museum Vienna, 1984 Flos Shop Milano, 1969 26 27 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A spotlight on our corporate identity platform all the product information, ranging from expectations. While keeping a strong commitment the technical designs to the historical archive. The to integrate the digital transformation in its identity, new product information platform will also allow the Flos has also contributed to face the challenges collection and monitoring of key indicators related to that are reshaping the lighting sector, such as the products through the creation of a single dashboard introduction of the LED lighting source and the advent accessible from different users. Concurrently, Flos of the circular economy. In this time of change, is also redesigning the digital customer experience, Flos ultimate goal is indeed to translate heritage into mapping and monitoring the different touchpoints a meaningful direction aligned to the present situation. and interaction channels in order to meet customer Jenny Holzer Academy event show, 2005 Sketch May Day, 2000 – A. Castiglioni with P. Gandini, 2000 Glo-Ball lamp, 2000 – Jean Baptiste Mondino with P. Starck, 2000 Miss Sissi, 1992 28 29 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A spotlight on our corporate identity 1.2 The Group and the Corporate Governance Flos Benelux NV Euroformat S.r.l. Flos BV Flos USA Inc. Flos Milano S.r.l. Antares Iluminacion S.a.u. Flos Japan Co. Ltd Flos Illumination Shanghai Ltd Flos Scandinavia AS Antares Iluminacion Pte Ptd Flos Sverige AB Flos S.p.A. Flos gmbh Light Contract S.r.l. Flos UK ltd Ares S.r.l. Flos is one of the leading players in the Italian custom product manufacturing subsidiaries, Light Flos Norge AS lighting industry, with registered revenues of Contract (Collebeato, Brescia Italy) and Flos USA Inc. more than €215 million in 2017 at group level. (formerly Lukas Lighting, Long Island City, NYUSA). As of 31st December 2017, Flos employs 609 people, Continuing its path of growth, in May 2017, mainly located in the three operating sites of Flos Flos Roma S.r.l. Flos acquired, through Flos France S.a.s., KKDC France, S.p.A. in Italy, for the Design segment (headquartered which is the distributor in France for the Korean KKDC, in Bovezzo, Brescia, 147 employees); in Spain a leading company in the production of linear LED with its subsidiaries Antares Iluminacion SAU for for luxury architectural lighting. The objective of Flos France S.a.s the Architectural and Soft architectural segment the new acquisition, renamed Flos Projets, is mainly (Valencia, 165 employees); and, again in Italy, with Ares to reinforce Flos’ positioning in the contract segment Operating subsidiaries (Bernareggio, 85 employees) for the Outdoor segment. and to give a strong incentive to the French market, Flos Projets S.a.r.l Commercial branches The remaining people are employed in the smaller where the corporate brand is already renowned since commercial subsidiaries of the Group and in the two the end of the seventies. The group structure 30 31 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A spotlight on our corporate identity Starting from December 2014, the majority indirect shareholder of Flos S.p.A. The Supervisory Board comprises two external members, who fulfill the is Investindustrial V L.P. The previous shareholders, including the Gandini regulatory requirements in terms of autonomy, independence and continuity family (controlling shareholders), still own a significant portion of Flos’ shares. and a secretary. Together with the Model 231, Flos drafted its Code of Ethics, which describes the Company’s missions and ethical principles and governs Flos S.p.A. has implemented a control and governance system based on: the relationship between the Flos and all its counterparts, i.e. shareholders, employees and partners, suppliers, Public Administration, trade unions, • A Board of Directors, comprising nine members, which is entrusted political parties and clients. with all the powers to ensure the ordinary and extraordinary management The implementation of the Model 231 and of the Code of Ethics, together of the Company; with Flos’ certified 9001 Quality Management System, also represents the • A Board of Statutory Auditors, comprising three standing statutory auditors framework to ensure compliance with national and international applicable and two substitute statutory auditors. laws and regulations. Flos firmly believes that acting in accordance with the principles of Model 231 and of the Code of Ethics is essential to promote a responsible business Board Member conduct, i.e. one enabling it to avoid the occurrence of corruption cases and of unethical business practices. In this regard, in the 2015-2017 period, Vitaliano Borromeo Arese Chairman of the Board (company’s representative) no complaints from competitors and public authorities for anti-competitive Piero Gandini Board member CEO (company’s representative) behavior nor episodes of corruption were either identified or reported. Manuel Perani Board member EVP Operations & Finance (company’s representative) Federico Otto Martinez Weber Board member – Antares CEO Maurizio Bottinelli Board member Mar tina Peterlini Board member Alessandro Fogo Board member Umber to Magnetti Board member Davide Ambrogio Pelle Board member An independent auditing firm has also been appointed. In order to ensure transparency and responsible day-by-day operations, in 2015 Flos created its first Organizational, Management and Control Model pursuant to Italian law 231/2001 (hereinafter “Model 231”), approved by the Board of Directors in March 2016. The drafting of the Model 231 has included the analysis of the main risks and the mapping of operating areas potentially subject to those risks. As foreseen by the Model 231 and applicable legislation, Flos has appointed a Supervisory Body (Organismo di Vigilanza) entrusted with the task of controlling the internal implementation and the corporate compliance with Model 231, as well as its updating process. 32 33 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A spotlight on our corporate identity 1.3 Flos’ Global Presence Sales by Country Western Europe Asia Pacific Eastern Europe 64% 11% 5% Americas Middle East Africa 13% 6% 1% Milan, Rome, Paris, New York, Tokyo, Amsterdam, Copenaghen, Oslo, Stockholm, Valencia, Prague, London, Singapore, Lyon, Hong Kong, Regensburg, Shanghai. Manufacturing Plants Showrooms Flagship Stores Offices Ares srl Flos Norge A/S Flos USA Inc. Bernareggio (MB) Italy Oslo New York Flos has a widespread global presence serving where sales revenues are four times higher Flos Spa Flos Flagship Store Flos Illumination Shangai Co Ltd Bovezzo (Brescia) Italy Stockholm Shangai 94 countries (among which 34 directly host Flos’ compared to three years ago, and in Latin America. personnel), with showrooms and shops located in Flos’ growth and development is mainly due Light Contract srl Flos Scandinavia A/S Flos Flagship Store important cities such as Milan, London, New York, to its ability of combining tradition and innovation, Collebeato (Brescia) Italy Copenaghen Hong Kong Lyon, Stockholm, Hong Kong, Rome and Paris. offering to its clients a large and diversified product The Group is paying growing attention to its expansion portfolio, which includes new innovative lighting Antares Iluminación s.a.u. Flos UK Ltd Flos Co Ltd. Valencia London Tokyo in foreign markets, especially in the Middle East region, solutions next to well-known classic icons. Lukas Lighting (Flos USA Inc.) Flos BV Flos Representative Office New York Amsterdam Singapore Flos GmbH Flos Showroom Regensburg Prague Flos S.A.R.L. Flos Flagship Store & Showroom Paris Milano Flos Projets Flos Flagship Store Paris Roma Flos Flagship Store Lyon 34 35 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A spotlight on our corporate identity Flos Decorative Flos’ original core business, the Design collection merges technical research and innovation with emotional and aesthetic design, thanks to the strong relationships existing between the Company and the designers. All products belonging to Flos’ Design collection are designed and developed in the Flos S.p.A. Italian headquarters in Bovezzo and they include several product categories, such as table lamps, floor lamps, pendant lamps and wall & ceiling solutions. 36 37 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A spotlight on our corporate identity Flos Architectural The Architectural collection includes indoor lighting systems both for domestic/residential use as well as for professional use. This business segment designs and develops lighting solutions, often in cooperation with engineering and architectural firms, both for big retail networks (mainly fashion retail and hospitality) and for private customers. This business line focuses on professional and residential lighting systems, custom-made solutions and soft architecture products and it is based in Antares Iluminaciòn S.A. headquarter in Valencia, Spain. 38 39 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A spotlight on our corporate identity Flos Outdoor The Flos Outdoor collection has been created to illuminate open spaces through a new design language, finding balance both by hiding in the natural landscape behind discrete objects, and by conversing with the architecture through designs with a unique identity. At present, Flos Outdoor collection is mainly produced by Ares (Bernareggio, Italy). 40 41 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A spotlight on our corporate identity Flos Custom Born to satisfy customers’ specific practical needs and their increasing desire for exclusivity, this collection includes the custom-made segment. The custom-made business segment has been developed during the last years by Flos’ Italian subsidiary, Light Contract, and it is currently growing following the acquisition of Lukas Lighting, later merged into Flos USA Inc, in December 2015. 42 43 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A spotlight on our corporate identity Through this period of continuous change and development, on one hand it is becoming particularly important for Flos to guarantee a corporate identity and a strong internal cohesion, and, on the other, to offer its products through a unique brand and image. At the beginning of 2017, Flos published its first outdoor lighting catalogue with the aim of presenting the new outdoor collection, communicating the same vision and an innovative design spirit that makes the Group leader in the Design and Architectural segments. During the last years, the participation in big projects with the involvement and integration of the Design, Architectural and Outdoor collections, has been a key element and a growing trend in Flos’ business strategy. Thanks to the differentiation of its collections and products and to the presence of its Custom division, Flos is able to design and implement complex lighting solutions, which respond to the specific need and expectations of increasingly demanding clients. Flos took part in the design and realization of several new buildings, including airports and luxury hotels and structures; for each project, Flos supplies its client with a unique lighting solution for the whole building, guaranteeing the same concepts for indoor and outdoor lighting, from the design to the realization phase. Tokyo, Launch of Flos Outdoor Catalogue 44 45 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A spotlight on our corporate identity 1.4 Flos’ Third Sustainability Report SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 2015 2016 2017 In 2015, Flos strengthened its commitment performance indicators. Thanks to this path, internal toward its stakeholders by publishing its first comprehension and attention to sustainability issues Sustainability Report. Since then, Flos has started have raised and have allowed Flos to start several a process of identification and prioritization of initiatives and to update its materiality analysis for its social and environmental impacts as well as its third Sustainability Report with a higher degree a monitoring process of its most significant key of awareness and knowledge. Our stakeholders 46 47 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A spotlight on our corporate identity Table 1.3 – Direct value generated, distributed and retained 1.4.1. The following table reports an overview of Flos’ key stakeholders, based on Our key stakeholders the influence and on the dependence of these stakeholder from the Company; for each stakeholder category, a description of existing engagement activities € in thousands 2015 2016 2017* is provided. Direct economic value generated [k€] 199,552 208,072 215,144 Direct economic value distributed [k€] 165,539 173,355 180,223 Operating costs 114,346 115,777 120,626 Stakeholder Category Engagement Tools And Activities Employees’ wages and benefits 33,307 35,825 37,687 Employees And Continuous dialogue between HR department and employees / trade unions, Payments to providers of capital 12,925 13,927 12,322 Trade Unions specific initiatives Payment to government 4,831 7,649 9,506 Board Of Directors Formal meetings Community Investment** 130 176 82 Suppliers Continuous dialogue and periodical meetings Economic value retained [k€] 34,013 34,717 34,920 Clients Website, Fairs, Catalogues * 2017 data includes Flos Projets S.à.r.l., acquired in May 2017. Training course organized for clients ** Value related to Community Investment exclude donations of lamps (e.g. donations to charity auction). Preliminary analysis of customer satisfaction on a sample of clients End-user Social networks, communication campaigns, fairs and meetings Competitors 1.4.2. As part of the process for defining the Sustainability Report contents, the Media Press releases Our material issues materiality analysis has been updated for the current reporting year in order to map relevant topics, which reflect Flos’ economic, environmental and social Architects And Continuous cooperation on research and development of new products impacts and/or may influence the decisions of the key stakeholders identified. Interior Designers Starting from last year results, the results of the benchmarking analysis related to the lighting industry and to sustainability reporting best practices have been Providers Formal meetings and periodical management reports Of Financial Capital taken into account. In addition, a meeting with the management was carried out, in order to evaluate possible changes and updates in terms of topics Regulatory And Membership in working groups within regulatory bodies and industry relevance and priority. This has been carried out considering different sources Certification Bodies associations (E.g. Assoluce, Lighting Europe, Iec) of information: • The GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards; Flos contributes to the development and wealth of those stakeholders that are • The ten principles of the UN Global Compact Initiative influenced by the Group’s economic results (employees, Public Administration, to which Flos adheres; local communities, shareholders), as well as those that have commercial • Actual or potential requests coming from clients; relationships with it (providers of loans, suppliers), through the distribution • Results of a sector specific media analysis, that covered of the value generated by its activity. main news regarding Flos; The following table reports the economic impact that Flos’ financial results • The Regulatory framework; have on its stakeholders. Direct economic value generated and distributed • Reports from industry associations; by Flos show a proportional increase between 2015 and 2017, while the • Flos’ ESGs KPIs and goals. economic value retained is nearly unvaried. 48 49 Suu s ttaaiinnaa b i lil ittyy R S Reeppoorrtt 2017 2017 A spotlight on our corporate identity Dif fusion of energy Sustainabilit y Corporate Customer Product Resarch and saving culture of materials identit y satisfaction qualit y and development compliance The following highlights the main results obtained through the materiality analysis update: Sustainabilit y of lighting systems • The most relevant sustainability issues for both Flos and its stakeholders have remained the same as last year: product quality and compliance, customer satisfaction and research and development. With respect to 2016, Competitive Economic Brand the Company attributes a higher relevance to the sustainability of lighting behavior per formance protection systems, while the perceived internal relevance of the corporate economic performance has slightly declined; • Four topics, among the ones already present in the 2016 materiality analysis Relevance to the stakeholders Employees Supply chain responsible have become material: diversity, internet of things, anti-corruption and care management competitive behavior. Concerning the anti-corruption and the competitive behavior topics, their relevance does not depend on the occurrence or the risk of accidents but rather on the importance of such topics Logistics Occupational health and safet y at a national and international level. Similarly, the relevance stakeholders Emissions attribute to diversity has increased, mostly due to centrality of the topic for many international organizations. Finally, the internet of things topic Anticorruption Diversit y became material as a result of Flos’ commitment to introduce the latest technological advancements in the creation and design of its lighting Product por t folio ex tension systems aimed at increasing the product efficiency and enhancing Internet of things customers’ experience; Communit y Grow th in Waste relations foreign markets • Other relevant issues are related to the responsible management of the supply chain, to direct and indirect environmental impacts (sustainability of materials, emissions, logistics, diffusion of an energy saving culture), to Flos’ business model and strategic priorities (corporate identity, brand protection, product portfolio extension and growth in foreign markets) and to the Group’s human capital (employee care and occupational health and safety). Building Water Training energy Responsible Date privacy consumptions to clients ef ficiency communication and protection Relevance to Flos Group Materiality analysis 50 51 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A spotlight on our corporate identity With the aim of enhancing the concept of “Made in Italy” and preserving high quality branded products from counterfeiting, Flos is an active member of INDICAM. It represents nearly 180 companies, industry associations, legal and IP firms, security consultants and other organizations engaged against counterfeiting activities affecting branded products. Its activity is focused on sharing information and spreading counterfeiting awareness, by co-operating with police, courts and all other branches of the Italian Public Administration directly dealing with anti-counterfeiting activities and by lobbying for better legislation and its stricter enforcement. In November 2015, Flos subscribed to the United Nation Global Compact Initiative, a global coalition of companies committed to voluntarily align their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and to take actions in support of UN goals, including the Millennium Development Goals. Companies participating to the Global Compact initiative are required to communicate annually on progresses made in implementing the ten principles in order to inform company stakeholders (e.g., investors, consumers, civil society, governments, etc.). This Sustainability Report represents Flos’ Communication on Progress. Plagio Arco, Roma 52 53 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Lighting World: warranty of Continuity and Drive for Innovation 2. The Lighting World: Warranty of Continuity and Drive for Innovation In the last few years, the furniture and artificial lighting industries have been dealing with relevant changes. First, the need for internationalization, which is increasing export shares, has resulted in a clear increase in M&A (Merger and Acquisition) deals together with the entrance of financial investors as relevant shareholders of small and medium enterprises, in order to improve their competitiveness abroad. At the same time, brand protection and identity represent key strength points to ensure business continuity and sustainability over time, in particular in relation to the concept of Made in Italy... Lamp OK, designed by Konstantin Grcic, Compasso d’Oro 54 55 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Lighting World: warranty of Continuity and Drive for Innovation ... Thus, companies like Flos are continuously facing risks and threats related to anti-competitive behavior and imitations of their most iconic products. The analysis of the external pressures Flos carried out in 2017 has revealed no significant variations in relation to environmental and social topics, with respect to the corresponding analysis conducted in 2016. From a business perspective, the demand for lighting products is continuing to increase as a consequence of the global population growth and urbanization. The most urgent priority for the industry is therefore to decouple demand growth and environmental impacts. Resource scarcity and climate change concerns are resulting in the development of new or updated regulations to promote energy efficiency, while the increasing spread of voluntary certifications (such as the LEED certification for buildings) is driving consumers to ask for more efficient products. The lighting industry has been addressing these issues by pursuing the development and enhancement of more efficient lighting technologies. Some years ago, the industry underwent a paradigm shift from conventional lighting to Light Emitting Diodes (LED), which represent a most sustainable alternative to incandescent lamps and fluorescent tubes because of their longer life span and ability to consume comparatively less energy. This shift represented only a first step, as the great controllability of LED-generated light has also resulted in growth opportunities in the area of automated and intelligently controlled systems, not only for professional purposes but also for residential ones. Indeed, the next technological step will be the mass adoption of automated LEDs, which guarantee costs and energy savings, for example by adjusting light levels based on the number of people in a room or based on sunlight, or by adjusting light levels based on where a customer is standing in a store. To reach these objectives, within the next years the evolution of the lighting market will most likely be addressed to the integration of advanced data-transmission technologies with intelligent lighting systems. The attention is also moving towards the so-called “human centric lighting”, which considers the impacts of artificial light quality on people’s wellbeing and emotions. Industry associations, such as Lighting Europe, are currently focusing on this topic, promoting studies to assess how lights can improve concentration, safety, efficiency and health both in the workplace and at home. Finally, in the lighting industry, like many other industrial sectors, there is a growing interest in the transition from a linear to a circular economy aiming at decoupling economic growth from the consumption of finite resources. The circular economy concept is founded on the shift from a “take-makedispose” economic model to one that tries to retain as much value as possible from natural resources, products and waste. Our led lamps 56 57 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A spotlight on our corporate identity This objective can be achieved by a so-called regenerative design, which is one based on the extension of product life cycle, on the optimization of reuse, refurbishment and recycling techniques in order to reduce waste and increase resource productivity. For instance, effective actions in this direction include increasing modularity, as well as facilitating the disassembly or maintainability of products, in order to improve their durability and to reduce their overall environmental impact. This approach implies the need to design and manufacture products in a way that guarantees both modularity and safety, even in the case of customer’s modification or disassembly in the end of life phase of the product. In addition, if from one hand the possibility of reuse or modify part of products can contribute to the reduction of the environmental impact, from the other hand, it is crucial to guarantee the respect of patents and registered copyrights. In the near future, the legislative framework will introduce regulation regarding these issues through, for instance, the new TC CEN/CLC 10 regarding Ecodesign requirements on material efficiency aspects for energy-related products. In this scenario, Flos focuses its efforts on offering products that are at the same time reliable and characterized by an utmost quality. The most symbolic example is the shift from traditional lamps to LED alternatives: even when LED solutions started being commercialized, Flos’ strategic approach has been that of waiting for the technology to become mature and highly reliable, as to maintain the high quality characterizing the Company’s products. Besides improving energy efficiency, Flos is also undertaking a thorough implementation of circular economy principles in its product design and production, for instance by guaranteeing the possibility of replacing the lighting source. Such a possibility is actually guaranteed to all our indoor lighting systems for domestic use, in addition to the product high durability. Indeed, the evolution of Flos’ products, which goes hand in hand with the progressive adoption of the most suitable new technologies, sometimes only requires the replacement of traditional light sources with new ones, while in other cases it involves reinterpretation of classic icons into new revolutionary products and lighting systems. In this constant quest for innovation, the collaboration with international designers and a strong cultural tradition have been the brand’s hallmarks right from the outset, making Flos stand out from its sectorial peers. Our led lamps 58 59 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Lighting World: warranty of Continuity and Drive for Innovation 2.1 The Creation of Light The creation of products that become icons and On the contrary, with respect to the architectural the conception of new languages around light are collection one year is the maximum timeframe to the result of an articulated process involving Flos’ develop a whole product family. In fact, key clients internal R&D department, as well as renowned and increasingly ask for customized products and special emerging designers, architects and engineers. modifications to existing ones, thus it becomes more Concerning products belonging to the design and more relevant for Flos to respond to customer collection, from the initial proposal of the new requests within a compressed timeframe. The key luminaire to the actual sale of the product, the time phases of the process leading to the development lapse ranges roughly from one to two years. of new or revisited lighting system is described below. Superloon, by Jasper Morrison 60 61 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Lighting World: warranty of Continuity and Drive for Innovation 2.1.1. Designers, architects and/or engineers submit the lighting solution idea 2.1.3. The pre-series is tested to assess its adherence to quality and compliance Conception along with some preliminary sketches to Flos’ R&D Department, and subject Quality and Compliance requirements. Regarding the design collection, the final prototypes arising them to top management evaluation before starting the production of the from the pre-series production process are sent to pilot clients who are asked prototype series. to fill in a report about the product, giving Flos precious feedbacks covering product functionality, finish, packaging as well as the overall product emotion and experience. 2.1.2. Once the product has been accepted, the R&D team, in collaboration with Pre-series Production designers, architects and engineers works for its realization. A pre-series is then realized in order to test the mechanical and electrical design, 2.1.4. If the prototypes satisfy, at the same time, pilot clients’ expectations to select the most appropriate materials, to test the production process and Launch of the Product (for the design collection), Flos’ internal quality standards and the applicable to incorporate any necessary improvement to the lighting system. During regulatory requirements, the product is approved for industrialization and the these phases different assessment regarding construction, mechanical and production phase is launched. electrical aspects are carried out. The realization of a product that represents the concreteness of an idea of light and design is conceivable thanks to the close cooperation between the R&D team and the Procurement Department that meticulously selects the best suppliers available. 62 63 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Lighting World: warranty of Continuity and Drive for Innovation 2.2 Product Quality and Compliance 1. 2. 3. First quality check Statistical quality check Routine test quality check on raw materials and carried out by Flos’ on final products. Carried out components coming personnel on single in the assembly department from suppliers components following as per regulation (including the manufacturing/ tests on products electrical painting phases safety) and additional by suppliers statistical tests Quality epitomizes for Flos the perfect blend of lighting systems. In 2017, Flos S.p.A. has updated of aesthetics, compliance and attention to details. its Quality Management System in order to keep With the aim to improve the production process improving quality control and assurance systems and to offer clients products characterized by high and their operating procedures. quality, Flos S.p.A. and Antares Iluminaciòn S.A.U. Flos’ quality monitoring process is structured on implemented ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems, the steps described above For more details on Flos’ which are certified by independent third parties production chain, please refer to Chapter 3. and cover the design, production and sale activities Quality Check 64 65 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Lighting World: warranty of Continuity and Drive for Innovation The full and continuous implementation of Flos’ Quality Management Systems Beyond mere regulatory compliance, safety is continuously monitored is a key instrument to guarantee that products meet all applicable standards throughout the product lifetime through the analysis of complaints and and regulations, both at national and international level of application. This communications by consumers. In the rare event of complaints related applies particularly to the following categories of regulatory requirements: to safety reasons, Flos reacts quickly by reclaiming the products and conducting tests in order to ensure customer safety. In relation to the malfunction case • Product safety requirements; of the halogen version of the Skygarden 1 and Skygarden 2 lamps described • Low Voltage Directive (2014/35/EU), on the placement on the market in the Sustainability Report 2016, Flos has actively continued to monitor the • of electrical equipment designed for use within certain voltage limits with distribution of the safety kit collaborating with the local authorities of the the objective of ensuring the safety of low voltage electrical equipment countries involved. In addition, in 2017, following few complaints received • on the EU market; regarding Romeo S2 Moon and Louis (manufactured until March 2006), with • Electromagnetic Compatibility (EMC) Directive (2014/30/EU), on respect to the break of the suspension system and the consequent fall of the electromagnetic compatibility of all electric devices or installations; glass diffusers of luminaires, a similar action has been implemented. • Ecodesign Directive (2009/125/EU), establishing a framework for the setting In addition to ensuring its regulatory compliance to the applicable EU of ecodesign requirements for energy-related products; Directives, Flos is allowed to use the ENEC Mark on many of its products. • Ecodesign Directive (2015/1428/EU), on the eco-design of lighting products, The ENEC symbol, which is a voluntary mark complementary to the mandatory which introduced the need for luminaires to be fully compatible with high CE marking, is a seal of compliance to all European standards. While CE efficient lamps of at least the energy efficiency class A+ and the need marking represents a self-declaration by the manufacturer and does not imply the for lamps provided with the luminaire – i.e. in the same package to that products have been approved by the European Commission or any other be classified as one of the two classes for which compatibility has been authority (i.e. Test Houses), the ENEC mark demonstrates compliance with declared (Class A+ or A); European standards and is granted by an independent third party, which is • Performance requirements, such as those related to workplace lighting responsible of inspecting also the production process. The ENEC mark can (photometric tests are carried out according to international standards); be granted only to Companies in which a Quality System is operating, either • Product labelling, in this respect in 2017 Flos took part to working tables certified or qualified by a 3rd party. with Lighting Europe and the European Commission with the aim of defining obligations regarding energy labeling and energy classes rescaling. In Product labels include information necessary to ensure the safe use of addition, working tables tackled the European Registry for Energy Labelling luminaires, in compliance with the minimum safety requirements specified in (EPREL) data base (Regulation 2017/1369/EU), which requires the European the Low Voltage Directive and other applicable EU Directives. The products are Commission to establish a product database where all new models, covered also identified with a batch of production, according to which it is possible to by an Energy Labelling regulation, have to be registered before they are get access to the relevant routine test results and to a list of the components placed on the EU market for the first time; used for their production. In addition, energy labels required by Regulation • RoHS Directive (2011/65/EU), on the restriction of the use of certain 874/2012 (and modified by Regulation 518/2015) are supplied to all dealers hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment; and they are available for download on Flos’ website. No incidents of non• Product disposal, such as EU WEEE Directive (Waste Electrical & compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning products have Electronic Equipment). happened during the last three years. In order to fulfil all requirements and standards, Flos has its own internal laboratories, which are accredited to verify product safety compliance (only some tests are carried out externally). The compliance with the applicable regulations guarantees that all Flos’ product categories are assessed with respect to health and safety impacts across their life cycle. 66 67 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Lighting World: warranty of Continuity and Drive for Innovation Participation in industry associations With the aim of proactively participating in the development of new and more effective national and international regulations and standards and of cooperating with other players in the lighting industry, Flos is engaged in several industry associations. Thanks to its participation in the technical department of Assoluce and other Moreover, Flos has been collaborating with Lighting Europe for the promotion industry associations, Flos is involved in several working groups aimed at of regulations embracing a circular economy perspective (new Article 4 discussing new regulations and standards to safeguard both lighting industry in the draft new Regulation for lighting sector), as the lighting industry has and final customers. Such working groups take place both at national (e.g. been the leading in the diffusion of energy efficiency solutions. The industry CEI – Italian Electrotechnical Committee) and international level (e.g. IEC/ also has a great record of accomplishment in prolonging the lifetime CENELEC – International Electrotechnical Commission and European of products, in collection and recycling and in the reduction of hazardous Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization). In 2016, Flos’ activity substances. Finally, in the next future Flos will probably be actively involved focused on the new edition of the IEC/EN safety standard (60598-1 that in the Low Voltage Directive recasting. covers specifically the new LED light sources, i.e. photo biological safety Indeed, additional challenges may arise from the potential recast hazard “Retinal blue light hazard”) and all the updates necessary to cover of the Low Voltage Directive, the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the new products (such as Power over Ethernet, PoE, supplied luminaires, the Council laying down rules and procedures for compliance Protective Extra Low Voltage construction, PELV) and the amendment of products to Regulations and Directives (Market Surveillance). to IEC/EN 60570 (Track systems). Flos is an associate of Assil, the Italian Association of Furthermore, Flos is a member of Assoluce, the Italian Antares is an associate of Anfalum, the Spanish Assil, Assoluce and Anfalum belong to Lighting Europe, Lighting Manufacturers founded in 1995, which includes national association of luminaries manufacturers Association of lighting manufacturers that comprises the industry association that represents the lighting about 80 Italian Companiwes representing over 50% belonging to Federlegno (the Italian wood and furniture 87 Spanish Companies active in the lightning industry. industry in Europe. Lighting Europe’s main mission of the Italian market turnover in the lighting segment. industry association), of which also Ares is member. is to promote efficiency and sustainability of lighting systems, focusing on environmental challenges, human comfort and customers’ health and safety. 68 69 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Lighting World: warranty of Continuity and Drive for Innovation 2.3 Energy Efficiency of Lighting Systems FLOS Architectural Light Source Evolution 2 016 71% 14% 13% 2% 2 014 52% 28% 17% 3% 2 012 29% 40% 24% 8% 2 011 10% 45% 33% 12% LED Metal Halide Halogen FCL In its research and development activities, For the architectural segment, the use of LED is, lighting of buildings in order to create dimmable of classic icons into new versions powered with LED, Flos is outlining a way to reconcile efficiency by now, given as granted, as a result of the mounting artificial lighting concepts that optimize the use and new solutions, which include the possibility and sustainability trends and requests with pressures coming from competitors and final of daylight. On the other hand, for the design to adjust light to the surrounding conditions. its identity and philosophy, as well as with clients’ consumers. Each new Flos product is designed collection, the Company is still conducting dedicated Besides its efforts to maximize the energy efficiency quality and aesthetics expectations. to be LED-powered even if, in case of specific client R&D activities. Within this business segment, Flos’ of its lighting solutions, Flos is continuously working Over the last few years, in its attempt to reduce requests, products can keep using traditional sources primary objective is that of matching energy efficiency for improving the overall performance of its lamps. the energy impact of its products, Flos has created such as halogen or fluorescent lamps. requirements with clients’ aesthetic and quality A concrete example of this approach is the choice modern LED lighting solutions that have now In 2016, 71% of the architectural collection was expectations. Accordingly, researchers of the design of a new class of power supply units that meet the become renowned icons. This is the result of realized with LED solutions. Within this business collection work with designers to produce new families Level IV efficiency standard, translating into lower a selection of top-level LED solutions, delivering sector, Flos has addressed its efforts towards of lamps directly conceived to be powered by LED consumption levels and higher conversion efficiency. visual comfort together with energy efficiency. the conception of lighting systems, by creating light sources and to review and remake iconic models, Flos has also worked to improve the dimming sources intended to maximize energy efficiency. in order to shift to the LED technology. The next boxes performance of its lighting systems and products. Moreover, Flos has carried out studies on the natural show successful examples of reinterpretation 70 71 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Lighting World: warranty of Continuity and Drive for Innovation Arrangements The new Arrangements lamp, designed by Michael Anastassiades, Noctambule The lamp, designed by Konstantin Grcic, is mostly invisible during is a concrete example of fusion between design and technology. the day thanks to its structure in transparent blown glass modules. The lamp is composed by primary geometrical shapes that, connected During the night, Noctambule reveals its glamorous features. The lamp to each other, create charming figures capable of adapting to any is comprised by a series of modular elements, stacked on top of each space. Each unit can be easily connected to the previous one as other, which can create charming structures such as a light column a part of a glowing chain. Thanks to the LED technology, the lamp or a suspended chandelier inside a stairwell. is able to achieve higher energy efficiency levels and is characterized by luminous fluxes as well as by a high color rendering which translates in a higher visual comfort. 72 73 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Lighting World: warranty of Continuity and Drive for Innovation 2.4 Investing in Research and Innovation Research and development is an integral part of a pioneering color 3D printing solution. of Flos operations that seeks to materialize ideas This technology allows the reproduction of 10 million by investigating the feasibility of creation. colors starting from digital 3D models, allowing realizing The Company’s ability to always offer innovative colored maps. This enables Flos to produce prototypes and iconic lighting products and systems is due with high precision in terms of colors and details, to the paramount importance paid by the Group a feature actually impossible to achieve with a different to research. In 2017, investments in R&D activities technology in a short timeframe and at a reasonable amounted to more than 3.3 million euros, cost. Flos strives continuously to implement the latest an increase of nearly 10% with respect to 2016, technologies both in the research and development mainly attributable to the cost of personnel (both process as well as in the production process. In 2017, employees and external consultants) and expenses for instance, a rotational molding mechanism has been related to materials for prototypes and molds. introduced to produce hollow plastic products The result of Flos’ commitment to innovate has taken in a more versatile way. The rotational molding process shape with one of the first applications in Italy is based on an aluminum cast that is loaded with Flos R&D 74 75 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Lighting World: warranty of Continuity and Drive for Innovation Intensity a powdered polymer that is then gradually heated until it is fused to create the finished product. This technology allows designers not only to create extremely durable products with minimum design constrains, but also to produce them at comparatively low cost with a reduced environmental footprint with respect to other technologies. Technological innovation also involves the connectivity of lighting solutions. Internet of Things (IoT) applications enable to combine and control different Movement devices connected through internet. As such, via the use of embedded sensors it is possible to gather information from the surrounding environment, to analyze it and to elaborate effective responses. IoT applications in lighting systems enable, for instance, to improve the energy efficiency with daylight sensing that can control all the lights of the house, via a network of extremely sensible detectors. In addition, such system maps the usage patterns of customers, enabling them to further optimize energy savings and visual comfort in buildings. In the past few years, Flos has progressively integrated IoT solutions within its existing products, as well as it has designed a series of new ones specifically intended to profit for the potential of these solutions. For instance, currently Flos’ lamps allow for different communication protocols that suits for both centralized systems, in which all lighting devices are Smart Control controlled by a central interface, and single systems, that can be remotely controlled by a simple control switch or a light dimmer. 76 77 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Lighting World: warranty of Continuity and Drive for Innovation 2.5 Protecting Flos’ Ideas Total of Design and Invention deposited by year Depositary Type 2015 2016 2017 2 017 130 Flos S.p.A Design 42 4 85 Invention 1 2 016 55 Antares Design 2 33 35 Invention 1 1 0 Ares Design 17 9 2 015 45 Invention 0 In order to protect brands and innovations in the global core business, the majority of patents belongs to the Concerning the design collection, patents are first filed inventions, extending its brand protection activities to competitive environment in which the Company is design registration category, while a minimum part in Italy and then extended to the European Community the Outdoor collection. active, in the past few years Flos S.p.A. (for the Design are represented by patent applications for invention. and to other foreign countries, representing strategic Design registrations have a limited duration; in Italy, collection), Antares (for the Architectural collection) These latter refer mainly to the architectural and soft regions in terms of business and sales volumes. for example, they last 25 years. Therefore, in order to and Ares (for the Outdoor collection) have filed several architectural business and, in the attempt to provide Conversely, concerning the architectural collection, guarantee, safeguard and protect some iconic lamps, patents. For each new product category, Flos, with the a broader protection of right, take into account patents are filed at a European level. The following table Flos also filed applications for copyright registration support of an international consulting firm, evaluates the original design, but also any significant aesthetic reports the total number of patents filed by Flos S.p.A., in Italy and in other strategic countries. In Italy, this the best approach and solutions to protect its creations variation that the product might undergo in the future. Antares and Ares during the last three years, including kind of copyrights, released by the Ministry of Cultural across geographies. Flos also actively combats online infringements and the first filing phase only and excluding following Heritage and Activities and Tourism, are directly linked Among others, design registrations, patent applications frauds, such as the sale of counterfeit products or the extensions. The significant decrease of filings in 2016 to the designer and protect its legacy up to 70 years for invention or utility models and registered copyrights illicit use of images and texts from Flos’ website and is mainly related to the biennial periodicity of Euroluce, after the author’s death. are some of the methods currently applied. All patents social media. This latter kind of violations is actually which is where new lamps belonging to the Design are filed before the presentation of new prototypes among the most spread, due to the rapid growth of collection are presented to the public. On the contrary, during international fairs. Given the nature of Flos’ online shopping. in 2017, Flos has issued 130 patents for its designs and 78 79 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A Jour ney in our Value Chain 3. A Journey in our Value Chain Flos’ intent of bringing to life inspired sketches and projects from lighting architects and designers demands an articulated production process involving Foto the R&D department, high-specialized artisans and an accurate quality control system. Within this process, Flos directly manages, in collaboration with designers, architects and engineers, the conception and design of lighting systems, as well as the monitoring activities and tests carried out in order to assess product quality and to ensure compliance with safety requirements. Whereas, for the majority of manufacturing, assembly and logistic activities, Flos relies on the expertise of a specialized and trusted network of suppliers. Flosʼ Craftman 80 81 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A Jour ney in our Value Chain 3.1 The Production Process The production chain of the design collection is handled for the manufacturing of hand blown glasses and in Flos’ Italian headquarters in Bovezzo, for the indoor technical fabrics, but also coating processes and lighting products, and in Bernareggio, for the outdoor plastics and metals processing. The processed products, while the architectural collection is realized materials composing the lighting systems are then in Antares’ Spanish headquarter in Valencia. sent to the Flos headquarters to ensure that they meet In particular, the Bernareggio plant hosts a minor part the high quality and safety standards required by the of the manufacturing processes, such as painting Company and by applicable regulations. Afterwards, activities and LED electronic components production. the components are assembled as indicated in the The production process begins, once the products design and engineering plans. The assembly process have passed the prototype and pre-series phases, is predominantly outsourced to a network of selected with the purchasing of single components, as the large artisans, mainly based in the Lombardy region and in extent of techniques and materials required for Flos’ Valencia (for further details, please refer to § 3.1.1). products implies the externalization of the majority The production chain ends with a further quality of manufacturing processes. This phase includes assessment on the final product, carried out in the highly specialized techniques as those necessary Group’s internal laboratories. Production, Spain 82 83 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A Jour ney in our Value Chain Concerning the Architectural collection, instead, given the quality performance 3.1.1 Flos’ products are the outcome of a long-lasting collaboration with top-quality of all suppliers, the selection process is primarily based on their flexibility and Supplier Selection Italian and Spanish suppliers, a fusion of craft heritage and experimentation. capability to promptly react to Flos’ requests, which adapt to the fluctuations and Management Besides the electronic components, which are usually imported or purchased and demand shifts characterizing this branch of the lighting market. For these from multinational companies, the production of other semi-processed reasons, as shown in Table 3.2, more than 70% of the corporate suppliers are materials and components and the majority of the assembly activities are located in Spain and, more specifically, in Valencia and its surrounding areas. outsourced to Italian and Spanish suppliers, mainly from northern Italy and Valencia surrounding areas. This proximity becomes crucial, also in strategic Table 3.2 Suppliers provenance by number and spendingArchitectural collection terms, given the intensity and timeliness with which Flos conducts quality control process on semi-processed materials and on finished products. Promoting local suppliers not only gives the opportunity to rely on a shorter Suppliers Provenance1 U.M. 2015 2016 2017 supply chain improving reliability and delivery times but also demonstrates Spain suppliers (n.) 141 145 143 support for the local community. spending (%) 71.6 70.7 70.8 In absolute terms, the increase in the number of suppliers for the design Valencia and suppliers (n.) 80 73 81 collection between 2016 and 2017 is due to the inclusion of Ares in the its surrounding areas spending (%) 47.6 47.4 51.4 reporting scope. Despite this extension, for both the design and the architectural collections, the percentage of local suppliers is still relevant both Other areas in Spain suppliers (n.) 61 72 62 in terms of number of suppliers and in terms of spending and shows a regular spending (%) 24.0 23.3 19.4 trend through the years, as reported in the following tables. Other countries suppliers (n.) 61 62 60 Regarding the design collection, Flos’ preference for local suppliers is not spending (%) 28.4 29.3 29.2 a simple choice of convenience, but it stems from its attention and attachment TOTAL n. 202 207 203 to the concept of “Made in Italy”, considered as a synonym of high expertise, artisanship and innovation. Indeed, more than 88% of the Company’s suppliers are located in Italy, mainly in the Lombardy region (approximately 71% out Sustainable management of the supply chain involves a long-lasting of the total number of suppliers and 68.6% out of the total spending in 2017). relationship between Flos and its suppliers, built on mutual trust and respect. Considering the important role played by the supply chain in Flos’ business, Table 3.1 Suppliers provenance by number and spending Design collection the Company is committed to transfer its modus operandi and its expertise to suppliers, providing technical support in order to assure product quality. Suppliers Provenance 1 U.M. 2015 2016 2017 Flos adopts a strict selection process and conducts audits at the suppliers’ sites to evaluate the quality of the materials and services they provide, Italy suppliers (n.) 243 231 358 their technical skills and the tools and machineries they use. Moreover, spending (%) 81.9 83.7 84.1 great attention is paid to the supplier’s quality management system (QMS), Lombardy region2 suppliers (n.) 192 182 287 preferring those who have obtained an ISO 9001 QMS certification. spending (%) 66.5 67.6 68.6 Flos’ business model, focused on the aesthetics and on the functional Italy (except Lombardy region) suppliers (n.) 51 49 71 durability of its products, implies a greater attention devoted to quality spending (%) 15.4 16.0 15.5 and technical aspects during the assessment and selection of suppliers. Other countries suppliers (n.) 39 37 49 Nevertheless, in its attempts to monitor and reduce its overall impacts along spending (%) 18.1 16.3 15.9 TOTAL n. 282 268 407 1 For 2015 and 2016, data are related to Flos and Antares only, while in 2017 include also Ares. 2 Data include Verona district. For the definition of “local suppliers” Verona district has been also considered, based on the proximity to Bovezzo headquarter. 84 85 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A Jour ney in our Value Chain the supply chain, Flos has worked towards the establishment of new and assembly phases; contractual clauses, based on a series of relevant national and international • Italy: transport activities are operated by truck. Conveyances are not guidelines and regulations. These latter cover issues like the safety under exclusive use; this allows the optimization of the use of the payload of products and workplaces, the environmental impact of products and capacity, as trucks can also pick up goods from other customers; production processes and workers’ labor conditions. Relevant examples • Other Countries: most of overseas transportation regards raw materials and of such norms are provided by the REACH Regulation, focusing on the components supplied from China. These are transported by ship and, only assessment and management of the risks posed by chemical substances, in exceptional cases, by air, while truck carriers operate the transportation the Waste Electrical & Electronic Equipment Directive, for the management from arrival harbors to Flos’ headquarters. of electronic waste, or the International Labor Organization’s regulation, such as the Equal Remuneration Convention, which foster work of equal Regarding the Antares headquarters in Valencia, part of the suppliers are value for men and women. situated in the same industrial complex as the Company. For the remaining Moreover, in order to track their sustainability performance, these additional part, Antares relies on owned trucks for the suppliers located in Spain and on contractual clauses foresee the possibility of requesting suppliers specific an outsourced aircraft service for goods purchased abroad. Finally, concerning data related to environmental aspects (such as waste produced, raw Ares’ headquarters in Bernareggio, transport operations from local suppliers materials consumption and energy consumption) or safety issues (such are mainly shared with other Companies in order to increase the efficiency and as accident indexes). Similarly, these new contractual clauses foresee reduce costs. the opportunity of conducting environmental and social audits on suppliers’ facilities and policies, as to test their compliance with Flos’ requests. Transportation of sold products is entirely outsourced. Depending on The new contractual clauses, updated at the beginning of 2018, will come the distances, on the time of delivery and on the volumes, the transport into effect within 2018. is operated either by truck, by ship or by aircraft. In 2017, Flos has undertaken a process of reorganization of its outbound logistic suppliers based on parcel dimensions, in order to increase both its efficiency and to reduce the overall environmental impact thanks to the possibility of offsetting the greenhouse 3.1.2 The efficiency and flexibility of logistics are essential to ensure that all gas emissions generated by logistics through climate protection projects Logistics products are delivered to the right place at the right time, enabling Flos to timely (for further details please refer to § 3.2.3). respond to market requests, while reducing costs and environmental impacts. Due to its strict quality control system, which implies the monitoring and the quality assessment at each production phase, the Company has to cope with a frequent and substantial cargo handling from suppliers’ facilities to Flos’ plants, and conversely. In particular, concerning the Bovezzo and Bernareggio sites, all inbound transport services are provided by external carriers and strictly vary depending on the area where the transport is effected: • Bovezzo and surrounding areas: transport operations are conducted by local truck companies, which deliver only Flos products, under exclusive use. Such an on-demand transport service allows the flexibility, reliability and timeliness required by clients, also considering that Flos’ supplier network is mainly composed of small-scale companies, which do not have the possibility to stock products for a long time following the manufacturing 86 87 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A Jour ney in our Value Chain 3.2 Environmental Impacts along the Production Process The most relevant environmental impacts deriving must encompass environmental footprint assessments from Flos’ overall production process come from and impact reduction initiatives along the entire value outsourced activities and, only to a limited extent, chain. In this sense Flos, starting from the R&D and from the assembly and packaging activities carried design phase, focuses on selecting materials and out in Bovezzo and Valencia and from manufacturing production processes that, in line with the aesthetic processes carried out in Bernareggio. The impacts profiles of products, ensure the utmost environmental mainly relate to the following environmental aspects: respect, with the aim of reducing scraps from the material consumption, scraps and waste from overall production process. production and assembly, discharge of process Furthermore, Flos is continuing to monitor the water containing toxic substances employed in the environmental impacts generated by its activities coating and painting processes, energy consumption outside its organizational boundaries. Flos’ carbon and related indirect emissions from logistics. footprint, including indirect Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Flos is conscious that, in order to be effective, emissions related to employees’ business travels a forward-looking corporate responsibility strategy and the logistics of products and materials (Scope 3 Flosʼ Employee, USA 88 89 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A Jour ney in our Value Chain emissions), has been updated for the three-years period 2015-2017 in 3.2.1 Flos is addressing its most pressing environmental challenges by focusing order to include Ares and quantify the impact at Group level (see § 3.2.3). Materials and Energy on less impactful and more innovative techniques, reinventing, whereas Concerning direct impacts coming from manufacturing, assembly and Consumption possible, its iconic products. The Company accurately monitors the amounts packaging activities carried out in Bovezzo, Bernareggio and Valencia, of materials and components purchased for the production of its lightening Flos monitors its energy consumption and waste production, taking actions systems and is committed to reduce the use of non-recyclable or toxic to reduce the environmental burden resulting from them. materials. In this direction, Flos replaced the inside packaging of the new Compared to last year’s reporting perimeter, Flos’ effort in 2017 has been lamp collections with Expanded Polystyrene (EPS), a material which is fully that of focusing on the extension of the reporting scope to Ares, located recyclable. Additionally, conscious that functional longevity is essential for the in Bernareggio, which produces almost the entirety of the Group’s outdoor sustainability of its products, Flos takes into high consideration, throughout collection, including, where available, all the environmental key performance the conceptual design process and the selection of materials and suppliers, indicators both for 2017 and for previous reporting years. the durability of the materials composing the lighting systems. In this sense, the selection of materials in the design phase is made in order to ensure the replaceability of components. Table 3.3 Processed materials (intensity ratios refer to net sales of Flos, Ares and Antares) Materials 3 U.M. 2015 2016 2017 Ares’ Environmental Impacts Glass t 180 196 191 kg/k€ 1.06 1.08 1.17 Ares’ headquarters, located in Bernareggio (Monza and equipped with an air treatment system for the abatement Plastics t 297 326 346 Brianza province, Italy), covers an area of 12,000 m2 of particulate and other hazardous compounds as kg/k€ 1.75 1.80 2.11 including the research and development department, well as a water treatment plant authorized for effluent Aluminium & Zamak 4 t 2,174 2,053 2,194 testing laboratories and a painting and coating system. In discharging both in the sewage collection system and on addition, the plant has also a specific division equipped the soil. External specialists carry out wastewater and air kg/k€ 12.83 11.32 13.39 with an automatic assembly line for circuit boards and a quality analyses on a regular basis, in order to guarantee Iron t 239 299 442 production department for wiring and assembly activities. both the compliance with the normative limits and the kg/k€ 1.41 1.65 2.70 Ares manufacturing activities entail both water correct functioning of treatment plants. Regarding waste Brass t 29 33 37 consumption and air emissions, mainly related to painting management, Ares has also implemented the separated kg/k€ 0.17 0.18 0.23 processes and the work of the electronic circuit division, collection of production residues for wood, metals Rubber t 5 which comprises, for instance, welding activities and the and dry waste fraction, allowing the company to send kg/k€ 0.03 use of chemical compounds. Following Flos’ commitment to recycling and reuse around the 80% of the waste to minimize the environmental impact of its operations, and produced. Marble/Concrete t 2 in accordance with current legislations, Ares’ facilities are kg/k€ 0.01 3 For 2015 and 2016, data are related to Flos and Antares only. 4 Zamak is a family of alloys with a base of zinc and alloying elements of aluminium, magnesium and copper. 90 91 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A Jour ney in our Value Chain Concerning the procurement and processing of raw materials (Table 3.3), all Table 3.4 Electronic components employed (intensity ratios refer to net sales materials show a stable consumption trend over the years, both in absolute of Flos, Ares and Antares) terms and in relation to net sales. The increase of categories such as iron and the addition of new categories refer to the inclusion of Ares for 2017 data. Electronic Components 5 U.M. 2015 2016 2017 In particular, marble, concrete and rubber are materials mainly used in Ares’ Transformers & power supply units 387,094 439,094 436,511 outdoor collections. In addition, the relative increase of the brass category units/ k€ 2.28 2.42 2.66 with respect to previous years is due to the launch of a new product family IC Lights Floor, designed by Michael Anastassiades made of this metal. Electrical components units 5,711,284 5,717,871 6,820,962 In addition to the above mentioned raw materials, the Bernareggio plant also units/ k€ 33.69 31.53 41.63 purchases chemical components for painting and coating activities. In 2017, LED and LED components units 1,118,777 1,712,845 5,826,083 these compounds, that include paints, artificial resins and silicones, amounted units/ k€ 6.60 9.45 35.56 to 10.4 tons. Traditional lamps units 143,778 77,777 22,630 The trend in electronic components purchases, illustrated in table 3.4, units/ k€ 0.85 0.43 0.14 is representative of the industry switchover from conventional light sources to LED solutions, due to the spread of this less energy intensive lighting 5 For 2015 and 2016, data are related to Flos and Antares only. technology. In particular, the significant increase of LED components purchased in 2017 is due to the inclusion of the outdoor collection, which mainly In addition to the use of raw materials and components for the production relies on such solutions for its products. Nevertheless, even without taking into of lighting systems, another relevant impact arising from Flos’ business account the outdoor collection produced by Ares, LED components purchases derives from packaging consumption. Flos objective is, on one hand, show an increase of 20% with respect to 2016 and of 143% with respect to to reduce the amount of packaging used and to improve its recyclability 2014 (847,864 units). and, on the other, to ensure an adequate protective barrier during transport. For the architectural segment the transition to LED sources is almost complete, also as a consequence of market and of competitors’ and final Table 3.5 Packaging materials (intensity ratios refer to net sales of Flos, Ares customers’ requests. and Antares) For the design collection, the decreasing trend of traditional lamps purchases is also attributable to the Directive 2015/1428/EU, requiring companies not to sell lamps together with traditional light bulbs, thus allowing the customer Packaging Materials 6 U.M. 2015 2016 2017 to buy the solution he or she prefers between LED and traditional sources. Paper and cardboard t 913 1,065 1,047 kg/k€ 5.4 6.8 6.4 Plastics t 57 75 79 kg/k€ 0.3 0.5 0.5 Wood t 176 264 302 kg/k€ 1.0 1.7 1.8 6 For 2015, data are relative to Flos and Antares only. 92 93 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A Jour ney in our Value Chain Table 3.6 Energy consumption Energy Consumption U.M. 2015 2016 2017 Polyurethane Foam Energy consumption for buildings GJ 20,024 19,757 22,009 -of which: electricity purchased from national grid GJ 8,970 8,750 9,247 Concerning packaging materials consumption, Flos new collections. As a result, with regards to the design -of which: district heating purchased from external has decided to reduce the usage of materials based on collection, the purchases of polyurethane foams shows GJ 5,229 4,108 5,014 waste-to-energy plant polyurethane foam, by substituting them with less toxic a further 22% decrease in 2017 as compared to 2016, -of which: natural gas for heating and production processand more recyclable alternatives for the packaging of all in terms of kilograms/number of products. GJ 5,825 6,899 7,748 es Energy consumption for fleet GJ 3,470 3,223 2,711 -of which: for company car fleet GJ 2,695 2,459 2,217 -of which: for company truck fleet GJ 775 764 494 In addition to material consumption, Flos monitors its energy consumption, Total GJ 23,495 22,980 24,720 which is mainly related to heating and cooling purposes and to fossil fuel consumption for the corporate fleet. In particular, the production site in Bovezzo is supplied from the district-heating network of Brescia, an integrated system providing energy to the city from waste incineration. Natural gas 3.2.2 Flos’ waste production is mainly related to faulty components that do not meet consumption, instead, derives from the Bernareggio plant, where it is used Waste Production the Company’s aesthetics and quality requirements and that are sent back for heating purposes and for painting activities. The constant increase in to suppliers. Whenever possible, in the event of faulty products, undamaged natural gas consumption along the reporting period is due to the increase components are separated and reused in order to minimize waste volumes. of production volumes. Moreover, in the belief that prevention is the most effective approach for In 2017, Flos has also implemented a sophisticated real time monitoring managing waste, Flos is engaged in the training of its suppliers, in order system of its energy consumption levels in the Bovezzo plant. The system, that to reduce cases of non-compliance of input materials with respect to the will be fully operational in January 2018, allows to monitor the energy demand Company’s aesthetics and quality requirements. of the different production processes within the plant, in order to identify the In particular, Flos inspects and monitors the percentage of defective most energy-intensive ones as well as potential inefficiencies. The final goal components coming from the different suppliers and the reasons for their return, is to implement mitigation or remediation activities as to reduce the energy in order to identify the suppliers experiencing more difficulties, to discuss with demand and increase the overall efficiency of the plant. them the implementation of potential corrective actions and to provide them Concerning lighting systems, the Company has already converted the lighting with the necessary tools and training to put them in practice. system in its Valencia headquarters to LED. In addition, in September 2017 Finally, Flos offers its employees the opportunity of buying non-saleable, defected Flos has completed the LED conversion of all the production divisions of its products at a discounted price, thus further reducing its total waste volumes. Bovezzo headquarters. The first results show that there is a reduction trend Waste produced during the assembly phase occurring in Flos’ headquarters of the ratio between energy consumption and parcels of products with respect is collected and separated according to its composition in order to optimize to 2016. Similarly, also the Bernareggio plant is investing in the substitution recycling. Moreover, the Company relies on an external provider for waste of the lighting systems with LED lighting. management and recycling activities. Table 3.7 and Table 3.8 illustrate Flos’ waste production in the reporting period. The total amount of waste produced is increased mainly due to the 94 95 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A Jour ney in our Value Chain increase of the production, while the percentage of recycled waste shifted from 40% in 2015 to 56% in 2017. In 2017, with the aim of continuously increasing the percentage of recycled waste, Flos has introduced the separated collection of polyethylene in the Bovezzo plant. The choice allowed to achieve a 14% reduction of the unsorted waste production of the plant with respect to 2016. In addition, Flos has also improved the separated collection of unsorted waste in the offices by identifying the areas where most waste is produced and implementing a new dedicated collection system that will be operational in 2018. The increase in the volume of hazardous waste is mainly related to the introduction of the Bernareggio plant in the reporting scope. In fact, the plant hosts manufacturing phases, such as painting and coating, which require the use of chemical compounds. Table 3.7 Waste production by category Waste Produced 7 U.M. 2015 2016 2017 Non-hazardous waste t 370 489 523 Hazardous waste t 0.5 31.6 31.4 Total t 370 521 555 7 For 2015, data are related to Flos and Antares only. Table 3.8 Waste production by disposal method Waste, by disposal method 8 U.M. 2015 2016 2017 Recycled t 147 277 311 Not recycled t 223 244 244 Total t 370 521 555 8 For 2015, data are related to Flos and Antares only. Material Recycled 96 97 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A Jour ney in our Value Chain Table 3.9 GHG emissions 3.2.3 Flos’ commitment to reduce its overall environmental footprint encompasses GHG emissions also the monitoring of its greenhouse gas emissions for reduction and GHG Emissions U.M. 2015 2016 2017 compensation purposes. The most part of Flos’ GHG emissions are located in the final end of the value chain, i.e. concerns logistics activities. Indeed, Direct Emissions (Scope 1) tCO2 eq 604 688 751 the emissions related to the production process are quite limited, in absolute -emissions resulting from natural gas used tCO2 eq 289 377 438 terms. Nonetheless, in the past few years, Flos started putting in place for heating and production processes a series of energy efficiency activities aimed at reducing our overall footprint. -emissions resulting from fuel (diesel) used tCO2 eq 58 57 37 As shown in the table below, in accordance to the GHG Protocol Corporate for the corporate truck fleet Accounting and Reporting Standard, Flos has identified and monitored all -emissions resulting from fuel (diesel) used tCO2 eq 253 246 225 relevant direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) and those resulting from energy for the corporate car fleet purchases (Scope 2). Moreover, in case data are available and reliable, Flos -emissions resulting from fuel (gasoline) used tCO2 eq 0 0.38 0.86 is monitoring and reporting indirect emissions occurring outside of the for the corporate car fleet Company, in order to extend the analysis to its entire value chain (Scope 3). -emissions of refrigerant gases resulting tCO2 eq 5 8 51 More specifically, GHG emissions resulting from the transportation of purchased from leakages of air-conditioning systems goods and sold products (when customer do not manage transportation on their Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) – Location Based tCO2 eq 1,122 1,019 1,172 own) and from business travels have been calculated. -emissions resulting from electricity purchased The GHG emissions resulting from the electricity purchased from the national tCO2 797 785 897 from the national grid grid have been calculated both by adopting the location-based and the -emissions resulting from district heating tCO2 eq 325 233 275 market-based method. The first one reflects the average emissions intensity Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) – Market Based tCO2 eq 1,412 1,309 1,411 of grids on which energy consumption occurs while the second reflects emissions from electricity that the company have purposefully chosen. -emissions resulting from electricity purchased tCO2 1,087 1,076 1,136 from the national grid -emissions resulting from district heating tCO2 eq 325 233 275 Other Indirect Emissions (Scope 3) tCO2 eq 1,662 2,134 2,423 -emissions resulting from the transportation tCO2 eq 502 375 454 of purchased goods 9 -emissions resulting from the transportation tCO2 eq 982 1486 1685 of sold products 10 -emissions resulting from business travels tCO2 eq 178 273 284 Total (Location Based) tCO2 eq 3,388 3,840 4,346 9 Data related to Flos and the Antares (for the last, only finished products from Bovezzo and Bernareggio and returns from consumers are included). 10 Emissions data from transportation of sold product show, by nature, a fluctuating trend mainly due to the architectural collection, as a consequence of fluctuating demands from key accounts and other clients, different weights of products and distances covered 98 99 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 A Jour ney in our Value Chain Carbon offsetting In order to compensate the environmental impacts logistics as well as upstream emissions from fuel and of its logistics activities, Flos has adhered to the Go energy production. Green – Climate Neutral program organized by DHL 11, On behalf of Flos and proportionally with the emissions which allows customers to offset their emissions resulting from the transportation service purchased, resulting from the transportation of goods. The methods DHL invests in climate protection projects complying used for calculating and offsetting greenhouse gas with the Clean Development Mechanism 12 (CDM) criteria emissions are based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s set down in the Kyoto Protocol. Flos’ offset for 2017 Product Lifecycle Accounting and Reporting Standard. amounted to 264.58 t CO2e. Thanks to it, in 2017 Flos The calculation methodology includes carbon dioxide have contributed to CO2 savings equal to the CO2 (CO2) and further GHG emissions such as methane emitted by around 167 passenger cars, which travel for (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) from transport and 10,000 km in one year. 11 DHL is an international company providing express delivers worldwide and logistics services including freight transportation, warehousing and supply chain solutions. 12 The Clean Development Mechanism allows to certificate emission-reduction projects in developing countries as well as to trade and sell certificates arising from such projects in order to meet emission reduction targets through compensation under the Kyoto Protocol. Flos production process 100 101 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Relationships 4. The Relationships Flos event with clients 102 103 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Relationships 4.1 With Employees 4.1.1 As of the 31st December 2017, Flos Group’s workforce, including Lukas Employment Lighting and Flos’s commercial branches, amounted to 609 persons, showing an increase with respect to the prior year (586); Flos, Ares and Antares workforce, instead, as shown in table 4.1, amounted to 444 people and included 33 supervised workers and 14 interns. In the reporting period, also the Board of Directors shows an increase in the components number. In 2017 in particular, with the entrance of Martina Peterlini, a female representation has been introduced in the Board of Directors. Employees, by gender Fulltime vs Parttime 2 017 225 172 2 017 94% 6% 2 016 209 182 2 015 207 177 Man Woman Full-time Part-time Flos’ success can largely be attributed to the passion takes into account its people’s instances when taking and the expertise of people who are and have been part important business decisions. In recent years, Flos of the Group. Being conscious of how important it is has taken the first steps of a path aimed at further Employees, by category Employees, by age to be able to always count on qualified and committed strengthening its attention towards its employees, employees, ever since its foundation, Flos has put its by adopting a more structured approach, featuring workforce at the center of its strategies and it always training activities and employee development programs. 60% 67% Office workers From 30 to 50 years 5% Middle managers 6% Less than 30 years 4% Executives 31% 27% Workers More than 50 years 104 105 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Relationships Table 4.1 – Flos’ workforce (Data do not include Lukas Lighting and Flos’ Employees, whose number has remained almost unchanged over the years commercial branches): (384, in 2015; 391, in 2016; 397, in 2017), represent the majority of Flos’ workforce. The employed personnel is mainly located in Italy in the Bovezzo Workforce U.M. 2015 2016 2017 (147 employees) and Bernareggio (85 employees) plants and is mainly composed by office workers (60% of the total, in 2017). The employees’ Total workforce n. 406 422 444 composition shows a balanced proportion between women (43%) and men Employees n. 384 391 397 (57%) employed during the years and a predominance of employees between Supervised workers n. 16 22 33 30 and 50 years old. Flos is indeed committed to enhance the corporate Interns n. 6 9 14 diversity as to create an inclusive working environment where all employees, Workforce by gender n. 406 422 444 regardless of gender or other individual differences, could be enabled Women % 45% 47% 44% to express their full potential. Flos prefers permanent contracts (92%, in 2017) to temporary ones Men % 55% 53% 56% as a means of promoting human resources retention and development, while enhancing, at the same time, employees’ sense of awareness. In 2017, only 6% of employees worked part-time, a percentage almost unchanged with respect to the previous two years. All Flos employees are Table 4.2 – Flos’ board composition: covered by collective bargaining agreements, as required by national laws. The graph below depicts the steady rise of the hiring rate, calculated as the Board Composition By Gender And U.M. 2015 2016 2017 number of hirings over the total number of employees in the reporting period. Age Group Similarly, the turnover rate, calculated as the number of resignations over Men n. 7 8 8 the number of employees, slightly increased in comparison to 2016. Even Women n. 0 0 1 with this increase, which was mainly due to voluntary resignations, the Less than 30 years n. 0 0 0 turnover rate remains low, and represents a physiological staff renewal. From 30 to 50 years n. 4 4 4 Figure 4.1 Employee hiring More than 50 years n. 3 4 5 and turnover rates Table 4.3 Hirings TOTAL n. 7 8 9 Hiring rate Turnover rate HIRINGS 2015 2016 2017 Men 16 20 24 Employees By Contract Type U.M. 2015 2016 2017 9.2% 9.3% Women 10 16 13 Permanent n. 361 363 365 Less than 30 years old 7 8 12 6.8% Women n. 164 167 160 7.8% 7.4% From 30 to 50 years old 19 26 24 Men n. 197 196 205 6.3% More than 50 years old 0 2 1 Temporary n. 23 28 32 2015 2016 2017 TOTAL HIRINGS 26 36 37 Women n. 13 15 12 Men n. 10 13 20 TOTAL n. 384 391 397 106 107 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Relationships Table 4.4 Terminations category to go ahead with creating a more stimulating working environment. In 2017, Flos has also provided training to supervised workers and interns, for a Terminations 2015 2016 2017 total of 158 hours. Men 11 19 16 1 Industry 4.0 is the process of automation and digitalization at an industrial level. Women 13 10 15 Less than 30 years old 4 3 4 Table 4.5 – Training From 30 to 50 years old 18 20 21 More than 50 years old 2 6 6 Training U.M. 2015 2016 2017 Total Terminations 24 29 31 Total hours h 2,385 2,005 3,124 men h 1,387 1,262 2,048 women h 998 743 1,076 Average hours h/employee 6.2 5.1 7.9 4.1.2 In order to continuously funnel personal and organizational improvements, men h/employee 6.7 6.0 9.1 People Empowerment Flos has designed and developed a dynamic and personalized training women h/employee 5.6 4.1 6.3 and Welfare program, aligned to the different employees’ expectations and corporate Non-Compulsory training responsibilities. The program has been conceived to help employees realize Total hours h 1,027 1,499 2,696 their full potential, both in terms of soft and technical skills necessary to meet Percentage on total training % 43 75 86 the Group’s evolving requirements and to adapt to the technological and legislative changes taking place in the business world. For the design of this Average hours h/employee 2.7 3.8 6.8 program, Flos has considered employees’ training needs and has identified a set of minimum training requirements for every cluster of functions. In this sense, the training program involves both technical ad hoc courses and nontechnical training courses, ranging from software (e.g. AutoCAD) and EN ISO requirements lessons to public speaking and English courses. For instance, Figure 4.2 Average training hours, by employee category 2 for Ares employees in Bernareggio plant in 2017 the majority of office workers’ training activities have been dedicated to digitalization and Industry 4.0 1. As illustrated in table 4.5, in 2017 Flos provided a total amount of 3,124 2017 9h 17h training hours to its employees, corresponding to 7.9 hours per employee, showing a significant increase with respect to the previous reporting period. In addition, looking at the non-compulsory training (i.e. excluding training 2016 6h 12h 3h activities required by national regulations, such as health and safety training), the average training hours per employee amounted to 6.8 in 2017, more than 2015 6h 5h double with respect to 2015. This increase reflects Flos’ determination to provide its employees with a training program conceived to be a response to their needs and not only a compliance requirement. As shown in figure 4.2, the non-compulsory training is mainly provided to middle managers (17 hours Office workers Middle managers Executives by employee in 2017) and office workers (9 hours by employee in 2017). Flos’ objective for 2018 is to increase training activities dedicated to the workers 2 Data related to Antares’ only include non-compulsory training (data on health and safety training by employee category are not available). 108 109 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Relationships In relation to Antares headquarters in Valencia, the Company provides annual check-ups to employees, on a free and personal basis, and every year an audit Benefits and welfare is conducted by a third party to assess Antares’ compliance with health and safety regulations. The audit results in recommendations for the workplace Flos believes that employees’ welfare is key to create to recognize everyone’s contribution through offering safety improvement that the Company integrates and communicates to its a motivating working environment encouraging people performance bonuses related both to product quality suppliers located in its premises. to give their best efforts. and to business profitability. Finally, the Bernareggio plant has started an optimization process of the production To stimulate employees’ growth, advancement and Flos’ objective for the near future is to extend the benefit lines in order to improve both the quality of the final product and the safety of all the personal well-being Flos has translated its commitment package to all the companies of the Group, such as workers. Besides the redesign of the layout of the production lines, the introduction into the provision of a benefit package aimed at delivering Antares, located in Valencia, and Ares, in Bernareggio, of new ergonomically designed workstations have been planned in 2017, and will be the value in order to meet employees’ needs beyond and to provide additional benefit categories to meet implemented in 2018, to encourage a healthy and comfortable working environment. just base compensation. Among employees’ benefits, everyone needs and priorities. Finally, Flos aims by 2018 All these initiatives have led to a reduction in the number of injuries, shifting Flos offers health insurance and invalidity coverage, fuel to implement an online platform for the management from 4, in 2015 to 1, in 2017. The severity of the injuries decreased as well, as vouchers and canteen services. Benefits are provided of workers category benefits, which will not only demonstrated by the lost day rate (-83% in 2017, compared to 2015). to all full-time and parttime employees, while fuel introduce a more differentiated set of benefits but also vouchers are extended also to temporary workers. will offer an integrated and simplified way of discovering Table 4.7 – Health and safety* Flos also promotes pay for performance and access to all the different benefits. Health And Safety U.M. 2015 2016 2017 Number of injuries n. 4 3 1 women n. 2 2 0 4.1.3 Guaranteeing a healthy and safe workplace to all employees and supervised men n. 2 1 1 Occupational health and workers and preventing accidents is an essential point of care for Flos. For Lost days** n. 180 30 31 this purpose, the Group carries out, on an ongoing basis, several activities safety women n. 100 17 0 to improve occupational safety and people awareness on these topics. At a men n. 80 13 31 company level, Flos provides continuous training and education on health Injury rate [number of injuries/hours worked x 1,000,000] n. 6.1 4.5 1.5 and safety topics. In 2017, the total hours provided were 428, including a fire safety course. The decrease in the health and safety training hours is due to women n. 6.7 6.6 0.0 the frequency of the activities that are carried out on a two or three-year basis. men n. 5.6 2.7 2.6 Lost day rate [number of lost days for injuries/hours worked Table 4.6 Training on health and safety topics x 1,000,000] n. 274.1 45.0 45.8 women n. 337.2 56.3 0 Training On Health And Safety Topics U.M. 2015 2016 2017 men n. 222.1 35.6 80.06 Total hours h 1,358 506 428 Absentee rate [number of lost days for illness/ workable days x 1,000] n. 3.4 3.3 4.0 women n. 4.3 4.1 4.7 Executives and managers are asked to act in order to reduce injuries and to ensure a safety working place. Therefore, in 2017 Flos in the Bovezzo plant has men n. 2.7 2.7 3.5 carried out a project aimed at improving the structural stability and at reducing Number of occupational diseases n. 0 0 0 the seismic vulnerability of warehouses. In addition, in the prototype division, a new closed-circuit washing system has been introduced in order to reduce *All data reported in the table are referred to Flos’ employees (excluding contractors). Commuting injuries and first-aids are not included. ** Lost days and absentee days are calculated as working days. For injuries, lost days are calculated starting from the day of the injury. potential leakages and workers’ exposure to chemical substances. 110 111 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Relationships 4.2 With Clients with design studios and architectural firms, proposing personalized and unique lighting solutions. In these cases, lighting products can be sold either directly to the final client or via distributors. Furthermore, Flos relies on showrooms for the sales of its architectural and design collections. These showrooms are corporate shops operating either through B2C or through B2B models. Finally, in those markets where these sales channels are not available, Flos relies on exporters, which allow Flos to reach final customers and intermediaries in those Countries where a direct sales activity is not present. Figure 4.3 Flos’ sales channels Flos s.p.a. Agencies Exporters Design studios and architectural firms Key Showrooms Wholesalers Retailers Accounts 4.2.1 Flos operates through various sales channels to better adapt its offer to Sales Channels and clients’ different expectations and technical requirements. The Group mainly Communication activities relies on its own subsidiaries and sales team located worldwide as well as on agencies, which are intermediaries that sell products of the architectural and Flos uses its products catalogues as the main media to interact with its design collection to distributors. Our distributors comprise wholesalers of customers. The three catalogues, each dedicated to a specific collection, electric equipment, lighting specialists and generalist retailers. The first ones are not only a list of products and corresponding technical specifications, sell products to installers, while the latter are mostly composed by familybut they represent a way for Flos to express and communicate its identity, run furniture or lighting shops, which predominantly serve final customers. its philosophy and its history. Key accounts, instead, are B2B clients, which have a direct contact with the Flos has also developed a mobile app that offers clients the opportunity to Company also through the distribution network, that represents an additional access the Company’s catalogues directly from their cell phones and tablets. service and a market advantage compared to competitors. By doing so, Flos The digitalization of catalogues, together with the corporate website, allows operates in close relationship with the key accounts both to meet their need of the Company to inform clients in real time about new products launches and having the same lighting concept applied to their different stores and to help the periodic update of technical information. In its effort to support clients, them in better develop their project and business. the Company has published on its website a series of web videos, containing Flos also relies on Agencies that operate through active sales, by collaborating instructions on how to install the lighting systems. 112 113 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Relationships Moreover, Flos has made available to download the app “String Lights – Table 4.8 Quality indicator Remote dimmer and more”, which allows clients to control the light intensity of their “String Lights” lamps designed by Michael Anastassiades. In this app, Quality Indicator U.M. 2015 2016 2017 it is also possible to find additional contents such as the biography of the Cost of returned products for faultiness on costs designer, interviews, ideas and instructions for the installation, image galleries, % 1.29 1.36 1.28 3 of goods sold and more. Other means of communication are press releases and, importantly, social networks (such as Facebook, Pinterest and Instagram). In 2017, Flos 3 2017 data also includes Ares. created a new organizational function dedicated to Social Media management, in an effort to focus on digital channels of communication in order to be closer Concerning the architectural collection, the Company has carried out an to the younger clients. analysis on return causes (design, transportation, suppliers etc.) and product types (electric, mechanical, aesthetic). The results of this analysis have shown that product returns are mainly due to suppliers’ production process and to 80k 216k the design phase of the products. This has served as the basis for defining strategies and actions aimed at reducing the problems leading to client claims. followers followers A deeper analysis has been carried out as to identify faultiness reasons related to top products (in terms of sales). Following the analysis, for each specific cause identified, whereas possible, corrective actions have been implemented. 4.2.2 Customer satisfaction is essential to Flos’ business. The Group demonstrates Otherwise, dedicated initiatives have been planned for the next years. Customer Care its attention to clients by offering exceptionally designed and technologically and Satisfaction advanced lighting systems, high quality standards and an efficient repairing/ An additional relevant aspect, which demonstrates Flos’ attention to substitution service. Flos continuously monitors the clients’ claims regarding its customers, is the importance devoted to the timeliness of deliveries. product malfunctioning or faultiness, with the purpose of improving the overall As shown in figure 4.4 for the design collection, the time lag between process, thus enhancing customer satisfaction. In the event of claims, Flos orders and deliveries is usually less than 6 days. evaluates, on a case-by-case basis, the best solutions in terms of both costs and customer satisfaction. For instance, the Company may either recall the product to analyze the causes of its malfunctioning, substitute it immediately or, Time lag between orders and deliveries in case of widely installed systems, to send a Flos technician from the internal quality department to conduct a site visit as to identify more suitable solutions. 2 017 30% In 2017, Flos has invested in reorganizing its customer care services to offer a unique contact for both the design and the architectural collections. With a new structure based on those countries where Flos is present, the Company is able to build a strong relationship with every customer > 6 days < 6 days and to respond effectively and promptly to all customer needs allowing 70% them to interface with a single customer care services. As illustrated in table 4.8, the Group monitors the number of products returned for faultiness reasons and the evolution of the quality indicator, which is calculated as the incidence of returned products for faultiness reasons on the total costs of goods sold. This indicator, which contributes to determining employees’ yearly bonus, showed an almost stable trend over the last three years. 114 115 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Relationships In order to provide customers with a deep understanding of Flos’ products, both in technological and aesthetic terms, the Group offers a series of training programs specifically designed to cover the needs of the different interlocutors (agents, distributors, lighting designers etc.). Concerning the architectural collection products, Flos has been offering a series of courses aimed at explaining their technical features and at clarifying how to install them. Through the training program “Progettazione della luce negli interni” (Interior light design), Flos offers to furniture retailers an opportunity to understand how to present and sell a lighting concept. For the next years, a training program has been designed for lighting retailers on how to communicate the value of design and the importance of the iconicity of Flos’ lamps. The courses, which are carried out at Flos’ showrooms in Valencia and Milan or directly at the client place, provide an opportunity for collecting feedback from clients on products. In addition, taking the opportunity of the restructuring activities of its facilities in Bernareggio, Ares has built its own training room mainly dedicated to its customers, lighting designers and architects. Since 2016, in its attempt to gather customers’ opinions Flos has also carried out an analysis on customer satisfaction, which has involved direct interviews, held at retailers’ places. The aim was to test retailers’ opinion on the following aspects: • Product innovation; • Product quality; • Response and processing time to/for clients’ requests; • Management of product-related problems; • Response to customization requests. This qualitative analysis, which continued in 2017, has shown a great satisfaction among Flos’ retailer clients on all aspects and has served as the basis for implementing specific corrective actions following the suggestions collected from interviewed personnel, in particular regarding the response time lag to product related problems and the satisfaction of customization requests. Flos’ objective for 2018 is to extend the customer satisfaction survey to 100 retailers and to assess whether and to which extent to involve the architectural collection in the survey. Arrangements, designed by M. Anastassiades 116 117 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Relationships 4.3 …With the Community Contributing to the dissemination of the art and the Triennale di Milano in Milan and the Centre design culture amongst the community is one of Flos’ National d’Art et de Culture Georges Pompidou key commitments in terms of social responsibility. in Paris. In continuity with its commitment towards art, In line with this objective, the Group offers its support in 2017 Flos provided a technical sponsorship to to cultural events, exhibitions and festivals through the exhibition “Dentro Caravaggio”, held in Milan at donations and co-organization efforts. For over 50 Palazzo Reale from September 2017 to January 2018. years, Flos has collaborated with the most prestigious Through the collaboration with Barbara Balestreri art, architecture and design museums across Lighting Design, Flos’ architectural collection has the world. A variety of products have been donated been chosen to define the best lighting systems and or lent to such institutions and actually feature in fixtures for the exhibition, with the aim of ensuring the permanent collections of iconic museums, such the maximum respect for the works of art and the as the MOMA (Museum of Modern Art) in New York, best visitor experience. The exhibition “Dentro Caravaggio” 118 119 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 The Relationships To mark the Milano Design Week 2017, Flos has collaborated with Elle Decor presenting the “Elle Decor Concept Store”. The project imagines the retail space as a place where analogical and digital elements meet up, i.e. where the physicality of the objects dialogues with the digital experience and where the consumer is a main player in the space. Thanks to lights, the store becomes a privileged place for information and experimentation, an occasion for meeting and socializing, suggesting a unique customer experience to visitors. Besides its support to cultural events, Flos’ relationships with the territory involves the contribution to charity and fundraising events. As an example, in 2017, Flos donated lamps to the charity event “TIMETOLOVE”, which aims to raise funds for children suffering from heart complaints and to the auction “Love Design”, organized by the Italian Cancer Research Association (AIRC) and the Industrial Design Association (ADI), with the aim to help raising money for funding cancer research. In addition, in 2017 Flos also donated its products to help “Mama Marocco”, a project launched to support “Bambini Cardiopatici nel Mondo A.I.C.I. Onlus”, an Italian association that treats children with cardiac illnesses. In particular, Mama Marocco’s objective is to contribute to the construction of the first dedicated cardiology and heart surgery center in Casablanca, capable of performing more than 300 surgeries per year. As part of its social commitment towards the community, since 2005 Flos actively supports Fratelli dell’uomo, a non-governmental organization for international cooperation working for the growth of local communities in developing countries. According to this partnership, 20% of the gross sales from the Gun Collection by Philippe Starck (Bedside Gun, Lounge Gun, and Table Gun lamps) is donated each year to Fratelli dell’uomo. During the past few years, thanks to Flos’ contributions, several projects have been supported. For instance, since 2016, Flos has decided to allocate its entire contribution to Fratelli dell’uomo to the project “Healthy childhood in the Totonicapán Maya Kiché community in Guatemala” carried out by the organization “Asociación CDRO ”, with the purpose of reducing communicable diseases and complications arising from common pathologies spreading among the child populations. The project involves four local communities belonging to the Santa Lucia la Reforma Municipality (which supersedes the villages of Pamaria, Pabaquit, San Luis Sibilia and Arroyo San Juan) with the primary focus of improving the availability, accessibility and overall quality Fratelli dell’uomo, which is acknowledged by the Italian Foreign Ministry, of childhood health services. With this aim, in 2017, more than 2,500 children was launched in Italy in 1969 and it is part of the Frères des hommes Group. received pediatric care and approximately 700 parents received information and The organization supports projects and initiatives, mainly in Latin America and training on basic health and hygiene practices. In addition the project contributed Africa, related to access to food, environment and common goods protection, to strengthen the vaccination campaign, started up already in the previous years, responsible economy, community health, migration and co-development. and to provide pediatric medical visits for special cases treatment. For more details, please visit www.fratellidelluomo.org 120 121 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 Reporting Principles and Criteria Reporting Principles and Criteria For the third consecutive year, Flos is publishing its annual Sustainability Report, 2017. The document has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards: Core option, published in 2016 by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The contents of this report reflect the materiality analysis carried out according to the approach described in the paragraph “Flos’ Third Sustainability Report”, in accordance with the GRI Standards. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Initiative since 2015, through this report Flos is also fulfilling its commitment to producing its annual Communication on Progress – a public disclosure outlining its progress in implementing the 10 principles of the UNGC. In this sense, the UNGC principles are clearly mapped versus the GRI indicators in the GRI Content Index. At present, Flos’ 2017 Sustainability Report does not directly address the UNGC issues and principles related to Human Rights, since the majority of the Group’s direct activities and suppliers are located in Europe, where Human Rights are regulated by laws. To avoid any possible risk of complicity and as a proof of its commitment, Flos is starting to introduce clauses on labor conditions and on the respect of human rights in its contracts. In addition, some of the most important human rights issues related to Flos’ activity, such as the protection of workers’ occupational health and safety, are already included among the “Labor” principles and issues the Group reports on. Scope of Reporting This document includes a description of initiatives and activities carried out during the 2017 calendar year as well as the related key performance indicators, presented for the entire 2015-2017 period, where available. The data collection process and the report publication activities are structured on an annual basis. The information included in the Sustainability Report refer to Flos S.p.A. and the fully controlled operating subsidiaries Antares Iluminacion S.A.U. and Ares S.r.l. All commercial branches and the other operating subsidiaries as of 31st December 2017 are not included. Any exception to this reporting scope are explicitly indicated in the text. Flos S.p.A. has its registered headquarters in Bovezzo (Brescia Italy), Via Angelo Faini, 2; Antares Illuminacion S.A.U, Carrer Mallorca, Polígono Industrial Reva, Calle Turia, Ribarroja de Turia (Valencia Spain); Ares S.r.l., V.le dell’Artigianato, 24 (Bernareggio, Italy). Material Issues The following table provides the link between Flos’ material issues (as described in Chapter 1) and the corresponding GRI Standards topics (Topic-specific Disclosures), together with their scope and any eventual limitations on the reporting boundary, due to the unavailability of data and information on the external perimeter. In the coming years, Flos is committed to identify and implement specific actions aimed at gradually extending the scope of data collection and reporting for material aspects. 122 123 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 Reporting Principles and Criteria Flos’ Material GRI Material Aspect Boundary Limitations Of Reporting Aspects Aspects On Boundary Within The Outside The Within The Outside The Organization Organization Organization Organization Economic performance Economic performance Group Supply chain Procurement practices Group Quality Reporting Principles Flos’ Sustainability Report is drafted in accordance with the principles responsible Supplier environmental Group of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability, management assessment as defined by the GRI Standards. The document highlights both strengths Supplier social Group and weaknesses, as well as possible areas of improvements for the Group. assessment The data collection and reporting processes are structured in a way Sustainability Materials Group Suppliers Reporting scope not as to ensure information comparability over the years and to guarantee of materials extended to suppliers an accurate interpretation by the key stakeholders interested in Flos’ Sustainability Energy Group Suppliers, Reporting scope not performance evolution. Flos’ Sustainability Report, 2017, is not subject of lighting systems clients extended to suppliers to external assurance. Emissions Emissions Group Suppliers Reporting scope partially extended Calculation Methodologies The methodologies and assumptions used to calculate the performance to suppliers indicators included in the Report are described below: Logistics Emissions Group Suppliers Reporting scope partially extended • Research & Development costs are calculated taking into account capital to suppliers expenses and operating costs (e.g. personnel involved, costs for materials, etc.). Energy Group Suppliers Reporting scope • Where environmental data are not available, conservative estimations have partially extended been used, resulting in the underestimation of the Group’s environmental to suppliers performance; Employee care Employment Group • Energy consumption from the Group’s fleet have been calculated starting Training and education Group from the following available data: Occupational health Occupational health Group Suppliers Reporting scope not a) Flos’ car fleet: kilometers covered; and safety and safety extended to suppliers b) Ares and Antares’ fleet: fuel consumption. Product quality and Customer health Group compliance and safety Concerning the Scope 2 emissions resulting from the consumption of electricity purchased from the national grid, two calculation methodologies have been Marketing and labeling Group implemented: the location-based and the market-based approaches. The first Customer satisfaction Marketing and labeling Group one reflects the average emission intensity of grids taking into account both Diversity Diversity and equal Group renewable and non-renewable productions, while the second one reflects opportunities emissions from the electricity source that the company has purposefully chosen Anti-corruption Anti-corruption Group through, for instance, contractual instruments. Therefore, since Flos does not Competitive behavior Anti-competitive Group have any type of contract for the purchase of energy bundled with attributes behavior about the energy generation and emissions, for the market-based method, Brand protection Group a residual mix emission factor has been used. The following table shows the Research & Group conversion factors that have been used: Development Product portfolio Group extension Growth in foreign Group markets Corporate identity Group Diffusion of energy Group saving culture Internet of things Group 124 125 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 Reporting Principles and Criteria Average fuel consumption ADEME (Agence de l’environnement et de la maitrise de l’énergie), Évolution GHG Emissions Scope 2 – Market Based Approach car [l fuel/100km] du marché, caractéristiques environnementales et techniques Véhicules Source Activity Data Emission Factor Gwp particuliers neufs vendus en France, 2016 Electricity purchased from Electricity AIB, European Residual Only CO2 emissions have been Fuel density [l/t] DEFRA (Department of Environment, Food & Rural Affairs), Conversion factors the national grid consumption Mixes 2016 considered 2017 Full set, 2017 District-heating purchased Heat DEFRA (Department of CO2 equivalent, considering the LCV (Lower Calorific Value) MATTM (Ministero dell’Ambiente e della Tutela del Territorio e del Mare), from the waste to energy consumption Environment, Food & Rural following gases: CO2 (GWP = 1), [GJ/t] Tabella parametri standard nazionali, 2017 plant Affairs), Conversion factors CH4 (GWP = 25) and N2O (GWP 2017Full set, 2017, 2016, = 298). Global Warming PotenGreenhouse gases emissions calculations have been carried out based on the principles included in the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. 2015 tials (GWPs) are taken from IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4). Emissions have been calculated as follows: GHG Emissions Scope 1 GHG Emissions Scope 3 Source Activity Data Emission Factor Gwp Source Activity Data Emission Factor Gwp Flos’ car fleet Kilometers DEFRA (Department of CO2 equivalent, considering the -Business travels by plane; Kilometers DEFRA (Department of CO2 equivalent, considering the covered Environment, Food & Rural following gases: CO2 (GWP = 1), -Logistics Environment, Food & Rural following gases: CO2 (GWP = 1), Affairs), Conversion factors CH4 (GWP = 25) and N2O (GWP Affairs), Conversion factors CH4 (GWP = 25) and N2O (GWP 2017Full set, 2017, 2016, = 298). Global Warming Poten2017Full set, 2017, 2016, = 298). Global Warming Potentials 2015 tials (GWPs) are taken from IPCC 2015 (GWPs) are taken from IPCC Fourth Fourth Assessment Report (AR4). Assessment Report (AR4). Ares and Antares’ fleet Fuel consumption DEFRA (Department of CO2 equivalent, considering the Business travels by train Kilometers Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane, Only CO2 emissions have been (gasoline and Environment, Food & Rural following gases: CO2 (GWP = 1), Rapporto di Sostenibilità considered diesel) Affairs), Conversion factors CH4 (GWP = 25) and N2O (GWP 2016 , 2016. 2017Full set, 2017, 2016, = 298). Global Warming Poten2015 tials (GWPs) are taken from IPCC Some data regarding employees and environmental performance have been Fourth Assessment Report (AR4). restated with respect to those included within the 2016 Sustainability Report, Leakages from airLeakages (kg) Global Warming Potentials given the inclusion of Ares S.r.l. under the reporting scope. conditioning systems of (GWPs) are taken from IPCC Fifth refrigerant gases Assessment Report (AR5). GHG Emissions Scope 2 – Location Based Approach Source Activity Data Emission Factor Gwp Electricity purchased from Electricity Terna, Confronti Only CO2 emissions have been the national grid consumption Internazionali, 2017 considered District-heating purchased Heat DEFRA (Department of CO2 equivalent, considering the from the waste to energy consumption Environment, Food & Rural following gases: CO2 (GWP = 1), plant Affairs), Conversion factors CH4 (GWP = 25) and N2O (GWP 2017Full set, 2017, 2016, = 298). Global Warming Poten2015 tials (GWPs) are taken from IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (AR4). 126 127 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index GRI Standard GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Disclosure Page number(s) General Disclosures GRI 102: General Organizational profile Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization 119 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 30 40 102-3 Location of headquarters 26 1024 Location of operations 26; 30 31 1025 Ownership and legal form 27 1026 Markets served 30 31 102-7 Scale of the organization 17; 26 31; 101 102 1028 Information on employees and other workers UNGC 101 102 1029 Supply chain 80 83 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 42 25 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach (*) 102-12 External initiatives 48 102-13 Membership of associations 64 65 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker UNGC 1 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 1; 19 24; 56 57 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 26 29 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 44 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements UNGC 103 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 44 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 44; 64 65; 114 116 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 64 65; 114 116 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 27 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 119 102-47 List of material topics 120 10248 Restatements of information 119 102-49 Changes in reporting 119 102-50 Reporting period 119 102-51 Date of most recent report 119 102-52 Reporting cycle 119 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 119 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 119 102-55 GRI content index 124 129 102-56 External assurance 121 * Flos adapts its decision-making approach by taking into account the social and environmental issues according to the precautionary approach. 128 129 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) Material Topics Material Topics GRI 200 Economic Standard Series GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series Economic Performance Materials GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 44 45; 120 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 87 89; 120 Approach 2016 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 44 45 103-2 The management approach and its components 87 89 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 44 45 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 87 89 GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 45 GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 87 89 Performance 2016 Energy Procurement Practices GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 90; 120 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 80 82; 120 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 87 91 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 80 82 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 87 91 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 80 82 6GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 90 91 GRI 204: Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 80 82 Emissions Practices 2016 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 94 96; 120 Anti-corruption Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 94 96 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 29; 120 Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 94 96 103-2 The management approach and its components 29 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 95 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 95 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 29 2016 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 95 Anti competitive behavior Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 29; 120 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 78 82; 120 Approach 2016 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 29; 52 103-2 The management approach and its components 78 82 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 29; 52 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 78 82 GRI 206 : 1 legal actions 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 29 GRI 308: Supplier 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken (**) for anti-competitive Environmental behavior; anti-trust and Assessment 2016 monopoly practices * * No suppliers were assessed for environmental impact. In 2017, Flos analyzed the potential negative impact in its supply chain and new contractural clauses including environmental aspects are foreseen. 130 131 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 GRI Content Index GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) Material Topics Material Topics GRI 400 Social Standards Series GRI 400 Social Standards Series Employment Marketing and Labeling GRI 103: Management 103 -1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 103 -104; 120 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 60 63; 120 Approach 2016 Approach 2016 103 -2 The management approach and its components 103 -104 103-2 The management approach and its components 60 63 103 -3 Evaluation of the management approach 103 -104 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 60 63 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 103 -104 GRI 417: Marketing and 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 60 63 Labeling 2016 Occupational Health and Safety Brand protection GRI 103: Management 103 -1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 106 -107; 120 Approach 2016 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 74 75; 120 103 -2 The management approach and its components 106 -107 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 74 75 103 -3 Evaluation of the management approach 106 -107 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 74 75 GRI 403: Occupational 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 107 Health and Safety 2016 and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Research & Development Training and Education GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 36 39; 70 73; 120 Approach 2016 GRI 103: Management 103 -1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 104 105; 120 103-2 The management approach and its components 36 39; 70 73 Approach 2016 103 -2 The management approach and its components 104 -105 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36 39; 70 73 103 -3 Evaluation of the management approach 104 -105 Product portfolio extension GRI 404: Training and 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 105 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 31 40; 120 Education 2016 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 31 40 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 31 40 GRI 103: Management 103 -1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 101 103; 120 Growth in foreign markets Approach 2016 103 -2 The management approach and its components 101-103 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 30 31; 120 103 -3 Evaluation of the management approach 101-103 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 30 31 GRI 405: Diversity and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 102 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 30 31 Equal Opportunity 2016 Corporate identity Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 20 25; 56 59: 120 GRI 103: Management 103 -1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 78 82; 120 Approach 2016 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 20 25; 56 59 103 -2 The management approach and its components 78-82 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 20 25; 56 59 103 -3 Evaluation of the management approach 78-82 Diffusion of energy saving culture GRI 414: Supplier Social 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 77 78 (**) Assessment 2016 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 66 69; 120 Approach 2016 Customer Health and Safety 103-2 The management approach and its components 66 69 GRI 103: Management 103 -1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 60 63; 120 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 66 69 Approach 2016 Internet of thinghs 103 -2 The management approach and its components 60 63 103 -3 Evaluation of the management approach 60 63 GRI 103: Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 70 73; 120 Approach 2016 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety 63 103-2 The management approach and its components 70 73 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 impacts of products and services 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 70 73 * * No suppliers were assessed for environmental impact. In 2017, Flos analyzed the potential negative impact in its supply chain and new contractural clauses including environmental aspects are foreseen. For further information about this Sustainability report please contact Flos Spa, Via Angelo Faini, 2 – 25073 Bovezzo (Brescia), Italy Tel: + 39 03024381 – Email: info@flos.com 132 133 Su s t a i n a b i li t y R e p o r t 2017 134
